16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP will play 'khela' of development and peace in Bengal says Rajnath Singh||Slamming the Mamata Banerjee government over alleged slide in the law and order situation, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday the "khela" (game) that will be played in West Bengal after the BJP's victory in the assembly election will be that of development and peace. He asserted the BJP will form its government in the state winning more than 200 of the 294 seats. Joining the campaign blitzkrieg that the BJP has launched, with several top party leaders holding meetings and rallies regularly to snatch Bengal from the TMC, Singh, who was once considered a friend of Mamata Banerjee in the saffron camp, asked what the two-time chief minister has done for the people of the state except for bringing disaster to them. Questioning what the Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee means by "khela hobe" (the game will happen), Singh told a public meeting here in West Midnapore district that "the game of development and peace will be played in Bengal". He said "asol parivartan" (true change) will usher in on May 2, the day of the counting of votes for the eight-phase assembly elections that commence on March 27. "The BJP will form a government in Bengal with more than 200 seats," he asserted. The BJP had won 18 of the 42 seats in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, emerging as the main challenger to the ruling TMC in the assembly polls. In a reference to the insider-outsider debate that the TMC has started while branding the BJP a party of outsiders, he said the saffron party is the present-day avatar of Jana Sangh, which the son of the soil Syama Prasad Mookerjee had founded. Claiming that the Mamata Banerjee government has not been able to maintain law and order in West Bengal, he said, "Go to Uttar Pradesh or any other state where BJP is in power, there is peace." He said the Narendra Modi government has allocated Rs 25,000 crore in the Union Budget for development of the highways in West Bengal. "The roads being built in the state are from funds released by the Modi government and not Mamata Banerjee," he asserted. Singh said Rajiv Gandhi, as the prime minister, had lamented that out of every rupee sent for welfare works, only 16 paisa reached the people. But the Modi government has ensured that every paisa released by the Centre reaches people on the ground for which PM Jan-Dhan Yojana has been launched so the money could be directly credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Claiming that the Mamata Banerjee government has not implemented the Centre's welfare programmes for the poor and backward sections, he said, "It is your duty as the chief minister of the state to reach the welfare schemes of the central government to the people." Claiming that the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana has not been implemented by the TMC government, Singh assured that every family in the state will have a house by the beginning of 2022, if the BJP comes to power in Bengal. He said while farmers in the rest of the country have got funds in their accounts under the PM Kisan Samman Yojana, those in West Bengal have not benefited since the Mamata Banerjee government has not sent the list of potential beneficiaries. He assured that the beneficiaries will be given the money with arrears once the BJP comes to power. Singh said once a BJP government is formed, no one will be able to extort money from people or indulge in violence. He assured the people of West Bengal that every political worker, whether from the Left, the TMC the Congress, or the general public, will be safe under a BJP dispensation. "Mamata didi had given the slogan of 'Ma, Mati, Manush' (mother, land, people), but now neither Ma is safe nor the manush or the mati of Bengal are secure," he said. He said recently the chief minister suffered a "little injury" and she blamed the BJP for that. Investigating agencies, however, maintained she got injured because of the lacunae in her security arrangement and not by BJP workers, he said. "BJP workers can never raise their hand on anyone," he asserted, adding party activists found indulging in any such activity will be shown the door. Claiming that anywhere between 150 and 200 BJP workers have been killed in political violence during the TMC rule, Singh asked "can Mamata didi bring them back to life for their mothers". Alleging that 1,500 to 2,000 BJP workers in the state are missing, he said the chief minister does not say a word about that. "The BJP does not do politics for forming government but for the development of the country," he asserted, and added the party, if voted to power, will transform West Bengal from a "police state to public state". Singh said the Modi government brought Jammu and Kashmir on par with any other part of the country by abrogating Article 370 of the Constitution. With the conduct of panchayat elections in Jammu and Kashmir, people there have realised for the first time what a democratic system means, he said. "India has become a powerful country under the Modi government," he asserted. The Defence Minister said earlier no one could talk to China looking in the eye but Prime Minister Narendra Modi changed the narrative with sheer courage. "Our soldiers have given appropriate response and the situation changed," he said, referring to the military disengagement in Ladakh after a tense stand-off between Indian and the Chinese armies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah is getting frustrated and planning to kill me, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of hatching a conspiracy to harass TMC leaders ahead of the Assembly elections in the state and wondered whether the Election Commission is working as per his instructions. Claiming that Shah is getting "frustrated" by "poor turnout" at his rallies, Banerjee also alleged that the BJP is plotting conspiracies to kill her as her security director Vivek Sahay was removed by the Election Commission after she sustained injuries last week in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram. Referring to the alleged "attack" on her in Nandigram, Banerjee said no one will stop her from taking forward her battle against the BJP. "Amit Shah is getting frustrated as there is a poor turnout at his rallies. Instead of running the country, he is sitting in Calcutta and hatching a conspiracy to harass TMC leaders. What do they want? Do they want to kill me? Do they think that they will win this election by killing me? They are wrong," she said while addressing a rally here. Banerjee also wondered whether the Election Commission has lost its independence, and alleged that the poll panel is working as per Shah's instructions. "Is Amit Shah running the EC? He is giving instructions to the EC. What happened to their independence? My director, security (Vivek Sahay) was removed (by EC) as per his instructions," she alleged. Banerjee claimed Shah, who came back to Calcutta last night from Guwahati and held a series of meetings with the BJP's state leaders, was "hatching conspiracy as he has understood after witnessing poor turnout at his rallies that the saffron party is still miles away from winning the assembly elections".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Swapan Dasgupta resigns as Rajya Sabha member amid row over his candidature||Nominated Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta on Tuesday tendered his resignation from the upper house of Parliament after being named as a BJP candidate in the West Bengal assembly elections.  Dasgupta, who became a Rajya Sabha member on April 25, 2016, has been named by the saffron party as its candidate from the Tarakeshwar constituency in the poll-bound state.  "I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days," Dasgupta said on Twitter.  Sources said he has urged the Chairman of Rajya Sabha to accept his resignation with effect from Wednesday.  Asked about his resignation, Dasgupta told PTI, "I have always said whatever necessary steps will have to be taken will be done by me before I submit my nomination papers (for West Bengal polls)."  His term as Rajya Sabha member was till April 24, 2022.  His resignation came after Trinamool Congress MP Mohua Moitra raised objections to Dasgupta being named as a BJP candidate for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal.  "Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP," Moitra tweeted last night.  "Following up on my previous tweet - Rajya Sabha website as of today says Swapan Dasgupta is nominated & not formally BJP. If he files nomination as @BJP candidate he should be disqualified according to the Constitution's 10th Schedule (Para 2 (3)," she also tweeted.  She also claimed that Dasgupta should "either resign RS now or be disqualified" and said he has "no safety net".  According to the Tenth schedule of the Constitution, a nominated member of a house can join a political party before the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with requirements of Article 99 or, as the case may be, Article 188.  "A nominated member of a house shall be disqualified for being a member of the house if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of article 99 or, as the case may be, article 188," the rule says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata  launches campaign in Jungle Mahal region ||Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched her campaign in the Jungle Mahal region from her wheelchair, holding back-to-back rallies in Purulia as she strove to recover ground lost to the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls. In the summer of 2019, the BJP had won five of the six parliamentary seats in the region, which has high concentrations of tribal and OBC populations, and led from 30 of the 40 Assembly segments in the four western districts of Bankura, Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram. The chief minister’s pitch for reclaiming Trinamul supremacy — the party had bagged 33 of the 40 seats in 2016 — was wrapped in a plea and a pledge. The plea: “Please don’t turn away from Trinamul as you had done during the Lok Sabha polls, possibly owing to some misunderstanding. If the behaviour of someone from Trinamul hurt you, I apologise. I shall ensure rectification.” The pledge: “People thought I would sit at home because of my injury and they would loot the votes in Bengal. But as long as my heart keeps beating, I shall fight the BJP’s conspiracy of capturing Bengal. I’m a street fighter.” Mamata is set to convey similar messages at her meetings in Bankura and Jhargram on Tuesday and Wednesday. She might return to the region before the first phase of the polls, aware that a recovery in Jungle Mahal will be key to Trinamul retaining power. Several Trinamul insiders told The Telegraph that the party’s poor performance in the Lok Sabha owed to a range of factors, from the post-Pulwama surge in “nationalist” sentiments to a grudge against the local Trinamul leadership. No such pro-BJP “wave” is visible this time, and Trinamul has tried to address local problems at the ground level, a senior district Trinamul leader in Purulia said. “If Didi’s messages hit home and we put up a collective fight, we can recover lost ground to an extent and seal a third term in office for her,” the source said. The BJP lacks Trinamul’s organisational reach in most parts of Jungle Mahal, as evident from the comparable spread of their posters, festoons and wall graffiti. However, even Trinamul insiders admit that the BJP may have an ace in silent voters. “We need to sway at least some of these people to our side, and only Didi can do that,” a Trinamul insider said. Unlike Union home minister Amit Shah’s virtual meeting in Jhargram and the physical one in Bankura, Mamata’s rallies in Jhalda and Balarampur were well attended, with crowds arriving well in advance, braving the blazing sun. Mamata flagged another chink in the BJP’s armour: the perceived inadequacy in the party’s bench strength, highlighted by the decision to field serving MPs in the Assembly polls. “Do they want to be MPs or MLAs? Let them decide that first,” Mamata said. In her usual style, Mamata thanked the audience, especially the women, for turning up in numbers. She repeatedly apologised to them for being unable to stand up on the dais because of her injured foot. At both meetings, she described multiple times how she had suffered the injury in Nandigram on Wednesday, before stressing that she was concerned less about her personal discomfort and more about the pain the BJP was inflicting on the common people. That’s why she had hit the streets — to prevent the BJP wresting power in Bengal — she said. “The Prime Minister is a liar; he is incompetent and cannot run the country. Look at the price of LPG cylinders; see how they (the central government) are selling (public sector) companies,” Mamata said. She wondered what the “outsider BJP” could offer Bengal. “They can only divide people but we can live with everyone,” she said, before flagging how she had personally raised five tribal girls and got them married and how a Bauri girl now lived with her at her Calcutta home. She asked the crowd in Jhalda what the people of the state had got by giving the BJP 18 seats in the Lok Sabha elections. She then reeled off the list of schemes initiated by her government, particularly the pension schemes for the SC and ST communities and widows. In several parts of Purulia and Bankura, the monthly pension scheme of Rs 1,000 has suddenly improved Trinamul’s poll prospects, party sources claimed. “I shall ensure that we return to power and you keep getting free rations, that too at your doorstep,” Mamata said, a promise that may strike a chord in this poorest region of Bengal. Being in power at the Centre, the BJP can roll out even bigger promises, such as Narendra Modi’s 2019 pre-poll declaration about trying to ensure ST status for Kurmis, who make up more than 36 per cent of Purulia’s voters. That promise has stayed on paper but may now be resurrected when Modi arrives in the region to campaign. Aware of the possibility, Mamata spoke not a word on the subject. Instead, plastered foot in full display, she kept repeating her plea for an end to “misunderstandings” and her pledge to fight the BJP till her last breath. Mamata is likely to campaign in Nandigram on March 19 and 20, making her first visit to her constituency since her March 10 injury. Trinamul sources said she had lined up an intensive campaign roster for both blocks in Nandigram. “She might hold eight rallies and conduct several outreach events, such as visits to places of worship, all from her wheelchair,” a source said. “The security arrangements this time will, however, be different. Nothing will be left to chance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Anit Thapa lunch to woo hill communities||Gorkhaland Territorial Administration head Anit Thapa engaged in lunch diplomacy with chairpersons of development boards for various hill communities and termed the meeting “good”. The meeting assumes significance as associations backing the boards have not revealed their card for the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls. Sources said Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Thapa had a meeting with the chairpersons of seven hill boards over traditional Nepali cuisine at Pintail Village near Siliguri on Monday. Soon after the meeting, Thapa said: “I had a good meeting with chairpersons of different development boards in the hills.” The Bengal government had formed 16 development boards for various communities in the hills. There are many community organisations that support the boards. The sources have said the chairpersons recently formed an informal body called “All Hill Development Boards” and the seven present at Thapa’s meeting are its core committee members. Sanjay Moktan, the chairman of the West Bengal Tamang Cultural and Development Board, said no decision on the elections had been taken at the meeting. “It was an administrative meeting. No decision was taken regarding the elections. If we take any decision, we will definitely announce the same,” said Moktan. But observers said there was more to this than meets the eye. Also, a photograph of Thapa with the chairperson was immediately circulated in social media by his supporters. “This is an indication of the importance Thapa’s team has attached to the lunch,” said an observer. The Trinamul Congress has left the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong to the “friends”, which essentially are the Morcha factions of Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung. Thapa belongs to the Tamang camp. Even though these factions are allies of Trinamul, both are bitter rivals in the hills. Both the groups have decided to field their own candidates in the three seats. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gurung camp, said its candidates would be declared on March 23. Both the factions are trying to woo Trinamul supporters. Chairperson of many development boards had supported Trinamul in the past. Some development board chiefs had said recently that there had been no clear directive from Trinamul on the coming polls. “With Trinamul supporting both the factions, it is unlikely that the party will publicly announce support to one camp,” said an observer. With many expecting a triangular contest of the Gurung and Tamang camps and the BJP-GNLF alliance, Monday’s meeting near Siliguri is being considered important. Even though it is not to say all hill community members follow the directive of the associations backing the development boards, many feel any support in the present political situation is more than welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress supporters protest against renomination of Humayun Reza||Congress supporters in Murshidabad’s Suti Assembly segment hit the streets on Monday to  protest against renomination of sitting MLA Humayun Reza. The Congress had released the third list of candidates for the Assembly polls, which it would contest as part of the Sanyukt Morcha, on Sunday. About 500 Congress workers took out a rally in Suti’s Aurangabad market area under the leadership of the party’s vice-president for Suti Block 2 committee Abdul Khalek. Members of nine area committees in the block participated in the rally. The dissidents were carrying placards against Reza’s nomination and announced they would not campaign for him. “In 2016, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had announced that I would be the candidate in the next polls. But, this time again, Humayun Reza has been nominated,” said Alfajuddin Biswas, the block president of Suti block 2 Congress committee. Although Biswas wasn’t present at Monday’s rally, Congress sources said he was the man behind the agitation. The source said Biswas had hoped for a ticket for the 2021 polls, but was upset with Reza’s re-nomination. Later, the dissidents met at Biswas’s office and decided to field an Independent against Reza. “Someone or the other will be fielded from our side as an Independent. The angry workers will otherwise switch parties,” Biswas said. The dissidents alleged Reza had the least public acceptability because he had done little for the people of his constituency in the past five years. “Most of the people in Suti are labourers in the beedi industry. In the past three years, there has been no increase in their wages and the MLA has never pushed for any increment,” said Atiur Rahman, a local Congress leader. He also alleged Reza had worked in favour of the beedi factory owners. Reza, however, remains undeterred with the discontent. “It is true there are some issues. However, everything will be sorted through discussions and I’ve asked the leadership to hold talks with the dissidents,” he said. On the other hand, Congress’s sitting MLA of Murshidabad’s Burwan Protima Rajak resigned from all her posts on Sunday just before the list of candidates was announced. Rajak was denied a ticket this time and the party fielded Shiladitya Halder from Burwan. Rajak said she hadn’t decided whether she would join another party. The Congress has so far declared the list of candidates for 91 Assembly constituencies. However, in four Assembly seats — Baghmundi, Joynagar, Ballygunj and Joypur — the alliance is still in deep waters. Both the Left and the Congress have fielded candidates for Baghmundi and Joypur in Purulia. Ballygunj in Calcutta and Joynagar in South 24-Parganas were supposed to be Congress seats, but the CPM has already nominated candidates in the two seats. However, according to a senior Congress leader, all the disputes will be settled amicably in a few days. Congress has re-nominated most of its sitting MLAs for 2021, including Abdul Mannan, Manoj Chakraborty, Nepal Mahato, Sukhbilas Burma, and Sunil Tirkey. Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front also announced the names of 20 candidates. The ISF has so far been allotted 26 seats in its seat sharing adjustment with the Left Front. It also announced that it would contest in seats like Deganga and Magrahat, apart from the 26 seats they had been assigned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Low turnout or technical snag: What led to Amit Shah's absence at Jhargram rally?||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday cancelled his trip to Jhargram and addressed — what BJP insiders admitted was a “very low turnout” — virtually for only around seven minutes from Kharagpur, barely 42km from the venue; the change of plan formally attributed to “damage” to his helicopter. “You people have assembled in large numbers in this scorching sun. I was scheduled to visit Jhargram for a poll campaign rally….But my helicopter got damaged and I could not meet you…I apologise for this,” said Shah before slamming the Trinamul-led state government and assuring people of many tribal benefits, should his party come to power. Later in the day, he attended a rally in Bankura’s Khatra, which falls under the Ranibandh Assembly constituency, where he said: “I got delayed by a glitch in my chopper…However, I will not say it was a conspiracy as choppers could be damaged.” Despite Shah’s explanation, BJP insiders said the actual reason was “very low turnout”, which was “not good enough” for a leader of his stature. They said the cancellation of such a campaign, in a fully arranged programme, sent a “bad message” to the party workers and supporters, as he could have covered the distance easily by road. “If the helicopter glitch was the real reason, he could have come there by road, within the hour, as he was only 42km away. After addressing the rally virtually, he went by chopper to the Bankura’s Khatra rally easily,” said a BJP state unit functionary. “It would have been fine had there been an emergency or pressing work in Delhi and he addressed the rally virtually. But he came all this way, was only 42km away and he did not go…The low turnout caused the cancellation. It (the crowd) was not good enough for someone like him,” he added. Shah, however, assured party workers and leaders that he would attend another rally at the same venue in Jhargram before the poll campaign ends. Many in the BJP and rival parties recalled a cultural meet in Jhargram in February that BJP national president J.P. Nadda skipped purportedly because of low footfall. Sources in the BJP said the party planned to bring 45,000 people to Shah’s rally on Monday but less than 10,000 showed up till midday, though the deadline was 11am. “After waiting for over half-an-hour, a BJP leader announced Shah would not come because of a supposed glitch in the chopper, and he would address virtually. It was distressing news for us, as the people who had come had been waiting for an hour. Later, around 1.05pm, he addressed us virtually for seven minutes, with a party leader holding a cell phone to the microphone,” said a BJP leader in Jhargram. “People in large numbers started leaving before Shah started the virtual address,” he added. Sukhamoy Satpathy, the BJP’s Jhargram unit president and a candidate, when asked about footfall, denied that it was low “Footfall was not low. Amitji cancelled his trip because of a glitch in his chopper,” he said. “Most importantly, he assured me that he would come again.” Asked why Shah couldn’t cover the 42km by road, Satpathy said: “Then, he would have had to cancel the next campaign rally in Bankura.” A party colleague countered Satpathy’s logic, saying Shah could have gone by road to Jhargram, and by chopper to Bankura. “I cannot recall a rally where Amitji addressed only for seven minutes,  even virtually,” he added. Sources said the footfall was not only low in Jhargram but in Bankura too. According to a police report, the senior BJP leaders gave an estimate of 50,000 people and around 450 vehicles. A senior police officer said the actual numbers fell far short. “We found around 8,000 in Khatra. The number of vehicles was barely 120,” he said. A senior BJP leader said many local leaders directed to hire five vehicles each hired only two each and as a result many people skipped the rally. Shah, despite the curtailed itinerary, in Khatra did not miss the opportunity of bringing up last Wednesday’s Nandigram, where Mamata Banerjee sustained injuries. “I recently came to know that Mamataji received injuries to her leg and you people also saw it. The matter is under investigation. Trinamul leaders are claiming it was a conspiracy to injure her and the Election Commission said it was only an accident. God knows the truth,” said Shah. “Didi you were hurt as you sustained injuries to your leg. But you did not feel the pain of mothers of 130 of our workers who were killed by your political violence. I pray for your speedy recovery, but those mothers will respond to you in the polls,” Shah added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP plans to use railways to loot votes, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused the BJP of hatching a plan to use the railways to rig the elections in Bengal, an allegation that is bound to intensify the war of words between Trinamul and the BJP ahead of the do-or-die Assembly polls in Bengal. “Some ministers, including the railway minister, are hatching a conspiracy to loot votes in the Bengal elections... I know a high-level meeting was held to this effect. The plan is to send looters from different places in the country, who will reach Bengal in trains. The railway minister has instructed railway officers to organise food and place of stay for these people,” said Mamata in her second public meeting in Balarampur in the district to back party nominee Shantiram Mahato. Possibly aware that this charge — which includes railway minister Piyush Goyal — would draw sharp response from the BJP and the matter may even reach the Election Commission, the chief minister — campaigning in a wheelchair for the second day in a row owing to her injury in Nandigram on March 10 — stressed that she was making the allegation with full responsibility. “Someone in the know of things has told me about this...I am not naming the person because of security concerns,” she said. The issue of the BJP’s attempt to rig the election found a mention in Mamata’s address while she was referring to the border that Bengal shares with neighbouring Jharkhand along Ayodhya Hills. Midway through her speech in Balarampur, Mamata said that the BJP was infiltrating Bengal with outsiders using Ayodhya Hills. “This border has not been sealed as yet and I am urging the administration to look into it. I will also take up the matter with Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who will come to Bengal to campaign for us (Trinamul),” said Mamata. Mamata also urged the electorate to be vigilant about outsiders infiltrating their areas ahead of the polls and resist any attempts by them to “loot the votes”. In the past, several Trinamul leaders had blamed the BJP of using the Bengal-Jharkhand border to send goons to create problems in Bengal. But Mamata making a charge that includes the Union railway minister assumes more significance. A Trinamul source close to Mamata said she would not have made such an attack without definitive information. “We all know about the tilt in the poll panel towards the ruling party at the Centre. There is no doubt that they (the BJP) would take it up with the ECI... As she is sure about the information, she made it public to make people aware of the BJP’s culture,” said the source. Mamata also repeatedly tried to highlight the BJP leadership’s cultural disconnect with Bengal. “They will claim that they are having food in the homes of lower caste people, but these BJP leaders still believe in untouchability.... You will look at them and understand,” said Mamata. The BJP was quick to dismiss the chief minister’s allegations. Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson of state BJP, rubbished the charge. “We are tired of these fancy allegations from Trinamul. They must remember that the more the number of ridiculous allegations they level against us, the more our vote share will increase,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP workers erupt in rage over candidates list||The release of the BJP’s list of candidates for the third and fourth phases of the Bengal Assembly polls has erupted in the face of the party with protests breaking out across Bengal on Monday against several nominees. State BJP leaders fear the outbursts will have a negative impacts on the party’s prospects in the elections if not addressed immediately. “These protests will send a wrong signal. As it is, we are being ridiculed for not naming all candidates together and fielding MPs in the Assembly polls. Now, the protests will adversely affect the party’s image,” a state leader said. On Sunday, the BJP announced candidates for 63 of the 75 seats that would go to the polls in the third and the fourth phases. Within hours, BJP workers hit the streets against the candidates in several seats across the state. Old-timers of the party from constituencies such as Panchla, Udaynarayanpur, Raidighi and Diamond Harbour gathered in front of the BJP’s election office in Calcutta’s Hastings on Monday. MP Arjun Singh, also a Trinamul turncoat, sought to address their issues and sent them back with a promise that their concerns would be taken care of. The BJP has fielded Mohit Ghanti in Panchla, Trinamul turncoats Dipak Halder and Shantanu Bapuli in Diamond Harbour and Raidighi, respectively. Sumit Ranjan Karar is the BJP candidate in Udaynarayanpur. State BJP general-secretary and party’s observer for north Bengal Sayantan Basu was summoned by Shivprakash, joint general secretary (organisation), to discuss the emerging situation and how to pacify the agitators. “I’ll be going to Alipurduar tomorrow (Tuesday). There is some issue with the candidature of Bishal Lama in Kalchini and Ashok Lahiri in Alipurduar. It will all be resolved at a meeting,” Basu said. Lama is a turncoat from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and was a close aide to Bimal Gurung. Lahiri is an eminent economist. In Hooghly’s Singur, the party’s old guards have been protesting the candidature of Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharya since Sunday. The BJP Hooghly district office at Chinsurah was locked up for over two hours on Monday. The protesters were also joined by party workers from Chandernagore and Uttarpara. Later in the day, the Chinsurah office was allegedly vandalised by party dissenters to protest against fielding of Trinamul turncoats in Singur and Uttarpara. While the BJP’s candidate for Uttarpara is another Trinamul turncoat Prabir Ghoshal, the party has fielded one of its state leaders Deepanjan Guha in Chandernagore. Several posters have sprung up across Uttarpara and Chandernagore seeking the removal of both Ghoshal and Guha. The posters accused Ghoshal of being involved in multiple scams. Guha has been labelled as an “outsider” and the posters demanded a local candidate. In Saptagram, BJP workers protested against the induction of Trinamul turncoat Debabrata Biswas into the party. Biswas, who joined the BJP on Sunday, is the party’s potential candidate for the Assembly constituency. In Saptagram’s Bansberia, some BJP workers laid on railway tracks and threatened to commit suicide if Biswas was nominated. They were later restrained by their party colleagues. “Debabrata Biswas is a tainted Trinamul man. He was the president of the Mogra panchayat samity in Chinsurah. He joined the BJP after he was denied a ticket by Trinamul. We hear he will be our candidate, which we don’t want,” said Nirupam Mukherjee, convenor of the BJP’s fisherman cell and one of the leaders who threatened to commit suicide. “We have spoken to the agitators. A report describing the details of their demands and the agitation has been sent to the leadership,” said BJP’s Hooghly district chief Gautam Chatterjee. A state-level BJP leader said the party was confident of winning five of the seven seats that were part of the Hooghly Lok Sabha constituency but whatever had happened in Singur, Saptagram and Chandernagore on Monday would have a ripple effect on other Assembly constituencies as well. He added that in the backdrop of the widespread discontent amongst party workers, Union home minister Amit Shah called an emergency meeting with state leaders on Monday night. The meeting was attended by BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. After addressing a meeting in Bankura on Monday, Shah had gone to poll-bound Assam to speak at a rally. Although he was supposed to leave Assam for Delhi, Shah decided to return to Calcutta and sit with his party colleagues. The BJP, however, managed to contain two dissident BJP leaders Pradip Lodha and Dhiman Koley by inducting them into the party’s state committee as permanent invitees. Lodha and Koley had filed nominations from Garbeta and Salboni seats. They had been persuaded by BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya to withdraw their nominations. “Since Pradipda and Dhimanda withdrew their nominations they were inducted into the state committee. But, given the kind of agitation that is being reported from everywhere, the party must start thinking how many people can be inducted into the state committee?” a BJP source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: New security director picked for ‘experience’||Gyanwant Singh, the IPS officer previously responsible for maintaining Bengal’s law and order as additional director general of police, was on Monday chosen to take care of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security. Singh, an IPS officer of the 1993 batch, was chosen as the director of security following the removal of Vivek Sahay, an IPS officer of 1988 batch, from the post by the Election Commission (EC) on Sunday for his alleged failure in protecting the chief minister who suffered an injury at Birulia Bazar in Nandigram on March 10 during an outreach. “In keeping with the EC's directive to the state government about a replacement of Sahay by 1pm on Monday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay informed the poll panel about the new choice,” said a senior official of the home department. “Singh was chosen in consultation with Niraj Nayan Pandey, Bengal’s newly appointed DGP. The new incumbent will be responsible for security of all VIPs including the chief minister of Bengal,” the officer said. State police sources said Singh was unanimously chosen for the new role, given his knowledge about the prevailing law and order situation of all districts of Bengal. He took charge on Monday and will oversee Mamata’s security arrangements for her poll rallies lined up across many districts of south Bengal. On Sunday, the EC removed Sahay, East Midnapore district magistrate and SP after reports to the poll panel cited a breach in Mamata’s security in Nandigram on March 10. The EC had also placed Sahay and superintendent of police, East Midnapore, Pravin Prakash under suspension. Senior police officers in the state police said the decision to replace Sahay was unprecedented and there was no reason for the two IPS officers to be placed under suspension. “As the head of the security, a serving officer can’t force a political leader to abide by the protocols. He can only remind and underline the challenges in case of breach of security,” said a senior police officer who has handled VIP security in the past. "The NSG had faced similar challenges with several VIPs, including former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi,” he said. Besides putting two IPS officers on suspension, the EC has asked the chief secretary and the DGP to identify other “proximate security personnel” below the director of security, who failed to prevent the incident and initiate suitable action against them for their failure by March 17. On Monday, senior officers in the home department said search for replacements of these personnel had already begun with the home department scanning through the records of some junior security personnel who are posted in the Special Security Unit (SSU), which is responsible for VIP security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader switches to ‘silence’ from grudge||Ganga Prasad Sharma, the Alipurduar district president of the BJP who had voiced his discontent over selection of candidates in two Assembly seats, said on Monday that the state leadership had asked him to remain “silent”. Hours after BJP had announced economist Ashok Lahiri as its Alipurduar candidate and Bishal Lama, a former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader, as the nominee for Kalchini on Sunday, Sharma said he did not know Lahiri and he had not been consulted on Lama’s candidature. On Monday, Sharma said: “I have intimated the state leadership about my grievances. They have asked me to remain silent for the next couple of days.” Sharma was scheduled to address a press meet in the Alipurduar BJP office at 4pm on Monday. A WhatsApp message addressed to media persons in the party’s chat group, sent at 6.20 in the morning, had said it would be his “last” press meet as the BJP district chief. The press meet was, however, cancelled which BJP sources attributed to “pressure” on Sharma. “The press meet has been cancelled because of unavoidable circumstances, but I will meet you soon,” Sharma said without divulging further details. The number from which Sharma’s message had been posted in the WhatsApp group was deleted later in the day. Sharma also changed his stance on Lahiri and described the economist as a “highly educated person” and an “excellent candidate”. On Sunday, Sharma had said: “I came to know from the media that Ashok Lahiri would contest from Alipurduar. I don’t know him. So, how can I speak about him?” However, he did not have any such kind words for Kalchini candidate Lama. On Monday evening, BJP supporters had demonstrated in front of Sharma’s house in Jaigoan and demanded that Lama be dropped as the Kalchini candidate. Deba Prasad Roy has been announced as the Congress candidate from Alipurduar. Roy had won the seat in 2011, but the veteran had been denied a ticket in the 2016 Assembly election. Sources in the BJP said a section of party supporters was still rigid in their demand for Lama’s pullout from the fray. “It seems the party will stick to Lama in Kalchini and hence, the cold war by BJP supporters might persist in the run-up to the election,” said an observer. Throughout the day, there was much debate over Lahiri’s candidature in Alipurduar. While a section of the people seemed satisfied over the candidature of a “highly qualified” person, another section wondered if he would have enough time to dedicate for the people of Alipurduar. Lahiri is expected to reach the district in the next few days to start his campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Edge for Mamata Banerjee||The third pre-poll survey conducted by pollster C-Voter for ABP Ananda has indicated that the Trinamul Congress and the BJP could be engaged in a direct battle in the coming Assembly polls and Mamata Banerjee could retain power by bagging 43 per cent votes and 150-166 seats. The BJP is predicted to get 38 percent votes (see chart) and 98-114 seats, while the survey forecast that the Left Front-Congress-ISF combine would corner 13 per cent votes and emerge winners in 23-31 constituencies. The latest survey was conducted between February 28 and March 13 and telecast on Monday. A total of 19,314 people took part in the survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
