17-03-2021||West Bengal|| Income scheme for all, promises TMC in 'development-oriented' manifesto  ||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday unveiled a "development-oriented" manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal, promising an income scheme for all families, a student credit card and constitution of a task force to examine the inclusion of several communities under the OBC category. Claiming that her government has reduced poverty in the state by 40 per cent, the manifesto also promised to increase annual financial aid to farmers from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000. "For the first time, every family in Bengal will be extended a minimum basic income. Under this, 1.6 crore general category families will get Rs 500 a month, whereas SC/ST category families will get Rs 1,000. The money will be directly transferred to the woman head of a family," Mamata said. A new student credit card scheme will be introduced with a credit limit of Rs 10 lakh and an interest rate of only 4 per cent will be charged, the West Bengal chief minister said. "We will set up 10 lakh new MSMEs and 2000 new big industrial units in the next five years," she said, adding that the state is ranked number 1 in this sector, having created lakhs of jobs. "In the MSME sector we are number 1... we have created lakhs of jobs in MSME sector... All the metro projects that we see in Bengal is all my projects.. all were sanctioned by me when I was Rail Minister," she added. "We shall appoint a Special Task Force to examine and propose OBC status to all the communities which are not recognised as OBCs like Mahishya, Tili, Tamul and Sahas. We will also ask the Government of India to grant ST status to Mahatos," the TMC chief said a day after the BJP outreach to the ''left out'' Hindu castes in the OBC list in the state. "We are creating a world class economy in Bengal. We want to create new jobs and a new path for the youth of Bengal... We have fallen back because of COVID-19 pandemic," added the Chief Minister, whose Trinamool Congress is seeking a third straight term in power in face of a massive BJP challenge. A Special Development Board would be set up for the development of Terai and Dooars region in north Bengal, the CM also announced. On Wednesday, BJP chief JP Nadda had visited the backward district of Bankura, where he said that if elected to power, the BJP would form a committee and as per the Mandal Commission''s recommendations on who are eligible, take steps "for their inclusion and bring them to the mainstream". "Mamata Ji is indulging in the politics of appeasement to retain her chair in Bengal. It is unfortunate that because of it, people of many left out Hindu castes like ''Mahisya'' and ''Teli'' have been deprived of OBC status in Bengal. This is an injustice towards them," Nadda had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Cancel Suvendu’s candidature from Nandigram, demands Trinamul||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday demanded the cancellation of the nomination of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari, who is pitted against Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram, as his name also "seems to appear" in the electoral roll of Haldia constituency. This development came barely days after Adhikari, once a close aide of Banerjee, demanded cancellation of the TMC supremo's nomination from Nandigram seat. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien in a letter to the Electoral Registration Officer of Nandigram assembly constituency alleged that Adhikari's name "seems to appear" in the electoral rolls of both Nandigram and Haldia assembly constituencies and this is not permitted as per Section 17 of the Representation of The People Act of 1951. Section 17 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 mentions that no person shall be entitled to be registered in the electoral roll for more than one constituency. It also appears that Adhikari had filed an application for migration of his name from Haldia assembly constituency to Nandigram constituency, the TMC MP said, by providing "false particulars of his residence". He claimed that this became evident as Adhikari was found to be 'absent' at the time of field visit by a booth level officer (BLO) for verification. The TMC MP claimed that Adhikari has not resided at Nandanayakbar village, which falls under Nandigram constituency, over the past six months, "let alone being a permanent resident thereof". "As per Section 19 of the RP Act, only a person who is 'ordinarily resident' in a constituency may be registered as a voter in the electoral rolls of such constituency. Hence he is not entitled to 'migration' and his migration is bad in law," the letter read. The TMC leader said the Electoral Registration Officer should forthwith delete the name of Adhikari from the electoral roll of Nandigram assembly constituency and urged appropriate legal action, including criminal proceedings, be initiated against him. "The nomination paper submitted by Adhikari from Nandigram constituency be also struck down", he added. Adhikari had sought rejection of the nomination of the Bengal chief minister for not declaring six criminal cases against her while filing her papers. In his complaint to the Election Commission, Adhikari had claimed she suppressed the information about five cases filed against her in Assam and another lodged by the CBI in West Bengal. However, CBI sources had said it was a different Mamata Banerjee who was having cases relating to disproportionate assets pending against her and not Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In a significant ruling in March 2018, the Supreme Court had said the returning officer for an election can reject nomination papers of a candidate for non-disclosure and suppression of information, including those related to their assets and criminal background. It has ruled that voters have a fundamental right to know about their candidates and leaving columns blank in the nomination paper amounts to violation of their right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP wanted to keep me indoors before polls, alleges Mamata||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the opposition BJP wanted her to keep indoors ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections, which apparently resulted in her injury. Addressing a public meeting in Gopiballavpur in the Jhargram district, Banerjee alleged that earlier it was CPI(M) which used to physically attack her, and now the BJP was doing the same. "They (BJP) wanted to keep me indoors so that I cannot go out during the elections. They have injured my leg," Banerjee said, addressing the election rally sitting on a wheelchair. The chief minister had suffered an injury to her left leg at Nandigram on March 10 during a crowd surge as she greeted people from her vehicle with its door open, at a market area. "They cannot throttle my voice, we will defeat BJP," she said, while urging the people of the region to vote for the TMC candidates. "Every vote you cast for our candidates will be for me," she added. Banerjee claimed that though the BJP won the Jhargram Lok Sabha seat in 2019, the party MP did nothing for the area. She mentioned the schemes launched by her government over the years, reaffirming that if voted to power she will ensure free doorstep delivery of ration. Jhargram, in the Jangalmahal area in the western part of the state, witnessed a BJP wave in 2019 with the party winning four Lok Sabha seats in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses Amit Shah of conspiring against her||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused Union home minister Amit Shah of conspiring against her by misusing central agencies and meddling in the affairs of the Election Commission to harass government officials in the state. She linked Shah’s alleged actions to the BJP’s perceived failure to get adequate crowds at the party’s campaign rallies in Bengal. At a rally in Bankura’s Mejia, the first of her three public meetings on Tuesday, the chief minister said: “As the elections approach, the Union home minister has started his work. The home minister is orchestrating a conspiracy sitting in Calcutta. He is planning who will be grilled, who will be targeted and who will be persecuted by central agencies.” The Trinamul Congress had trailed the BJP in all 12 Assembly segments of Bankura in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. At all three rallies Mamata warned the people against being “deceived yet again” and urged them to “save” Bengal from conspirators in the form of BJP leaders who, she alleged, would take away everything the people held dear. The chief minister said the central government and the BJP were misusing agencies like the CBI and the ED as the turnouts at the party’s campaign rallies had been dismal. On Monday, Shah did not attend a rally in Jhargram. A snag in the helicopter was cited as the reason. But some BJP leaders had attributed the decision to low turnout. “Will you use your muscle power to deploy the agencies against us as people are not coming to your meetings? Will you conspire against us for the low turnouts at your events now?” she asked. On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath attended two campaign rallies in Purulia’s Balarampur and Bankura’s Raipur, with sources in the BJP saying the turnout was “very poor”. In Bankura, people started leaving the ground even before Adityanath had finished his speech. Mamata dwelt at length on how she believed Shah and his party were misusing central agencies. “Now they have sent a notice to the home secretary of the state. I will request the Election Commission to look into the reason why government officials are being harassed by agencies during poll time,” said Mamata. The chief minister could be referring to an Enforcement Directorate notice to home secretary H.K. Dwivedi in connection with a case related to the sale of 45 per cent of the state government’s share in Metro Dairy at a low price. Dwivedi was the finance secretary in 2017 when the allegation of the sale at a low price was made. Sources close to Mamata said she was livid after learning about the notice. “She said the notice had been sent just to intimidate state government officials,” said a source close to her. During her address, Mamata accused Shah and the BJP of interfering in the affairs of the Election Commission. “With full respect to the Election Commission of India, I would like to ask who is operating the commission. Are you not, Amit Shah babu, operating the commission?” she asked. “We want a free and fair election… but who is Amit Shah (when it comes to the conduct of polls)? Who is he to guide the Election Commission? He has been interfering in the day-to-day work of the commission,” Mamata added. The chief minister lambasted the commission for removing Vivek Sahay, a senior IPS officer, from the post of director (security), in connection with alleged lapses in Nandigram on March 10 when she suffered an injury and needed hospitalisation. Sahay was also suspended by the poll panel. “The person who was handling the main charge of my security was removed. What do they want? Do they want to end my life?” Mamata said. The commission on Tuesday rejected Mamata’s written request asking for the reinstatement of Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||How Didi’s life has changed||The BJP has called it a “drama” and many cheap jibes have been made about Mamata Banerjee’s bandaged left foot but there is little doubt that it has changed her life for now. Some changes are discernible: Mamata’s red pouch — her constant companion from which she offers medicines along with medical advice to those she feels need them — shows a larger-than-usual bulge. “I have to take extra medicines to take care of the pain, else it will be difficult to carry on,” Mamata says, popping a pill while sitting in her wheelchair. Some changes are lost in the heat and dust of politics: at 66, Mamata is again having to cope with something that once defined her political rise: physical pain. “Suddenly there is this excruciating pain in my leg since morning,” the chief minister says before setting out from a Durgapur hotel for three rallies in Bankura on Tuesday. With Mamata wincing in pain but determined not to let it affect her campaign schedule, her aides wonder what may have intensified the ache. Two of them discuss whether extra stress on the injured leg was behind the stab of pain. If so, the root of the stress lies in another unfamiliar feature that has not drawn much attention among the rank and file: one of the most tireless public figures in the country cannot make a single move without assistance. She was hauled up from the wheelchair and helped back onto it multiple times on Monday. Mamata has had to use a crutch while indoors, which is a hazard as the sari occasionally gets entangled with the prop, and she has to take the help of two aides as doctors have advised her not to strain her injured foot, sources said. Such restrictions are not easy to come to terms with, especially for someone like Mamata who is known for her brisk morning and evening walks and the punishing regime she subjects herself to — she does not rest until she meets her 20km daily target. Mamata cannot afford the comfort of recuperating at home as she is facing the battle of her life. The fight is lopsided too, with the BJP deploying its full might to take her on. “I have three meetings today in Bankura and then will have to return to Kharagpur. My movements are taking a lot of time.… Let’s leave,” says Mamata, prodding her aides to prepare to set out for the helipad from where she is to fly to Bankura for her first meeting scheduled at 1.30pm. The flying time is barely 15 minutes, but Mamata is ready by 11am. Finally, she leaves the hotel at 12.15pm as an aide pushes her wheelchair towards the elevator. “Didi, Didi,” erupts the crowd outside. “Bhanga paye khela hawbe (The game will still be played with a broken leg),” they shout. The helipad near Durgapur City Centre is less than 1km away, so she is taken there in the wheelchair itself. The ride to the chopper is bumpy as the road is uneven and dusty. At the door of the helicopter, two aides push her wheelchair up the ramp while two others help her climb up. Mamata takes a small step and laboriously plonks herself onto the helicopter seat. She wipes sweat off her face with her sari and exclaims: “Uff!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to skip Modi’s meeting on Covid||Mamata Banerjee is unlikely to attend a video conference Prime Minister Narendra Modi has convened with chief ministers on Covid-19 in the country on Wednesday because of her prescheduled public meetings in Jhargram. Sources at Nabanna said Modi was scheduled to hold a virtual meeting with all chief ministers at 12.30pm. But the Bengal chief minister has already gone out of the city to hold several rallies in the Jungle Mahal. On Tuesday, the chief minister is scheduled to spend the night at Kharagpur and set to attend two rallies in Jhargram. Trinamul sources said after holding the rally in Gopiballavpur, Mamata was scheduled to come back to Calcutta in the afternoon and release the Trinamul Congress’s manifesto for the Assembly polls in the evening. “She has a tight schedule on Wednesday and it is unlikely that she would be able to attend the video conference. It is not possible for her to cancel rallies at the last minute as few days have already been lost,” said a Trinamul insider. In the past, the chief minister had attended such meetings from districts but this time, no such initiative has been taken so far. “The chief minister had attended a video conference with the PM from Bankura. A number of PWD engineers had rushed to Bankura a day ahead of the meeting to make the arrangements for the meeting. But no one from Nabanna has been sent to Kharagpur this time,” said a source. Sources aware of the development said Wednesday’s meeting was considered to be important for states like Maharastra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh where Covid-19 cases had increased in the past couple of weeks. “A total of eight states, including Maharastra, Karnataka, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, are causing trouble these days. These eight states recorded more than 80 per cent of the 24,000-odd cases over the past few days. Bengal is in a comparatively better situation with about 240 cases a day,” said an official. After such meetings, the Centre usually sends detailed guidelines to the states to deal with the existing situation. “If the chief minister cannot attend the meeting, the state can make up by following the guidelines to be issued after the meeting. As the state government has worked hard to bring the Covid-19 situation under control, it can continue with its effort that has produced results,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul functionary’s brother held for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate, which is probing alleged money laundering in multi-crore cattle and coal smuggling cases, arrested Vikash Mishra, brother of Trinamul Youth Congress leader Vinay Mishra, from New Delhi on Tuesday. He was produced in a Delhi court that remanded him in the ED’s custody for six days. Two central investigating agencies —CBI and the ED — have been looking for Vikash for some time in connection with their probe into the alleged multi-crore cattle smuggling and coal pilferage cases spanning several states, including Bengal. Sources said Vikash had been camping in the capital to oversee pending cases against his brother in the Supreme Court. “Vikash has been instrumental in distributing crores of rupees to some of the beneficiaries of both cattle smuggling and coal pilferage cases,” said a senior ED officer. “He will be brought to Calcutta within a day or two for further questioning in custody,” the officer added. In February, the CBI had named Vinay in its supplementary chargesheet in the cattle smuggling case and booked him under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including criminal conspiracy and cheating. Earlier in January, the agency had issued a “lookout notice” against Vinay after he had remained untraceable following a raid on three of his homes in Calcutta in December last year. Vinay was not at any of his three residences — at Rakhal Das Auddy Road in Alipore and Rashbehari in Calcutta, and Patipukur in Lake Town — but pen drives, laptops and documents had been seized, a CBI officer said. The CBI has still not been able to reach him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Swapan Dasgupta quits RS after Trinamul salvo||Swapan Dasgupta, BJP’s candidate for the Tarkehswar Assembly seat in Bengal, on Tuesday submitted his resignation as a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha. He announced his resignation via Twitter, a day after the Trinamul Congress had raised a stink over a nominated MP joining a political party after the permitted time. Trinamul was all set to submit an application for his disqualification under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. According to the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, a nominated member of a House shall be disqualified from being a member if he/she joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he/she takes his seat. Dasgupta had been nominated to the Rajya Sabha in April 2016, and had not opted to join the BJP during the six-month window. While announcing his resignation, Dasgupta made no mention of the legal provision cited by Trinamul. “I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days,’’ he tweeted. Dasgupta had been named a candidate on Sunday, after which Trinamul’s Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra had raised the issue on Twitter. “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP,’’ she tweeted on Monday. There was no official word from the Rajya Sabha secretariat on whether the Chairman had accepted the resignation and Dasgupta technically remained on the rolls all day. Officials indicated that the acceptance of his resignation would be formally announced by the Chairman during Wednesday’s proceedings. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray had prepared a detailed petition for Dasgupta’s disqualification as a member of the House under the Tenth Schedule. But before he could submit the petition to the Chairman, Dasgupta announced his resignation after which Moitra took to Twitter to say: “Thank you Sir (Dasgupta) -- we wish you well for the upcoming WB polls.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur BJP leader jailed in coal pilferage case||BJP leader and Durgapur businessman Rajesh Jha, alias Raju, was remanded in judicial custody by a Bankura court where he had turned up on Monday to seek bail in connection with a coal pilferage case lodged in 2005. The coal pilferage case was lodged at Mejia police station in Bankura in 2005. The court rejected his bail petition and sent him to 14 days’ judicial custody. Jha, who had recently joined the BJP in the presence of the party state president Dilip Ghosh and MP Arjun Singh, is one of the aspirants seeking nominations in the forthcoming Assembly elections. He was seen taking part in the BJP’s political activities, including Parivartan Yatra in Durgapur, Raniganj, Jamuria and Pandaveswar, areas that come under the coal belt in West Burdwan. On Monday, Jha had appeared in the additional district and sessions judge court in Bankura, which had last year issued an arrest warrant against him, and appealed for bail. However, the judge Arun Kiran Banerjee rejected his bail petition and remanded him in 14 days’ judicial custody. Public prosecutor Arun Chatterjee said the court had issued the arrest warrant against Jha last year after he had sent a man to impersonate him before the court during the trial. “During the trial last year, the judge had asked the man to show his identity proof when we came to know that he was standing in place of Jha. The court immediately issued the arrest warrant but according to police Jha was absconding,” said Chatterjee. Sources said Jha had turned up to seek bail from the Bankura court on Monday apprehending that the case might come in the way of his aspiration to be nominated by the BJP in the polls. Police sources in Durgapur said Jha used to run an organised coal smuggling and transportation of smuggled coal during the Left regime. “He fled to Malaysia and Singapore to evade arrest after the change of power in Bengal in 2011,” the police officer said. Jha was arrested within a month of Mamata Banerjee taking over as chief minister and sent to jail. Although he managed to get bail, he was arrested again after the 2016 Assembly polls on charges of transporting unaccounted cash and unauthorised firearms. BJP president in West Burdwan Lakshman Ghorui, however, said the law would take its own course. “The BJP has inducted Raju Jha in the party but if he had committed any mischief, the party will not protect him,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Thin crowd at Yogi’s public meetings in Purulia and Bankura||The BJP’s run with low attendance at rallies of its star campaigners persisted on Tuesday and this time, the poor turnout was at the meeting of the party’s “poster boy” and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath who addressed two gatherings in Purulia and Bankura. Union home minister had not attended a rally in Jhargram on Monday because of a snag in his chopper. But BJP insiders said Shah had been put off by low footfall and decided to address the gathering virtually from Kharagpur. Adityanath, who addressed the rallies in Purulia’s Balarampur and in Bankura’s Raipur on Tuesday, had very few people turning up to hear him and chief minister Mamata Banerjee did not miss out on the opportunity to snub her rival when she quipped that even money was not helping the BJP get people. “Even after giving money, the BJP is unable to bring people to its rallies…What can I do if people don’t come to your meetings. People are not with you because you tortured farmers, Dalits and people belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Will you kill me because the turnout at your meetings is very low?” asked Mamata while addressing a well-attended rally in Bankura’s Mejia. Sources said the BJP leadership had asked local leaders in Purulia’s Balarampur to find out the reason for such a low turnout as the Assembly segment is one of those in the Jungle Mahal where the party had a very strong base. BJP leaders said they had set a target to bring over 15,000 people but the approximate turnout was not more than 4,000. “A large number of people voted for the BJP after the panchayat polls in 2018 and in the last Lok Sabha elections, the mandate for the BJP in the Assembly segment was huge. But after voting for the party, people did not get anything, apart from the politics of religion. So, people are not coming to BJP rallies,” said Nabendu Mahali, a Trinamul general secretary in Purulia. BJP leaders in Balarampur, however, claimed that they had met the target given the hot conditions and time of the meeting. “The meeting time was 11am and it is the time when most people are at work. However, we had set a target of 15,000 people and managed to cross it,” said Gopal Kataruka, a BJP leader in Balarampur. Countering the claim of low footfall at Adityanath’s rallies, a BJP leader in Bankura said that social media was full of pictures of a sparsely attended rally of Mamata Banerjee at Shaltora on Tuesday. Trinamul leaders, however, said the pictures of the rally being circulated by the BJP were from a time before Mamata had arrived. A BJP insider, however, said: “The party has asked the leaders to look into the reason for the low footfall. One reason could be the problem of language. The people in these areas are not used to listening to speeches in Hindi and that is playing a damper.” In Bankura’s Raipur, BJP supporters started to leave the ground when Adityanath began to speak around 1.30pm. “The turnout in Yogiji’s rally was very low in Raipur and it was because of the scorching sun. People did not come and started leaving the place to find a shade under a tree,” said a BJP leader in Bankura. Trinamul leaders, however, did not leave the chance to criticise the BJP for failing to get people to their shows. “The turnout will drop every day. People are not interested in BJP’s leaders coming from outside the state as they can’t understand what they are saying,” said Dilip Agrawal, the Trinamul spokesperson in Bankura. The presence of BJP national president J.P. Nadda did not attract much crowd at his road show in Bankura's Bishnupur and later at the rally in the district’s Kotulpur. However, BJP leaders said the turnout at Nadda’s rally and the propaganda of low turnout was a Trinamul ploy. “We had concentrated on Naddaji programme on Tuesday and Yogiji’s meeting was for a single constituency,” said a BJP leader. The issue of low turnout had cropped up during Shah’s unscheduled meeting with state leaders in Calcutta late on Monday night. A BJP leader said Shah was unhappy with the low turnout at his rallies in Jhargram and Bankura on Monday. “Amitji wanted to know the reason behind the low turnout. He has asked the leaders to find out the real reason behind people not turning up in adequate numbers,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Will back Trinamul in hung House: Malda Congress MP||Congress MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury said on Tuesday that his party would help the Trinamul Congress form the government in Bengal if the election verdict threw up a hung Assembly. The Malda South MP has, however, done a volte face after he was reprimanded for such remarks by state Congress leaders. Abu Hasem later said the Congress would maintain “equal distance” from Trinamul and the BJP. “The BJP has been trying to implement its agenda in Bengal like it did in Uttar Pradesh and some other states. But its plan will not be successful. Bengal wants industry and employment. If there is a hung House, we would support Trinamul to keep the BJP away from power,” said Abu Hasem. He explained that a pre-poll alliance with Trinamul was not possible because the state’s ruling party misbehaved with the Congress and started humiliating Congress workers while running the state government together. “Even then, I prefer to support Trinamul for the sake of preserving harmony in the state,” the Congress leader added. Krishnendu Choudhury, the chairman of Malda district Trinamul, said: “The Congress cannot support the BJP in case there is no clear verdict. So, whether they like or not, the Congress has to support us.” The Left leaders, on the other hand, sounded peeved. “Trinamul and the BJP are like two faces of one coin. There is no question of supporting Trinamul under any circumstances,” said CPM’s state committee member Ambar Mitra. As the Congress MP’s remarks sparked a controversy, sources said, he was summoned to the neighbouring district of Murshidabad by PCC chief Adhir Chowdhury. After his return, Khan Choudhury did a volte face and issued a written statement, saying his “statement was taken out of context and twisted in the media and social media”. “I urge all concerned not to get misled by unsubstantiated rumours and get the candidates fielded by secular Congress, Left and ISF elected from all constituencies,” his statement said. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya on Tuesday wrote to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, requesting them to refrain from campaigning for Trinamul in Bengal. “We are in alliance with the NCP and the RJD in two different states. However, we are fighting against Mamata Banerjee in Bengal. If the two leaders come to campaign for her, it would send a wrong message to our party workers here,” Bhattacharya told The Telegraph. Trinamul sources have said Tejashwi and Pawar might come to Bengal to campaign for Mamata, along with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah rebukes Bengal BJP leaders for protests||Union home minister Amit Shah reportedly pulled up Bengal BJP leaders at a late-night meeting here on Monday over the growing discontent among party workers at the grassroots level over selection of certain candidates. Sources in the BJP said the announcement of candidates for 63 of the 75 Assembly seats, which would go to polls in the third and fourth phases, on Sunday had led to a public show of dissent over a few names and the inability of the state leadership to control the anger of workers had made Shah furious. “Amitji pulled up almost all the leaders present at the meeting because he believed the discontent was over the names that had been suggested by the BJP’s functionaries at the Bengal unit. There has been no controversy over names finalised through surveys conducted by private agencies appointed by Amitji. All the uproar is over the candidates who were suggested by state leaders,” the BJP source said. Shah, who had gone to Assam after addressing two rallies in Bengal on Monday, was supposed to leave Guwahati for Delhi. However, amid reports of protests against the list of candidates coming from crucial districts like Hooghly and South 24-Parganas, Shah rescheduled his itinerary and returned to Calcutta to hold a meeting with the state BJP office-bearers. The meeting was attended by BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and co-minder Amit Malviya, national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh, his deputy Shivprakash, Santosh’s Bengal counterpart Amitava Chakraborty and BJP’s Tarakeswar candidate Swapan Dasgupta. Sources said the meeting was so crucial that Nadda, who was supposed to land in Bengal on Tuesday morning for his scheduled public meetings, was called by Shah on Monday itself. Santosh was also asked to fly down from Delhi to join the meeting. Apart from discussing the pressing issue of discontent over candidates, Shah also met representatives of different departments of the state unit and it went on till 3.15 on Tuesday morning. When asked about the development, Ghosh rejected claims that Shah had rebuked the state BJP chief and his team. However, he acknowledged that the issue of discontent over a few names had come up at the meeting. “He enquired about the places where our workers are protesting,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. “Some people thought they would get tickets and finally they, didn’t. That has led to some discontent,” Ghosh added. A BJP office-bearer said Shah was angry with the state leaders because he felt they did not take the district functionaries into confidence before deciding on the names. He has also asked the leaders to speak to five representatives from each Assembly seat where there was unrest and contain the outburst. A detailed report has been asked to be sent to Delhi. A key BJP member and Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy was absent from the meeting. A state BJP leader said Shah was purportedly unhappy with Roy over the selection of candidates in a few seats. “Mukulda had pushed for the candidature of Rabindranath Bhattacharya and Samiran Mitra, in Singur and Haripal, respectively. The common workers have rejected both the names and hence, Amitji is upset with Mukulda,” a party source said. Both Bhattacharya and Mitra are Trinamul turncoats. A section of BJP leaders was also unhappy with Bhattacharya’s candidature since he is 89-years-old. Shah called out Vijayvargiya also for similar reasons. Vijayvargiya had been party to Roy’s endeavour in helping Trinamul turncoats get BJP tickets for the 2021 polls. The nomination of Deepanjan Guha, a BJP state office-bearer and member of the RSS, has also drawn flak from the supporters for being an outsider. Posters had come up against his nomination in Chandernagore on Monday. Multiple sources said Guha was the choice of a national BJP leader who was also present at the meeting. Shah rebuked the leader for being unable to foresee the situation. The list was announced on Sunday and protests against some of these names continued even on Tuesday. BJP supporters from 13 Assembly constituencies — Singur, Khanakul, Goghat, Bagnan, Joynagar, Canning West, Kultali, Diamond Harbour, Kulpi, Mandirbazar, Goghat, Satgachhia and Magrahat — agitated in front of the party office at Hastings in Calcutta on Tuesday. Later, a team of representatives went to the office to meet BJP leaders and submit a deputation. At a point, police had to resort to lathicharge to disperse the mob. BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, however, condemned the role of the police. Ten agitators were arrested and a policeman was injured when the protestors allegedly hurled bricks at the law enforcers. “The agitation by our workers is unwelcome. No candidates will be replaced. However, the police shouldn’t have beaten up peaceful protestors,” Bhattacharya said. Ghosh and other state leaders will be in Delhi on Wednesday for the central election committee meeting, where the names for the rest of the seats will be discussed. The issue of discontent is likely to come up at this meeting that is to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well. B.L. Santosh on Tuesday met BJP workers from the party’s Calcutta zone. Sunil Bansal, who is currently in charge of the zone, was also at the meeting. Since Trinamul turncoats Sovan Chatterjee and Baisakhi Banerjee who were assigned the responsibility of the Calcutta zone quit the party over discontent for not being fielded from the seats of their choice, Santosh and Bansal took stock of the zone’s affairs themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP, Trinamul workers hit streets against nominees in north Bengal ||Supporters of the BJP and the Trinamul Congress took to the streets at different places in north Bengal on Tuesday to protest against some of the candidates announced by the respective parties in the Assembly elections. The BJP activists raised a road blockade to protest the nomination of former Forward Bloc leader Dipak Kumar Roy in the Sitai Assembly seat in Cooch Behar district. The Gosani Road (which connects the historical site of Gosanimari with the district headquarters) was blocked from around 12pm till 2pm. “The person who has been fielded by our party had defected from the All India Forward Bloc. He doesn’t enjoy acceptance in the BJP. We want Bhaben Roy to be fielded at Sitai. He had contested from the same seat as the BJP candidate in the 2016 Assembly polls. If the BJP doesn’t give Bhaben Roy a ticket, we will field him as an Independent,” said Biswajit Burman, a local BJP leader. The road blockade was lifted after BJP leaders had spoken to the protesters. BJP supported had held protests at Gosanimari in the Sitai constituency on Monday also. So far, the BJP has announced candidates in seven of the nine Assembly seats in the Cooch Behar district. “A number of names have emerged as probable candidates for the remaining two seats. There is a chance of similar protests once the party announces the names,” said a BJP insider. Trinamul supporters also raised objections to the party’s candidate in Sitai. When sitting MLA Jagadish Roy Basunia went to some villages to seek votes, there were heated exchanges of words between his supporters and Trinamul members who were opposed to his re-nomination. As many as nine office-bearers of the Trinamul Congress in the Itahar block of the North Dinajpur district resigned on Tuesday to protest against the party’s decision to drop sitting Itahar MLA Amal Acharya. Mosharaf Hossain was declared as the Trinamul candidate at Itahar. “Some Trinamul leaders hatched a plot against Amal Acharya and are trying to create a rift in the party. As these leaders did not listen to our demands and suggestions, we have stepped down from our posts,” said one of the Trinamul functionaries. BJP workers gathered in front of the house of Alipurduar district BJP president Ganga Prasad Sharma on Tuesday and demanded that Kalchini candidate Bishal Lama be replaced. “Lama had left the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and joined the BJP recently. He was fielded by ignoring senior BJP leaders who had been working at Kalchini for years,” said a protester. Trinamul supporters burst crackers when Raiganj candidate Kanaialal Agarwal started his campaign on Tuesday. The BJP has filed a complaint with the Election Commission, pointing out that there is a ban on sound crackers. Even some Trinamul leaders slammed the party workers for bursting the crackers. There had been protests against Agarwal’s candidature. Jalpaiguri district Trinamul leadership removed the Rajganj and Nagrakata block presidents of the party on Tuesday. Hundreds of Trinamul activists had hit the streets demanding their removal. “We have also formed Assembly level committees which comprise all senior leaders of the areas concerned. All of us will work together for Trinamul candidates,” said K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Chinese duo without documents detained at Bagdogra airport||Two Chinese nationals were intercepted by CISF personnel at the Bagdogra airport on Tuesday for not possessing appropriate documents required to travel in a foreign country, just before they were about to board a flight to Hyderabad. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who man the airport, later handed over the duo to Bagdogra police. Different agencies of Siliguri Metropolitan Police have started interrogating the Chinese nationals and are trying are to find out the purpose of their travel. According to police sources, the duo have been identified as Kailang and Zhang Jun. They had entered India via Panitanki, the transit point that is located on the India-Nepal border and around 35km from here. During preliminary investigation, the police have come to know that they had been to Karachi in Pakistan from Nepal earlier this month. “Both the Chinese nationals went to Karachi from Nepal on March 3. After spending a few days at the port city of Pakistan, they returned to Nepal. Then, they crossed the border and reached Bagdogra with a plan to take a Hyderabad-bound flight from here,” said an officer of Siliguri Metropolitan Police. At the airport, the on-duty CISF personnel found that the documents which they were carrying were inappropriate. “The CISF detained both and informed us. Later, they handed over the Chinese nationals to us. We have detained them and our officers are trying to collect more details from them,” the police officer said. Sources said while one of them was carrying a Chinese passport but lacked a visa, the other did not have a passport at all. “Interestingly, both of them were carrying Aadhaar cards which appeared to be fake. We have engaged our men to verify the documents. Altogether, their travel with Aadhaar cards and without visas has raised our doubts,” a senior police officer said. A retired army officer pointed out that the police, central and state armed forces and different intelligence agencies always remained alert in north Bengal, particularly in Siliguri, considering the geographical location. “This is because the area is known as Chicken’s Neck, where the width of the Indian sub-continent is narrow with Nepal and China on the north side and Bangladesh on the south side. It is one of the strategically important areas of India, particularly after the recent stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops. Those who have been detained should be properly interrogated to find out why they were here. They do not appear to be tourists as they lacked proper travel documents,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Plea for child shelter promise in Bengal poll manifestoes||The North Bengal Child Rights Network  — a joint forum of NGOs from eight districts of the region working on child rights — has appealed to all political parties to include establishment of a children shelter in the region in their respective election manifestoes. NBCRN which was formed in 2013 is a platform of 17 NGOs. “There are a total of 17 NGOs which are engaged in rescuing or protecting children across north Bengal. We have appealed to all leading political parties to mention in their election manifestoes the need for establishing asylum homes in the districts of the region,” Sudeep Bomzan, the convener of the network, said. Social workers claim that rescued children who needed to be sent to shelters had to be taken to Behrampore in south Bengal, about 350km from Siliguri, because of lack of such facilities in the north. “The nearest home is at Behrampore and taking them that far is an arduous task at times,” said Amos Tshering, a member of the network. The representatives claimed there were a few private rehabilitation centres operational in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Kalimpong. Sources said there were 189 children presently staying at those centres. “Also, these homes are mostly running as vocational training centres for the underprivileged or destitute children,” said another member. According to Tezkumar Thapa, another member, a 2017-18 survey by the labour department suggests there are 1,500 child labourers in Darjeeling district alone. A large number of them work at tea stalls and eateries. “We want the party that forms the government to work on children’s issues with the importance it deserves. We appeal to our political leaders to make the region child labour-free and also ensure proper functioning of child labour task force,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Rivals unite over Nandigram murder cases||A judicial development preventing the withdrawal of two murder cases against 63 persons in connection with the anti-land acquisition movement at Nandigram seems to have brought leaders of the Trinamul Congress, BJP and the Congress closer. The Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), the umbrella body of the movement with representation from the major non-Left political forces, went into a huddle on Tuesday, before 30-odd of the 63 accused went into hiding. The development, deemed significant just a few weeks ahead of the Assembly polls in East Midnapore, followed a series of events prompted by a public interest litigation by the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate Nilanjan Adhikari. He had challenged before Calcutta High Court the Mamata Banerjee government’s decision to withdraw cases lodged during the movement, specifically referring to two murder cases — case numbers 237 and 697 — where the 63 persons, including leaders of Trinamul, Congress and even the BJP, stood accused. The high court had on March 5 ruled that the two murder cases, which were allowed to be withdrawn by a lower court in Haldia, were not to be withdrawn. Following the high court ruling, the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate prayed before a court at Haldia for action, and it told the police to reopen the cases and take necessary action. The BJP’s Ananda Mandal, a leader from Sonachura and part of the BUPC, said Adhikari had “betrayed” the movement and the people of Nandigram. “I never thought a leader of my own party would put us in trouble and even shame the movement like this,” said Mandal, one of the 63 accused, who attended the closed-door meeting of the BUPC, which resolved to launch an all-out movement against the decision. “I will demand an explanation from the BJP state leadership. This is utterly shameful. It shames Nandigram and the historic movement,” he added. “I have no doubt that it would impact the BJP negatively in the elections here.” In the BUPC meeting, the body concluded that it was a conspiracy by the BJP —a theory endorsed by even the BJP members of the BUPC, such as Mandal — and it will need a full-fledged movement. The 63 accused include at least a dozen elected representatives of Trinamul, including Mamata’s proposers (for the Nandigram candidature) Abdus Samad and Swadesh Das, and her chief election agent Sheikh Sufiyan. Congress leader Milan Pradhan, who is among the 63, was one of the 30-odd who went into hiding. “We had to go into hiding ahead of every election since 2011, as the administration under the Election Commission of India could have acted against us. This time, we had thought we would be able to campaign for our Sanyukt Morcha freely. But thanks to the BJP, we have to stay in hiding this time as well,” said Pradhan, a member of the BUPC. Mamata’s chief election agent Sufiyan, an influential Nandigram leader, said the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate was doing this on behalf of Nandigram heavyweight — Trinamul turncoat, now in the BJP — Suvendu Adhikari, to “exact revenge” against those from Trinamul and other parties who did not join the BJP with him. Mamata’s proposer Das had another theory. He pointed out that the three main demands of the BUPC were the return of the land, the withdrawal of the “false” cases, and the punishment of those “truly” responsible. “Didi (Mamata) came to power and the land was returned. Then, the cases were also gradually withdrawn. The CBI was to punish the truly guilty. In the hands of the BJP-led Centre, the CBI did nothing…. To divert attention from that abject failure, Suvendu got Nilanjan to do this,” said Das. The BJP’s Nandakumar candidate, however, begged to differ. “It had nothing to do with politics or elections. The cases were being withdrawn selectively, to benefit none other than Trinamul leaders. I moved court. I got justice,” he said. The matter is likely to be turned into yet another poll plank by Mamata, who is the Nandigram candidate. The chief minister, expected to be in Nandigram on Friday and Saturday for eight political programmes, demanded answers from Union home minister Amit Shah on the matter. Speaking at a rally in Mejia on Tuesday, Mamata said: “Those who were in the pro-farmer movement are being sent warrants now. Nandigram already, Singur next? Everybody eventually.”
“What does Amit Shah think, that he will forcefully shut everything down, silence all voices of dissent?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
