18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Two leaders refuse BJP offer to contest||The BJP announced the names of 148 candidates for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal on Thursday evening but two candidates refused to contest saying they were fielded without their consent. The two leaders are Shikha Mitra, wife of late Congress leader Somen Mitra, and Tarun Saha, husband of Mala Saha, a sitting  Trinamool MLA. The BJP named Tarun Saha as its candidate from the Kashipur-Belgachia seat, and Shikha Mitra as candidate from the Chowringhee constituency. But Mitra said her name was announced without consent and that she will not enter the poll fray. She also downplayed speculations of her joining the BJP, which were doing the rounds following her meeting with saffron party leader and family friend Suvendu Adhikari. "No, I am not contesting from anywhere. My name has been announced without my consent. Also, I am not joining the BJP," she told reporters. Her son, Rohan Mitra, shared the video statement on Twitter and hoped that the record was set straight once and for all, adding, "keep my mother out of this rubbish" Tarun Saha also categorically denied any possibility of him contesting the upcoming assembly elections on a BJP ticket. He told journalists that he is with the TMC and that the BJP named him on its list without even consulting him. Mala Saha had won the Kashipur-Belgachia seat consistently for the TMC in both the 2011 and 2016 state assembly elections. However, this time, the party fielded Calcutta deputy mayor Atin Ghosh from the seat. It is not yet known if the BJP naming Mala's husband, Tarun, from the seat had any relation to these recent developments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP comes up with a list of 148 candidates for Bengal polls||The BJP on Thursday announced 148 candidates for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal, including the party's vice-president Mukul Roy and its former state unit head Rahul Sinha. The party continued with its strategy of fielding personalities from different walks of life and sitting MPs as it named folk artiste Ashim Sarkar from the Haringhata assembly seat and scientist Gobhardhan Das from the Purbasthali Uttar. The party has fielded its former state unit chief Rahul Sinha from Habra and former Union minister and ex-TMC leader Mukul Roy from the Krishnanagar Uttar seat. The BJP has so far announced five sitting MPs including an Union minister as its candidates for assembly polls in the state. Elections for the West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases, with first phase on March 27 and the last on April 29. The results will be announced on May 2. Before announcing the candidates for assembly polls, actor Arun Govil, who played the role of Lord Ram in the popular Ramayana serial, joined the BJP in the presence of senior party leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: 725 CAPF companies to be deployed for polls in West Bengal||As many as 725 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) will be deployed in West Bengal for the conduct of the forthcoming eight-phase assembly elections, CRPF chief Kuldiep Singh said on Thursday.

Addressing a press conference on eve of the 82nd raising anniversary of the country's largest paramilitary force, Singh said that 495 out of the 725 companies have already reached the state while the rest are on their way.

"One CAPF company has an operational strength of about 72 personnel," he told the reporters.

The CRPF is the nodal force for the deployment of central forces during elections.

West Bengal will have eight-phased polling for its 294-member assembly beginning March 27.

Asked about the threat assessment in the state, Singh said: "Threat assessments are done by state authorities in different areas and they decide the deployment of forces on that basis."

"We do not have any such assessment that which phase would be more challenging," the 1986-batch IPS officer of the West Bengal cadre said.

Singh was recently appointed as the head of the over 3.25 lakh personnel-strong CRPF. He has been serving as a Special DG in the CRPF before taking up the top post.

"We provide support to the state authorities so that peaceful and successful elections could be held under the directions of the Election Commission."

"We are committed for peaceful, free and fair elections. We provide support, we do not gather intelligence," the CRPF DG said, adding deployment in the different phases of elections are being worked out.

The DG also added that the paramilitary provides its VIP security cover to 13 people in the state.

West Bengal is likely to witness a triangular contest this time among the TMC, the Congress-Left alliance and the BJ.

Due to COVID-19 distancing norms, the Election Commission (EC) has scaled up polling stations in the state to 1.1 lakh.

On average, over 12,000 polling stations would go to polls in each of the eight phases.

The total number of polling stations in these elections in the state is 1,01,916, compared to 77,413 in 2016 -- an increase of 31.65 per cent.

The number of voters, due to coronavirus spread, per polling station has been brought down to 1,000 from 1,500, resulting in an increase in the number of polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||ED summons Jorasanko TMC candidate in Saradha scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), probing the money laundering aspect of the multi-crore Saradha scam, on Thursday summoned Vivek Gupta, the Trinamool Congress candidate from Jorasanko assembly constituency. Sources said that Gupta has been asked to depose before ED officials on Monday. Meanwhile, businessman Swapan Sadhan Bose who was asked to appear on Thursday in connection with the Saradha scam, is yet to turn up at the CGO complex here, sources said. Former Trinamool Congress minister Madan Mitra has been asked to appear before the directorate in connection with the same scam on Friday, according to sources. Gupta had earlier been summoned by the economic offences wing of CBI in relation to financial transactions which had allegedly taken place between him and the Saradha group. Thousands of investors have been duped by the Saradha group by means of the fraudulent schemes floated by the firm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses BJP leaders of luring voters with bagful of cash ||Admitting that the relief doled out after Cyclone Amphan by her government might have missed out "one or two" beneficiaries, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said BJP leaders were nowhere to be seen during the crisis. Addressing a rally here in Paschim Medinipur, the TMC supremo claimed that BJP leaders "arrive here in choppers and planes from outside with bagful of cash to lure voters and loot votes" just ahead of elections. "Thousands of crores of rupees were doled out by the TMC government for the cyclone-affected. There could have been one or two exceptions... But we rushed to be on the side of people. Where were BJP leaders then? At the time of human miseries, they are always absent," she said. Asserting that the TMC will never allow the NPR exercise in West Bengal, Banerjee alleged, "The BJP will omit names of voters if they are not found at home during the visit of enumerators. They will just evict you (people). But we would not allow them to update the register here. "Not a single member of any family, no citizen of the country can be evicted from Bengal," she stated. National Population Register (NPR) is a document containing names of the country's "usual residents". Branding the BJP as "a party of rioters", she said "We don't want violence, we don't want bloodshed, and we don't want the politics of retaliation to enter Bengal."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s ‘khela’ will be over, says Modi at Junglalmahal rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Thursday attacked Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for pursuing "appeasement and vote bank politics" which were responsible for infiltration. Addressing an election rally here in the tribal Jangalmahal region of the state, he alleged the ruling TMC never considered Dalits, backwards and adivasis its own, and these sections were the worst victims of cut money culture and 'Tolabaji' (extortion) by the state's ruling party. He also accused the Mamata government of patronising underground Maoist rebels. "The single-most important reason for infiltration is appeasement and vote bank politics being pursued by didi's government," he said. He said on May 2, the day the votes for assembly elections will be counted, Mamata's "khela" (game) will be "shesh" (over) and development will start. Repeatedly accusing the TMC supremo of trying to appease a section of people for vote bank politics, Modi said, "People of Bengal have a strong memory. Bengal remembers who accused the army of plotting a coup, whose side you took during the Pulwama attack and the Batla House encounter." The prime minister hit out at the TMC government on the issue of corruption even during the Covid-induced lockdown. Referring to a slew of central schemes which the TMC government is yet to implement, Modi said,"We believe in Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) while TMC believes in Transfer My Commission." "The TMC has created a new breed of Maoists in Bengal who loot public money. The money meant for poor people. Didi's government has patronised Maoist violence," he alleged. The prime minister said Purulia's industrialisation was neglected during the erstwhile Left rule and the current TMC dispensation. "The TMC government has given Purulia only water crisis, forced migration and administration that discriminates," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee announces universal basic income in Trinamul manifesto||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday promised to put cash directly in the hands of 1.6 crore households in Bengal if voted back to power, announcing a universal basic income (UBI) scheme in the Trinamul Congress manifesto that seeks to build on the ruling party’s welfare narrative. “If there is a will there is a way. It’s not a political manifesto, it’s a development-oriented manifesto,” said Mamata, suggesting that giving a monthly dole was fiscally feasible. In principle, UBI means paying citizens an unconditional monthly sum. The concept has gained popularity among various political schools of thought worldwide — especially during the pandemic — for its potential to eliminate poverty while also insulating workers from the impact of job loss. According to the manifesto released by Mamata, a monthly amount of Rs 500 (Rs 6,000 a year) to general category households and Rs 1,000 (Rs 12,000 a year) to SC/ST category households will be directly deposited in the bank accounts of the female heads of 1.6 crore families in the state. Such families are estimated to account for 60 to 70 per cent of the total households in the state. All SC/ST households will be eligible for the UBI scheme. For general category, the income support will be provided to all households except those with at least one tax-paying member and those who own more than 2 hectares of land. The budget outlay for the plan, according to the manifesto, will be Rs 12,900 crore. If the UBI proposal is implemented, Bengal will be the first state in the country to do so. Mamata also announced a credit card scheme for students with a credit limit of up to Rs 10 lakh at 4 per cent interest, a hike in annual support for farmers from Rs 6,000 per acre to Rs 10,000, 5 lakh low-cost houses in urban areas, 25 lakh low-cost houses in rural areas and piped drinking water for an additional 47 lakh households. The resolve to roll out the UBI scheme seems part of Mamata’s strategy to corner the BJP on a welfare initiative that the saffron camp’s think tank has ruled out although the Economic Survey of India 2016-17 had advocated it as an alternative to various social welfare schemes as a means of reducing poverty. Before the 2019 Lok sabha polls, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had promised an UBI scheme of Rs 12,000 a year for over 250 million of the poorest Indians if his party was voted to power. The BJP leadership had mocked the idea saying it was not feasible. Mamata stressed the financial feasibility of the scheme, saying the state’s own income was rising -– despite lower economic activity because of the pandemic — in comparison with other states. Trinamul sources said the guiding principle of the manifesto — prepared under Mamata’s direct supervision — has been welfare measures so that the chief minister can announce these populist initiatives in her campaign meetings. The focus was decided following reports that the various pension schemes for SC/ST senior citizens and the widow stipend were helping the ruling party recover ground in various parts of the state. Aware that job creation has been an Achilles heel, Mamata said: “We shall increase the number of MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) by 10 lakh and add 2,000 big industrial units every year over the next five years.” The manifesto promises a hike in health expenditure from 0.83 per cent to 1.5 per cent of the state GDP, a jump from 2.7 per cent to 4 per cent of the state GDP for education, and delivery of free food grains at people’s doorstep. Asked whether a welfare-oriented manifesto would influence the poll outcome, Mamata said: “Elections will come and go but people will stay. If there is a democratically elected government, it has to deliver on development.” Mamata’s assertion may be true on paper, but till now the political slugfest ahead of the Bengal polls has revolved around themes like “outsiders”, polarisation along religious lines and the credibility of the injury she suffered in Nandigram. Some BJP sources said they would add another dimension to the campaign with some serious corruption cases to be exposed. Trinamul sources, however, said they were not worried as the party’s twin narratives -- Bangla nijer meyekei chai (Bengal wants its own daughter) and khela hobe (the game is on) – had caught the people’s imagination. Apart from economic measures, the manifesto includes proposals to address community concerns, something that observers think is aimed at social engineering of the vote bank in an election where caste issues are expected to play an important role for the first time in Bengal. “A special task force will be set up to examine and propose OBC status for all communities like the Mahisya, Tili, Tamul and Saha, who are not recognised as OBCs,” Mamata said. Nandigram deal: The manifesto claims that Nandigram, from where Mamata will take on Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, will be developed into a model town with better infrastructure, including well-connected roads, affordable electricity 24x7, and piped drinking water for all. The East Midnapore village is also likely to get a new university, the manifesto says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Revolt hits Trinamul campaign in 2 Nadia seats||Growing dissidence over party nominations in at least two Assembly seats in Nadia has nearly stalled Trinamul’s campaign in those constituencies. Sources said sections of the local Trinamul leadership had been showing “utter reluctance” to undertake poll campaigning for candidates nominated for Kalyani (SC) and Chapra seats and demanded that they be replaced. On March 5, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced Ramendranath Biswas and Rukbanur Rahaman as party candidates for the Kalyani (SC) and Chapra Assembly constituencies, respectively. Both Biswas and Rahaman are two-time MLAs and are known for their proximity to the chief minister. However, the announcement of their nominations angered local party leaders and workers last week. The dissidence over the nomination was violent in Chapra, where party workers in large numbers publicly burned tyres and blocked traffic on Karimpur-Krishnagar road demanding the nomination of local leader Zeber Seikh. In Kalyani, the local leadership preferred to protest in silence skipping campaigning programmes of the official nominee. “Since the dissidence has remained unresolved with the top leadership yet to intervene, rebels are all set to nominate Zeber Seikh to fight the polls as an Independent in Chapra. They have also begun drawing wall graffiti seeking votes for Zeber,” said a source. “The nomination of Rukbanur has hurt us since he is never available to serve any purpose. We all wanted a local person to fight from Chapra. Hope the party will respect this sentiment and act accordingly,” Zeber Seikh said. In Kalyani, sources said, party nominee Biswas having a difficult time as a major section of the local leadership had been refusing to campaign for him. On Monday, he had to call off a party workshop scheduled at the Ritwik Sadan auditorium. On Tuesday, at least three prominent leaders, including Kalyani town committee president Arup Mukherjee, Gayeshpur town president Sukanta Chatterjee and Kalyani block president Pankaj Singh skipped an internal organisational meeting called by Biswas. Party workers have been refused to draw wall graffiti seeking votes for Biswas, whereas the door-to-door campaigns are yet to begin. A local leader, on condition of anonymity, said: “Ramenbabu has become a matter of embarrassment to the party. He has little connection with the people. We have appealed to the top Trinamul leadership to replace him. The IPAC team was also apprised about him being an inactive MLA. It will be tough for him to win the Kalyani seat, where we had trailed the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls.” Talks about Biswas being replaced with a new candidate started doing the rounds on Wednesday, but most senior party leaders in the district did not wish to comment on the issue. Asked about the issue, Kalyani town president Arup Mukherjee said: “I have heard Ramenbabu has been directed to return the party symbol, but I am yet to receive any official communication in this regard.” A senior state-level Trinamul leader, who did not want to be named, said: “We know about the problems in Kalyani and Chapra. We will hold talks to sort out the issue.” “There is little scope of replacing the candidate in Chapra. But about Kalyani, Mamata Banerjee will take the final call.” Biswas, however, appeared calm and refused to comment on the controversy surrounding him. “Let the people say whatever they feel. I have no comment to offer,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata asks Left backers to vote for Trinamul to keep BJP out||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged Left-leaning people twice to cast their votes in favour of her party, instead of the CPM, in a bid to keep the BJP out of power in Bengal. The Bengal chief minister made the first appeal at the Trinamul Congress’s rally in Jhargram’s Lalgarh. Later in the day, she said it during the release of Trinamul’s manifesto for the Assembly elections. “Those friends of mine who still remain Leftist, I congratulate them and whoever else is saying “No Vote to BJP”,” said the chief minister during the manifesto release at her residence in Calcutta. “But they (the Left-leaning voters) know this, that they (the Left Front or the Sanyukt Morcha of which it is part now) won’t be able to come to power. They shouldn’t waste their important votes for other (non-BJP) parties. They should all vote for Trinamul. This is my plea before all Leftist friends,” added Mamata. Wednesday was the first time since she came to power in 2011 that the chief minister was so direct in asking Left-leaning voters to vote for her instead. At the rally in Jhargram, Mamata said: “There were very good activities by the Left Front in areas like Gopiballabhpur. Along with Gopiballabhpur, I will request my Left friends from Jamboni, Lalgarh and Binpur, who want to fight against the BJP, please cast your votes for us. Please don’t waste your valued votes in favour of the CPM.” Trinamul trailed the BJP in three of the four Assembly segments in Jhargram in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, purportedly because of Left-leaning people voting for the BJP in order to defeat her party. “I request all of you to come together to stand united (against the BJP), because in the last Lok Sabha polls, Jhargram (the Lok Sabha seat) was won by the BJP. They won it, but did not do anything for the people, compared to what our government did,” Mamata pleaded. Trinamul had a very poor show in all four Jungle Mahal districts where the party lagged behind in 31 out of 40 Assembly seats in the last general election. Mamata, however, accused the BJP of attacking her in the style of the CPM, and alleged that CPM leaders had switched sides to become the saffron camp’s goons now. “In the CPM regime, I was beaten in the head, hands, stomach and eyes, which necessitated numerous surgeries. All that remained were my legs. Now they attacked there to keep me from the campaign. Earlier, the CPM used to beat me up, and now the BJP has acquired that role,” she said at Lalgarh. After Mamata’s appeal, the CPM lambasted her. “Out of her fear of defeat, she did not even think twice before making such an outrageous proposal. Her party systemically tried over the years to break the Left’s back in Bengal, to eliminate the Opposition. Now, she is unable to handle a natural consequence of a process she started,” said Pulin Bihari Baske, the CPM’s district committee secretary in Jhargram. “Anyway, Left voters will not vote for her,” he added. Mamata’s appeal made the BJP anxious, sources in the saffron camp admitted. “She is trying to grasp at straws now. But these appeals won’t make a difference to the people, who have made up their mind to bring the BJP to power, for true poriborton (change) here,” said Chandaneswar Sengupta, the Jhargram chief of the BJP’s youth wing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams move to curtail Delhi govt’s power||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday lashed out at the Narendra Modi government for further empowering the lieutenant-governor in Delhi while curbing the authority of the elected administration there. In an interaction with journalists after the release of the Trinamul Congress’s manifesto for the Assembly polls, the Bengal chief minister said she felt “very bad”. “Because of what happened today…. What we saw, powers of the chief minister (of Delhi) were curbed and the lieutenant-governor was made (more) powerful in Delhi. Then, what is the need for an elected government?” Mamata asked, apparently referring to the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Moved by the Union home ministry under Amit Shah, the legislation gives overarching power to the lieutenant-governor of Delhi. According to the legislation, the “government” in Delhi would mean the lieutenant-governor in the context of any law to be made by the Assembly. “That means the Modi government… I’m sorry to say this, Prime Minister, I respect your chair… but it is very unfortunate. That you want the lieutenant-governor to be more powerful than the elected government. I condemn this. I think every democratic citizen of this country will oppose this,” Mamata said. “I support (Delhi chief minister and AAP chief) Arvind Kejriwal’s elected government, but I cannot support nominated persons. Between elected and nominated persons, there are differences,” she added. “Nominated persons… yes, we respect the chair as that, too, is a constitutional post. But please see to it that democratic governments are not made weak.” The legislation makes it mandatory for Delhi’s state government to take the opinion of the lieutenant-governor before any executive action in the national capital. The Trinamul Congress chief went on to attack the BJP over a number of issues, pertaining to how the nation was being run under it. Yet again, she accused the BJP of trying to exert undue influence to win the Bengal Assembly polls. “The BJP is a party akin to a most high-load virus, playing all nasty, dirty games. We don’t want to do it. We want to play a fair game. Everybody knows who is running the Election Commission…,” she said. “Who is guiding them (the commission)? The Union home minister. Who is he? A BJP leader. What has he been doing? Interfering in every business (of the commission),” added the chief minister. She reiterated her allegation that railways minister Piyush Goyal was trying to pack trains with hordes of lootera (looters) from around the country and send them to Bengal. “I will complain to the Election Commission. I came to know that the railway minister told officials that all the lootera, from everywhere, will come via trains here to rob votes. This is not correct. Borders should be sealed. The elections should be free and fair, for which we would appeal to the commission,” said the Trinamul chief. Asked about the communal line of the campaign in Bengal by Hindutva hardliner and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Mamata said she wouldn’t take lessons on religion from the likes of him. “Our Durga Puja started here thousands of years ago. Where was Yogi (Adityanath) then? We will not take any lessons from Yogi. Tell him to tackle the problems with women’s safety (in his state) first,” she said. Adityanath has been trying to attack her government here over law and order, while being conspicuous in his silence on the same in his own state, especially in terms of crimes against women. “What happened in Hathras? What happens (in Uttar Pradesh) to Dalit girls, children…. He didn’t take any action there, but he comes and talks big. Bengal is a peaceful state, tell him not to bring that kind of politics here. We know religion better than them,” said Mamata of the Hindutva poster boy. “We will not take any lessons from them on the dirtiness and hatred they believe in. We believe in the real Indian religion and philosophy.” The Bengal chief minister vowed to take the saffron bull by the horns, fighting the BJP politically to the finish. “The ultopalta (topsy-turvy) things the BJP says… the unfortunate things they say. Scandals, really,” she said. “Let the BJP get as many of its leaders as it pleases, I will not stop them. It has brought thousands of its leaders from elsewhere already. From their yogis (monks) to bhogis (hedonists), who is not here already?” she asked. “I will fight this politically…. Khela Hobe (A game is afoot), till the very end.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar research aspirant found dead||A 26-year-old student from Cooch Behar’s Mathabhanga, who had aspired to join a research programme at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai, was found hanging at the rented accommodation of his friend here on Tuesday night. Police said Ajoy Kundu had come to meet his friend, an IISER-K researcher, last week and had been staying with him for the past few days. The police seized the body of Ajoy after breaking down the door of a rented room at a multi-storied building located near the IISER-K campus, shortly after Kundu’s friend had found it locked from inside after returning in the evening. The deceased youth, a resident of Siktibari area of Mathabhanga, was rushed to JNM Hospital where he was declared brought-dead. Police sources said they had begun a case of unnatural death. They also found a suicide note, apparently written by the deceased. However, investigators refused to divulge its content. They said the youth appeared to be “mentally disturbed because of problems at home”. The body was handed over to family members on Wednesday afternoon after the post-mortem in Kalyani. A student of IISER-K, who also lives at the same residential building and had known the youth, said: “Since the hostel is closed owing to Covid-19, most researchers have been staying at rented accommodations. I had seen the youth on a number of occasions staying with a fellow IISER students. We found him in a jovial mood and there was no indication of any depression in him.” “It was quite shocking to find him hanging last night at our building,” the student added. One of the family members of the deceased student, who came to receive the body from Kalyani morgue, said: “Ajoy was a very meritorious student. He was trying to join TIFR and was also preparing for the Joint Entrance Screening Test, an examination for joining PhD and integrated PhD programmes. He left home last week for an entrance test at TIFR in Calcutta and told us about meeting his friend at IISER. But we could never imagine that he had other plans on his mind.” IISER-K’s dean of student affairs Balaram Mukhopadhyay said: “We have heard about the incident. However, we have nothing to do since it occurred outside the campus. But we spoke to our students and they were quite shocked. We have tried to provide all possible mental health help to the roommate so that he can overcome the shock.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Clerics in north Bengal to campaign against NRC||An apex body of Muslim clerics and intellectuals in north Bengal has decided to highlight the consequences of the National Register of Citizens and campaign against “a political force that believes in religious polarisation”. The Uttarbanga Imam Muezzin Muslim Buddhijibi Aikya Mancha also said it would campaign in such a way that votes of the minority community went to the party that could thwart the proponents of the NRC. The Mancha’s campaign is perceived to be against the BJP and in favour of the Trinamul Congress. “A political force that believes in religious polarisation is active in Bengal. It has planned to introduce the NRC in Bengal after if it is voted to power. In the neighbouring Assam, names of 19 lakh residents are not on the NRC. All of them are not Muslims but several people are Bengali Hindus. That is why we feel it is necessary to explain to the people in Bengal the consequences of the NRC so that they can thwart this political party,” Abdul Jalil, the president of the Mancha, told journalists here on Wednesday. The organisation, the office-bearers said, comprises representatives of different apolitical organisations which are working in north Bengal. In north Bengal, Assembly elections will start on April 10, that is the fourth phase. The region has 54 Assembly constituencies. Muslim votes determine verdict in around 20 seats. “We are not associated with any political party but would request common people to cast their votes in such a manner that the political force that we want to stop does not get any benefit through division of votes. They should consider political parties which are vocal against the NRC. Our focus will be on minority-dominated areas,” said Bazlur Rehman, the vice-president of the Mancha. The move, political observers said, can benefit Trinamul. They said a section of the Nasya Sheikhs (Rajbanshi Muslims) was aggrieved as Trinamul didn’t field any candidate of the community in the elections. “People living in districts like Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar, which are close to Assam, can easily understand the NRC’s consequences. Their relatives stay in Assam and have not made it to the NRC. A campaign by the organisation can help in mollifying the aggrieved Rajbanshi Muslims and make them side with Trinamul,” said an observer. The Trinamul Congress has showcaused six office-bearers in the Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar district, asking them to explain why they are abstaining from election campaigns. They have been asked to reply within three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: I am not contesting Assembly elections, says Dilip Ghosh||BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday ruled out the possibility of contesting the forthcoming Assembly polls in Bengal, while sources in the saffron camp said Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy had been asked to fight from a seat in Nadia district. “I’m not contesting in the polls,” Ghosh told journalists after emerging from a daylong meeting at party’s national chief J.P. Nadda’s residence in Delhi on Wednesday. Although Ghosh didn’t explain why he was unwilling to contest the polls, party insiders said the Midnapore MP didn’t want to take any risk. Ghosh evaded answers as he was in a hurry to reach the party’s headquarters where the central election committee met in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In other BJP ruled states, none of the state chiefs, who later became chief ministers, had contested the polls. Once they were made chief ministers, they fought byelections within six months and became MLAs. “Dilipda wouldn’t take a risk of fighting the polls. If he is made the CM, he will get elected in a bypoll,” a source close to Ghosh said and added that leaders, including Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and his Karnataka counterpart B.S. Yediyurappa, had taken the byelection route. Although Ghosh ruled out fighting polls, Roy, who is 66-years-old and underwent a major eye surgery last year, might have to contest elections. He might be nominated from any of the three seats — Krishnanagar North, Krishnanagar South or Karimpur. Former state chief and former national secretary Rahul Sinha and state general secretary Sayantan Basu are also expected to contest polls. Ghosh, Roy, Sinha and other key state leaders attended the meeting at Nadda’s house that went on for over seven hours. Other state leaders, including general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty and Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee, were present at the meeting. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah would address a rally in Nandigram on March 21. The discontent amongst party workers at the grassroots over the selection of some of the candidates was discussed at the meeting, a source said. To ensure that such instances weren’t repeated, the leadership had a prolonged meeting where multiple names were debated upon for one constituency. At the end of the meeting, only four names were finalised for the four seats that will go to polls in the third phase and were not yet announced. Chandan Mandal has been nominated from Baruipur East, Bidhan Parui from Falta, actor Paapia Adhikari from Uluberia South and Anupam Ghosh from Jagatballavpur. The last date of filing nomination for these seats is Friday. Candidates for eight seats for the fourth phase of polls remain to be announced. Protests over choice of candidates were reported on Wednesday as well. Sayantan Basu, who is also the observer for the party’s north Bengal zone, was gheraoed in Alipurduar while he was at a meeting with the district leadership. Workers in Alipurduar have been protesting against the nomination of a Gorkha Janmukti Morcha turncoat Bishal Lama from Kalichini. “I met district leaders and the issue has been resolved,” Basu told The Telegraph. Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari ran into protests by Trinamul-backed villagers at Bhekutia in East Midnapore’s Nandigram block 2 on Wednesday evening. Suvendu had gone to visit the house of a BJP supporter and on his way back, around 50 villagers, mostly women, blocked his convey and demonstrated with brooms and shoes. They raised “go back” slogans and accused Suvendu, who is the BJP’s candidate from Nandigram, of betraying the cause of the anti-land acquisition movement. The seeds of Wednesday’s protest lay in the judiciary, prompted by a BJP leader, preventing the withdrawal of two murder cases, with 63 accused between them, from the time of the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram. Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), the umbrella body of the movement with representation from the major non-Left political forces, believes that BJP’s decision to challenge the withdrawal of cases against their leaders were done at the behest of Suvendu. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata corners Modi on Covid jab promise||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused Narendra Modi of not allowing the state government to buy Covid-19 vaccines for all people in Bengal even though she had written to the Prime Minister on the issue a month back. Mamata made the charge on a day Modi addressed a virtual meeting, which was attended by several chief ministers and senior government functionaries, in the wake of rising number of Covid cases in a few states. The Bengal chief minister, however, skipped the meeting and was represented by the chief secretary as she was busy campaigning at Gopiballabhpur and Lalgarh in Jhargram, one of the four Jungle Mahal districts where her party had fared very badly in the last Lok Sabha polls. “I have sent a letter to Narendra Modi a month ago, asking him to send Covid vaccines for all and saying our state government would buy those. We have no way to get the vaccines as the same are not available in the open market. I requested them to allow us to buy Covid vaccines for all but he rejected our plea,” the chief minister told her rally in Lalgarh. Trinamul leaders said by referring to the Prime Minister’s refusal to allow the state to  buy vaccines for all in Bengal, Mamata had tried to send a message that BJP leaders were not concerned about the health of the people. She made the comment a day ahead of Modi’s scheduled rally in Purulia, which is 95km away from Lalgarh where Mamata addressed her second rally on Wednesday. Mamata also referred to Modi’s campaign during the Bihar Assembly polls and reminded the people that BJP leaders had never kept promises made during election campaigns. “Keep in your mind that they are liars. He (Modi) went to Bihar just before the polls and promised that he would provide free Covid vaccines to all residents of the state after the election. But people in Bihar are yet to get the free vaccines... Remember they never do what they promise and they do what they did not say. They are like oppressive kings and outrageous zamindars who are snatching the rights of farmers, women and Dalits,” Mamata said. Sources said the BJP had fielded a dozen of senior party leaders starting from Modi to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to launch attacks on Mamata on various issues with a set of assurances for all. “The people of the Jungle Mahal were convinced by different assurances of BJP leaders, including the Prime Minister. Didi tried to send a message to us not to trust them as they will make a lot of promises. Addressing the rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta, the Prime Minister had spoken about a plan to develop Bengal. She asked the people not to believe what the PM says in the run up to the polls,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Jhargram. “It’s natural that the BJP will release its manifesto soon. The BJP will try to lure the people with attractive projects but our leader has asked us not to trust the saffron camp,” he added. Mamata also asked the people to recall her role to combat the pandemic and accused the BJP of not doing anything for the people of Bengal. “You ask the BJP where they were when Didi was drawing circles on roads and helping us during the pandemic. Now he (Modi) has come like a doctor to alert us,” said Mamata referring to the Prime Minister’s advice to the chief ministers during the virtual meeting. Superintendent of police (Howrah Rural) Soumya Roy has been transferred by the Election Commission, citing his wife Lovely Moitra’s candidature from Sonarpur (South) Assembly constituency on behalf of the Trinamul Congress. The commission has said the transfer was based on general principle that close relatives of active public representatives may not be assigned such duties during the polls. Roy has been replaced with 2011-batch officer Shrihari Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: active cases rise for sixth day in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday — exactly a year since the first Covid-19 case was detected in the state — reported the sixth consecutive day of rise in the total of active cases, by 30, to 3,188. The state seems to have become part of the wider pan-India trend of rise in active cases — amid apprehensions of another wave — after the 136-day stint of fall in the total of active cases since Vijaya Dashami last year snapped on Thursday. Prior to the rise since Friday, the total of active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 last year to 3,110. The state on Wednesday reported 272 recoveries, but 303 new infections were found, besides one death that occurred in North 24-Parganas. “This is now beginning to look less like an aberration, given six consecutive days of rise. However, the rise over the six days has only been by a total of 78. There still are enough positives, so there is no need yet to be alarmist,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Showcause to six over TMC revolt in Cooch Behar||The Trinamul Congress has showcaused six office-bearers in the Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar district, asking them to explain why they are abstaining from election campaigns. “They have been asked to reply within three days and if the response is not satisfactory, the party will take action against them,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul president. Mir Iqbal Kabir, Milan Sen, Babla Nandi, Ajay Roy, Sabir Saha Choudhury and Taranikanta Burman were showcaused. “There is a clear instruction that all party workers and leaders should join the election campaign in their respective areas. These people seem to be reluctant to campaign for our Dinhata candidate Udayan Guha,” said a district leader. Guha was fielded by Trinamul in Dinhata for the second time. After his name was announced, there have been protests by party supporters against his nomination. Taranikanta, a member of Dinhata 2 panchayat samiti, however, appeared nonchalant. “The district president has made some posts in social media about the showcause. Once we receive it, we will give the apt reply,” he said. Congress supporters demonstrated in front of the party’s district headquarters in Cooch Behar on Wednesday, demanding that Rabin Roy be replaced with Debendranath Burma as the Tufanganj candidate. Keshab Roy, the district Congress chief, said the state leadership had been intimated about the revolt. In the neighbouring district of Alipurduar, posters sprang up across Alipurduar town on Tuesday night, demanding a son of the soil as a BJP candidate. The BJP fielded economist Ashok Lahiri in the Alipurduar seat. Ever since the announcement was made, protests in different forms have been witnessed in the district. Some BJP supporters also want the party to field a new candidate in the Kalchini seat of the district. Bishal Lama, a former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader, was fielded by the BJP in Kalchini.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: No joint campaign with Trinamul in Darjeeling, says Binay||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided not to hold any joint election campaign programme with ally Trinamul Congress in the Darjeeling hills. “In the hills, we will not hold any joint meeting or organise campaigns with the TMC. Our party workers will, however, support the TMC candidates in the plains,” Tamang said on Wednesday. The decision, sources said, is an attempt to de-link the Tamang camp from Trinamul. “There is now a feeling among many in the party that the public has not yet forgotten the 2017 statehood agitation,” said a leader of the Tamang faction. As the Trinamul government had firmly crushed the agitation, 13 hill people had died and over 100 had been jailed and many displaced for fear of arrest. An analysis of the Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly by-election defeat in 2019 by the leaders of the faction had also thrown up a similar inference. “The sentiment has not changed much in the past two years,” said a source in the Tamang camp. The Tamang camp had of late slowly started trying to stamp its separate identity and creating an impression that the party was not being controlled totally by Trinamul. “That is why the party had coined the slogan hamro ghar afnai bhar (build you house on your own strength) for the Assembly elections,” another leader in the Tamang camp pointed out. The other reason for coming up with the slogan was also to lay stress on “regionalism”. The BJP-GNLF camp which is at loggerhead with the Trinamul-Morcha combine has already started raising the 2017 agitation issue. “L.B. Rai daju (hill TMC president) seems pained at the leg fracture of Miss Mamata Banerjee. But did he feel the pain when 13 people were killed in 2017?” Prabhaskar Blone, the spokesman for the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, had asked recently. Images of the 2017 agitation days are also resurfacing in social media. “Under these circumstances, the Tamang camp has little option but to try and de-link itself from Trinamul. However, whether they will be successful in projecting this image is another issue,” an observer said. The prevailing sentiment makes the battle tough even for the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, said the observer. Gurung, too, has allied with Trinamul for the Bengal Assembly elections. “Gurung has not yet made an impact on Trinamul’s strategists,” said the observer. Gurung, however, claims he will not only win the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong but also influence the results in “10 to 15” seats in the Dooars and the Terai. Gurung will announce his candidates for the three hill seats on March 23. Tamang will declare the nominees on Sunday at a public meeting in Mungpoo, about 35km from Darjeeling. “We have identified 52 issues that will be mentioned in our election manifesto which will be released at the Mungpoo public meeting,” said Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bista raises hill solution in LS ahead of Assembly polls||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista raised two issues concerning north Bengal in Parliament in the past two days with observers projecting his speeches as his efforts to woo voters ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections. “Gorkhas have contributed a lot to the country and the permanent political solution is their major demand and is associated with their identity. Around 1.5 crore Gorkhas live in India and the Union home minister should consider their demand,” Bista said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the BJP MP spoke about the alternative bridge proposed over the Teesta near Sevoke Bazaar (around 20km from Siliguri). He said the Coronation Bridge that had been built over the Teesta in 1937 had suffered damage in an earthquake in 2011. He has said the bridge is not fit for heavy vehicles. “Since then, traffic has been regulated along the bridge and on August 19, 2020, the state public works department (NH 9 division) passed an order saying vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above could not move through the bridge,” said Bista. With the restriction, heavy vehicles bound for the Dooars have to take a detour along NH27, that is, via Jalpaiguri. “The bridge is in the critical Chicken’s Neck and connects the Northeast. The new bridge is necessary and the Union ministry of road transport and highways should declare it as a project of national importance,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul candidate Mitali meets elephant Mitali||Dhupguri MLA Mitali Roy on Wednesday performed a puja before her namesake, a pet elephant of the Bengal forest department, as she kick-started her campaign as a candidate of the Trinamul Congress in the same seat. Wearing a tracksuit, the MLA reached the Garialtari forest beat in the Nathua range of Jalpaiguri district in the morning. Besides performing the puja, she offered the other Mitali a marigold garland and fruits and burnt incense sticks. “We venerate elephants and consider it as Mahakal Baba (a deity). There is a belief that if puja is offered to elephant before a mission, it would succeed. That is why I performed the puja before launching my election campaign,” the Trinamul candidate said. The pet elephant was brought to the Garialtari beat about three months ago for patrolling and other purposes, said foresters. “The elephant, too, seemed to have enjoyed the puja and devoured the fruits offered by the MLA. It was indeed an offbeat manner in which she started her campaign,” said a forest officer. When Mamata Banerjee had announced Mitali as the Trinamul candidate in Dhupguri, a section of party leaders and workers expressed discontent and sought a change in the nomination. Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president KK Kalyani intervened to quell the revolt and Kalyani herself held a meeting with the disgruntled lot on Tuesday to calm them down. Mitali had won the seat with a margin of 19,501 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls. However, the result of the Jalpaiguri Lok Sabha seat in 2019 showed that the BJP secured a lead of 17,766 votes in Dhupguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
