19-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dubs TMC defectors of Nandigram 'gaddar, Mir Jafar'||Branding TMC turncoats as "traitors", party supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday said it was good riddance that they have left her camp, but the "switch over has left BJP old-timers sulking" as the saffron party has chosen to field the defectors over its loyalists. Addressing a poll rally at Egra in Purba Medinipur, the Bengal chief minister accused the BJP of practising "politics of riot, loot and murder", and urged everyone "to be on guard against outsiders appearing in their localities". The TMC, which has made Bengali pride its core poll plank, has called the BJP a "party of outsiders", as its top leaders hail from outside the state. In an obvious reference to Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee who had shifted allegiance to the BJP along with other leaders like Mukul Roy, the TMC supremo said, "Gaddars, Mir Jafars (traitors) have now become BJP candidates, to the dismay of old-timers of the saffron party." Noting that "these turncoats" had been given many responsibilities in the past, Mamata said, "I will be monitoring every project so that its benefit reaches everyone." Slamming the saffron party for chanting "Hari Hari in front and stabbing from behind", the TMC chief claimed, "Chewing panparag and putting tilak on forehead, the BJP carries out attack on people." Coining the slogan "No vote to BJP", Mamata also asked the crowd not to vote for the CPI-M and the Congress either "as they are friends of the BJP." The CPI-M, Congress and the fledgling ISF have formed an alliance in Bengal. Mamata asked the people to maintain vigil outside the counting centres where the EVMs will be kept after polling, saying "Do not leave the place even if central security and state police ask you to do so. "Also if an EVM malfunctions, ensure that the machine replacing it is tested properly." About her decision to contest from Nandigram, she said, "Many people had asked me why I decided to contest from faraway Nandigram rather than a constituency in Calcutta. I replied, I chose it since the movement against land acquisition in Nandigram (in 2007-2008) and Singur had played a significant role. "Also I consider every corner of Bengal as my own place." Alleging that women are not secure in BJP-ruled states, she said, "In Uttar Pradesh, women are raped and murdered. The father of a rape victim was killed recently. "If a poor man steals Rs 500 we pounce on him. What about the BJP stealing lakhs of rupees in jumla, what about lakhs of cash being plundered in the name of selling of PSUs? These thefts by BJP leaders are never known publicly." The chief minister said, Duare Sarkar (government at the doorstep) camps will be set up again in August-September and will be held twice a year from now on. Asserting that the victory of the TMC in the assembly polls "will be the precursor to dislodging the BJP in Delhi, Mamata said, "If you want me to be at the helm again, make every TMC candidate a winner."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Fair polls in Bengal becoming ‘distant reality’, TMC tells EC||Alleging that fair elections in West Bengal are becoming a distant reality, a delegation of TMC MPs met the Election Commission on Friday to register their protest against the poll panel's reported decision to not permit state police personnel within 100 metres of polling stations. The TMC parliamentary delegation, including Saugata Roy, Yashwant Sinha, Md Nadimul Haque, Pratima Mondal and Mahua Moitra, described the Election Commission's approach as partisan and biased. "It is becoming increasingly clear that free, fair and transparent elections in the State of West Bengal are becoming a distant reality. This is evident from the partisan and biased approach taken by the Election Commission of India (ECI) in respect of the ongoing elections in the State, a memorandum submitted to the apex poll panel said. "On the first count, it has been reported in the media that the ECI has decided to not permit the presence of State police within 100 metres of polling stations and only deploy Central Forces in such arenas. If true, this decision is unprecedented and casts severe aspersions on the reputation of the police administration in the State of West Bengal," it added. The memorandum said this needs to be substantiated at the appropriate level. Stating that the ECI's decision is only for West Bengal and not the other four poll-bound states in the country, the Trinamool Congress said the deployment of central forces should be to help the state government deal with law and order and "not deliberately demonise the state police personnel that have worked under different governments". "Propriety demands that there should be proper coordination between the State and Central forces to ensure free and fair elections and that combined groups of both State and Central Police forces be deployed within 100 m of the polling booths," the letter by the party said. Despite several requests, it said, the apex poll panel had summarily dismissed the demand for tallying of all VVPAT machines, allegedly on account of the decision of the Supreme Court of India passed in March 2019 . According to the party, its detailed submissions on the matter had clearly not been factored in. "We urge you to withdraw your decision to deploy only central forces within 100 m of the polling stations. Further, we reiterate our demand to tally 100% VVPAT machines with EVMs after polling is over, to reassure the voters that his/her choice has indeed been recorded, both electronically and physically," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Madan Mitra appears before ED in Saradha scam case||TMC assembly poll candidates Madan Mitra and Vivek Gupta on Friday deposed before Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials here in connection with the probe into Saradha chit fund scam. Mitra, who has been fielded by the party from Kamarhati assembly constituency, was, in the past, arrested by the CBI for his alleged involvement in the case, and later granted bail. "I was asked by the ED to appear before its officials today. I will continue to cooperate with the investigation," the former state minister said. Gupta, who is contesting the elections from Jorasanko seat, admitted that he knew Sudipto Sen, the owner of the blacklisted firm, and said he visited the ED office to submit income tax details. The agency, probing the money-laundering aspect of the multi-crore Saradha scam, has also sent notices to former IPS officers Surajit Kar Purkayashtha and Rajat Majumdar. Sources in the ED said both of them have been asked to depose before the agency officials next week. Majumdar, the former DGP of West Bengal, was earlier apprehended by the CBI in the chit fund case. The Calcutta High Court later granted him bail. Purkayastha, currently the state security adviser in West Bengal, had apparently attended several meetings organised by the now-defunct company. The Saradha group is said to have defrauded thousands of investors by means of fraudulent schemes floated by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Roshan Giri alleges ‘game’ talk by ex-colleague||Roshan Giri, the second-in-command of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, alleged on Thursday that its former chief election convener, Subha Pradhan, who had resigned from the party and expressed his inclination towards the BJP recently, had proposed a “got-up game” wherein Pradhan would be the BJP candidate in Kalimpong and thus ensure flow of funds to the Gurung faction to fight the elections in the two other hill Assembly seats of Darjeeling and Kurseong. Giri made the explosive allegation while addressing the media during the inauguration of a Morcha office in Kalimpong. “Three days before he resigned, he (Subha Pradhan) had called me up early morning and said ‘let’s play a got-up game, make me a BJP candidate and money will flow (to help Bimal Gurung’s candidates in the Darjeeling hills). Pitch for me in the BJP and have your own candidate in Darjeeling’. Please draw your own inference from his statement, apply your sense,” said Giri. Pradhan had resigned from Gurung’s party on March 14 and 10 other leaders in his faction also left in Kalimpong and Darjeeling on the same day. Giri’s allegations have come at a time when Pradhan’s name as a BJP candidate from Kalimpong is being widely discussed. But Pradhan hasn’t joined the BJP yet. Speaking to The Telegraph, Pradhan gave enough hints that he had been in touch with the BJP leadership even before his resignation but said the phrase “got-up-game” was Giri’s own imagination. “I don’t know where the words (got-up-game and funds for Morcha) came from. We cannot hoodwink the public. He (Giri) did not use these words when they expelled me from the party,” said Pradhan. Pradhan was expelled by Gurung’s party a day after he had announced his resignation from the Morcha. “Since my name is doing the rounds (for a BJP ticket from Kalimpong), it might be that he came up with a statement just to punch holes in my reputation,” said Pradhan who, however, admitted that he was in touch with the BJP as Gurung’s decision to join hands with the Trinamul Congress meant dilution of Gorkhaland demand. Pradhan, who was also the general secretary of the Gurung camp’s Kalimpong district committee and a former chairman of Kalimpong municipality, added the controversy had “only raised his image”. Giri said the BJP was focussed just on “expanding the party in the hills”. “Neither TMC nor the BJP will grant Gorkhaland. Also, a permanent political solution cannot be found without the state government’s intervention,” said Giri who also hinted at a model similar to the Bodoland Territorial Administration in Assam to solve the hill problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: CPM accuses Narendra Modi of 'slogan forgery'||The Sanjukta Morcha, especially the CPM, accused Narendra Modi of “slogan forgery” on Thursday after the Prime Minister dedicated almost two minutes of his speech in Purulia to debunk the Trinamul Congress’s electoral slogan “khela hobey (game is on)” with issues such as unemployment, education and healthcare. In his attempt to attack chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the Prime Minister listed the benefits of bringing the BJP to power in Bengal and said while the Trinamul leader was willing “to play”, the BJP was focusing on jobs, education, healthcare and development. The Morcha leadership alleged that while the BJP’s focus had been on forcing defection within Trinamul for long, Modi had realised that issues such as jobs and hospitals were also important. The Morcha said only the alliance of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front had been speaking on those basic issues and while the polls were just a few days away, Modi was trying to steal their thunder. “Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley chakri hobey. Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley bikash hobey. Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley shikkha hobey. Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley mohilader utthan hobey…(While Didi says the game is on, BJP says there will be jobs, there will be development, there will be education, there will be empowerment of women),” Modi said. Reacting to Modi’s Purulia speech, CPM’s politburo member and candidate for the Chanditala Assembly seat, Mohd Salim, said it had become the habit of the BJP to “steal” anything good from the Left parties. “The BJP had stolen pictures of our Brigade rally and showed them to be ones from Modi’s Brigade meeting because we brought more people than they managed to. Now, they are stealing our slogans,” Salim told The Telegraph. Salim had announced from the Brigade rally that if Trinamul or the BJP said “khela hobey”, Left leaders should say “lorai hobey” or “the fight is on”. The alliance has weaved its poll campaign around issues such as unemployment, lack of industrialisation, non-recruitment of qualified teachers and other issues affecting youths, students and the underprivileged section of the society. Simultaneously, the CPM has fielded multiple young faces, all below the age of forty, to appeal to the youth of Bengal. The “khela hobey” slogan quickly resonated with the youth and made it popular cutting across party lines. It was also used by members of the CPM-backed SFI and the DYFI at a rally in Calcutta on February 11. The slogan has been used at multiple BJP rallies as well. Abbas Siddiqui, a Furfura Sharif cleric and the founder of Indian Secular Front, had earlier spoken of his discontent with the “khela hobey” slogan. While speaking to this correspondent on Thursday, Siddiqui said he saw in Modi’s speech an understanding between the BJP and Trinamul. “I have a feeling that Modi stole our campaign content purposefully so that Mamata could accuse us of having a secret pact with the BJP, as she always does, and benefit out of it,” he added. Siddiqui, however, added: “Even the PM knows that the Sanjukta Morcha is the only alternative in Bengal and only we are speaking about real issues. Hence, he is trying to speak in our language.” Responding to the criticism from leaders of the Sanjukta Morcha, a BJP leader said: “Creation of jobs has been the core area of focus for the Prime Minister. The several schemes that the Centre has introduced since 2014 are aimed at empowering the underprivileged. The promise of Modiji is in keeping with the agenda of his government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Violence erupts at Nandigram, seven injured in 24 hours||Seven persons were injured in two incidents of violence involving supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP at Nandigram in East Midnapore in the past 24 hours. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the Trinamul Congress’s candidate at Nandigram where the BJP has fielded her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari. The violence started when Trinamul youth leader Samrat Tapadar and booth president Gautam Pal were attacked allegedly by a 150-strong group of BJP supporters around 8.30pm on Wednesday. The two had been campaigning at Bhekutia in the constituency. “They were singled out and beaten up. Tapadar’s skull was broken,” said an eyewitness. Tapadar and Pal have been admitted to Nandigram Super-speciality Hospital. The duo’s vehicles were also reportedly destroyed. At least four BJP workers and one from Trinamul suffered grievous injuries in a clash that broke out when a convoy of Adhikari was trying to enter Sonachura. Adhikari is protected by paramilitary personnel. Sources said Trinamul workers had been carrying on agitation regarding the Bhekutia attack as well as the decision of Calcutta High Court to reopen a case concerning the 2007 land movement on the basis of a petition by BJP Nandakumar candidate Nilanjan Adhikari. Sixty-three warrants were against residents of the area as a consequence. “The incident set off a lot of people, as the issue is a sensitive one. They came armed with black flags and chappals on Thursday to aim at Suvendu,” said an eyewitness. When the Nandigram candidate was finally able to reach his rally venue around 10am, he was met with cries of “Suvendu go back” from villagers. Referring to the clashes at Sonachura, in which Trinamul youth leader Khokan Shit was grievously injured by BJP workers, Suvendu said: “Yuva Morcha workers were almost beaten to death because Trinamul is now afraid of losing the polls.” Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien on Thursday submitted a formal complaint to the chief electoral officer in Calcutta demanding strict action against Suvendu. Trinamul MP Dola Sen also visited injured workers at Nandigram Super-speciality Hospital later on Thursday. In West Midnapore, BJP candidate Shital Kapat and her supporters were reportedly attacked near Kotulpur on Thursday afternoon. BJP workers raised a road blockade in the area to protest the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Ex-confidant to take on Asok Bhattacharya in Siliguri||The BJP on Thursday fielded Shankar Ghosh in Siliguri where he would take on his former mentor Asok Bhattacharya who contests as the CPM candidate. “I have been in politics for the past 30 years. This time, I have got a larger platform and hope that I will meet people’s aspirations,” said Ghosh. He was the district secretaries of the SFI and the DYFI. When the Left won the Siliguri Municipal Corporation in 2015, Ghosh became the member, mayor-in-council and was later elevated as a district secretariat member of the CPM. In the past few years, Ghosh had virtually become the “man Friday” of Siliguri MLA Bhattacharya. However, earlier this month, Ghosh had quit the CPM and as a member of the board of administrators at the SMC. “A section of CPM leaders is disinclined to encourage the young and want to cling to power,” Ghosh, 45, had said. He joined the BJP on March 13. Asked about Ghosh’s nomination by the BJP, his rival Bhattacharya said: “I am confident of winning the seat again. Let Trinamul and the BJP contest between themselves….. we are fighting elections with specific issues and policies, while the BJP is playing on religious lines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Mamata brings up NRC and NPR in campaign||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday resurrected the Narendra Modi government’s contentious citizenship matrix as a prominent poll plank for the Bengal campaign, condemning the alleged intent behind the exercise and mounting a scathing offensive. The chief minister, who had three rallies in West Midnapore in the afternoon, brought up the National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) repeatedly. “Do remember this well. The BJP has another game plan. That is of the NPR, the NRC…. Those who work elsewhere, outside, urge all such relatives to come home for the elections and cast their votes. Why? Otherwise, they will eliminate the names of absentees and say you are discarded,” said Mamata at Keshiary, the second of her rallies. “The way they went about it in Assam. Fourteen lakh people rendered homeless there. They will try a similar exercise here. I did not allow the NPR in Bengal, you know this very well. That entire design is to get rid of lakhs of names of valid citizens,” she added. Mamata, however, steered clear of mentioning the third constituent of the alleged saffron design, that of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which is an emotive issue for certain sections of the Bengal electorate, such as the Matuas, that she has been trying to woo away from the BJP. Prior to the pandemic taking centre stage, Mamata had been one of the loudest voices from mainstream politics in India, against the citizenship matrix. She had been a spearhead in the anti-BJP narrative across the nation, with a slew of programmes against the contentious tripod of the Modi government. “I work here, I live here, I eat here, I get rations here, my children get educated here, I get treated in hospitals here, I cast my vote here… what do I need yet another certificate for? The BJP’s certification? Tell them to go away. Refuse their demands,” said Mamata. With the resurrection of the issue, Mamata indicated that not only has she forgotten about the issue but would also keep revisiting it as a theme for her campaign against the saffron camp over the next few weeks. “A rotten party infested with the corrupt. A factory of scammers, rioters, wicked, of Durjyodhons and Duhshashons…. Not one vote to them,” she added. “So many voices they stifled. So many, they killed… in the Delhi riots (February 2020), simply to subdue the protests against their citizenship plans.” By tossing her hat once again in the citizenship matrix ring, the Trinamul chief indicated her willingness to let it assume significance in the campaign, which will help her consolidate the support from a wide range of key sections of voters — from Muslims, comprising a third of the Bengal electorate, to the Gorkhas — who are apprehensive of the exercise. She then went on to explain why the BJP “fears” her. “Because of the change we will bring to Delhi (the Centre), soon after we win in Bengal. They know we will pounce on Delhi. It makes them shake in fear. That’s why they are so furious with me,” said the chief minister. “They can see that if she wins Bengal, Mamata will be a big danger for them. She will come to Delhi next. An alternative force, nationally, with everyone in it, will be created…. That is why they are trying to inundate Bengal with fear,” she added. “They don’t know me well enough.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses 'outsider goons' of defiling Coffee House||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused “bohiragawto goondas (outsider goons)” of defiling the Coffee House in College Street and described as “very disturbing” the trend of the BJP importing such elements to Bengal. Addressing the last of her three rallies in West Midnapore on Thursday, the chief minister painted an unpalatable picture of those she dubbed “bohiragawto goondas”. “Goon after goon is coming here, putting a tilak on the forehead, chewing pan masala, red juice dripping from both ends of the mouth,” Mamata said at Kalaikunda. The goons are  “threatening ‘Dekhey nebo, phatiye debo, merey debo, dakhol korbo (Will fix you, smash you, kill you, will occupy)’”, Mamata added. “The Coffee House, even the Coffee House of that iconic Manna Dey song,” she added, referring to Coffee House-er Shei Adda ta Aj ar Nei. The chief minister said she was appalled at how the “bohiragawto goondas” had the audacity to enter a place of such socio-cultural significance to Bengal, before which she used to “bow my head in reverence” from a distance in her days as a student of Calcutta University. “Imagine, the Coffee House! There, too, the goons went and parked themselves. These goons went to a place like the Coffee House,” she said. On Monday, a group of BJP supporters wearing saffron T-shirts and chanting “Jai Shri Ram” had defaced “No Vote to BJP” posters pasted on the walls of the Coffee House. Since Wednesday, Mamata has been publicly appealing to the “No Vote to BJP” campaigners, urging non-BJP electors not to waste their votes by casting them for any party but hers. At Thursday’s rally, the chief minister obliquely referred to Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga, a controversial BJP spokesperson who had led the group to the Coffee House. “The man that has been named, he is a rioter, lives in Delhi. Bohiragawto goonda! I take full responsibility when I say this, that man is a bohiragawto goonda. His name begins with B. I’m not even going to take his full name. It rhymes with agga (command). I will not take his full name, a goon like that is not worth it,” Mamata said. “But remember, such audacity, went to invade Coffee House. Do they even know who used to go there, who still go there?” The chief minister said the Coffee House and such landmarks of Bengal’s culture meant a great deal to her. “I find it very disturbing. Those with blood on their hands, corruption in every petal (of the lotus, the BJP’s symbol), filthy language, bringing outsider goons, vowing to invade Bengal,” she said. “All in the name of so-called parivartan (change). Even that slogan is a bad copy. It was my slogan from 2011. Why no originality? Can’t you put your brains to some use?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi resurrects Pulwama and Batla House at Purulia rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday resurrected the Pulwama terror attack and the Batla House encounter, tiptoeing back to the polarisation path less than 24 hours after Mamata Banerjee had promised a universal basic income scheme if she returned to power. “The people of Bengal have not forgotten who you stood with after the Pulwama attack and made allegations against the army,” Modi told a rally in Purulia, referring to Mamata’s questioning of the timing of the terror strike before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Forty CRPF soldiers were killed in the attack. In the same breath, the Prime Minister mentioned the recent death sentence on Batla House accused Ariz Khan before asking why the Bengal chief minister had called the encounter a staged one. “No one has forgotten how Didi and a few parties behaved when the Batla House encounter took place. These people stood with the terrorists at that time and raised questions about the encounter,” Modi said, referring to the September 2008 encounter during a Delhi police operation to arrest terrorists hiding in a flat in the Batla House area of Jamia Nagar in Delhi. Although issues such as water scarcity in Purulia and Trinamul’s “misrule” came up in his address, Modi’s focus appeared to be on issues that can polarise the electorate. So far, any mood in favour of muscular nationalism as seen after the Pulwama attack and the retaliatory Balakot air strike on Pakistan has not been evident in the Bengal Assembly elections. Modi also wove into the time-tested narrative the BJP’s two other pet themes: perceived appeasement politics and infiltration from neighbouring Bangladesh. Modi accused Mamata of encouraging infiltration for the sake of vote-bank politics. Without mentioning “Jai Shri Ram”, the Prime Minister reminded the audience how certain slogans had raised Mamata’s hackles in 2019. “The people of Bengal remember how you got off your car and scolded people and asked the police to catch them for no fault of theirs,” he said. In his address at one of the most backward areas in Bengal that has a high concentration of tribals and OBCs, Modi said: “I know how the rights of the tribal and OBC youths from this area were robbed as she engaged in appeasement politics and passed the benefits on to others.” BJP sources speculated that Modi might have been referring to how backward Hindu communities such as the Mahisyas and Telis had been left out of the list for OBC reservation. The issue had first been “flagged”, according to the BJP, by the party’s national chief J.P. Nadda while addressing a poll rally in Bankura’s Kotulpur on Tuesday. Trinamul’s electoral manifesto, which Mamata released on Wednesday, includes a promise to set up a special task force for the inclusion of castes like Mahisya, Teli, Tamul and Saha in the OBC list. Modi said Bengal’s voters had made up their minds to usher in change and claimed the success of his Brigade rally on March 7 had made Mamata nervous. “Whatever is happening after Calcutta’s Brigade rally, you can see it and the country can see it. After 10 years of appeasement and hitting the people with sticks and batons, now Mamata Didi is looking jittery.… The people of Bengal remember each of your acts meant for appeasement,” Modi said. The Prime Minister referred to the injury Mamata suffered in Nandigram on March 10. “We were very worried after learning about your injury.… We pray to God, wishing you a speedy recovery,” he said. Modi accused Trinamul of encouraging the birth of a new breed of Maoists for political benefit. The BJP’s attempt to polarise the electorate a day after Mamata proposed an inclusive universal basic income scheme shows that the BJP has lost the plot, said Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy. “They’ve realised that they have lost ground here. So, they are using their ultimate weapon of polarisation,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP's new list of 148 candidates has lopsided presence of turncoats||A new list of 148 candidates released by the BJP on Thursday has a lopsided presence of turncoats, triggering embarrassing disclaimers and questions on how the Prime Minister’s avowed “asol paribartan” can be brought about by a band of floating mercenaries. The list shovelled more fuel into the fire of discontent among BJP ranks, intensifying protests from Dum Dum in the south to the Dooars in the north. Among the defectors from Trinamul who made up the highlights of the list were Mukul Roy, Sabyasachi Dutta, Rudranil Ghosh, Deeptangshu Chowdhury, Jitendra Tiwari, Paban Singh, Sunil Singh, Shilbhadra Datta and Arindam Bhattacharya. The desperate rush to anoint defectors seems to have led to lapses in due diligence and spawned a couple of embarrassments. Two names on the list — Tarun Saha of Trinamul and Sikha Mitra Chowdhury of the Congress — declined the offer and said they were not interested in BJP tickets. “It’s clear from the list that the party is finding it difficult to field candidates (from within its ranks),” a BJP insider said. “Of the 283 nominees announced so far (for the 294 seats), almost 150 are from Trinamul, CPM and the Congress.” Prime Minister Modi has been promising “real change” and a “Sonar Bangla” but the list with  so many turncoats suggests that if the BJP wins the elections, the next government will have an assorted collection of legislators from different parties bound together only by erstwhile disgruntlement and potential rewards. The famed election management skills of the BJP also came under stress with the party deciding to replace economist Ashoke Lahiri with local party leader Suman Kanjilal as the candidate in Alipurduar. Speculation was rife that the replacement was carried out to douse the anger of the rank and file. But BJP sources claimed that Lahiri had been dropped because he was not on the Bengal voter list and there was no time left to rectify this — which in itself served to underscore the cavalier manner in which the list had been drawn up. Protests by supporters and local leaders against this disproportionate presence of new inductees have bedevilled the BJP since it started announcing candidates this month, with party offices vandalised and even senior leaders attacked. Union home minister Amit Shah has held emergency meetings and instructed state leaders to tackle the dissidents firmly. The protests, however, escalated on Thursday amid reports of BJP supporters targeting party offices across the state. “We have been with the party for years but people who have joined barely a few days ago have been made candidates. The likes of us will have to think if we want to keep supporting the party,” a BJP old-timer said. Neither Saha nor Mitra Chowdhury, who rebuffed the BJP after being included in Thursday’s list, had formally joined the party. Saha, who had been nominated from Kashipur-Belgachhia, said no BJP leader had spoken to him and the only overtures had come from a private survey agency hired by the party. He said he had no time for the BJP or its ideology. “We are a family with a Congress culture.... Why should I contest as a BJP candidate?” Mitra Chowdhury, nominated from Chowringhee, said. The bloopers served to underline the differences within the BJP, with some leaders asking whether those assigned to talk to Mitra Chowdhury and Saha had been honest. “The party will investigate what happened and why,” former state BJP president Rahul Sinha said. BJP workers erupted across north Bengal, which the party claims as its bastion. In Jalpaiguri, BJP supporters vandalised the district party office and set fire to publicity material, bringing police and fire engines to the spot. Similar demonstrations were seen in Old Malda and Harishchandrapur. In Sitai, Cooch Behar, senior party leader Bhaben Roy quit the BJP and joined Trinamul. In south Bengal, BJP workers demonstrated in front of the Durgapur party office demanding the replacement of the Durgapur East and Pandabeshwar nominees — Trinamul turncoats Deeptangshu and Jitendra — with party old-timers. Scenes of unrest were witnessed in Jagaddal, Nadia South, Ranaghat, Chakdah and several parts of North 24-Parganas. “After so many rounds of discussion in Calcutta and Delhi, we come up with a list and that triggers such protests across the state,” a BJP veteran said. “I can’t remember a single party programme that drew so many workers as are now coming to protest at party offices.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records surge in active cases for seventh consecutive day||Active Covid-19 cases in Bengal recorded a surge for the seventh consecutive day as their number went up by 53 to reach 3,241 on Thursday. The state on Thursday reported 268 recoveries, 323 infections and two deaths. Both the fatalities were in Calcutta. Bengal now has 1.21 per cent of the total active cases in the country, having improved from over seven per cent at the start of this year. The recovery rate is 97.66 per cent, still considerably ahead of the national rate of 96.25 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.51 per cent. On Thursday, the state reported 19,509 tests, taking the total past 88.94 lakh. Tests per million people were 98,831 on Thursday. Of the total deaths of 10,300 from the disease, 8,652 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, while the national rate was 1.38 per cent. Number of active cases had fallen for 136 days at a stretch since Vijaya Dashami last year. But the number of current patents started climbing on March 5. Before March 5, the total of active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 last year to 3,110.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: 52,200 personnel will be on election duty ||CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh on Thursday said 725 companies of central forces would be deployed for election duties in Bengal. Addressing a media conference, Singh said 495 of the 725 companies had already reached the state while the rest were on their way. He said one company had an operational strength of about 72 personnel. This means around 52,200 personnel will be on poll duty in Bengal. Polling in the state will be held in eight phases beginning on March 27 and ending on April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2. The Centre appointed Singh, a 1986-batch Bengal-cadre IPS officer, as the CRPF director-general on Tuesday. He earlier held the post of special DG in the CRPF, the country’s largest paramilitary force. On the threat assessment in Bengal, Singh said: “Threat assessments are done by state authorities in areas and they decide deployment on that basis.” “We do not have any such assessment as to which phase would be more challenging. We provide support to the state authorities so that peaceful and successful elections can be held under the directions of the Election Commission,” Singh said. He said the central paramilitary forces were committed to peaceful, free and fair elections. “Deployment in the different phases of polls are being worked out,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: TMC duo hit campaign trail with saplings||Two Trinamul Congress candidates in the Sunderbans launched their election campaign on Thursday by embarking on a tree planting drive to restore the mangroves which had been damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May last year. Debesh Mondal and Sukumar Mahato, candidates of Hingalganj and Sandeshkhali Assembly constituencies, respectively, in North 24-Parganas planted around 1,000 mangrove saplings on alluvial land in the Hatgacha area running alongside the Roymangal river. Both the candidates said the drive would continue through the poll season. Simultaneous tee planting drives were also launched by Trinamul workers on Tuesday in other parts of the region adjacent to the rivers Kalindi, Goureshwar and Bidyadhari. Saplings were mainly of kalo bain (avicennia alba), peyara bain (avicennia marina), hargoja (acanthus ilicifolius), kewra (pandan), geoan (excoecaria agallocha) and sundari (heritiera fomes) — the dominant mangrove trees in the Sunderbans. They grow fast in brackish water. According to an assessment done by the state government, about 28 per cent of the Sunderbans forest, spanning over 9,630sqkm, was damaged during Cyclone Amphan. In an attempt to restore the mangroves, the Bengal government had on June 5, on the occasion of World Environment Day, launched a restorative plantation programme in the Sunderbans spanning approximately 1,200sqkm out of the 4,263sqkm mangroves that had been destroyed. Asked why such an endeavour had not been taken up earlier and launched only ahead of the polls, Debesh Mandal said: “The endeavour is not to woo people for votes, rather it is being done out of our social commitment to save the Sunderbans mangrove that was damaged in Amphan.” “Restoration drives have been taken up at many levels. I also tried my best in this initiative. Nevertheless, this fresh one has been taken to encourage people to undertake similar to things,” he added. Sandeshkhali candidate Mahato said: “The survival of the Sunderbans and its people depend on the mangroves. So, we took the initiative to save the Sunderbans and create awareness among people”. “We will continue to plant such saplings to restore the mangroves,” Mandal told The Telegraph. The North 24-Parganas district BJP leadership, however, termed the drive an election “gimmicks”. “These Trinamul leaders had little time to ponder over the mangroves in the past 10 months. Now with Assembly elections knocking at the door, they are trying to draw attention. But such gimmicks will not help them win votes,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: NIA questions TMC candidate in Murshidabad blast case ||The National Investigation Agency, which is probing into the Nimtita-blast in Murshidabad, questioned Emani Biswas, Trinamul Congress’s candidate from Suti, for over four hours on Thursday. Sources in the NIA said they had found certain leads after interrogating two persons whom the Bengal’s CID had arrested in the case earlier — Abu Samad, 44 and Saidul Islam, 36, — and decided to check them with Biswas. On February 17, at least 26 persons were severely injured in a blast that took place at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad. Among the injured was Jakir Hossain, state’s junior minister for labour and Jangipur’s Trinamul MLA. Jakir hails from Suti in Murshidabad. Jakir and Biswas own biri factories and had their own set of followers across Murshidabad district, NIA officials said. “We have no clue why the NIA questioned Emani,” said Abu Taher Khan, Trinamul’s MP from Murshidabad. “An agency can always question one but our demand would be that those actually involved in the blast be identified and punished.” Emani was questioned at the agency’s office in Calcutta, which is less than a kilometre away from that of the Enforcement Directorate which summoned Vivek Gupta, Trinamul’s candidate from Jorasanko in central Calcutta, for questioning in Saradha chit fund case next week. The ED also summoned former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Ahmed Hassan Imran for questioning in the same case. Madan Mitra, Trinamul candidate from Kamarhati, has also been summoned. Trinamul leadership has slammed the move by the central agencies as a deliberate attempt to instil a sense of fear among a section of the party’s candidates ahead of the Assembly polls. “Saradha case is being probed for several years and suddenly, both the CBI and the ED are waking up to the fact that they need to question some of our candidates now,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Calcutta. “All these central agencies are working under the instructions of the BJP. This attempt to intimidate will backfire.” In Calcutta, officials of the ED, which is probing into the money laundering aspect of the Saradha deposit mobilising scam, said Gupta had been asked to appear before investigating officers early next week. Sources said Gupta, who had been earlier questioned by the CBI in the same case, would be asked to clarify about the alleged transaction that had taken place between his publishing firm and Saradha Group chairman Sudipta Sen for printing a newspaper owned by the Group. Sources said the former Trinamul MP Imran would be asked to clarify his deal with Sen and his group. The Saradha group had taken over two newspapers run by Imran.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
