20-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata brands BJP as world's biggest ‘tolabaj’, says Modi is on a selling spree||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday slammed the BJP, branding it as the "biggest extortionist" in the world, which should never be allowed to rule the state. Mamata , speaking at an election rally in Haldia in East Midnapore district, also accused the saffron party of orchestrating riots, killing people and torturing Dalit girls. "BJP is the biggest tolabaj (extortionist) in the world... Just see the amount of money it collected under the PM Cares Fund. If the people of Bengal want peace and a state free from riots, then the Trinamool Congress is the only option," she asserted. "A party that creates riots to kill people should never be allowed to rule Bengal. Even women in the BJP are not safe," the TMC boss alleged. Banerjee said the BJP cannot fight elections in a democratic manner and it "thrives by giving threats". The eight-phase Bengal Assembly polls will get underway on March 27. The chief minister, bound to a wheelchair after suffering injuries during campaigning earlier in the month, also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of embarking on a "selling spree". "The PM has sold everything. He has devastated the Indian economy. The government is already privatising the railways, coal sector, BSNL, the insurance space and banks. Someday, the Haldia dock might get sold, too," she said. Mamata exhorted TMC supporters to guard the EVMs after the voting process is over in each phase. "The EVMs should be tested 30 times before the start of the polls to ensure there is no foul play. But, If any machine develops faults, please remain calm until it is repaired," she said. Mamata also said her government will construct a bridge between Haldia and Nandigram to boost connectivity. "A centre for development of fish will be set up at Haldia. A deep-sea port at Tajpur is also being built at a cost of Rs 15,000 crore, which will generate 25,000 jobs," the TMC supremo said. The chief minister said financial assistance to farmers of the state will be raised from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000 per year and free ration delivered at their doorsteps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s nephew only ‘single window’ in industry-starved Bengal, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday launched a frontal attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging her lawmaker nephew Abhishek was the only "single window" in the state without crossing which no work gets done. Addressing his second rally in three days in Bengal, the prime minister said industries were closing down while "syndicate culture and mafia raj" was flourishing. He also accused the TMC supremo of presiding over an administration full of tolabaj (extortionists) and corrupt people. The prime minister alleged Mamata was engaged in khela (game) of appeasement for vote bank politics. "Industrial units are getting shuttered. You know, a single-window system is created for speedy clearances for industries. The rest of the country is growing under the single window system introduced by the BJP. "In Bengal, too, exists a single window....the single window of Bhaipo (nephew) without crossing which no work gets done," he said without naming Banerjee's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. The BJP has often accused Abhishek of running syndicates that extort money from common people. In local parlance, syndicates refer to gangs run by TMC toughs who sell substandard construction material to people at exorbitant rates. Modi also spoke about the alleged killing of around 130 BJP workers by TMC activists since the 2018 panchayat elections. "Mamata Didi runs a school of brutality where tolabaji (extortion), cut money, syndicate and anarchy are part of the syllabus," he alleged. "Even to sell kendu leaves tribals (in Jangalmahal) have to give cut money. Tell me don't you have to? In Bengal for everything one has to cough up cut money (commission)," he said. Rejecting the outsider tag Mamata Banerjee has given to his party, the prime minister said,"The BJP is the only real party of Bengal. Syama Prasad Mookerjee founded Jana Sangh, the BJP's forerunner. He was the son of Bengal. Bengal is in BJP's DNA." Ridiculing Mamata over the khela hobe (game will happen) slogan, Modi said, "Didir khela shesh hobe, vikas aarambh (Didi's game will be over and development will start). Didi will not be allowed to play with the future of Bengal." Referring to the 'Ayushman Bharat' health insurance scheme, the prime minister said the TMC government has not implemented it as it thought the Centre will get credit for the measure. "Mamata Didi stands like a wall to block all development schemes," he alleged. Modi underlined the need for a double engine propelled growth for Bengal, where governments run by the same party at the Centre and in the state will take it forward on the path of progress. Bengal, he said, had seen the karnama (exploits) of the Congress, barbadi (destruction) of the Left, while the TMC smashed to smithereens choor choor (shatter) your dreams in the last 70 years. "Give BJP five years. We will rectify the destruction caused by them in just five years," he asserted. The prime minister said the Mamata government was opposing even the New Education Policy which laid emphasis on the use of local language as the medium of instruction even in higher technical institutions so even the sons and daughters of poor people become doctors and engineers. "We want to realise the dreams of children of poor families to become doctors, to become successful in life, but Didi even opposes this policy. She has no concern for millions of poor children," he said. Referring to the 50-minute outage of WhatsApp on Friday night, Modi said people got upset with it. "But in Bengal development has been down for 50 years....your dreams have been down for 50 years," he said. In an apparent reference to 'Didi Ke Bolo' (Tell Didi) campaign of the TMC, Modi, whose speech was peppered with wisecracks in Bengali language, said,"People of Bengal have been saying ‘Didi ke bolchhi uni sunchhen na’ (we are telling Didi but she doesn't listen.)" Flaying the TMC government over "rampant corruption", the prime minister said, "She (Mamata) gets angry when asked about irregularities in cyclone relief, she sends to jail those who question the theft of ration (during lockdown), has people beaten up with sticks when they ask about coal theft, and gets burnt the houses of those demanding jobs." He alleged people's constitutional right to vote was snatched away by the TMC during the 2018 panchayat elections. "I tell the police and civil administration and they should keep in mind that there is nothing more important than saving the Constitution and democracy," he said. There were allegations that thousands of TMC candidates got elected unopposed as aspirants of other parties were threatened not to file nominations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: BJP nominee angers North Dinajpur village||Daribhit, a nondescript village in Islampur subdivision of North Dinajpur that is known to have played a key role in consolidating the saffron camp’s support base in the district before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, has overnight turned its face from the BJP. The reason: Daribhit residents, particularly the families of the two local youths, who had died of bullet wounds during violence in the village three years back, are disgruntled with the BJP's decision to field Soumyarup Mondal from Islampur. They are also disappointed with Debasree Chaudhuri, the BJP MP of Raiganj who is also a Union minister of state, for allowing this to happen, and have said that they would not let Mondal or Chaudhari enter the village to campaign. “We do not like Mondal. After we lost our sons, he didn’t turn up even once in the village. A few months back, some residents decided to build tombs for them and approached him. He had ignored them,” said Manju, the mother of Tapash Burman, one of the deceased. The bodies of the two Hindu youths Rajesh Sarkar and Tapash Burman were buried and not cremated — a decision by their families in case the probe warranted an exhumation. On Thursday, when the BJP's  Raiganj MP read out the names of candidates in Delhi, there was an instant outburst of anger in Daribhit. Residents ransacked the BJP office and smeared coal dust on a photograph of the MP. In September 2018, violence erupted in Daribhit over the recruitment of teachers in a local school. Rajesh and Tapash, the youths who were also former students of the school, died of bullet injuries. The BJP organised a movement, demanding a CBI probe into the incident, held demonstrations across the state and held a strike. For months, only BJP leaders were allowed to enter the village. In 2019, when Chaudhuri was fielded as the BJP’s MP candidate, she launched her campaign by paying homage to the graves of the youths. “One of the major anti-state government movements which the BJP could organise in north Bengal was on the Daribhit issue and it helped the party get support from people. Even (Union home minister) Amit Shah and the Prime Minister referred to the incident in their public speeches ahead of Lok Sabha polls,” pointed out an observer. However, the decision of fielding Mondal from Islampur seems to have backfired for the BJP. “The MP and her party used the Daribhit issue to gain support for the 2019 polls. Now they are trying to prove it has no role in their win,” added Manju. MP Chaudhuri said she would look into the issue. “We have always stood by these two families and the village. There may be some confusion but we hope to resolve it soon,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Enforcement Directorate summons 4 officers||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned for questioning Bengal additional chief secretary B.P. Gopalika and the state’s security advisor Surajit Kar Purkayastha in separate cases. The ED also asked former Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad and former police commissioner of the Asansol Durgapur police commissionerate Laxmi Narayan Meena to appear before its sleuths for questioning. B.P. Gopalika, additional chief secretary of the animal resources development department, has been summoned for appearance on March 24 in connection with the probe into the Metro Dairy disinvestment case. The agency has already asked state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to appear for a round of questioning in the same case. While Gopalika was the principal secretary of the same department, Dwivedi was the finance secretary when the state government had allegedly sold off its 47 per cent of share to Keventer Agro Limited for Rs 85 core. That was in 2017 and a Singapore-based company reportedly bought Metro Dairy’s 15 per cent share for Rs 170 crore the same year. Over the following three years, the agency summoned several officials on many occasions to understand how the deal was carried out and whether there were any alleged irregularities. The investigators said they would check certain documents with the two IAS officers. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already raised questions on the summons to senior officers of the state government. “Why should state government employees be served notices?” Mamata had asked at a rally in Bankura on Tuesday. “Instead of running the country, the (Union) home minister is deciding from Calcutta who needs to be arrested.” A day after Gopalika was asked to turn up for a round of questioning, the ED has summoned Purkayastha, who is also the former director general of police, in connection with its ongoing probe into Saradha deposit mobilisation scam. A video clip shows Purkayastha attending an agent’s meet of the Saradha group. The central agency also summoned Prasad and Narayan Meena in connection with the probe into alleged multi-crore coal pilferage case. Prasad and Narayan Meena were asked to face a round of questioning on March 23 and 24, respectively. ED sleuths said there were reasons to believe illegal coal mining was carried out across those districts and would want to know from the two officers whether they were aware of it and if so, what steps they had taken to prevent it. The summons to these two officers come within days of the agency arresting Vikash Mishra, brother of Vinay Mishra, the Youth Trinamul leader believed to be the prime accused in the multi-crore coal smuggling case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Crash kills 3 of marriage party on NH31||Three persons died and 32 were injured when the bus they were travelling in collided head on with a tractor along the Maynaguri-Malbazar stretch of NH31 in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday night. The injured are under treatment at different hospitals. Police have seized both the vehicles. Sources said a group of residents from Kathalbari village in Domohoni 1 panchayat of Maynaguri block had been to Maulani of the same block to attend a marriage party. While returning, the bus rammed into a tractor that was carrying potatoes and turned its side at Lakkhirhat around 11pm. Local people and Maynaguri police took the injured passengers to the block hospital. Three persons were declared brought-dead at the hospital and they were Abu Taleb, 41, Sabina Khatun, 40, and Mohammad Nazrul, 50. Some the injured persons were shifted to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri and later at night, three of them were sent to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri. The investigators said they suspected over-speeding might had led to the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur BJP leader sent to CID custody in coal case||BJP leader and businessman Rajesh Jha, alias Raju, was remanded in seven days’ CID custody on Friday in connection with a coal pilfering case lodged at Andal police station in West Burdwan last year. Jha, who was arrested on Monday in connection with another coal pilfering case at Mejia police station in Bankura, was brought from Bankura jail and produced before the additional district and session judge of Durgapur on Friday. Officials of the CID said they had found Jha’s involvement in the coal smuggling case lodged at Andal police station last year after interrogating Randhir Singh, who was arrested last week. The CID officials said Singh used to operate an unauthorised opencast coal mine in Andal and Jha used to transport smuggled coal from the mine. “We told the court that we need to take Jha into our custody to interrogate him in connection with the coal smuggling case at Andal. The court has granted us the prayer,” said a CID inspector in Durgapur. However, Jha during his production in the court claimed his innocence and said the CID had fabricated charges against him at the behest of the Trinamul Congress. “I have been falsely implicated in the coal smuggling cases as I have joined the BJP. It is a conspiracy of the ruling party (Trinamul),” he told the reporters. Sources said it would be tough for Jha to come out of jail or CID custody before the elections. “Raju Jha is now in the BJP and the party will try to use his muscle power in the elections to counter Trinamul in the coal belt. It will be tough for him to stay away from jail this time,” said a police officer. The BJP, however, ruled out the possibilities. “Jha is only an activist and was not in any post. We do not need any muscle power to win the polls as we have mass support,” said Lakshman Ghorui, BJP president in West Burdwan who is contesting from Durgapur West.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||PIL challenges move to drop Bimal Gurung cases||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been filed in Calcutta High Court, challenging the state government’s decision to withdraw cases against Gorkha Janmukti Morcha founder president Bimal Gurung and seeking his arrest. Sources said Howrah resident, Ankur Sharma, 24, who is described as a law graduate and social worker, filed the petition (W.P.A (P) 101 of 2021) on March 12. “The petition has been filed and hearing is expected to be held next week,” Sushovan Dey, advocate-on-record of Sharma, told The Telegraph over the phone from Calcutta. Sources said one of the major points raised in the petition pertained to whether the state government had arbitrarily exercised powers under section 321 of CrPC. This section allows for withdrawal of prosecution. Other issues raised in the PIL pertain to security given to Gurung despite several arrest warrants and the need to formulate guidelines so that powers under section 321 CrPC are exercised in a logical fashion and not in an arbitrary manner by the party in power. After being on the run for more than three years, Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21, 2020, and announced his support for Trinamul in the Bengal Assembly elections. The sources had said the process to withdraw the cases had started in November last year. “The process starts from the office of the legal remembrance cell of the judicial department and the order to withdraw the case reads ‘by order of the governor’. We have received such a sanction for 130-odd cases since November,” the source had said. On Friday, a source in Darjeeling court said most of Gurung’s cases had either been withdrawn or were in the process of being dropped. A case related to the death of sub-inspector Amitava Mallik during the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017 is not among the withdrawn cases. The source could not immediately recollect the exact number of cases pending against Gurung and those withdrawn immediately. “The cases pertain to three phases of agitation starting from 2007,” said the source. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha’s camp, refused to comment on a “sub judice matter.” The outcome of the PIL can have major political ramifications in the Darjeeling hills. Gurung’s party, which was lying low, decided to field candidates in the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong and support Trinamul in the plains. Gurung claims he can influence the outcome of election results in “10 to 15” seats in the Dooars and the Terai also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Angry BJP workers blame minister for list||Protests and ransacking of party offices by BJP supporters agitated over nominees in certain Assembly seats were witnessed in a number of areas of north Bengal even on Friday, though party leaders are trying to placate the demonstrators. In the course of the protests, demands were raised to expel senior party functionaries of the districts and the state, and accusations were levelled at a number of BJP leaders, including Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri for allegedly depriving genuine candidates. In Jalpaiguri town, some BJP supporters ransacked the district office on Thursday and set fire to publicity materials. On Friday, they assembled in front of the office, carrying placards and banners with demands like the expulsion of party leader Mukul Roy and Jalpaiguri district BJP president Bapi Goswami. They also held a protest march in the town. “We want our senior leader Dipen Pramanik for the Jalpaiguri seat. It is surprising that the party fielded Soujit Singha who people don’t know. Also, we have reservations about Raiganj candidate. Our protests will continue till the party makes a decision. We suspect some district leaders, in connivance with some central and state leaders, have made the decisions to deprive genuine candidates,” said Amit Roy, a leader of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. Soujit Singha, the BJP candidate of Jalpaiguri who is a lawyer, called the protests “temporary outbursts.” “Such protests indicate that thousands of people are with the BJP in Jalpaiguri and many want to contest the elections. They should realise that there is only one Assembly seat. The problems would be over soon,” said Singha. Similar protests were witnessed in Raiganj and Malda towns where the district BJP offices were ransacked by protesters who turned up from many Assembly constituencies, demanding the nominees be changed immediately. In Raiganj, party supporters based in Itahar and Hemtabad blocks reached the office, resorted to demonstrations, ransacked the furniture, threw away documents and publicity materials and abused district leaders. The district party office in Malda and local party offices of Harishchandrapur, Old Malda and Manikchak were also ransacked. On Friday, BJP supporters assembled in front of the party office in Karandighi. They took out furniture, banners and posters and set them on fire. “Debasree Chaudhuri (the BJP MP of Raiganj and the Union minister of state for women and child development) has indulged in corruption and selected some people who lack support base and credibility as candidates. We want to make it clear that no turncoat should be put in the candidate list. Why is the party depriving those struggling for years to establish the BJP’s base in the district” said an irate BJP supporter. Biswajit Lahiri, the district BJP president of North Dinajpur, admitted that party supporters were aggrieved with the list of candidates. “We are trying to resolve the issue but it will surely take time. Many people are calling me up and I am tell them that I have no role in candidate selection,” said Lahiri. MP Chaudhuri said party supporters should maintain restraint. “Thousands of people are joining our party. In such a situation, there may be grievances but there is no point in doing any activity that can affect the party’s image,” she said over phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: More poll booths, extra shifts||A section of polling officials in some of the districts would be deployed for poll duty in multiple phases as many of the districts are facing acute shortage of personnel owing to an increased number of booths in the backdrop of the pandemic. “Some of the districts may be forced to deploy a section of polling officers in multiple phases as they are facing shortage of manpower owing to a sudden hike in the number of booths. The districts have been asked to manage the situation on their own," said a senior official. For example, the authorities of East Burdwan have decided to deploy afresh 2,000-odd polling officials in the second phase of the elections after they work in the first phase. “The district has 3,700-odd booths and we are falling short of some 2,000 polling officers in the second phase. This is the reason why some polling officers from the first phase would be re-deployed in the second phase too,” said a district official. Explaining why, an official said: “In an ideal situation, the state requires about 3.5 lakh polling officers. But in the backdrop of the pandemic, the requirement is around 6 lakh.” Some districts like West Midnapore and North 24-Parganas are yet to decide whether to re-deploy polling officers in multiple phases as the districts are trying hard to meet the requirement with the existing pool of employees. “But we might be forced to go for redeployment of polling officers if the shortfall can’t be managed from existing manpower in the district,” said a source in West Midnapore. This year, the number of polling stations has gone up to 1.01 lakh from 77,000-odd as the Election Commission of India (ECI) decided to bring down the maximum number of voters for a booth to 1,050. The hike in the number of booths has led to a higher requirements of polling officers. Moreover, the ECI has made it clear that there will be five polling officers in each booth instead of four. The extra official will distribute gloves and hand sanitiser to voters. Tis year, 20 per cent of the polling officers have to be kept in reserve because of Covid-19. In a normal situation, 10 per cent of polling officers are kept in reserve, sources said. From a total of 8.5 lakh government employees and employees of state-aided institutions like schools, officials admitted to finding it tough to engage employees to meet the poll requirement. Barring a few districts like Malda and Birbhum, most districts will go for polls in more than one phase. “There may be a controversy on why polls are being held across so many phases in Bengal, but it is helping a few districts meet the requirement of polling officers,” said a source. Some officials opined that if polling officials are redeployed soon, questions could arise on whether they can discharge their duties properly, considering the exertion involved. “Working as a polling officer is hectic and strenuous….I am not sure whether an officer will be able to do his or her job properly if deployed for the second time within a gap of a few days,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Trinamul replaces 4 nominees||Trinamul replaced party candidates in four Assembly seats on Friday, apparently to quell growing discontent over the names announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on March 5. The replacement of candidates for Ashoknagar and Amdanga (North 24-Parganas), Dubrajpur (Birbhum) and Kalyani (Nadia) Assembly seats was communicated through an official release without assigning any reason. Party insiders in the districts however admitted that rebellion by many workers compelled the top party brass to replace the candidates. Narayan Goswami, a North 24-Parganas zilla parishad member, will replace sitting MLA Dhiman Roy in Ashoknagar. Many party workers in Ashoknagar were so upset with Roy’s re-nomination that they had refused to  campaign for him. At Amdanga of North 24-Parganas, the party picked Rafiqur Rehman to replace Mustak Mortaza Hossain. The Trinamul nominated Hossain in place of Rafiqur over allegations of the sitting MLA’s involvement with factionalism. Hossain’s nomination created resentment among party workers close to Rafiqur. Insiders said the faction close to Rafiqur forced the party to re-nominate the sitting MLA. In Birbhum’s Dubrajpur, the party has chosen college teacher Debabrata Saha as a replacement for Ashmita Dhibar, sabhapati of Khoirasol panchayat samity. The party nominated Dhibar replacing sitting MLA Naresh Bauri. Dhibar’s nomination irked party satraps who wanted a “strong candidate” to take on the BJP. In Nadia, Trinamul replaced its two-term MLA Ramendranath Biswas with son Aniruddha Biswas, who teaches information technology at a private engineering college, for the Kalyani (SC) seat. Many said “Ramenbabu” often made “irresponsible statements”. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty Manoranjan Byapari, the award-winning author and Trinamul Congress candidate from Balagarh in Hooghly, pulled a rickshaw for over a kilometre on Friday afternoon to reach the district magistrate’s office in Chinsurah town to file his nomination papers. Byapari said he used to pull a rickshaw in the early part of his life and his move was to send a message to the people that he represented the toiling mass. Byapari is also the chairman of Dalit Sahitya Academy. He is contesting an election for the first time. Report by Snehamoy Chakrraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Nineteen crorepatis in fray in phase 1 of  Bengal Assembly Elections 2021||Candidates fielded by the BJP occupy the top two spots in owing assets among all those who are contesting the state Assembly elections in the first phase, a survey conducted by the Bengal chapter of Election Watch has revealed. However, the largest number of rich candidates in the first phase come from Trinamul. Of the 191 candidates in the fray in 30 Assembly constituencies that will go to polls on March 27, 19 have assets worth more than Rs 1 crore. According to the survey, the two candidates — Ambujaksha Mahanti and Sumita Sinha — who have the maximum assets are from the BJP. Mahanti, the BJP candidate from East Midnapore’s Patashpur constituency, has declared having assets worth over Rs 10 crore. Mahanti’s party colleague and candidate from Contai North Assembly, Sumita Sinha, has assets worth over Rs 4 crore. A close third on the list is Trinamul candidate from West Midnapore’s Kharagpur, Dinen Roy, who has declared assets valued at over Rs 3 crore. On the other end of the spectrum, four candidates, who are all contesting from various seats in Purulia district, have zero assets. “According to our survey there are 19 crorepati candidates contesting in the first phase of Bengal elections,” an official associated with West Bengal Election Watch, a civil society body, said. Giving a party-wise break-up of the crorepatis in the fray, the official said: “Two are from the Congress, nine are from the Trinamul, four are from the BJP, two are from the CPM and one is from the BSP.” This apart, the survey also reveals that the CPM has the highest percentage (56 per cent) of candidates with criminal cases lodged against them. The corresponding figure for the BJP is 41 per cent and for Trinamul, 28 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Trinamul team asks EC to count all VVPAT slips||The Trinamul Congress on Friday alleged a “partisan and biased approach” by the Election Commission in the ongoing poll process in Bengal and demanded that all slips printed by the Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines be counted. The slip shows the voter the candidate she or he voted for. After a Supreme Court order in 2019, five VVPAT slips in each Assembly constituency are tallied with the corresponding electronic voting machine. In case of a mismatch, only the VVPAT count is considered and the EVM count disregarded for that particular EVM. The election itself is not countermanded. The Supreme Court had rejected a demand to count 50 per cent of the slips. Trinamul feels the Election Commission is using the court ruling as an excuse to reject any related demand made since then. The party has described as “exaggerated” the commission’s claims a 100 per cent tally would take five to six days longer. The party is demanding a 100 per count “to reassure the voters that his/her choice has indeed been recorded, both electronically and physically”. A delegation of serving and former MPs, including the recently inducted Yashwant Sinha, called on the Election Commission on Friday and  submitted a memorandum. The delegation included Derek O’Brien, Saugata Roy, Nadimul Haque, Mahua Moitra, Pratima  Mondal. The memorandum said: “It is becoming increasingly clear that free, fair and transparent elections in Bengal is becoming a distant reality. This is evident from the partisan and biased approach taken by the Election Commission of India (ECI)…. “On the first count, it has been reported in media that the ECI has decided to not permit presence of state police within 100 metres of polling stations and only deploy central forces in such arena. If true, this decision is unprecedented and casts severe aspersions on the reputation of the police administration in the State of West Bengal.” Although the commission has stuck to its policy of not publicly responding to memoranda from parties, a senior official denied that any such order had been passed. He told The Telegraph: “Not only state police, but also home guards (who are controlled by state police) will be present in booths. The latter may be used to assist people in queues. We have only prevented agencies like the civic police, green police and student police — which are voluntary groups — from any election duty.” A BJP delegation also called on the commission and requested that central forces be asked to verify identity cards at polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh preaches as BJP list flames spread  ||BJP veterans are sitting at home crying while the party is now run by some CPM harmads (mercenaries) and chor-chorta cheatingbaaj (thieves and cheats) from the Trinamul Congress, Mamata Banerjee said on Friday. As night fell, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh tweeted: “Nation first, party second and self last.” Marked by Mamata’s ridicule and Ghosh’s highfalutin exhortation, heartburn in the BJP ranks against the candidature of turncoats continued to rage, overshadowing the narrative on the eve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s campaign trip to Kharagpur. “The Prime Minister is coming to Kharagpur on Saturday for a rally. But people are talking more about the protests in the party,” a senior BJP leader said. State BJP chief Ghosh had earlier in the day expressed confidence that the protests would die down soon. “Many from the BJP and other parties had aspired to get party tickets. The party has nominated only those who have a chance to win. I want everyone to work together to help the BJP form the government in Bengal,” he said, only to tweet in the evening the desired sequence of priorities for an ideal BJP supporter. Mamata had struck during the day. “Remember, those who are betrayers, Mir Jafars, are the BJP’s candidates today. Old BJP hands are today sitting at home, crying. Some CPM harmads and some chor-chorta cheatingbaaj from Trinamul have gone there and are now calling the shots,” the chief minister told a campaign rally in East Midnapore’s Egra. The nomination of Trinamul turncoats such as Baishali Dalmiya from Bally, Col. Deeptangshu Chowdhury from Durgapur East, Tanmoy Ghosh from Bishnupur and Ranjan Baidya from Sonarpur North has exploded in the face of the BJP. On Friday, BJP old-timers protested at Belur’s Rajen Seth Lane and claimed that MLA Dalmiya was an “outsider” who had done precious little for the constituency in the last five years. In Durgapur, angry party workers raised slogans against Col. Chowdhury and agitated in front of the district party office. “The choice of the candidate shows the party’s nexus with Trinamul,” said dissident BJP leader Kalyan Majumdar. Col. Chowdhury refused to pay heed to the protests. “A few people are protesting, but the majority in the party is with me,” he said while kicking off his campaign on Friday. In Bankura’s Bishnupur, posters accusing BJP candidate Tanmoy Ghosh of being involved in “multiple scams” came up on Friday morning across the town. Although the source of these posters could not be identified, the BJP saw the hand of Trinamul. Local Trinamul leaders, however, said the posters were a fallout of factionalism in the BJP. Tanmoy Ghosh, who was a member of the Trinamul-run board of coordinators of the Bishnupur municipality, joined the BJP a few days ago. Swatting away the allegations of his involvement in corruption, Tanmoy Ghosh claimed that Trinamul was staring at defeat and so was trying to defame him. “People of Bishnupur are aware of my clean image,” he said. But Joymal Ghar, the town president of Bishnupur Trinamul, said: “This is the fallout of the fight going on between the old and the new BJP.” The BJP headquarters in Calcutta was also singed by the discontent. Posters demanding the removal of Baidya as the BJP’s candidate for Sonarpur North were put up in front of the office. One of these posters accused Trinamul defector Baidya of misappropriating panchayat funds during his tenure as a zilla parishad member in South 24-Parganas. “Ranjan Baidya became a BJP candidate paying Rs 30 lakh. We won’t stand him,” a poster read. Similar posters have been put up in front of the party’s election office at Hastings, which has been the venue of protests by BJP supporters since March 14. BJP sources said the unrest was not only embarrassing the party but also hurting campaigning. “The first phase of polls is just eight days away and our leaders are busy handling protests.… Poll preparedness has been severely affected,” a source said. At Sandeshkhali, BJP candidate Bhaskar Sardar did not find the path any smoother. Sardar was allegedly roughed up by party activists when he arrived at a BJP office at Nazat in North 24-Parganas. They asked Sardar to leave and quit the poll battle. When he tried to reason with the supporters, Sardar was heckled in front of the BJP’s Basirhat organisational district vice-president, Arup Das. “The candidate is an outsider. He is from Nazat but stays in Calcutta and has no connection with the grassroots,” Das said, justifying the anger. Protests did not spare BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, who is fighting the polls from Santipur in Nadia. Demanding his replacement, supporters said the BJP should repose faith in those who had helped the party grow in the region. In Nadia’s Chakdah, BJP supporters ransacked a party office, burnt flags and buntings and damaged furniture while protesting the nomination of CPM turncoat Bankim Ghosh. Labelling Haringhata resident Bankim Ghosh as an outsider, they wanted a local leader to replace him. “Dedicated party workers toiled hard to build the support base of the party but the top leadership is giving the seats to Trinamul deserters almost everywhere. We will not accept this,” said an angry BJP worker as he set party flags on fire in Nadia’s Ranaghat. Unable to accept the “dumping of Trinamul and CPM turncoats” as candidates, 17 office-bearers of the BJP’s Nadia south organisational district wrote to state president Ghosh, informing him of their decision to resign. Confirming the resignations, the president of the BJP’s Nadia district committee, Ashok Chakraborty, said: “Party workers are pained and are unwilling to accept the decision of the leadership.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Strategy to play development card to woo Siliguri voters  ||The Left as well as Trinamul have drawn up the strategy to play the development card to woo voters of Siliguri — a key Assembly seat in north Bengal. The Left camp is underscoring the achievements and plans of veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, a former minister who is contesting from Siliguri for the seventh time. Leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party, on the other hand, are highlighting development initiatives by her government in and around the city since 2011 while emphasising on the party’s recent announcement of forming a special development board for Terai and the Dooars. On Friday, poll allies Left and Congress leaders here released a four-page pamphlet — the first in any north Bengal district — with details of development work during the Left Front era. Bhattacharya had been instrumental in the execution of these projects, the document states, as well as the plans which Siliguri MLA Bhattacharya will take up if re-elected, including better traffic movement, river conservation and sports infrastructure. Trinamul leaders are highlighting how Mamata “brought peace to Darjeeling” and how the new development board for Terai and the Dooars will expedite infrastructure work. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling district (plains) president of Trinamul, said they would highlight the “failures” of both the Left and the BJP. Trinamul will emphasise on the fact that the Left-run civic board (that was headed by Bhattacharya) allegedly failed to meet peoples’ aspirations, he said. “We will also point out that despite having MPs of the BJP for past 12 years (who have been elected thrice from Darjeeling parliamentary seat since 2009), no important project has been taken up by the Centre for Siliguri or for the district as a whole,” added the Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Singur’s CPM face lands a friend ||Rabin Sahana, 54, a “retired” farmer on Friday accompanied Srijan Bhattacharya, the CPM’s “youthful bet” for Singur seat when he filed his nomination on Friday at the Chandernagore subdivisional office. Rabin, who now works as a salesperson for a medical goods store, is one of many farmers who had willingly sold off land for the proposed Tata Motors small-car factory in 2006. For Srijan, Rabin represents the hope of industrialisation and employment that his party wishes to usher into the state if voted to power. “Rabinbabu had willingly given up his land for industrialisation in 2006. Today, all people of Singur want jobs and industrialisation. Rabinbabu’s presence (while filing nomination papers) was significant for me,” Srijan told this paper. In 2006, Rabin and his family, including his uncle and brothers, sold some 0.67 acres of land for the Tata plant. The family got around Rs 4.5 lakh, which according to Rabin “was a fair deal back then”. “I’m not a CPM party member, but I wanted the factory to come up in Singur. I still believe that for the sake of our future generations, our leaders need to focus on jobs and industries,” Rabin said. “Trinamul leaders took on the mantle of launching a farmer’s movement in Singur, but it was basically their ploy to get power,” he added. In 2016, the Supreme Court ordered the entire land be returned to erstwhile owners. Rabin got his land, but couldn’t sell it as it is “no longer cultivable”, he said. Srijan added: “I don’t want to revisit the past as such. I just want to take the people of Singur towards a better future and hence I need people like Rabinbabu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: On Adhikari turf, ‘traitors’ on Didi lips ||Mamata Banerjee on Friday referred to “traitors” and spoke of her pain at being betrayed while addressing rallies in the Adhikari clan’s backyard in East Midnapore without taking any names. The wheelchair-bound chief minister, who visited East Midnapore for the first time since her injury in Nandigram on March 10, held rallies in Egra, Patashpur and Mecheda, claiming that she could now travel in the district freely, no longer needing “permission”, indicating former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s catch of the season. “I did come here a number of times, but East Midnapore’s control was with one particular person, where nobody else used to get importance and even I wasn’t allowed to come here much. Today, I am free. I can go anywhere in East Midnapore. Before this, I had to take permission,” said the Trinamul Congress chief, in an oblique reference to former cabinet colleague Adhikari. “Such blind love I had for them. In return they turned out to be treacherous. Traitors will always be treacherous, I do not mind. But I couldn’t imagine that they were in touch with the BJP since 2014, that they were such Vibhishans. That is why there was so much hurt, that I couldn’t even understand. I must seek forgiveness for that,” she added, at the Patashpur rally. Mamata was apparently addressing two things Adhikari has been saying in his public appearances for the BJP, since he jumped ship late last year. He has been accusing Mamata of remembering Nandigram or East Midnapore only when elections approach, and has said he had been in touch with the BJP — and Amit Shah — since 2014. Mamata, on Adhikari turf for a two-day trip this time, has eight mass outreach initiatives planned, besides some socio-religious visits. As a Trinamul candidate for Nandigram against the 50-year-old Adhikari, she is leaving no campaign stone unturned. “I will come again…. Make my candidates win, they will do your work, in addition to what I will be doing…. I am here now, in East Midnapore, and I will keep coming repeatedly,” she said. Mamata repeated her concerns over “vote loot”, allegedly by “outsider goons” of the BJP, urging the people to stay vigilant about the eight-phase elections. “This time, according to the BJP’s new plan, they are bringing outsider goons to loot votes. When the (electronic voting) machines are started, do ensure they are turned off and on at least twice, properly. If machines are purportedly faulty and are being replaced, wait and carefully monitor the replacement process. Ensure that they too are turned off and on at least twice. Make sure voting takes place only with machines functioning properly,” she said, hours after a delegation from her party met the Election Commission of India top brass at the Nirvachan Sadan with concerns over the fairness of Assembly polls. “Even after voting, the EVMs must be carefully protected… for a month or more (the first phase is on March 27, counting is on May 2). Central police or state police, whoever asks you to leave, remember you must do your duty as voters, as citizens. I have faith in the police, but you must also do your bit,” she said. She urged women to take charge whenever bohiragawto goons are seen and warned against allegedly unethical, illegitimate activities by such elements around and during the election process. In a Nandigram rally, barely 60km away, Adhikari delivered an address peppered with communal elements in keeping with the demands of his new party. He ended his public silence on Mamata’s injury in Nandigram, which she had alleged was an attack, by going on an offensive. “A chief minister should talk about industrialisation and development. Instead, she has been showing everyone her leg. Every other candidate in this election is going around with folded hands. She has been showing people lathi (kick)…. Such a huge lie with which she has insulted the people,” he said. “The commission should send a medical board from AIIMS, everything will come out. Such cheating…. These things worked before 2011, but won’t work now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
