21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Didi’ will score 10 goals even with broken leg says Dev||Trinamool Congress MP Dev while campaigning for his party’s Binpur candidate Debnath Hansda, claimed that the work done Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal is unparallel. He asserted that that ‘didi’ would score 10 goals in the upcoming elections even with a broken leg. Addressing an election rally at Silda in the Jhargram district, the Tollywood superstar hit out at the BJP over the rising fuel prices. “The work done by Mamata Banerjee in the last 10 years is unparallel. No other chief minister in any other state has done such great work ever. Because of the work done by her, ‘Didi’ can score 10 goals even with this broken leg,” Dev said amid chants of ‘Khela Hobey’ (game will happen) from the crowd. “It will be a game to take people on the path of development, and people will ensure to end the game of those who play politics of religion. The people of Bengal will win the game,” he said at the rally, which saw a massive gathering to see the superstar amid sweltering heat. The Trinamool Congress leader said that women in Bengal are more secure than those in other states, slamming the BJP for “false propaganda”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP promises farm sops, culture fund in Bengal poll manifesto ||The BJP on Sunday unveiled its manifesto for the West Bengal elections, promising to build a "Sonar Bangla" by providing employment, strengthening social security schemes and vowing to clear the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in the first cabinet meeting of the new government. Unveiling the "Sonar Bangla Sankalpa Patra" at EZCC in Salt Lake, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that BJP will ensure the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat healthcare scheme and the PM-Kisan programme in the state, besides giving at least one job per family. Assuring to provide arrears of Rs 18,000 to 75 lakh farmers of the state under PM-Kisan, the BJP promised Rs 10,000 per year for them, if voted to power, with Rs 6,000 being contributed by the Centre and the rest by the state. The party also announced a Rs 5,000 crore intervention fund to assure farmers' economic security, besides accidental insurance worth Rs 3 lakh for small farmers and fishermen. In the manifesto, the party promised a Sonar Bangla fund worth Rs 11,000 crore to promote art, literature and other such sectors, and a Tagore Prize on the lines of the Nobel Prize. The BJP also promised seventh pay commission implementation for state government employees and 30 per cent reservation for women in state government jobs. Promising to act tough on infiltration, the BJP promised "strictest border security". The party also promised free KG to PG education for all women and free travel for them in public transport. It promised to build new AIIMS in North Bengal, Jungle Mahal and Sunderban regions, besides toilets and clean drinking water for every family. Shah said that when the BJP forms the government in West Bengal, people would not have to go to court for organising Durga Puja and Saraswati Puja. "Bengal has turned into one of the most unsafe states for women. Inaction for years has broken the dreams of the youth and has stopped the flow of employment. In the last 10 years, TMC's ill-governance has started a dark chapter in Bengal's history," he alleged. In the poll manifesto, the party also promised a Rs 20,000 crore Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar Fund for the infrastructure development of schools, and five universities at par with IITs and IIMs. The party said that to transform Calcutta into an international city, it will set up a Calcutta Development Fund worth Rs 22,000 crore and also ensure that the metropolis becomes a UNESCO Heritage City. "We have decided that we will clear the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in the first cabinet meeting itself, besides approving the Ayushman Bharat scheme for the benefit of the poor," Shah said. The party further promised that every refugee family will be given Rs 10,000 per year for five years through direct benefit transfer (DBT). Shah said that his party would work towards building a safe Bengal, an "appeasement-free Bengal" and an infiltration-free state, if voted to power. "We will bring back the Bengal that made the entire nation proud," he said. "You have given time to Congress, over 30 years to Communists and ten years to TMC. Give us five years to build a Sonar Bangla," he said, urging the people to vote for the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questioning EVMs as she anticipates losing polls, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that anticipating defeat in the Bengal Assembly elections, Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee has already started questioning the functioning of EVMs which had brought her to power 10 years ago. Asserting that asol parivartan (real change) is coming to Bengal for the development of the state and to fulfil the dreams of the youth, Modi said "bhrastachar-er khela cholbe na" (game of corruption will not continue). "Anticipating defeat, Didi has already started questioning the EVMs (electronic voting machine) which had brought her to power 10 years back," Modi said addressing a well-attended election rally in Bankura. Mamata has been calling on party workers to keep an eye on EVM machines fearing tampering of the machines. He claimed that wall posters put up by TMC displayed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee kicking at his head. Bengal has a long tradition of cartoons and graffiti for political messages. "I always bow my head in the service of 130 crore people of the country, Didi can put her leg on my head and kick it but I will not allow her to kick the dreams of Bengal's people," he said. Modi claimed that since scams could not be done in Ayushman Bharat, PM -Kisan and direct benefit transfer schemes of the Centre, the TMC government here did not implement these in Bengal. "BJP runs on schemes, the TMC runs on scams," he said. Modi said that Mamata Banerjee has played with the lives of Bengal's people for 10 years, but now her khela (game) will be over and vikas (development) will start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||I am a fool, says Mamata as Adhikari family joins BJP ||Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Sunday blamed herself for not recognising the "true face" of the influential Adhikari family of Purba Medinipur district. Venting her ire against Suvendu Adhikari, her protege-turned-rival who is pitted against the TMC leader from Nandigram constituency for the coming assembly polls, Mamata said at an election rally here, she had even heard rumours the Adhikari family had built an empire worth Rs 5,000 crore. The chief minister said she will get it investigated once she is voted to power. Most members of the Adhikari family, which holds considerable political clout in the district, have either joined the BJP or expressed a desire to join the saffron party. Veteran TMC MP Sisir Adhikari - father of Suvendu Adhikari - joined the BJP at Egra on Sunday in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders of the party. She compared the Adhikari family with "Mir Jafar" (traitor) and said the people of the region will not tolerate it and give befitting replies with ballots. "I say I am a 'big donkey' (Ami ekta boro gadha) for having failed to recognise them. I don't know (about it), but people say their `empire' is worth Rs 5,000 crore and they will use money to buy votes. But don't vote for them," Mamata told the rally. The TMC chief also described the BJP as a party of "rogues and goons". She also blamed the Adhikari family for ruling the district as zamindars (landlords) by taking full control of the area, claiming that even she was not allowed to hold public meetings there. Highlighting that all works like health, roads and other schemes were undertaken by the state government and not by the Adhikari family, Banerjee urged the crowd to keep the BJP out of West Bengal to maintain peace and further the pace of development. Earlier too, she had described Suvendu Adhikari as a traitor, pointing out that she had blindly supported him when he was in the Trinamul Congress. Mamata also attempted to play the nationalistic card by raising slogans of "Bande Mataram" and "Jai Hind". Mamata left her Bhawanipur constituency in Calcutta to contest against her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted the TMC to power in the state in 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari joins BJP as Amit Shah lashes out at Mamata government||Veteran TMC MP Sisir Adhikari -- father of BJP heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari -- joined the BJP at Egra on Sunday in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders of the party. The patriarch of the Adhikari family -- which wields considerable influence in Bengal's Purba Medinipur district -- said that he had to work really hard to rise through the ranks in the TMC, but the treatment meted out to him and his sons, of late, forced him to switch camp. "The way our family was driven out (of TMC) will be forever written in history. We will rise against all political attacks and atrocities in Bengal. We will work under Modiji and Amit Shahji," the Lok Sabha MP said, chanting 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Bharat Mata ki Jai'. Shah addressed a public meeting at Egra during the day. Asserting that the BJP does not believe in vote-bank politics, the union home minister, in a dig at TMC chief Mamata Banerjee over her "appeasement policies", said that his party, if elected to power, will ensure no one imposes any curb on religious practices. Shah, during a rally here in Purba Medinipur district, reaffirmed that the BJP will build 'sonar Bangla' (golden Bengal) over the next five years, propelled by the party’s double-engine government at the Centre and the state. "School teachers in Bengal were beaten up for organising 'saraswati puja'. The TMC dispensation does not allow Saraswati puja celebration in schools. The BJP, after coming to power, will ensure that there is no restriction in organising any religious festival," Shah stated.  He accused the Mamata Banerjee government of "encouraging infiltration" in Bengal. Belittling Banerjee's monthly compensation promise of Rs 500 for every underprivileged person in the general category, Shah also sought to know if TMC leaders would seek "cut-money or commission" from the beneficiaries. "The TMC men demand their share for every 5 anna (paise). I wonder if those close to 'bhaipo' (CM's nephew Abhishek Banerjee) would seek cut-money before doling out Rs 500 every month to the general-category residents," he said. The home minister also cautioned people against violence and aggression during the elections. "You (people) know very well what all happened during the panchayat polls in 2018. No one was allowed to exercise franchise. Votes were replaced with bombs," he pointed out. Claiming that over 130 BJP functionaries have been murdered in Bengal in recent times, he said "We will hunt down the killers from under the ground." Shah also said that his party, if allowed to form government in Bengal, will implement the seventh pay commission, "as we know this has been a long-standing demand of state government employees here." Alleging that TMC chief wants her nephew and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee to be the next chief minister", Shah said, "Do you want that or do you wish to live in 'Sonar Bangla' that PM Narendra Modi has promised to build." In a bid to woo the women voters, he assured 33 per cent reservation for them in government services. "Our government will give farmers Rs 10,000 every year, in addition to the funds provided by the Centre. Also, fishermen will be given Rs 6,000 each. People will get health insurance up to Rs 5 lakh under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Mamata didi could never dish out such benefits," Shah added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari says he will join BJP, ends weeks of speculation||Ending weeks of speculation, disgruntled TMC MP Sisir Adhikari said on Sunday that he will join the BJP, following in the footsteps of his two sons Suvendu and Soumendu, and put up a formidable fight against the Mamata Banerjee camp to "save the honour of Midnapore". The patriarch of the Adhikari family -- which wields considerable influence in Bengal's Purba Medinipur district -- said that he was forced to switch camp, as the leaders of the ruling party left him with no other option. Earlier, too, the TMC MP had accused the ruling party of "humiliating" him and son Suvendu, who is locked in a fierce battle with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the district's Nandigram constituency. "They (TMC leaders) forced me to join the BJP. Let them (TMC) do what they want, and I will do what I can," Adhikari told reporters here before leaving for Egra, where he is set to attend Union Home Minister Amit Shah's rally. He asserted that Suvendu Adhikari will bag the Nandigram seat by a comfortable margin. "Suvendu will win the polls by a huge margin. The TMC will be wiped out of East Midnapore," the Lok Sabha MP added. Sources in the BJP said his other son Dibyendu, a TMC MP from Tamluk, may also follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: No political appointee on civic chair, says EC ||The Election Commission of India issued an order on Saturday to remove political appointees as chairpersons of boards of administrators in five municipal corporations — most of whom are Trinamul leaders — including Calcutta and Bidhannagar. The board of administrators were appointed to run civic bodies after elections could not be held owing to the pandemic last year after the five-year tenure of the elected boards expired. In its order, the poll panel has asked state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and urban development secretary Khalil Ahmad to appoint government officials in place of the political personalities. The commission, by exercising its plenary powers under Article 324 of the Constitution, also entrusted the chief secretary with ensuring a “level playing field” in all other civic bodies — over 110 — where elections could not be held, and political leaders appointed as the chairpersons of board of administrators, with “rigorous reviews” of the decisions. Other than Calcutta and Bidhannagar, the order applies to civic corporations in Asansol, Siliguri and Chandernagore. The chief secretary has been asked to send a compliance report to the EC by Monday. The chairperson of the board of administrators for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Firhad Hakim, and his Siliguri counterpart Asok Bhattacharya are in fray this year. Hakim is Trinamul’s candidate from the Kolkata Port seat. CPM veteran Bhattacharya is contesting from Siliguri. Sources said Opposition parties, mainly the BJP, had lodged complaints with the EC alleging that civic body offices were being used by Trinamul to influence voters and as its extended party offices. “Work orders were being issued for various civic bodies on back dates even after MCC (model code of conduct) was put in place. We wanted all political leaders to be removed from the board of administrators as these are no more elected bodies,” Sabyasachi Dutta, the BJP candidate from Bidhannagar, alleged. Countering the “no more elected bodies” argument, a Trinamul leader said former mayors or chairpersons had been tasked with running the civic bodies amid the pandemic. “Elections to civic bodies could not be held because of the pandemic. The government wanted to run civic services smoothly during the pandemic and that’s why former mayors were appointed.... Now, if the ECI removes them it has to ensure that civic services are not affected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: CID takes over probe into CM’s Nandigram injury||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has been asked by the state government to conduct an inquiry into the incident at Nandigram that left chief minister Mamata Banerjee injured on March 10. The Election Commission of India had asked the state chief secretary and DGP to initiate action against security personnel who failed to prevent the incident. “An order to hand over the inquiry to the CID was issued on Saturday. The CID has been asked to file the investigation report at the earliest,” said a senior bureaucrat. Senior officers in the CID said the probe would focus on three key issues — how the chief minister injured her left leg while in a car, what was the series of events that resulted in her cringing in pain with her injured left leg despite a security ring around her and whether there was any criminal plot to the incident or it was just an accident. “A Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been set up and the members would be visiting the area on Sunday to talk to some of those who were present when the incident took place including a few shop owners of the local market,” said a senior CID officer. Sources said the decision to hand over the probe to the CID was taken after the progress of the police inquiry into the incident was slow and the chief secretary and the DGP had to seek more time from the EC to follow its instruction of initiating action against the guilty. The chief secretary and the DGP had been asked by the EC to initiate action against proximate security personnel by March 17 but the deadline could not be met. The poll panel has already removed director security, Vivek Sahay and East Midnapore SP Pravin Prakash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Nandigram cases force TMC leaders into hiding||Murder cases against several Trinamul Congress leaders, withdrawn previously by the Mamata Banerjee government but reopened by judicial intervention brought on by a BJP candidate recently, has sent a bulk of the Nandigram’s ruling party leadership into hiding, prompting a change in campaign plans for the chief minister. Despite her ongoing three-day, nine-rally tour in East Midnapore, Mamata was conspicuous by her absence from Nandigram, where she is engaged in a prestige battle with former aide Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP. Local leaders of Trinamul said the re-strategising was necessitated by a development in the judiciary, prompted by the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate Nilanjan Adhikari, preventing the withdrawal of two murder cases, with 63 accused between them, from the time of the anti-land acquisition movement at Nandigram during the Left Front era. The reopening of the cases, prodded by the judiciary, has forced 30-odd leaders of the Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), the umbrella body of the land rights movement with representation from the major non-Left political forces, to go into hiding. Most are from Trinamul, but there are leaders from the Congress and even the BJP. “These leaders will be arrested, with the police administration under the Election Commission of India, if they appear in public. That’s why they are no longer seen in campaign events,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “Some have been campaigning door-to-door, surreptitiously, in ones and twos. But that’s about all they can do. It is a real headache for us, especially because they were the backbone and brains of our election machinery in the Nandigram I block,” he added. That is why, despite six rallies — in Egra, Patashpur, Mecheda on Friday and Haldia, Khejuri and Panskura on Saturday — by Mamata, and three more lined up on Sunday, there is no prominent Nandigram event this time. The 63 accused include at least a dozen elected representatives of Trinamul, including Mamata’s chief election agent Sheikh Sufiyan. “There is no doubt that the resurrection of the cases was because of that PIL by the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate, who was put up to it by Suvendu Adhikari,” said Sufiyan, who has been in hiding. “Didi will come back on March 29 and 30, along with a battery of senior leaders from Calcutta for a Nandigram-centric campaign. However, we cannot be part if it. It is the BJP’s conspiracy, yes,” he added. Speaking in Khejuri on Saturday, Mamata promised to come to Nandigram. “...We will meet in Nandigram again. I have programmes there. I will be there from the evening of Holi (March 28). Please come to the Nandigram events, I invite you… and remember it always, the BJP is more dangerous than pythons.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP nominating turncoat Biswajit Kundu triggers mass switch to TMC||Around 70 BJP workers from of Kalna Assembly seat in East Burdwan joined Trinamul late on Friday to express their disgust with the BJP for nominating controversial Trinamul turncoat Biswajit Kundu. “We left Trinamul six years ago for the BJP to protest Kundu’s corruption. We were shocked when Kundu joined the BJP and got the ticket,” said Prabir Mondal, one of the 70 BJP workers who switched sides. Before switching over to Trinamul, the BJP workers had blocked a road in Kalna town on Friday evening demanding change of nominee. “Despite our protests, senior BJP leaders asked us to support Kundu as his name came from Delhi. Senior leaders may have their own interest in supporting Kundu, but we could not accept him. So, we decided to quit the party,” said another. Senior Trinamul leaders in Kalna said they had received proposals from around 500 BJP workers who are willing to switch sides following Kundu’s nomination. “Kundu joined the BJP after he came to know that Trinamul won’t give him a ticket over allegations of corruption against him,” Pranab Roy, Trinamul’s Kalna II block president, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Modi sings Dilip’s praises, BJP camps gape ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi heaped praise on BJP state president Dilip Ghosh while addressing a poll rally in West Midnapore’s Kharagpur on Saturday, the honour prompting party leaders to wonder what prompted the PM to single out Ghosh ahead of the Bengal polls. “I’m proud that my party has a state president like Dilip Ghosh. To help the party win, Dilip Ghosh neither slept peacefully nor cowered before Didi’s threats in the past two years or so.... There have been several attacks on him. There were attempts to kill him. But he kept walking with a vow to usher in a bright future for Bengal. Today, he is a source of energy in Bengal,” Modi said with Ghosh by his side on the stage. Multiple state BJP leaders this correspondent spoke to said they couldn’t recall another instance when Modi had invested almost a full minute to praise any leader from Bengal. “We were all surprised.... We have made extraordinary progress under Dilipda’s reign, but Modiji praising Dilipda ahead of the polls is significant,” a state office-bearer of the party said. Before praising Ghosh, Modi raised the slogan “Bangal mein iss baar, BJP sarkar” (This time, a BJP government in Bengal). On why he felt that the ground was ready for a change in Bengal, Modi cited two factors — the sacrifice of 130 party workers (who died) and Dilip Ghosh. The praise created a flutter in the faction-ridden BJP state unit. Those close to Ghosh claimed it was an endorsement of the possibility of Ghosh becoming the chief ministerial candidate. His detractors did not want to read much into it. Right now, the moot question in the BJP camp has been who would head the government if the party comes to power. This has deepened the cracks in the state unit as many, including Ghosh, Union minister Babul Supriyo, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, MP Locket Chatterjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari are believed to be harbouring chief ministerial ambitions. A group said Modi was probably trying to address micro concerns. “Dilipda was the people’s favourite for the Kharagpur Town seat, but actor Hiran Chatterjee was fielded from here. Modiji was probably trying to avert potential discontent regarding the candidature,” a BJP leader from Midnapore said. Reacting to Modi’s praise, Ghosh said: “I’m just discharging the responsibilities the party has given me. If my leaders are happy with me, I'll think that it is the result of my toil and hard work. He (Modi) had come here five years ago and addressed a meeting, I had won and become an MLA. Then I became an MP from there. Naturally I’ve a different connection with Midnapore. He might have felt that he should take my name, because people are with me and it will benefit the party because the people there want me…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: PM and CM line up state’s ‘great sons’ for poll battle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday flaunted the BJP’s Bengali credentials to say that his party emerged from the Jana Sangh founded by “a great son of Bengal”, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, his comment earning a swift response from chief minister Mamata Banerjee who invoked an array of icons to illustrate what the state stood for. At a rally in West Midnapore’s Kharagpur on Saturday, Modi tagged the BJP as a party that belonged to Bengal in the true sense of the term. “I had said at the Brigade (Parade) grounds that the BJP was indebted to Bengal. The BJP has been formed out of Jana Sangh. Jana Sangher janmadatar naam ki? Jana Sangh jawnmodatar naam ki? (What is the name of Jana Sangh’s founder?) Jana Sangh janmadatar naam hochhey (The name of Jana Sangh’s founder is) Syamaprasad Mookerjee,” Modi said. “Jana Sangh’s founder was a great son of Bengal. Therefore, if there is a party from Bengal, in the true sense here, then it is only the BJP. The BJP’s DNA contains Ashutosh Mukherjee and Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s values, ideology, behaviour and culture. With this culture we want to help every part of Bengal achieve new heights of development,” Modi added. Within an hour of Modi’s address, Mamata took to the stage to address a poll rally in East Midnapore’s Khejuri and debunked Modi’s claims. “We people belong to the land of Rabindranath (Tagore)-Nazrul (Islam), we respect Vivekananda, Ramakrishna, Ambedkar, Maulana Azad, Bhagat Singh, Mahatma Gandhiji and Netaji…And they are showing us Syama Prasad Mookerjee…Go and see, only yesterday they threw Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s photographs and set them on fire,” Mamata said in an obvious reference to BJP workers burning banners and buntings of the party to protest the choice of candidates at many places in Bengal. In his speech on Saturday, Modi invested close to three minutes to invoke Bengal’s Khudiram Bose, Hemchandra Kanungo, Deshpran Birendranath Sashmal, Nirmal Jibon Ghosh, Matangini Hazra, Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar, Sarada Devi, Rani Rashmoni, Devi Chaudhurani, Kadambini Ganguly, and Chandramukhi Basu. While Modi appealed to Bengali sentiments, Mamata didn’t forget to remind her audience about the vandalism of Vidyasagar’s statue in Calcutta in May 2019 by alleged BJP supporters during a rally led by Amit Shah. “They broke the statue of Vidyasagar,” Mamata said. “All this is because they are outsider goons. They don’t know Bengal. Bengal is not a place for outsider goons.” BJP sources said it was a matter of concern that with only a week left for the first phase of polls the PM himself had to try to prove his party’s Bengal connect. Modi also repeated his allegations against Mamata and her nephew and Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee. Attacking Abhishek, Modi said while a single-window system had been introduced in the nation for investors, Mamata introduced in Bengal a single-window system known as the “nephew window”. “Nothing works if you don’t go through this window in Bengal,” Modi said. Taking a jibe at Trinamul’s 10-point poll manifesto, Modi said the people of Bengal had given Didi 10 years to serve them, but she in return gave bad governance and corruption. Though Modi went ballistic in his attack on Mamata, the less-than-expected turnout for Saturday’s rally in Kharagpur’s BNR Grounds left state leaders worried. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh blamed the police for it. “The police have stopped party workers from coming to the meeting. They (BJP supporters) defy the police and come to the meetings by any means,” Ghosh said. Mamata Banerjee once again lambasted her former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari for being a “traitor”, drawing parallels with the Battle of Plassey in 1757. “Traitors don’t rule Bengal. Could Mir Jafar do it? In cahoots with the English, he did manage to get Siraj ud-Daulah defeated… but couldn’t do anything himself after that,” she said in Khejuri. “Bengal will rule Bengal. Outsiders, facilitated by traitors here, will not succeed in the end.” Barely 40km away in Egra, Adhikari accused Mamata of conducting a campaign like a leader of the Opposition. “I am not a traitor… whatever was given to me, I returned everything to Mamata Banerjee. I told her to give everything to the bhaipo (Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Rising Covid cases fuel containment zone talk in Bengal||The Bengal government has asked district magistrates to consider setting up containment zones once again if they deem it necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as positive cases have started rising again in the state. “The chief secretary (Alapan Bandyopadhyay) recently held a video-conference with district magistrates and asked them to take a stand like setting up containment zones if needed. The state was asked to initiate required measures during a video-conference between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers (on March 16),” said a senior bureaucrat. Chief secretary Bandyopadhyay had represented Bengal in the video-conference with Modi. The last containment zone was set up in Bengal in January as infections were on a decline since Vijaya Dashami till they started showing an upward trend early this month. Some health department officials said though Covid-19 cases had not gone up alarmingly in the state till now, Bengal wants to take a lesson from Maharashtra where daily cases have reached 25,000-odd from 8,900-odd on February 28. In Bengal, the state recorded 347 cases on March 19. The figure was 194 on February 19. So far, the rise has been mostly seen in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. “Containment zones could be made in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas first, if needed, and the number of cases found in an area will decide this,” said an official. The situation, officials said, could turn critical as political parties are organising huge rallies ahead of Assembly polls. “Covid-19 protocols are hardly followed in political rallies. We can’t impose curbs on rallies, only the Election Commission can as the model code of conduct is in place,” said an official. The state government has decided to start public awareness events in markets, bus stands and railway stations once again. “People are not following norms.…We will make them aware why wearing masks and maintaining physical distance is still required,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: No ticket, BJP leader mourns cash||A senior BJP district-level leader in North Dinajpur accused Raiganj MP and Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri and some party leaders of dangling a ticket to “wheedle” him into spending around Rs 28 lakh for socio-political work and then ultimately denying him a nomination. “Since last Durga Puja, I have spent Rs 28 lakh for social work and political activities taken up by the BJP. I was promised the ticket for Raiganj, but was betrayed. I suspect the local MP (Chaudhuri) and some leaders did it (nominated someone else) for money. I will contest as an Independent,” said Madan Biswas, vice-president of BJP’s OBC Morcha in North Dinajpur and a furniture trader. Biswas lamenting over his “investment” that did not pay off is the first district-level leader to come up with a serious allegation like this, said a BJP insider in the region. A party leader added that Biswas was confident that the BJP would field him from Raiganj but the ticket went to Trinamul turncoat Krishna Kalyani. “This angered him tremendously,” he said. Biswajit Lahiri, district BJP chief, however, said Biswas spent money for the party like many other affluent party members. “It is nothing new. Whoever among us can afford to make such expenses contributes to the party. He did it and earned mileage as the publicity materials he paid for had his name as a courtesy. But none from the BJP promised him a ticket. His allegation of corruption (over fielding Kalyani) is baseless,” said Lahiri. MP and Union minister of state Chaudhuri also denied Biswas’s charges. “We have never made any such promises to him. He went on printing publicity materials with his photograph and name…. We alerted him to abstain from these and instead campaign for the party. It is unfortunate that he is raising such baseless charges now,” she said. Another BJP worker Kamal Rajbanshi is relieved that he did not get a ticket. Kamal, the caretaker-cum-night guard of the district BJP office here, had aspired to contest the elections and had filed an application like hundreds of others. He confessed he was disappointed initially when his party did not pick him, but the violence that erupted in the area over the list made him realise it was good for his peace of mind that he stayed a “common BJP worker”. Trinamul and BJP supporters demonstrated in Malda on Saturday as well, demanding nominees be replaced. Demonstrators of both camps protested in front of district offices in Malda town and on NH12. Police had to clear the blockades. Trinamul supporters, sources said, wanted Pradeep Baskey, fielded from Habibpur after original candidate Sarala Murmu defected to the BJP, be changed. Baskey has recently joined Trinamul from the BJP, and protesters want an old-timer as  candidate. BJP supporters demanded Joyel Murmu, the MLA of Habibpur seat, and Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, the BJP candidate of Englishbazar, be replaced. District leaders of both parties have made it clear that there will be no change. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Saffron party can afford to lose, others cannot, says Prashant Kishor||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s political strategist, Prashant Kishor, has called the Bengal election a critical milestone from where India could veer towards becoming a one-party state. “The BJP can afford to lose this election and still remain a strong all-India party, the others cannot,” Kishor said in an exclusive interview to The Telegraph. “This election will mean the difference between India retaining the vibrancy of a multi-party democracy and becoming a one-nation, one-party state. That is how important this election is. “For Trinamul to lose Bengal to the BJP will mean a shadow cast much wider. It will have a huge psychological impact beyond Bengal. It will put a question on the viability of putting up a challenge to the BJP. Many others will come under pressure or get demoralised…. That’s the battle we are fighting.” That said, Kishor was certain Trinamul would retain power under Mamata. “The only way the BJP could have won was if Trinamul had collapsed. That has not happened. The BJP was hoping Trinamul would come apart, but they did not contend with Didi and what she means.” Expanding on the claim, Kishor added: “This BJP is a formidable force in Bengal today but there is no way they are going to win, absolutely not. For the BJP to win, they need at least 44 per cent of the vote, which means they will have to substantially up their Lok Sabha numbers. “Barring a few small-state exceptions like Haryana and Tripura, the BJP’s Assembly vote share has always been lower than what they secure in Lok Sabha elections. The BJP has an uphill task; I can tell you they are not winning this one.” Since his debut assignment with Narendra Modi in 2014, Kishor has designed and strategised a string of electoral campaigns, often zig-zagging political and ideological fence lines. Nearly two years into his assignment with Mamata, Kishor struck a realistic tone, not wanting to underestimate the potential of the BJP’s attempt at a power grab in Bengal. For instance, he believes there could be two ways of looking at the BJP’s decision to press party MPs into an Assembly contest — it could be viewed as desperation, it could also be viewed as a signal of “seriousness of intent”. “The BJP is here to stay for a long time, make no mistake,” he said. Even so, Kishor was confident Trinamul would not only retain power but also increase its vote share. Asked how, he said: “Two reasons. Didi remains by far the most popular leader in Bengal. Nobody has such energy, grit, intelligence and presence. Secondly, look at how swiftly and wholesomely we have responded and rearranged ourselves. We saw and recognised the threat from the BJP; we put in place an elaborate strategy which was a mix of the administrative and the political.” Among the fetching outreach programmes, Kishor named Duare Sarkar, Paray Samadhan, Swasthya Sathi and the Didi Ke Bolo helpline. “I am not saying all of these people will vote Trinamul, but do not discount the dividends such a comprehensive outreach can shore up. At the political level, two-thirds of the district presidents have been changed. Now this too has led to all that ‘exodus’ talk that the BJP wants to hype, but the truth is we have a younger, more proactive leadership across the state.” On whether it has helped Trinamul that the BJP hasn’t projected a chief ministerial face, Kishor said: “I know it is not a popular thing to say, but if they had projected a face against Didi, things would have been easier for us.” Kishor dismissed the Left-Congress “jote” as of “no significance” in the election and asserted that the contest was bipolar. He conceded that the BJP, and Prime Minister Modi’s personal appeal, had created a “formidable social coalition alloying religion with subaltern castes” and shored up sections of the non-Bengali voter, but argued that polarisation of the electorate would take the BJP some distance but no further. “Bengal is already as polarised as it could get. Is that enough to take the BJP through? No. There is no denying the BJP’s divisive thrust and polarisation, but please complete the circle. Is the polarisation 100 per cent? Or even a little more than 50 per cent? Is the majority community completely blinded by just one factor? No. That doesn’t happen,” he said. “In Gujarat the BJP gets 55 per cent of the vote, although the Muslim population is only 10 per cent. In UP, through the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections, the BJP got roughly 40 per cent. So, despite optimum polarisation everything doesn’t go one way; the tea leaves need to be carefully sifted and read.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
21-03-2021||West Bengal||‘The Bengal election is critical to whether India will become a one-nation one-party state’||It is close to two years since you took up the Mamata Banerjee project. What was the challenge when you started and what is its shape now? I had a good idea of what I was getting into. The 2019 elections were just over and the BJP had done exceptionally well. The challenge was always to meet the tremendous might of the BJP and Sangh and their huge resources and machinery. Also, more and more, the fact that key wings of government and institutions were working in tandem with the powers. The task was, and remains, monumental because of the behemoth we are faced with. Add to that the reality that there is a degree of discontent against the Trinamul at the grassroots level; that happens when a party has been in power for 10 years. There is anti-incumbency though I would like to stress that it is mostly around local Trinamul leaders and units. You mean anti-incumbency hasn’t affected the chief minister. Yes, contrary to what some people like to believe, the discontent is mostly local, which is not to say it can be brushed aside. The Trinamul is a unique party and its nature has to be understood. It is not a party with a deep history or a committed cadre base. It is built on the sheer energy of a lady called Mamata Banerjee and it revolves around her. People keep joining and leaving but the core is Didi, nobody else. One of the challenges has been, with all these individuals coming in and departing, to retain internal coherence when so many others are coming and going, and it all comes down to Mamata to maintain coherence and reduce contradictions. The BJP is playing on those contradictions and benefitting from them… Yes, they are playing that game and that is the nature of political parties, especially around elections. But they haven’t gone very far with it, they haven’t been able to touch or smear what it means to be Mamata Banerjee. Having said that, the BJP has become a very powerful force. How has the BJP become an entity to reckon with in Bengal, to the degree that they are serious contenders for power? Their rise has been swift and startling. Yes, and there are reasons for it. I believe there is always space for an Opposition in a democracy, it depends on how the Opposition plays it. After the second victory of the Trinamul in 2016, the Opposition in Bengal, the Left-Congress jote, collapsed. The BJP took advantage and occupied that space. There are several factors behind how they managed it. If you look at Bengal’s political history, the locally dominant party, the Left or the Trinamul, has never really faced a determined challenge from the ruling party at the Centre. This is the first time a dominant power in Delhi is making a strong grab for power. That has traction. There are other factors. The BJP has used the Hindu-Muslim card unabashedly. Both the Left and the Trinamul have talked up minorities and got their support. Now comes the BJP and says, well, that was all appeasement politics, let’s talk the majority, let’s go majoritarian. That has some traction too. Another factor: caste is not anything to ignore across India; the BJP has been sharp to recognise that in Bengal. Both the Left and the Trinamul have broadly been upper-caste-led parties and did not pay specific, or enough, attention to other groups that make up a significant votebank. The Namasudras, the Rajbanshis, the Bagdis, the Bauris, there are many such groups. The BJP has alloyed Hinduism with subaltern castes and extracted benefit. Calcutta and its neighbourhood have a huge population of Hindi-speakers who have never felt they belonged; with the BJP and Narendra Modi, they suddenly find an entity they identify with. Add to these those who are opposed to the Trinamul and no longer believe the Left-Congress jote is a viable alternative. The BJP today is the recipient of lots of support from those who were either with the Left or the Congress. And there is also what I call the Modi voter, mostly young, urban and male in Bengal’s case. These make up a formidable electoral coalition for the BJP. Make no mistake, no matter what happens, the BJP has arrived in Bengal and will remain a force to reckon with for a long time. You are almost suggesting you have lost the election, you make the BJP sound like a sure-fire winner… (Laughs) Absolutely not. No. The BJP will not win, all I am arguing is that they are a very strong party even if they lose, which they will. Is there a meaning to this election beyond just who wins or loses? I mean, the arrival of the BJP and the churn around it, the “Jai Shri Ram” cries, is there a deeper social and cultural aspect to it? Look, there are no firewalls between what is social, cultural or political, everything gets affected and reflected in organic fashion, you cannot separate one from the other. This election will define the trajectory of democracy in this country, Bengal is the critical milestone to where we are headed as a nation. It will mean the difference between India retaining the vibrancy of a multi-party democracy or becoming a one-nation, one-party state. That is how important this election is. For the Trinamul to lose Bengal to the BJP will mean a shadow cast much wider. It will have a huge psychological impact beyond Bengal. It will put a question on the viability of putting up a challenge to the BJP, many others will come under pressure or get demoralised. To give you an example, the BJP’s huge victory in UP in 2017 did play some part in Nitish Kumar’s decision to suddenly shift to the NDA. The BJP can afford to lose this election and still remain a strong national power, the others cannot. That is the battle we are fighting. What makes you so certain you are winning it? The only way the BJP could have won was if the Trinamul had collapsed. That has not happened. The BJP was hoping the Trinamul would come apart, but they did not contend with Didi and what she means. But many have left the Trinamul in recent weeks, several of them important leaders. And the blame for some of those departures lies at your door. Yes, some have left, but these departures are not of any significance. They weren’t the best people and they have gone to the BJP. They are also people who have been in power and have carried the burden of their respective local anti-incumbency into the BJP. I leave it to your reader to judge what impact that will have, what these leaders really mean. They are discredited people. As far as blaming me is concerned, that is a narrative cooked up and fed to all these people. They leave and they say Didi is not running the party, someone else, PK is controlling everything. All of them allege it is me. When Suvendu Adhikari or Mukul Roy were running affairs, it was fine. When they have been replaced, it is a debacle. Hahaah! This narrative comes from a desire to make the Trinamul collapse, it is wishful thinking. “Didi is not in charge” is a written script, a false narrative. Didi is as much in charge as she ever was, nothing happens in the party without Didi, let that be very clear. Of course, she has associates and advisers, everybody does. Amit Shah takes decisions in the BJP, does that mean Narendra Modi has lost control, or that anything happens without his approval? People who talk like this do not understand politics. Let’s get back to your reasons why the Trinamul cannot be defeated… Well, part of the reason lies in just what we were talking about. The BJP’s deep desire to discredit Didi and project as if the Trinamul is collapsing. Despite their best efforts to pull people out and rattle the Trinamul, nothing has happened. Mamata Banerjee has not become a widely unpopular leader, there is no widespread anger against her or the Trinamul, there is no “Mamata Hatao” mood in the state. Yes, as I said, there is some anger at the grassroots but it is localised, it has not translated into anger against Didi, she remains above it, she remains a loved and trusted leader, not a hated and despised one. The BJP is trying, but it is failing. Mamata Banerjee is holding her ground, there is no way the BJP is winning. This needs explanation, what enables you to make such a claim? I will tell you why the BJP has an uphill task despite all the gains they have recently made. In a bipolar fight, which this election is, they need at least 44 per cent of the vote, and to do that the BJP has to improve substantially on its Lok Sabha performance. Usually — and Tripura and Haryana are probably small-state exceptions — the BJP underperforms in Assemblies compared to the Lok Sabha. In the UP Assembly elections, the BJP’s vote share dropped by 3 per cent compared to the 2014 polls. If nothing changes, even a 2 per cent drop in their Lok Sabha numbers in Bengal will leave them with 70-odd Assembly seats, no more. The BJP’s Assembly vote shares have also dropped by double-digits, that is not unknown. I often laugh at the BJP’s claim of grabbing more than 200 seats. Where from? Bengal is a state of huge districts, of the 23 it has, nine alone account for more than 180 seats. A party needs to completely sweep three or four large districts in order to score an upset. Does anyone see the BJP doing that? No. Are they sweeping Nadia, Hooghly, Midnapore? No. Are they sweeping a single big district? No. The BJP has maxed its Bengal performance, recent electoral history consistently shows their Assembly numbers don’t match up to the Lok Sabha performance. The Trinamul, on the other hand, is going to add to its vote share. Again, that’s a claim, how will that happen? Two reasons. Didi remains by far the most popular leader in Bengal, nobody has such energy, grit, intelligence and presence. Secondly, look at how swiftly and wholesomely we have responded and rearranged ourselves. We saw and recognised the threat from the BJP, we put in place an elaborate strategy which was a mix of the administrative and the political. Our signature public outreach programmes are humming and resonating. Duare Sarkar, which clubs together 12 government programmes meant for individuals and households, is hugely successful, its impact is visible. Close to three crore people have attended camps and their problems have been heard and addressed. Then there is Swasthya Sathi, the health card. There is Paray Samadhan, which addresses neighbourhood issues like streets, drains, lighting, a whole range of local demands. For years, only three to four lakh caste certificates had been issued in Bengal, but over the last two-and-a-half months, more than 26 lakh such certificates have been given out to the eligible. Do you know how many people have dialled the Didi ke Bolo helpline? More than 30 lakh. And they have given us in excess of 75 lakh recorded phone conversations on what people’s problems are, what they want addressed. The fact that you can directly call the chief minister of the state and convey your problems has a huge impact. I am not saying all of these people will vote Trinamul, but do not discount the dividends such a comprehensive outreach can shore up. At the political level, two-thirds of the district presidents have been changed. Now this too has led to all that “exodus” talk that the BJP wants to hype, but the truth is we have a younger, more pro-active leadership across the state. It is the BJP that has come out as the desperate party, wanting to somehow make inroads into the Trinamul. Ask how many people joining the BJP in Bengal have been give Y or Y-plus security by the central government. The game is clear, and yet it is not succeeding. What is succeeding though is polarisation, everybody is talking about it, you can feel it echoing all across Bengal. Surely that will benefit the BJP in degrees that probably cannot be measured? Bengal is already as polarised as it could get. Is that enough to take the BJP through? No. There is no denying the BJP’s divisive thrust and polarisation, but please complete the circle. Is polarisation 100 per cent? Or even a little more than 50 per cent? Is the majority community completely blinded by just one factor? No. That doesn’t happen. In Gujarat the BJP gets 55 per cent of the vote, although the Muslim population is only 10 per cent. In UP, through the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections, the BJP got roughly 40 per cent of the vote. So, despite optimum polarisation everything doesn’t go one way; the tea leaves need to be carefully sifted and read. Does it not worry you that the Left-Congress jote will cut into your share and help the BJP on this score? You seem to be dismissive of them, you said this is a bipolar election. It is a completely bipolar election. The jote is of no consequence, at best they will tear away some votes, some from us, some from the BJP too. Jote candidates are not even being noticed in most places. People are fighting a battle, for many it is a battle for survival, they are very aware what they need to do, what they don’t need to do. What about the Modi factor, just the man and his ability to swing the voter? At the moment he is the most popular leader countrywide, no doubt about it. He has some individual traction, but it is not enough to defeat Mamata Banerjee. Remember, this is an Assembly election. Does it hurt the BJP that they haven’t projected a chief ministerial face? I don’t want to comment on their strategy, that’s their lookout. They have limitations of leadership, that’s also true. But I would think it is a better thing for them that they have not projected a face, that’s the right strategy for them. I know it is not a popular thing to say, but if they had projected a face against Didi, things would have been easier for us. Does it hurt you that Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul are surrounded by so many allegations? That her nephew is a parallel power centre, that corrupt syndicates operate, that cut-money is an everyday thing under Trinamul rule? Look, these are allegations and largely centred on demonising Didi, classic negative campaigning that is the house-style of the BJP. I am not sure it will pay them much dividend, eventually people get fed up of all the name-calling, the personal attacks and all the negativity. What does the BJP have to offer other than a toxic mix of religion and hyper-nationalism? We realise the effort is to create a 2002-level of polarisation with the constant bombardment of social media with canards and poisonous lies. We are having to battle that all the time. But what does the BJP have to offer beyond that? The Prime Minister has promised Aashol Paribartan... Yes, but what is the content of it? What is the content of “Sonar Bangla”? It is laughable that the Union home minister goes to Assam and says he will make the state flood-free if the BJP comes to power. But who is in power in Assam? The BJP. People are not easily fooled. They have little other than vicious negativity and use of vast and often illicit resources at their command, and by that I mean the use of the agencies of state to harass and intimidate opponents. On a personal note, how deeply invested are you in this battle and how tough is the place you’re in? I don’t do things half-hearted, I always knew the challenge I was entering. Elections are good or bad for people on the outside, pundits and commentators pronounce on them. For those of us on the inside, it is just about doing the job. There is a job we are doing in Tamil Nadu also, but nobody is talking about it because it is probably not such a high-voltage thing. But the job is the same. Bengal is tough, but I still believe my toughest campaign was winning Punjab for Captain Amarinder Singh. Each battle is different. And this is a khela hobey battle; what does that connote to you? Khela hobey? There are two slogans we are consciously using. One is the projection of Mamata Banerjee as Banglar meye, Bengal’s daughter. This is very different from Didi, which gives you the sense of a protector and provider, an elder with an umbrella for you. Banglar meye is a distinctly different positioning. It conveys the urge to stand by someone under attack, to own up your own and abide by them, it conveys an embracing of someone your own, a native. Khela hobey is a war cry. The BJP tends to scare opponents, it enters a battle pretending it has already won, declares victory before actually winning. Khela hobey says, no, hold your horses, we are not scared, we are here to face you and defeat you, we are girded for battle, game on!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
