22-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP making false poll promise of free ration, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused the BJP of making a false promise to supply free ration ahead of the assembly elections in the state and said the saffron party will "never fulfil this". Addressing a rally here in Bankura district, she described the BJP as a "party of outsiders", and alleged that it is bringing "goondas to create terror" in the state. "The BJP has made a false promise of free supply of ration. It will never fulfil this. "BJP goons will come to your house and seek votes for their party. Be ready with household utensils to chase away such people if they threaten you," the TMC supremo told the rally. Accusing the BJP of issuing diktat to women about what to wear and what to eat, the CM also said, "They will make you think that Narendra Modi is bigger than BR Ambedkar." "Have you seen how a cricket stadium in Gujarat was renamed after Modi? One day, they will change the name of the country. They are selling PSUs to private parties," she said. Alleging that the Congress and the Left Front have a deal with the BJP, Banerjee said, "CPI(M) goons unleashed terror in Kotulpur, Chomkaitala, Jairambati areas when I was in opposition. They had attacked me and are now with the BJP." PTI SUS BDC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Roadblock in Manikpur to demand chemical factory shift||Hundreds of women living in Manikpur under Englishbazar police station on Sunday blocked the state highway to demand an under-construction chemical factory be shifted from their locality. The densely populated site was unsuitable for such a factory  and could cause health hazards for them once the unit became operational, the protesters claimed. “We have been protesting against construction of the factory in our area for long. We had knocked on the doors of the block administration and some state departments. But our efforts yielded no result and recently, construction work started at the site. That is why we blocked the road,” said protester Sarathi Talukdar. According to them, different chemicals will be produced at the upcoming unit and effluents can pose health hazards for them. “Many vacant plots in deserted locations are available with the government in the district. We want the administration to take the initiative and shift the factory to one such place. Ever since the construction has started, we are fearful of our health,” another woman who joined the protest, said. The blockade halted traffic in the area till a police team from Englishbazar police station went to the spot and spoke with the demonstrators. When the police tried to remove them, an altercation erupted and the protesters alleged that the police had beaten some of them with batons. “They misbehaved with us and even charged batons. Some of us have suffered injuries,” said Talukdar. Police have denied the allegations of baton-charge. Englishbazar block officials, when asked about the issue, said they would look into it. “Now that a section of local residents are aggrieved, we will talk to them. We will also check out whether their apprehensions are correct and whether those building the factory are adhering to all necessary anti-pollution measures,” said an official. A team of Maharashtra police conducted a joint raid with the Malda district police in Sahapur area of Old Malda on Sunday and arrested resident Ranjit Mahato. Police sources said Mahato was a cook at the house of a state government official of Maharashtra in Haraprasad police station area of Pune. A few days back, he allegedly decamped with gold and platinum jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh. The police track him through his cell phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp of GJM fields relatively known faces from three hill seats||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha fielded relatively known faces from three hill seats, purportedly to encompass “minority, youth and women empowerment” but said they would not seek votes on the Gorkhaland demand in this Assembly elections. The Tamang camp fielded Ruden Sada Lepcha from Kalimpong, Tshering Lama Dahal from Kurseong and Keshav Raj Pokhrel from Darjeeling. “Ruden Sada Lepcha represents the minorities, Keshav Raj represents youths and Tshering Lama (Dahal) represents women empowerment,” said Binay Tamang, president of the Morcha faction. Having lost two previous elections — the Darjeeling Lok Sabha election and Darjeeling Assembly bypoll in 2019, it is a do-or-die situation for this Morcha camp. But speaking from Mungpoo, some 35km from Darjeeling, the Binay Tamang camp this faction categorically said they would not waver from the politics of reality over emotions. In the hills, Gorkhaland has been a predominant and winning election formula for the past three decades. But Tamang said they were raising issues specific to the Bengal government, thereby hinting Gorkhaland was not a state subject. Asked if it was difficult to fight an election without the Gorkhaland slogan, Tamang, admitted it was. “It is difficult to convince voters, but we are hopeful and confident as the hill voters are educated and will not be fooled by false promises this time,” Tamang said. The head of this Morcha faction admitted that “BJP and not Bimal Gurung” was their main contender for this election, despite BJP not having a strong organisational strength in the hills. But Tamang was confident of their success based on three factors. “The BJP has not fulfilled any of their promises, be it ST status for hill communities or permanent political solution. Also, in the last elections nine parties (including social organisations) had supported the BJP but they are fragmented now. In the last one-and-half years, Anit Thapa (Tamang’s trusted aide who heads the GTA) and the GTA have worked for the benefit of the hill people,” Tamang justified his confidence. “Don’t seek votes on a promise you cannot fulfil,” added Anit Thapa, general secretary and chairman, board of administrators, GTA.  “If Gorkhaland were an outcome of elections, we would have achieved 10 Gorkhalands by now,” he added. Aware of the importance of Gorkhaland emotions in the hills, Thapa said his land “belonged to the Gorkhas” but the problem lied in linking “this emotion with elections.” Tamang and Thapa, the only two speakers at the public meeting organised to announce the candidates, swore by the slogan “Hamro ghar, afnai bhari (we will build our house on our strength)” in an effort to underscore regionalism. “We have made many outsiders leaders of the place but this time our slogan is hamro ghar, afnai ghar,” said Thapa. The party released a 52- point election manifesto with land rights for tea gardens and cinchona plantations topping the list. The land issue was the core issue of the Tamang camp when they lost the 2019 elections. “I had said that despite losing we will work for the hills and we have made some progress on the land rights issue,” said Tamang who said all issues listed in the manifesto had been done after consultations with ally Trinamul’s chief Mamata Banerjee. Tamang also hinted at a two-tier panchayat election in the hills in 2022. The last rural elections had been held in 2000. “If the BJP wins the state elections, they will implement the NRC and of the 15 lakh hill population 12 lakh will be in detention camps,” claimed Tamang. The two influential leaders of the Morcha said it was time for the hill people to decide whether they want leaders who set hills on fire or ones who want development, a statement seen as an attack on bete noire Bimal Gurung. The Tamang camp has directed their candidates to file their nomination papers on March 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP releases West Bengal election manifesto||The essential ingredients of the Sonar Bangla that the BJP wants to serve up: the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), an infiltration net so tight that even a bird will be unable to fly in, Durga Puja celebrations without having to seek court permission, daily Ganga Aarti on the banks of the Hooghly and “tweaked” welfare schemes implemented or promised by Mamata Banerjee. A decision to implement the CAA will be taken at the very first cabinet meeting if the BJP comes to power, says the BJP manifesto — Sankalpa Patra — released on Sunday. Union home minister Amit Shah referred to the citizenship law while highlighting miscellaneous points of the manifesto. “By implementing the CAA, the BJP (government) will complete the task of giving citizenship to all of them (non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring countries),” Shah said. The Centre had passed the CAA on December 11, 2019, but the act has remained on paper as the rules have not been framed yet. After Shah’s announcement on the CAA on Sunday, some BJP insiders wondered how the state government would implement the new citizenship act unless the rules were framed. The committee on subordinate legislation for the Rajya Sabha has extended the deadline for framing the rules till July 9, 2021. Sources in the BJP said the mention of the CAA in the manifesto was important as the party was keen to retain its base among the Hindu refugee community of the Matuas, who have a key role in deciding the outcome in 25-odd seats. “Through the Chief Minister Refugee Welfare scheme, every refugee family will be transferred Rs 1,000 through DBT (direct benefit transfer) for five years so that they can rehabilitate themselves with honour,” Shah said, adding that the new government would also provide a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 to Matua dalapatis or team leaders. Shah juxtaposed the CAA announcement with another key polarisation pitch -- infiltration. “We have decided that not only human beings, even a bird will not be able to fly in from beyond the border, such will be the security arrangements at the border,” Shah said. The polarisation objective was clear in the manifesto with Shah saying that no one would have to “take permission from the courts” to organise Durga Puja or Saraswati Puja under BJP rule. “We will enhance the liveliness of Calcutta’s Durga Puja by putting it on the international map. We will ensure tourists from all parts of the world and make sure that no one has to seek permission from the courts to celebrate Durga Puja,” Shah said. This year, the high court had suggested restrictions because of Covid. The norms — and the willingness by the people to follow them — were widely credited with averting a surge in the Covid cases during the festival season. Since 2017, the BJP has tried to establish that Mamata Banerjee is against Durga Puja by highlighting a 2017 government order and alleging she had stopped the immersion of Durga idols to make way for Muharram processions. The temporary government order was issued to avoid chaos, and Durga Pujas were never banned in the state. Shah said a BJP government in Bengal would establish a purohit welfare board and provide the priests with an honorarium. Kirtankars — artistes who perform devotional songs — aged over 60 will be given a monthly pension of Rs 3,000. Shah said a BJP government would develop an international ghat on the Hooghly’s banks where Ganga Aarti will take place every day. He added that Rs 100 crore would be spent to renovate and repair Hindu temples across the state. “Polarisation is their politics. There is almost no economic programme, only polarisation. They have announced an honorarium for priests but our government already offers Rs 1,000 a month to them. They are trying to present it in such a way that polarisation takes place,” said Trinamul spokesperson and MP Saugata Roy. The BJP has promised employment for at least one member of each family. “There will be no family in which at least one member will not be employed in five years,” Shah said. The promise stands out at a time the unemployment rate in the country has touched a 45-year high under the Narendra Modi government. Shah said that 33 per cent of government jobs would be reserved for women. All women will be offered free education from kindergarten to postgraduate level. Women will also be eligible for free rides on government transport. The widow pension will be increased from Rs 1,000 a month to Rs 3,000 a month. Under a scheme called Balika Alo, girls from marginalised segments will be provided a stipend for their education. The BJP manifesto says that if voted to power, the party’s government will introduce Annapurna Canteens across the state to provide meals thrice a day at Rs 5 each. The promise has echoes of the Mamata government’s Maa Canteens that provide a plate of rice and egg curry for Rs 5 once a day. Trinamul has said that most of these announcements are tweaks of the party’s pledges. “The BJP is following our lead and imitating us. Most of the programmes they announced are already in implementation in Bengal,” Roy said. One key difference does exist between the BJP and Trinamul manifestos. Mamata has promised a Universal Basic Income scheme for the women heads of 1.6 crore families. “It is true that they have followed us in their manifesto. But the UBI scheme empowers the women of Bengal…. Such an initiative doesn’t even come to their minds. They don’t have that sensitivity,” said Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Kanhaiya appeals to vote for Sanjukta Morcha candidates||Former JNU president and CPI national council member Kanhaiya Kumar made an emphatic appeal, firmed on ideological grounding, asking people not to choose the BJP to defeat Trinamul but vote for Sanjukta Morcha candidates instead. Kanhaiya’s comments, made at a rally on Saturday in support of the CPI’s Patashpur candidate Saikat Giri, come two weeks ahead of the electoral face-off between Mamata Banerjee and her former aide Suvendu Adhikari, both of whose candidature has turned nearby Nandigram into an ideological battleground. Minakshi Mukherjee of the CPM is the Sanjukta Morcha’s candidate for the Nandigram seat. Kanhaiya's speech laid down his belief that the BJP and Trinamul were both “poison packaged in different bottles” and pointed to the unrest over the BJP's recent nomination of several Trinamul turncoats to poll candidacy as proof. “Poet Mirza Ghalib had once said that Bengal is that kind of place that exists one hundred years in the past and one hundred years in the future simultaneously. All of you have been raised here and understand the region’s politics better than I do,” he said  in a speech sprinkled with jest aimed at his north Indian origins. “You have witnessed the Left Front’s reign... You also know those people who came to power riding on promises of change," he added, referring to the Trinamul. “You are not simply subjects of the state... Do you agree with me? Your vote is your sovereign right... But certain people are already declaring themselves winners. Then why is their party continuing to spend lakhs and crores of rupees on securing a victory," he asked, referring to the BJP's recent overdrive of rallies in the state. Referring to his own experiences in student elections, and the need for integrity, he exhorted the crowd not to fall for strongman politics and instead question candidates' competence in regards to ground change on issues such as education, infrastructure and job creation. Kanhaiya also spoke for the need of “integrity in an age of expression”, explaining the need for clear judgment relating to voting was now made all the more important by “widespread and readily available information”. The said only the Left had the ideological grounding to defeat a “fascist party” like the BJP and it would be wrong to opt for the saffron party in the desire to oust the Trinamul. “You might be angry with the functioning of a government but don’t let the BJP come to rule you,” exhorted Kanhaiya while arguing for the need to defeat the Trinamul and vote in a Sanjukta Morcha government in Bengal to fulfil the cry for better governance, jobs and education. Throwing his weight behind the Morcha's promises, he slammed the BJP’s communal politics, saying: “God is supreme, so who are you (the BJP) to come in between?” “Such things are not a government’s job. Their job is to respond to the faith reposed in them by voters by building roads and bridges and providing jobs...,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb introduces 'Samadhan'- a grievance redressal mechanism||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb, who is contesting from Dabgram-Fulbari of Jalpaiguri, has introduced “Samadhan” (solution), a round-the-clock helpline-cum-grievance redressal mechanism for voters of his constituency. The helpline (96474-96475) — that seems to be launched on the lines of “Didi Ke Bolo” (a similar state-wide campaign launched by chief minister Mamata Banerjee) — became operational on Saturday and will be managed 24 hours by a team of Trinamul workers. “For the past couple of months, I have been reaching out to people of my constituency and have covered almost 80 per cent of the areas. During my campaign, I felt the need to launch such a facility that can enable any resident of the constituency to reach me for any help at any time. That is why the system has been introduced,” said Deb, who is considered to be the tallest Trinamul leader in north Bengal. The minister, while speaking on the facility, which has been taken up by a political leader of north Bengal for the first time, said he intended to make it a permanent service. “Even after the elections are over, I will continue to run the service so that people can be provided with necessary help and their grievances can be redressed,” he added. According to political observers, the new mechanism that has been evolved by the minister seems to be the part of a strategy to open up a new window other than the traditional campaign, which can help him connect to his voters. They said Deb had won from the Dabgram-Fulbari seat in 2011 and 2016. In 2016, he could win by a margin of over 26,000 votes but in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP could secure a lead of around 86,000 votes in his Assembly segment. “It is obvious that Gautam Deb and his party will have to toil hard to ensure that he wins in the seat for the third time. That is why they are exploring all possible options to reach out to people,” said an observer. The Dabgram-Fulbari seat that comprises 14 wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats falls in Jalpaiguri district. So, for any official and legal works, residents living in these areas have to travel to Jalpaiguri town, that is 45km away. As there had been rapid urbanisation in the rural areas which are next to the wards, there is also a demand for a separate civic body. The tourism minister, who is well aware of this issue, is thus underscoring some of the infrastructure developments which the Trinamul government has carried out in the past 10 years, which include two fire stations and a registry office, the Uttarkanya and the Bengal Safari Park. Simultaneously, he is speaking out the new plans he has for his constituency. “We will approach the state government to declare the entire Dabgram-Fulbari area as a new civic area. We would work to ensure that a separate administrative set-up is opened for the convenience of the residents, along with a metropolitan court so that people do not need to travel to Jalpaiguri,” added Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah promises daily wage of Rs 350 for Bengal tea workers||Union home minister Amit Shah and his party have come up with a promise for the tea population of Bengal that the BJP could not meet in neighbouring Assam where it has been in power for the past five years — a daily wage of Rs 350 for tea workers. Shah, who released the Sankalpa Patra (election manifesto) of the BJP in Calcutta on Sunday, said that if voted to power, they would hike the wage of tea workers to Rs 350. Bengal’s tea workers receive Rs 202 a day, after it was revised by the Trinamul government in January. In Assam, the BJP’s Sarbananda Sonowal government revised tea wages last month to Rs 217 a day except in the Barak valley where it is Rs 195 a day. “It is surprising that the BJP has claimed to increase the tea wages to Rs 350 in Bengal….We doubt tea workers will believe in a promise that the BJP could not fulfil in a state it rules,” said Alok Chakraborty, a senior tea trade union leader and coordinator of INTTUC, Trinamul workers’ front, in north Bengal. These past few weeks, the tea wage issue has been raised frequently by political parties in both these poll-bound states that are also India’s top tea producers. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, during his recent trip to Assam, had said that if his party wins in the state, they would increase the daily tea wage to Rs 365, underlining that the BJP could not hike it to Rs 350 despite being in power. An observer said BJP workers in Bengal’s tea belt will have to face uncomfortable questions now. “People will ask how can they commit to a wage of Rs 350 in Bengal when they could not implement it in Assam,” he said. The BJP manifesto also said it would look into conferring tribal status to 11 hill communities and the demand of a permanent political solution in the hills would be taken care of. However, a veteran watcher of hill politics said this was yet another round of hollow promises which the BJP had been making to the hill residents since 2009. Through the manifesto, the saffron brigade tried to stoke the sentiments of north Bengal residents, a region where the party did well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, by making a slew of announcements. Among these include a separate development board for north Bengal, upgrading Bagdogra into an international airport, a training centre for paramilitary forces in the name of Chilla Roy (the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family) in Cooch Behar, an IT park in Siliguri, an AIIMS in north Bengal and conferrment of land rights to tea workers and forest dwellers. Reacting to these, Trinamul leader and state tourism minister Gautam Deb said: “We doubt how many of these would be met…there are seven BJP MPs from north Bengal since 2019. So far, none of them could come up with any major infrastructural project for the region, barring some announcements which we believe are poll sops.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Was a trusting donkey: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday berated herself for being so “gullible” after her party’s Contai MP Sisir Adhikari, like his sons Suvendu and Soumendu, joined the BJP. “I am a very simple person. A gadha (donkey)…gullible...I should have figured out these traitors earlier. I love and trust people too easily,” she said. She flagged their alleged corruption, fiefdom and intimidation tactics, and said Midnapore had to be freed from them. She also brought up the old punar musiko bhava (Become a mouse again) story where a mouse was made a tiger by a rishi, but when it wanted to eat the rishi, it was reduced to a mouse again. “There was a time when I used to respect and love them (the Adhikaris). I had painted a picture of goddess Tara and gifted them, for their home. Now, that gang of traitors has brought in the BJP…after conspiring with them since 2014,” she added. Till her relations soured with the Adhikharis, the Shanti Niwas residents of Contai enjoyed immense clout in Trinamul and its government. Prior to going to the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari was one of Trinamul’s tallest leaders, part of its seven-member apex steering committee as a general-secretary, a senior member of the state cabinet and former MP. Father Sisir was the party’s East Midnapore chief and brother Soumendu Contai’s civic chairman. Another brother Dibyendu, the Tamluk MP from Trinamul, is yet to clarify his position. Mamata referred to them as lobhi (greedy) and bhogi (hedonist), and claimed all the development in the region was carried out by her government, while they hogged the credit. “Even I was not allowed to conduct rallies in Contai, because all of this used to be someone’s fief…jotdar (landlord), jomidar (liege lord), raja (king)… whatever they said used to happen here,” she said, accusing the clan of virtually handing the reins of the region to the Centre over the past few years. “The Midnapore region must be set free from these people, then only will the people of Midnapore taste freedom afresh,” she added, claiming the Adhikaris maintain a horde of goons for intimidation. Mamata alleged that the Adhikari clan’s people have been threatening people to leave the place and look for new homes elsewhere, as they now want to wipe out Trinamul from the region. “Soon, you are the ones who will have to look for a new address, in Delhi or Mumbai,” she said, bringing up the mouse tale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari joins BJP||Trinamul Congress MP and East Midnapore heavyweight Sisir Adhikari, 79,  joined the BJP on Sunday afternoon in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. “The day he (son Suvendu Adhikari) joined, I also (virtually) joined (the BJP),” Sisir said. The Contai South MP remains a Trinamul representative in the Lok Sabha and unlike son Suvendu, is yet to tender formal resignations as the legislator. “I will remain in the posts that I hold. Let them (Trinamul) do what they can about it,” he said. Sisir ddin’t accept a BJP flag on the dais. Delivering a brief speech on stage, he said: “I have been in politics for over 60 years, but my family had never been disrespected like this.” “This is a fight for our self-respect…. Only if the same government is both at the Centre and in the state can there be development. I repose my faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah,” he added. After the rally, he attacked Trinamul and Mamata, calling the party a factory and her the proprietor. “She does as she pleases. Once Suvendu wins in Nandigram, we will wipe Trinamul out of this district,” he said. Asked, senior Trinamul leader Somen Mahapatra said Sisir Adhikari’s conduct was “unbecoming” of his stature. “We are surprised as we did not expect such behaviour from a veteran.… To be fielding questions on behalf of an opposing party while he is still formally with us is unethical. The party will take steps,” he said. Sisir Adhikari was first elected MLA from Contai South in 1982. His induction into Trinamul came in 1999, following which he was elected its MLA in 2001 and 2006, and MP in 2009, 2014 and 2019. Shah’s comments on Sunday were confined to the ambit of the bhaipo (nephew) discourse, with the Union home minister repeatedly asserting that Modi would transform the state into “Sonar Bangla” in five years. “Trinamul’s downfall is imminent, it is inevitable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Narendra Modi defends BJP candidate list||Narendra Modi on Sunday said that for the Bengal polls, the BJP had fielded both experienced and new faces to work towards building Sonar Bangla, the Prime Minister’s comment coming in the backdrop of protests by party workers across the state ever since the second list of candidates came out on March 14. “The BJP has fielded experienced candidates. The party has given chances to freshers too. The young and experienced candidates will together help build Sonar Bangla,” Modi said at a rally in Bankura’s Tilabedia grounds on Sunday. Many party offices were ransacked or set ablaze by local BJP leaders accusing the party of nominating several Trinamul turncoats and “outsiders” with no link to the Assembly segments concerned. Many questions how “asol poribarton” would happen under Trinamul turncoats, who till they switched sides were allegedly attacking BJP workers. Though Modi did not refer to these protests, he spoke about BJP’s candidate from Bankura’s Saltora, Chandana Bauri, the wife of a mason, apparently to send the message that his party had picked names from the grassroots, not just turncoats. “Didi, you may dislike my face but you will have to remember faces like Chandanaji and many more from the BJP for a long time.... Chandanaji is not only a BJP candidate from Saltora Assembly constituency but also the face of Bengal’s aspiration,” Modi said to a crowd of over 50,000. Chandana said that she and her husband had started working for the BJP after they were not allowed to cast their votes in the 2018 panchayat polls. “I have been working for the BJP for the past three years after we saw how Trinamul robbed us of our voting rights. The government housing scheme that came for me was given to another woman with the same name as mine. I did not know that the party had chosen me as a candidate till the list was announced,” said Chandana. Modi referred to Chandana as a symbol of development and a victim of Trinamul. BJP insiders said other than Chandana, the party’s candidate from Ausgram in East Burdwan, Kalita Maji, worked as a domestic help. BJP leaders said Modi through his reference to Chandana’s candidature tried to douse the flames of protest against the choice of nominees. “It seems that Modiji wanted to mean that Trinamul defectors were experienced hands and a balance had been struck by choosing freshers like Chandana as well. However, candidates like Chandana are very few,” said a BJP leader. However, BJP leaders said despite the Prime Minister citing Chandana as an example, there were people like Tanmoy Ghosh who has been made a candidate within 24 hours of quitting the Trinamul to join the BJP. Ghosh will contest as the BJP’s candidate from Bishnupur in Bankura. “If there are examples like Chandana, there are examples like Tanmoy Ghosh, who was with the Trinamul a night ago and got picked as a BJP candidate. Such decisions have angered party old-timers,” said a BJP leader from Bishnupur. Modi in his speech also accused Trinamul leaders of making money through extortion and pilferage of sand. He said the illegal money had helped Trinamul leaders in Bankura become rich and own big houses and branded cars. Modi also criticised Trinamul for a wall graffiti that showed Mamata’s fractured leg placed on the head of the Prime Minister. The graffiti had gone viral on social media and attracted Modi’s attention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Why is it a big deal||The Assembly elections that will kick off this Saturday cover five states but it is Bengal that finds itself back in the national crosshairs exactly a decade after it sealed the fate of one of the longest running regimes in the world. If Bengal was the cynosure in 2011 for voting out the Left after an unhindered and improbable run of 34 years, 2021 places the state at the centre of a battle that it did not start and a question only its voters can answer. Will Mamata Banerjee be able to stop what has so far been the unstoppable juggernaut powered by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah? Or will the duopoly conquer the last frontier in the east, painting India with such a gigantic saffron brushstroke that only a sliver called Kerala will remain the sole holdout? The once-hackneyed phrase — “the battle for the soul of Bengal” — has acquired some resonance and urgency because of the fear of the unknown and its unfamiliarity with the culture that has made Bengal what it is. Toss into this cauldron concerns about abiding values such as  personal liberties, communal harmony, cosmopolitanism, dissidence, the right to protest and minority rights — not to forget immediate issues such as farm laws — and you have one of the most significant electoral contests in recent memory. The eight-phase elections scheduled to continue for over a month till April 29 will not only pave the way for the next government but also shape the course of politics in the eastern state. The significance of the results, to be declared on May 2, will have consequences beyond Bengal’s borders, impacting the entire region’s geopolitical and geostrategic dynamics. For Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul, retaining power for the third time is paramount as she is aware that she needs to win to keep her party alive at a time the BJP is leaving no stone unturned to chip away by engineering defections. For the BJP, a saffron Bengal is critical to establish a pan-India presence. Ahead of the elections, the BJP’s focus has been to create the narrative that it is coming to power in Bengal — with 200-plus seats (the state has 294 seats). The party is also striving to create the impression that a “double-engine government”, at the Centre and in the state, will result in unprecedented growth. Trinamul has fallen back on its most bankable asset — Mamata. By pitching herself as the party nominee in all 294 Assembly seats, she is travelling the length and breadth of Bengal, on a wheelchair and her leg plastered, and listing her achievements and countering the narrative spun by the “outsider” BJP. The Telegraph takes a look at the factors that have made the contest so intriguing. One of the most striking pre-poll developments in Bengal has been the exodus of leaders from Trinamul, and also from other parties, to the BJP. Bengal had long been insulated from the “Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram” phenomenon, which loosely describes the politics of defections in India, till Trinamul began signing up legislators from Opposition parties after it came to power in 2011. Cut to 2021, the BJP appears to have taken a leaf out of that book, effecting defections. Notable among the deserters have been former ministers Suvendu Adhikari and Rajeeb Banerjee. The fact that the defections had nothing to do with ideology became clear when many of them made it to the candidate list of the BJP. The overwhelming presence of turncoats — around 150 of the 283 BJP nominees announced till Saturday are from other parties — has triggered vehement protests from BJP old-timers across the state. Two questions remain: (i) Will the turncoats deliver? (ii) Do the Trinamul faces in the BJP camp fit Narendra Modi’s narrative of bringing asol poriborton (real change) to Bengal? Identity politics, based on caste, language and ethnicity, to woo voters is another new phenomenon in Bengal, where class ruled the political discourse for years thanks to the Left. Ahead of the polls, while Mamata has promised setting up of a special task force to seek reservation from the Centre for the Mahishyas, Tamus, Sahas and Tilis as OBCs, BJP president J.P. Nadda has said these communities deserve reservations. In doing so, both leaders were trying to court these communities, whose votes matter in East and West Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly and the two 24-Parganas. Trinamul and the BJP are also trying to win over the Matuas by spinning divergent narratives on the new citizenship matrix for electoral gains in 30-odd seats in Nadia and North 24-Parganas. The Kurmis in Purulia and Bankura have also been showered with the promise of reservation for electoral dividends in 15-odd seats. The battle for Rajbanshi votes in north Bengal has seen both parties competing to pay respect to Panchanan Barma and making promises for the uplift of the community and to recognise their language. And, not to forget the contest to woo voters based on linguistic identities. Mamata has already announced that schools will be set up to promote languages other than Bengali and English and has even set up a Dalit Sahitya Academy. But there are two questions: (i) Will there be caste-based conflicts? (ii) Will the focus on identities take Bengal back to the early 19th century when caste identities had cast a shadow on societal progress? Bengal had never seen such political temple tourism ahead of any election. Almost all the nominees of the major political parties — barring the Left, of course — are busy visiting shrines, especially Hindu temples. An estimate suggests Mamata and Suvendu, the contenders for the Nandigram seat, have visited at least 25 temples in the area. Not just the celebrity politicians, even the newcomers are making it a point to visit temples and pose for the cameras with red tilak on their forehead. The significance of Jai Shri Ram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai slogans are being hotly debated. Mamata, who has been reciting sholaks and mantras at rallies, may have become a victim of competitive politics at a time the Prime Minister is accusing her of appeasing Muslims and not allowing Durga Puja immersions. BJP insiders admit in private that they are happy with this change as the public display of Hindu identity and nationalism even by someone like Mamata means the Hindutva agenda has entered the political discourse of the state will remain firmly rooted there. While the BJP is waiting to gain from the change, there are two questions: (i) Is this trend desirable in a plural society? (ii) Will the rise in Hindu nationalism result in conflicts in a region that has been immune to such tensions? Several political observers believe that Trinamul’s move to hire poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-Pac is a key addition to the poll game in Bengal. Trinamul insiders think that the professional approach by Team I-Pac — with over 1,000 men and women working across 294 constituencies — has helped them better strategise for the elections. The important questions here are: (i) Can all parties afford to appoint consultants? (ii) Is this trend of getting poll strategists here to stay?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
