23-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi’s ‘factory of lies’ will remain after Centre’s selloff of govt concerns: Mamata||Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged that the Centre is selling off government concerns and only Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "factory of lies" will remain. Mamata said that the BJP is advertising tall claims about what it will do for the people of Bengal, but the party has reneged on promises made in its manifesto for the Assembly elections in Assam and Tripura. Addressing an election rally at Para in Purulia district, the Bengal chief minister claimed that BJP governments in the two northeastern states have rendered thousands of government employees jobless. "They are closing down all central concerns. Only one factory will be there, that of Narendra Modi's lies and the BJP's fraud," she said. Reciting 'Chandi slokas' at the public meeting here as she has been doing in other poll rallies, the TMC supremo asked people not to indulge in any communal politics. Urging people not to vote for "goons from outside", Mamata asserted that she is not afraid of any intimidation and will fight back if threatened. She has on several occasions accused the BJP of bringing in outsiders to the state for the Assembly elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah accuses TMC of swindling Amphan relief funds||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday slammed the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal for allegedly "swindling" the money sent for cyclone Amphan relief in the Sunderbans region. Criticising the TMC's "cut money" culture, Shah claimed that "Bhatija (nephew) and company swindled central funds sent for Amphan relief". If voted to power, Shah said the BJP would constitute a committee to probe the alleged siphoning off relief funds. "The central government had sent relief funds for the affected people. But the TMC leaders siphoned off the funds and did not allow it to reach them. "If we are voted to power, the BJP will constitute an inquiry committee to probe corruption in disbursement of funds. All those involved in scam would be sent to jail," he said while addressing the election rally here. "The Centre had sent Rs 10,000 crore for Amphan relief. Did you get a single penny? Where did all the money go? 'Bhatija' and company swindled the central funds sent for Amphan relief. We will probe everything," he said. He attacked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her government for "not allowing implementation of central schemes in the state". Shah alleged that Banerjee has been working only for her nephew's welfare instead of the common people. "Didi is only interested in making his nephew the next chief minister. Do you want the nephew to be the CM? If not, then vote for the BJP," he said. The Union minister said the BJP is ready to take on the "goons and syndicates" of the ruling TMC. "We have to end this syndicate rule of the TMC. We will end this culture," he said. Elections to the 294 assembly seats will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: BJP fields 11 new candidates||The BJP on Tuesday announced another list of candidates for 11 seats for the Assembly elections in Bengal and also changed its nominees in two other constituencies. The party continued with its strategy of fielding personalities from different walks of life as it nominated former Deputy Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha from the Rashbehari seat in South Kolkata. Former Chief Economic Advisor Ashok Lahiri, who was earlier pulled out from the Alipurduar seat in north Bengal after local party workers held a protest against his candidature, will now contest from Balurghat as a BJP candidate. Lahiri was replaced with local leader Suman Kanjilal from the Alipurduar seat last week. The saffron party also fielded new candidates from Chowranghee and Kashipur-Belgachia seats, after its earlier nominees had refused their tickets. Nominations were given to Sikha Mitra, wife of former state Congress president Somen Mitra, from Chowranghee and Tarun Saha, husband of TMC MLA Mala Saha, from Kashipur- Belgachia. In an embarrassment for the BJP, both Sikha Mitra and Tarun Saha had refused their tickets and said they did not join the party. The BJP has been facing protests and resignations as many of its aspiring old-timers did not find their names in the list of candidates. Despite protests over recruits getting more importance than old-timers in the candidates' list, the party gave a nomination to Biswajit Das, who was a TMC MLA from Bongaon (Uttar) and had joined the BJP some time ago. Das will contest from Bagda constituency as a BJP candidate. Subrata Thakur, brother of BJP MP Santanu Thakur, was given a nomination from Gaighata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Covid case count rises ||Bengal on Monday reported the 11th consecutive day of rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases, by 70. The number of active cases stands at 3,574. The state on Monday reported 296 recoveries but 368 new cases, besides two deaths, one in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP manifesto promises better irrigation networks and new canals in Bhairab-Sialmari-Jalanga basin||Hercules had to change the courses of the Alpheus and Peneus rivers to clean the Augean stables. The BJP will have to go one up on the mighty mythological hero and translocate three rivers from south Bengal to north Bengal if the party wins the Assembly elections and wants to implement a promise made in its manifesto. “We will introduce the Utoject for the Bhairab-Sialmari-Jalanga basin with a 2,000 crores rupees fund for upgradation of existing irrigation network and construction of new canals,” reads the BJP manifesto, which was released on Sunday in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. The promise has left riparian experts racking their brains on how rivers flowing southwards through Murshidabad, which is part of south Bengal, can help develop a command area in the northern districts of the state. A river expert said that using south Bengal rivers for irrigation in north Bengal was an impossibility. If the BJP has a plan that actually gets around such geographical obstacles, the party so far does not appear to have shared the specifics with some of those associated with drawing up the manifesto. Subhash Sarkar, the BJP’s Bankura MP who was in charge of the manifesto committee, was measured in his response. “When we have put it in the manifesto, there must be some plans to channel the water from these rivers towards the northern districts,” Sarkar said. If the BJP is unable to clear the air soon, its opponents are certain to cite the promise as another example of the party’s unfamiliarity and disconnect with Bengal. A perceived cultural schism with Bengal has already given the Trinamul Congress a stick to beat the BJP with. The three rivers mentioned in the 13th page of the manifesto are on the right bank of the Ganga, the mighty river that divides north and south Bengal, and flow through Murshidabad district. The Bhairab and the Sialmari merge with the Jalangi (referred to as “Jalanga” in the manifesto) at different locations in Murshidabad district and the Jalangi eventually joins the Hooghly near Mayapur in Nadia district. “All these three rivers are distributaries of the Ganga and flow southwards…. How can they help develop a command area in the northern districts, which are on the left bank of the Ganga and beyond?” asked renowned river expert Kalyan Rudra. A retired officer of the state irrigation department could not hide his astonishment when told about the promise involving the three rivers. He said that if any command area had to be developed in the northern districts of the state, water from the Ganga itself could be channelled for the purpose. “Also, several other rivers flow through north Bengal and their water can be used to irrigate the northern districts. There appears to be a lack of understanding among those who drew up the manifesto,” he said. Tuhin Subhra Mondal, a Balurghat-based researcher who has worked on river conservation for years, said the promise involving the rivers meant very little. He said the manifesto’s silence on the conservation or use of rivers that flow through north Bengal made it clear there was no plan on river or basin management. “It seems that those who have penned the point lack basic geographical knowledge. There is not a word about the rivers of north Bengal, particularly the Teesta, which has been emerging as an issue for the various political parties because the water-sharing treaty is still pending with Bangladesh,” said Mondal. Sarkar, the BJP MP, said: “We also have plans for the Teesta.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur and Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Turncoat Prabhash Sarkar in Priya Ranjan's bastion||The Congress has fielded a leader who quit Trinamul barely three weeks back in Kaliaganj — the ancestral place of late Congress leader Priya Ranjan Das Munshi in North Dinajpur district. Prabhash Sarkar, who was the working president of Trinamul in the Kaliaganj block and walked out of Mamata Banerjee’s party hardly a month ago, has been declared as the Congress candidate in the seat. The decision hasn’t, however, gone down well with a section of Congress leaders in the district who feel that fielding Sarkar can send a wrong message to Congress and Left supporters of the Assembly constituency. “It is unfortunate that our party could not find a Congress leader or worker who had been with us for years and is not a defector or a new entrant even in a place like Kaliaganj that had bred a leader like Priya Ranjan Das Munshi. It is a bitter truth but we have to admit that it raises a question over the Congress’ support base in Kaliaganj. It is high time that state leaders focus on this constituency to revive our support base,” said a senior Congress leader in Raiganj. Sources said as the Congress had started scouting for candidates, it could not find anybody who was ready to contest from Kaliaganj. Eventually, the district and block leaders could zero in on Sarkar, a schoolteacher. Sarkar has said he hails from a Congress family. “My father had been a panchayat member of the Congress for 15 years. I was also with the Congress and had joined Trinamul in 2014. Now, I am back at home and have severed all my ties with Trinamul. The party has fielded me as the candidate in Kaliaganj and I am putting all my efforts,” he said. Pabitra Chanda, a vice-president of North Dinajpur district Congress, tried to put up a brave face. “It is wrong to perceive the Congress has weakened in Kaliaganj. Prabhash Sarkar has been selected as a candidate because we feel he can give a better contest to our contenders,” he said. In the 2006, 2011 and 2016 Assembly elections, Pramath Nath Roy of the Congress had won Kaliaganj. After Roy had died in 2018, a bypoll was held in 2019 and Trinamul won Kaliaganj for the first time. The Congress finished third in the bypoll. “The defeat came as a jolt for the Congress and many walked out of the party in Kaliaganj. The decision to field a former Trinamul leader has exposed the Congress’s pitiable organisational strength in the seat,” said an observer. In Malda, over 200 Congress supporters reached Kotowali, the ancestral house of the Khan Choudhury family, on the outskirts of the district headquarter, and held a demonstration. They were demanding a change in the candidate declared by the party in the Ratua Assembly seat. Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, the district Congress chief and Malda south MP or Isha Khan Choudhury, his son and an MLA, did not meet the protesters. The protesters have threatened to resume their movement if their demands are not met, said sources. BJP showcause The North Dinajpur BJP leadership has showcaused six conveners, asking them to explain within three days what led to the ransacking of party offices of the district. Last week, after the BJP had announced its list of candidates, there were protests across the district by a section of supporters who wanted that some of the candidates be changed. They had even accused Raiganj MP and Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri of indulging in corruption while distributing tickets and had even ransacked the district office. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Siliguri leader Nantu Paul quits Trinamul Congress, to contest as Independent||Senior Trinamul Congress leader Nantu Paul, who was peeved with the party’s nomination of Omprakash Mishra in the Siliguri Assembly segment, on Monday announced his contest in the same seat as an Independent. Paul said he had severed his ties with Trinamul and would submit his nomination papers on March 24. “I have quit Trinamul and will contest the election as an Independent. I have launched my campaign,” said the former Trinamul leader. When Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee had announced the names of the party’s candidates for 291 Assembly seats, Paul with a political legacy of over three-and-a-half decades had openly expressed discontent with Mishra’s nomination in Siliguri. In 2011, Rudranath Bhattacharya had bagged the Siliguri seat as the Trinamul candidate. But footballer Bhaichung Bhutia contested on behalf of Trinamul in the 2016 Assembly polls, CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya won the seat. After Mishra had been declared as the candidate, Paul said: “A local Trinamul leader should have been chosen for the seat to ensure that the party wins Siliguri again.” Following Pal’s outburst, Trinamul served a showcause notice on him last week. “I sent my resignation letter to the state Trinamul leaders and they have received the same. My wife Manjushree (also former Trinamul councillor), has also left the party,” said Paul. Earlier, he had stepped down from the post of the vice-chairman of the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority. “I had worked in different development bodies and sports associations for years. I will put before voters a 10-point development plan I have readied for the city,” said Paul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘CM has given water, light and roads’||Name: Basant Kumar Khedia Occupation: Owns a garment shop in Purulia town Age: 35 Education: Graduate. Annual income: Rs 7 lakh Size of family: Mother, wife and two children (an eight-year-old daughter, a three-year-old son) Seat: Purulia Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? Not one, but the combination of a few issues will decide my vote. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? Yes, I will vote for the same political party I voted for in 2016. It is because the party has done substantial amount of development in our area. Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? One, Purulia suffers from water scarcity and Mamata Banerjee has changed the situation in her second term as chief minister. Pipelines were laid and now water reaches our homes free. Two, travelling in the town at night was a nightmare. Not just main roads, street lights have been installed in small lanes too. Three, roads have become better and that has helped my movement within the district and to places like Bokaro and Dhanbad in Jharkhand. As I frequently travel to the neighbouring state, I can vouch that roads in Bengal are far better. Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. One, her stand that led the Tatas to relocate the Singur automobile plant to Sanand in Gujarat continues to have an adverse impact on the overall industrial scenario in the state. Two, as chief minister her intemperate reactions when faced with uncomfortable slogans is unacceptable. Three, her inability to crack down on Trinamul leaders involved in taking cut money from the poor to provide them welfare schemes. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She certainly works for the poor and that was demonstrated during the pandemic and the lockdown. Purulia is a poor district but her government reached out to all needy people during the lockdown. Her government did support migrant workers when they returned from their workplaces outside Bengal. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? Are questions raised about Akhilesh Yadav, the son of Mulayam Singh Yadav? Or for that matter, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who is the son of Shibu Soren? If they can groom their children, what’s wrong in Mamata Banerjee grooming her nephew Abhishek to be her political heir? Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefit you. Sorry, not one central government scheme has benefited me directly or indirectly. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, building a wall to hide slums during then US President Donald Trump’s visit to Ahmedabad did hurt my self-esteem as a citizen of this country. Two, appeasement of a few industrialists and privatisation of public sector units. Three, failure to control inflation is adversely affecting our livelihood. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? There are some central schemes for the benefit of the poor but the major policy decisions of the Modi government are aimed at helping his cronies. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? Life has got better but I need to work far more to make my business grow. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? I don’t think that the Left or its alliance stands a chance to win a clear majority. I also don’t think that the Left alliance will become a deciding factor in the formation of the government. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Yes, there is harmony between the two communities and I enjoy the bonding. I have 10 employees in my shop and interestingly five are Hindus and five are Muslims. Their bonding is such that they celebrate festivals together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul Congress worker killed in Jhargram clash||A skirmish between two gangs of villagers in Jhargram’s Jungle Mahal, who also happened to be rival supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, spiralled into a clash leading to the death of a political worker. Around 8pm on Sunday, Trinamul worker Durgapada Soren, 55, and his wife Sakro were reportedly returning home in Pindorakula when the latter was leered at by a group of youths. Sources said Soren, who was allegedly killed later that night in the ensuing clash, went home without reacting and informed Trinamul workers in the area. “The youths who had allegedly leered at Soren’s wife denied any wrongdoing, and also gathered their forces, turning this unfortunate incident into something much worse,” said an eyewitness. Sources said the opposing group of BJP workers, led by the brother of Aguigani gram panchayat member Manik Sahoo, encountered the Trinamul group from Pindorakula, following which a full-blown fistfight between the two groups ensued. Durgapada’s son Rupnath, who was also part of the group, said the fight was broken up soon and each party went its own way.“But after about 15 minutes, I realised that my father was not part of our returning group. So, we backtracked, and found him lying unconscious in a nearby field,” he said, adding that Durgapada was rushed to a local hospital where he was pronounced dead. Later, police arrested two BJP workers. Panchayat member Manik Sahoo denied allegations of violence saying Durgapada had “tripped and fallen”. Trinamul has termed the incident a “planned attack”. “Such incidents show their true nature. It is important to recognise this before the vote,” said anchal sabhapati Jagadish Mahato. “Police have been asked to take action as they are now reporting to the Election Commission,” added a local Trinamul youth leader. The death resulted in a two-hour blockade by Trinamul workers on the Jhagram-Lodhasuli road on Monday. Jhargram’s superintendent of police, Indira Mukherjee, confirmed the two arrests and said a post-mortem was ongoing. In a separate incident in East Midnapore’s Bhagabanpur, a road show by Trinamul MP and Tollywood actress Mimi Chakraborty was halted when local BJP workers accused Trinamul workers of attacking the car of BJP nominee Rabindranath Maity. Skirmishes ensued, leading both sides to stage a road blockade that was promptly removed by central forces. Asked, Trinamul spokesperson Kajal Burman said the BJP had “staged” the incident to “interrupt” Mimi’s rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Saradha case: CBI searches offices and residence of three Sebi officials||The CBI on Monday searched the offices and residence of three officials of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) in connection with the Saradha case, ratcheting up the probe ahead of the Assembly polls. It is learnt that the top official targeted by the CBI is a chief general manager who headed operations of the market watchdog in Calcutta between 2009 and 2013. The other two are general managers who were also based in the city during that period. There was no official comment from the market regulator on the searches. The Saradha group of companies has been accused to duping lakhs of people of around Rs 2,500 crore by promising them high rates of returns on their deposits. In April 2013, Rajeev Kumar Agarwal, Whole Time Member, SEBI had passed an order directing Saradha Realty India Ltd. and its managing director, Sudipta Sen, to wind up its collective investment schemes and refund the money collected under the schemes at the promised rates within a period of three months from the date of the order. The company was also asked to submit a winding up and repayment report to the market regulator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Left-Cong-ISF attempt to catch the youth’s imagination ||He promises food and security, is open to lending a sympathetic ear to stories about your cheating ex, and is willing to wait a while for that first date. Interested? But don’t rush in to get a “match” just yet. For what the suitor is out to win is not your heart or your hand but your vote. The Left-Congress-ISF is trying to catch the youth’s imagination with a virtual poster of its alliance, the Sanjukta Morcha, that consciously resembles profiles on the dating app Tinder. The Sanjukta Morcha profile, created on a Left-leaning Facebook page titled “Propaganda: Let the voices be heard”, offers you a date on May 2, the day the Bengal Assembly poll results will be announced. It paints Sanjukta Morcha as one who shuns bigotry and promises “food, jobs and security for all”. In a dig at the epidemic of defections in poll season, the profile says: “Changing sides is a big turn off.” It also skewers the Left’s two rivals just by being “open to listening to how that toxic ex cheated with the new perverted boss”. The same page has come up with two more imaginative posters. One of these mimics a transport aggregator app and promises a ride from a “Useless Government” to a “Sangjukta Morcha Government”. The other resembles a food delivery app and pledges the home delivery of good governance. “The young faces on the Left list of candidates pushed me to come up with something unique,” said Arijit Mondal, who designed the posters with friend Mousumi Nandi, activist of CPM student wing SFI. “But I had no clue that so many people would like the campaign.” A CPM leader said these posters mirrored a drive to communicate the Left’s “vision for Bengal” to the youth in an eye-catching way. “If we have to gain the youth’s trust, they need to feel connected to us first,” a CPM state committee member said, adding that the party was keen to shed its tag of a “house of elders”. Which is why the CPM has also come up with a raft of peppy parodies, flash mobs and fluorescent posters as part of its poll campaign. The focus on the youth had already become evident by February 28 when, at the Brigade Parade Grounds, the Left veterans left the front stage to the young faces. When the candidate list came out later, it featured more people under 40 than above. “The peppy songs are being played alongside Tagore and IPTA songs,” said Srijan Bhattacharya, state SFI secretary and CPM candidate from Singur. “But the content is always about the people’s daily struggles.” So far, the CPM has released about a half-dozen songs on social media. Two of these draw their inspiration from Tumpa Sona, a popular independent song released last October. First came a parody on February 20 that went Tumpa tokey niye Brigade jabo. After CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra posted it on his Facebook page, the video was shared around 3,400 times and received over 10,000 reactions. It has close to 1.5 crore hits on YouTube. The CPM has borrowed the tune of Lungi Dance, from the 2013 Hindi film Chennai Express, for the song Haal Pherao, Laal Pherao, whose title exhorts people to bring the Left back to turn Bengal’s fortunes around. Written and sung by SFI members Rahul Paul and Nilabja Niyogi, both songs deal with the topics of jobs and industrialisation and build up the Left-Congress-ISF alliance. On March 17, Left-leaning theatre artist Saurav Palodhi revisited the Tumpa song with new lyrics that urge voters to back the Left. Released on Wednesday morning, the video of Tumpa 2.0 has so far attracted over 15,000 reactions, 166,000 views and nearly 5,000 shares on Facebook. CPM veteran and Raidighi candidate Kanti Ganguly had taken to Facebook on March 15 to seek “a few young people with digital knowledge” who could help his campaign. Within 24 hours, Rahul and Nilabja had come up with a song highlighting Ganguly’s work in his coastal constituency after the Amphan rampage. The latest song, released Sunday night, is a parody of the popular Usha Uthup number Uri Uri Baba from the 1990s and equates the BJP and Trinamul. It’s written and composed by Rahul and Nilabja. Pro-Left singer Arko Mukhaerjee too had composed a song, Brigade Chalo, before the February 28 rally. A dance that actor Joyraj Bhattacharya has choreographed on this song has been performed in flash mobs across Calcutta. Palodhi too is organising flash mobs across the city to campaign for alliance candidates. The CPM released six flashy posters in fluorescent orange, violet, red, yellow, blue and green on social media a few days ago. While resembling the cheap posters frequented on suburban trains, they speak of issues such as communalism, price hike, joblessness, political turncoats, industrialisation and bribery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress vows Rs 5,700 a month for poor homes||The Congress  released its manifesto for Bengal on Monday, promising  that if voted to power, it would provide a monthly financial assistance of Rs 5,700 to economically backward families. The promise is in lines with the Trinamul Congress’s vow to offer universal basic income to 1.6 crore families. Although Congress state chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury didn’t elaborate, he said the financial assistance scheme fell under his party’s promise to provide social security. “Keeping Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy’s ideologies ahead of us…we are releasing this manifesto where we have made eight promises…the promise to provide social security is one of them…” Chowdhury said. While releasing her party’s manifesto last week, Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee had said if she was voted back to power, a monthly amount of Rs 500 (Rs 6,000 a year) to general category households and Rs 1,000 (Rs 12,000 a year) to SC/ST category households would be directly deposited in the bank accounts of the female heads of 1.6 crore families. The Congress scheme, however, is a conditional direct benefit transfer scheme for poor families which make up 20 per cent of the total households in the state, according to the Congress’s own estimates. It was Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who had first announced a UBI scheme before the 2019 general election. He promised that the scheme that pledged to provide Rs 72,000 annually to each family would benefit over 250 million of the poorest Indians. In the Economic Survey of India 2016-17, a UBI scheme has also been advocated as an alternative to various social welfare schemes meant to eradicate poverty. Congress, which is contesting the Assembly polls in alliance with the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front, has repeatedly attacked the Trinamul government for allegedly failing to maintain law and order in the state. Hence, it promises to establish rule of law and ensure security of women in the manifesto. The manifesto iterates that three contentious farm laws will not be implemented in Bengal and promises to double farm income through various means. Congress also promises to focus on expansion of industrialisation, setting up a politics-free educational environment, strengthening the state’s healthcare infrastructure, ensure arsenic-free drinking water and stop soil erosion in the districts of Malda and Murshidabad. Taking a dig at Mamata’s “outsider” against “insider” theory, Congress manifesto states that people from several parts of India have come and lived here. They have become a part of Bengal’s culture. The manifesto vows to protect the cultural diversity in Bengal. Promising that it would bring Bengal out of the “politics of dole”, the Congress in its manifesto says: “Bengal experienced the maximum stable development during the reign of Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy. We want to bring back the Bengal of Dr. Bidhan Roy’s dreams.” However, the issue of CAA is conspicuously missing from Congress’ manifesto for Bengal, being dubbed as Banglar Disha (the Way for Bengal) by the party. The absence of such an issue from the manifesto gains importance at a time when Congress leaders have been regularly saying that the contentious citizenship matrix will not be implemented in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP candidate at rebel’s home to stop nomination||The BJP candidate for Uttarpara Assembly seat on Monday went to a dissident’s house to prevent her from filing nomination as an Independent. Although the efforts did yield desired result at Uttar­pa­ra, problems persisted in several other seats across the state. Krishna Bhattacharya had decided to contest as an Independent as she was upset with the nomination of Trinamul turncoat Prabir Ghoshal. “About 9.45 in the morning, Prabirda came to my house with his men and requested me not to file my nomination. He stayed back for almost two hours till past 12 in the afternoon,” Bhattacharya said. “I almost felt gheraoed in at own house,” she added. Not only Ghoshal, the pa­rty’s Serampore organisational district president Shyamal Bose had called Bhattacharya on Monday morning to persuade her from going ahead with the nomination. Later, wh­en Bhattacharya we­nt to the local court for a personal wo­rk, she found representati­v­­es of the party’s national le­adership waiting for her there. “A close aide to UP’s de­puty chief minister Keshav Pr­asad Maurya was there. Mauryaji himself spoke to me on phone and asked me not to go ag­ainst the party,” Bhattac­harya said. By day fall, the cumulative efforts of the party bore fruit. Bhattacharya, along with BJP leader Shyamal Bose, told the press that she would not contest as an Indepe­nde­nt. “Krishnadi is with us. I’ve spoken to her, Prabirda had gone to her house, even national leaders called her up because she is an important person |for us,” Bose told The Telegraph. While the party has been able to suppress a possible dissidence in Uttarpara, all is not quite well in the Matua front for them. Party MP and Matua Mahasangha chief Shantanu Thakur is apparently unhappy over the party’s decision to overlook his choices while fie­lding candidates in 30 Matua dominated assemblies. On Sunday night, Shanta­nu called upon Union home minister Amit Shah — who was in Calcutta for the release of the party’s manifesto — and requested him to let him decide the candidates for Bagda, Gaighata and Bongan North. “If Shantanu doesn’t get candidates of his own choice, his hold in the party and the community loosens. He doesn’t want that,” a BJP source said. “Amitji has asked him to contest himself in one of the seats. But he is unwilling to do so. He wants to field his brother, father and wife from each of these seats,” this source added. Manjul Krishna Thakur, Shantanu’s father, met the press on Sunday and said the BJP had deprived the Matuas. “We had organised several massive rallies under the leadership of MP Shantanu Thakur. Lakhs of Matua members participated in these rallies. Why will our people still remain deprived?” Manjul Krishna had asked. Bengal BJP’s Scheduled Caste Morcha president and Congress turncoat Dulal Bar is the sitting MLA from Bagda. It is unlikely that he will be replaced for the sake of Shantanu, BJP sources added. In Hooghly’s Chandernagore, a dissident leader and former secretary of BJP’s state unit Tandra Bhattacharya has filed nomination as an independent candidate on Monday. The party’s official candidate for the seat is RSS backed Deepanjan Guha. However, a section of local party leaders termed Guha was an “outsider” and wanted him replaced. Posters alleging that BJP’s Galsi candidate Tapan Bagdi is an accused in a rape case were put up in East Burdwan’s Panagarh and Budbud on Monday. Bagdi, however, saw a Trinamul hand behind these posters. Reacting to these allegations, Trinamul sources in Burdwan claimed that this was another example of the ongoing conflict between old and new BJP leaders over distribution of tickets. Several agitators gathered in front of the BJP’s election office in Calcutta’s Hastings demanding the removal of the party’s official candidate from Calcutta Port seat, Awad Kishore Gupta. In Birbhum’s Murarai, a group of BJP old-timers agitated demanding the replacement of the party’s candidate from that seat. If protest by party supporters was not enough for the saffron camp, Trinamul supporters agitated in front of Union minister and BJP’s Tollygunge candidate Babul Supriyo’s car when he reached the South 24 Parganas DM’s office in Alipore to file his nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee drills holes into BJP poll promises||Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi had fulfilled his 2014 promise of depositing Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of each Indian. The Trinamul Congress chief threw the question at the audience in three back-to-back public meetings as she tried to convince people that the BJP’s poll promises remained only on paper. “I will ask those who voted for the BJP earlier whether they received Rs 15 lakh in their accounts as per their promise? Then, why will you vote for the BJP? They deliver sweet words before elections, they promise to give rice, pulses, jobs and everything. After the election, they just vanish,” Mamata said while addressing her second rally in Bankura’s Katulpur on Monday afternoon. Drilling holes into the BJP’s manifesto — or Sankalpa Patra as mentioned by Union home minister Amit Shah while he released it on Sunday — was the main theme of all the three addresses Mamata delivered in Bankura on Monday as she led the Trinamul campaign to recover the ground the party had lost to the BJP in the Jungle Mahal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In its manifesto, the BJP has promised several schemes for women, including 33 per cent reservation for women in all government jobs in the state and free travel in public transport. “It is just a false assurance that the BJP will secure 33 per cent jobs for women. They have promised only 33 per cent reservation for women whereas our government ensured 50 per cent reservation in rural bodies and municipalities. Our party is the only political party which gives 40 per cent reservation for the women members in Parliament. I will empower my mothers and sisters with a lot of projects,” Mamata said in Katulpur. The fact that the saffron camp has done little for women empowerment is evident from the fact that such reservation for women doesn’t exist at the Centre or in any of the 17 states where it is in power, either exclusively or in alliance. Mamata’s doubts about the veracity of the BJP’s pledges were echoed by the Left parties, especially the CPM, which ridiculed the BJP’s promise of employment to at least one person in each family in five years. Citing the example of neighbouring Tripura, where the Left Front ruled before the BJP came to power in 2018, CPM leaders said the BJP had promised 50,000 government jobs in the first year itself in the northeastern state. “Three years down the line, the BJP is now planning to do away with government jobs altogether. It has planned to hire people as and when required from private agencies," a CPM leader said. The fact that the unemployment in the country has worsened under the BJP rule has been established by available data in public domain as there has been record joblessness under the Modi regime. The BJP’s another big bang promise — implementation of the 7th Pay Commission in Bengal — can also be questioned by looking at the Tripura experience where the BJP government has not paid the promised dearness allowance to government employees and the arrears are only mounting with each passing month. The Sankalp Patra’s promise of hiking stipend to windows from Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000 is unlikely to evoke much interest as the widows in Tripura get Rs 1,000 a month even three years after voting the BJP, which had promised to raise it from Rs 700 to Rs 2,000 after coming to power. “The BJP manifesto is like an audio cassette, which you will only hear, but cannot see,” said Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. Mamata, from her Bankura rallies, also accused the BJP of copying her call of poriborton and including schemes in the manifesto, which were already present in the state. “Porborton is my slogan. They are copying it,” she said. Mamata also criticised the BJP for its promise to implement Citizenship Amendment Act in Bengal, a promise the BJP has not made in poll-bound Assam before launching an attack on the BJP for trying to divide the country in the name of National Register of Citizens and National Population Register, which she has been opposing. “I will request my brothers and sisters to ask those who live outside the state to come and cast his or her vote here. Otherwise, the BJP will use the NRC and the NPR to remove their names from the list just like what they did with 14 lakh people in Assam. I will not allow the NPR or the NRC till my last breathe,” Mamata said. She also said the BJP’s promises about refugee rehabilitation schemes didn’t mean anything. “They are saying about refugee welfare and colonies. We have already given citizenships to all and you don’t need to dig soil in it,” she said. The fact that the BJP manifesto, which has large sections on PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and claims on free education to the children of small, marginalised and landless farmers, is silent about the three contentious farms bills has also drawn criticism from the opposition parties in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Blast kills 6-year-old boy, Election Commission seeks report||A six-year-old boy was killed and his eight-year-old cousin seriously injured when a crude bomb they appa­rently mistook as a ball expl­oded at Rasikpur in Burdwan town on Monday afternoon. Sources said the Election Commission had sought a detailed report from both district and state administration within 48 hours with a note of action taken against those who had kept the bomb openly. Police sources said Sheikh Afroz was killed and Sheikh Ibrahim seriously injured after they picked up a bomb reportedly kept near the office of a welfare society in Rasikpur. Afroz, son of car driver Sh­eikh Bablu, lived in Rasikpur, while his cousin Ibrahim had come from Memari, 28km aw­ay, to spend a few days at his maternal uncle’s home. Ibra­him has been admitted to Burdwan Medical College and Hospital with multiple splinter injuries to the leg, chest and other parts of his body. After primary investigation, police sources said the bo­mb had been kept in an earthen pot that was hidden at a small hell strip. The boys took out the bomb and threw it on the road and it exploded with a bang. “I don’t know how the bo­mb came there. I don’t know who had kept the bomb that claimed my son’s life. I want punishment for them,” said Sheikh Bablu. “It was very pathetic that a boy got killed and another has been injured. We have already asked the forensic department and squads that handle bombs and explosives to inquire into the matter. The area has been cordoned off and I have visited the spot with senior officers. We have started questioning local residents to know how the bomb came there,” said Bh­askar Mukherjee, East Bu­r­­dwan police chief. At her rally in Bankura’s Indus, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “I always help those in trouble and in accidents. If the house of anybody is burnt, I am the first to take care of this. Today I heard about the bomb explosion in Burdwan in which a child became the victim. Despite my campaign he­re, I asked to take care of the family and the matter.” BJP leaders have accused the state government of maki­ng different clubs and local societies storerooms to stockpile bombs and arms. “It is pat­h­e­t­ic that a child has to lose his li­fe because of negligence of ad­­­m­i­nistration and governm­e­nt. It is not new but an example of how the ruling party is stockpiling explosives, bombs and arms to attack on rivals in co­m­ing polls. We want a stern ac­t­­ion from the election com­m­­i­s­s­ion,” said Abhijit Tah, BJP pr­esident of East Burdwan. Trinamul leaders, however, said it was the Election Commission that was looking after the state’s law and order and raised questions about activities of a large number of central forces. “We are really sorry for the death of a child but the Election Commission can’t deny its responsibility. I have a question about the role of the central forces. Let the commission find the culprits and take action against them,” said Debu Tudu, a Trinamul spokesperson in Burdwan said. CPM leaders said the incident proved that the state was standing on the heap of explosives and established the negligence to seize arms and bombs across the state. “It is not only Burdwan but the death of a child proved that Bengal is standing on a heap of explosives. The large number of central forces which have been brought for free and fair election should conduct sear­ches for such explosives with help of police,” said Amal Haldar, CPM leader and the state secretary of All India Kisan Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Officials to helm five municipal corporations||The Bengal government has appointed Khalil Ahmad and Surendra Gupta as the administrators of the civic bodies in Calcutta and Siliguri, respectively, in the wake of a directive from the Election Commission to place officials at the helm of five municipal corporations in the state. Ahmad, who is picked to run the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, is the urban development secretary. Gupta is the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration secretary and will take charge as the administrator of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation The EC had on Saturday asked the chief secretary to appoint government officials as the administrators replacing political persons at five municipal corporations — Calcutta, Bidhannagar, Siliguri, Chandernagore and Asansol. “We have appointed government officers as administrators at five municipal corporations where political leaders were the chairpersons of board of administrators. A compliance report had been sent to the EC by 10am today (Monday),” said a senior government official. The outgoing mayors of the municipal corporations had been appointed to head the boards of administrators after the expiry of five-year tenure of the elected boards in the past one year or so. The BJP had lodged complaints with the EC saying the civic body offices were being used as extended offices of the ruling party. The Trinamul Congress said the outgoing mayors were given the responsibilities to run the bodies as the government wanted a continuity in the backdrop of Covid-19 as elections could not be held because of the pandemic. “We did not discriminate against any party and that was why the CPM’s Asok Bhattacharya was appointed as the chairman of the board of administrator in Siliguri,” said a Trinamul insider. Sources said in case of Calcutta and Siliguri, two senior IAS officers had been posted considering that those two civic bodies needed special attention. At the three other municipal corporations of Bidhannagar, Chandernagore and Asansol, existing municipal commissioners have been appointed as the administrators. “At these three civic bodies, the commissioners can run the daily activities. But in Calcutta and Siliguri, two senior officers were posted as these are large bodies and need special attention. The two senior officers would be able to run the daily activities with the support of the commissioners,” said a source. The decision to appoint Ahmad as the administrator of the CMC was taken as the ruling establishment didn’t take any risk with the services of the CMC. If the services of the CMC get disrupted, it could affect the poll prospects of the ruling party, sources said. “Khalil had been the commissioner of the CMC for eight years. He knows every function of the civic body. His experience will help run the daily activities smoothly in the city,” said a source. As there was no clear instruction to remove political persons from the post of chairman of the board of administrators at 100-odd municipalities, the state did not appoint government officers as administrators at those civic bodies. “The DMs have been asked to send daily reports on the decisions taken by these civic bodies to the chief secretary for review. The EC has asked the chief secretary to ensure level playing field by reviewing decisions of these civic bodies,” said an official. The sources said since the model code of conduct was in place, the civic bodies couldn’t take any new decision or launch projects. “But still, daily reports have been sought to ensure that nothing wrong is done at these civic bodies,” said an official. Ban on bike rallies The EC has imposed a ban on motorcycle rallies 72 hours prior to the day of voting, citing such programmes are being organised to intimidate voters. The sources also said the EC had made it clear police officers involved in the activities of police welfare boards should be kept out of poll-related duties. “The BJP was repeatedly complaining that a section of police officers was trying to manipulate postal ballots of policemen through the police welfare board. It appears the EC has taken the complaint seriously,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||New exhibits pull crowd to North Bengal Science Centre||Three new attractions — a fighter aircraft, an energy drum and a magic water tap — which have recently been installed at the North Bengal Science Centre (NBSC), located on the outskirts of Siliguri, are drawing crowds of different age groups at the centre. Among these exhibits,  a HPT-32 “Deepak” aircraft and an energy drum were introduced at the centre on the occasion of National Science Day on February 28 this year. The third is a giant magic water tap that was inaugurated on Monday on the occasion of World Water Day. According to sources in the science centre, India’s indigenous Hindustan Piston Trainer HPT-32 aircraft is used for initial pilot training and other utility tasks. Christened as “Deepak”, the aircraft was developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for the Indian Air Force (IAF) to undertake a range of other utility roles like armed patrol, observation, liaison work, supply dropping, recon, target-towing and weapon training and light strike. The HAL made Deepak first flew in 1981 and it was delivered to the IAF training command in 1984 for formal instructions in basic flying. Notably, many of the top IAF officers have been trained on HPT-32s, which were grounded in 2009. “The aircraft has been donated for display purposes to this centre by the Indian Air Force,” said a source in the science centre. The second exhibit energy drum is equally attractive. Ritabrata Biswas, the project coordinator of the NBSC, said: “Get into the drum and start walking, the drum begins to rotate in the opposite direction you walk. As you walk faster, the speed of the drum increases. The forces of action and reaction in this exhibit are subjects of Newton’s third law of motion.” “The energy produced by the rotation of the drum is used to pump water in a fountain. A new science demonstration lecture (SDL) on light and colour has also been launched on the National Science Day,” he added. The installation of magic water tap has been made to underscore the importance of freshwater conservation. “The tap is fitted to a transparent tube through which water is pumped up and it falls down uniformly from the top end of the tube. The tube wall material is transparent…. Hence, the water that is pumped up, is not visible,” said a source. Biswas also mentioned that the centre that had closed down because of the Covid-induced lockdown and was reopened in November last year is drawing a considerable number of visitors these days. “These new attractions are drawing a good number of visitors. Since November last year, we have witnessed a footfall of over 90,000 visitors,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
