24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief asks Mamata to wear bermudas, sparks outrage||A video of BJP state president Dilip Ghosh apparently suggesting West Bengal Chief Minister should wear bermuda shorts to display her injured leg has triggered controversy with the ruling TMC slamming it as a "distasteful comment" and women expressing outrage over the remark in social media. While no one was named in the purported speech by Ghosh, known for his controversial comments in the past, most commentators took the comments to be directed at Banerjee. In the video, veracity of which could not be confirmed by us, Ghosh was seen stating at an election meeting in Purulia on Monday that after the cast was taken off and the foot was bandaged, she is displaying the leg to everyone. "....she is wearing saree with one leg covered but kept another kept open for viewing. Haven't seen anyone draping a saree in such a way. "If she has to display her leg for viewing, she can very well wear bermuda shorts. That will help to have a better view," the BJP MP was purportedly heard stating. Sharply reacting to the purported comment by the BJP leader, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) said in a twitter post in Bengali, "We can expect such distasteful comments only from Dilip Ghosh. "His deplorable comments about a woman chief minister proves Bengal BJP leaders don't know how to show respect to women. "Mothers and sisters of Bengal will give a befitting reply to such insults to Mamata Banerjee on May 2." Trinamool Congress MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said in a tweet, "It now appears that the role of @BJP4Bengal State President has been merely reduced to that of venom-spitting. From scathing attacks towards the CM of Bengal to violence towards @AITCofficial workers - he has conveniently crossed all limits.Shocking words, once again!" TMC MP Mahua Moitra's tweet on Dilip Ghosh's remark said "@BJP WB Pres asks in public meeting why Mamatadi is wearing a saree, she should be wearing Bermuda shorts to display her leg better. And these perverted ... (people) think they are going to win Bengal?" BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya told PTI, there was no need to create a controversy over the remark. "I think such comments should not be taken seriously. The chief minister makes many intemperate remarks against the BJP and our leaders at public meetings. Dilip Ghosh is a generous person. Even if he made such a comment at a rally, it has to be kept in mind that many things are said at election meetings which should not be always considered seriously. "Ghosh has great respect for the chief minister. So no controversy should be created," Bhattacharya said. Ghosh who was campaigning in Purulia district on Tuesday could not be reached for his reaction. The BJP state president has earlier been in the midst of controversies for his comments which ranged from claims that `desi' (Indian) cows milk have gold content to demands that Balakot-like surgical strikes be carried out on Jadavpur university to drive out communists. His purported comment triggered protest in Facebook too with some women expressing outrage. "Dear Dilipda. If men can go out in public in bermuda shorts baring their legs, women hope you shouldn't have any issue with them wearing bermudas as well. "It is very comfortable for both genders. And certainly the CM can wear it if she wishes," Chaitali Biswas, a Facebook user, posted in her timeline inviting many likes. The chief minister sustained injuries on her left leg, hip, forearm, neck and shoulder at an incident in Nandigram soon after filing her nomination papers on March 10. She had alleged that the BJP hatched a conspiracy to prevent her from campaigning by organising an attack, a charge denied by the saffron camp. The Election Commission had concluded that the chief minister had suffered injuries following an accident, due to a security lapse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||In Bengal, a son of the soil will be BJP’s chief minister, vows Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee traded barbs and a rollout of promises on Wednesday, three days before the first day of polling in Bengal with Modi promising to anoint as CM a “son of the soil”, a phrase the two leading rival campaigners have been splitting hairs over lately. In the 176km between East Midnapore’s Contai, where the Prime Minister had his only rally in the state on Wednesday, and Bishnupur in Bankura district, where Mamata had her first campaign for the day, the vitriol flew thick and fast. Modi spoke about corruption during the Amphan cyclone relief and the syndicates thriving in Bengal under the Trinamul’s patronage and Mamata referred to crony capitalism and the ruling BJP’s stoking the communal fire, before calling each other liars. “She is telling lies one after the other to humiliate Nandigram before the entire country. She is insulting the people of Nandigram, which gave so much to her,” Modi said in his speech. On March 10, while campaigning in Nandigram, Mamata had sustained injuries and since then has addressed all her rallies from the dais sitting on a wheelchair. Modi did not make any direct comment on her injury. About 30 minutes after Modi was on his way to Assam’s Bihpuria, Mamata returned the barb in Bishnupur. “I have not seen a bigger liar than Modi,” she said. “We do what we say, while they make a lot of promises but do not keep even one. Has anyone of you received the Rs 15 lakh?” Modi reminded his party supporters, if the BJP was voted to power, a son of the soil would become the chief minister. He did not stop with that promise to counter Mamata’s “outsider” charge, instead named Bengal’s favourite sons like Rabindranath Tagore and Subhas Chandra Bose, Midnapore icons like Khudiram Bose and Matangini Hazra to hit at Mamata. “Bengal gave Vande Mataram to the country. Gurudev (Rabindranath Tagore) wrote, what we say everyday, Punjab Sindh Gujarat Maratha Dravid Utkal Banga, how can any Indian be outsider? We are being called tourists and insulted daily.” Mamata clarified in Bishnupur, that her comment was not for people from other parts of the country who reside in Bengal. “Goons are coming from Uttar Pradesh before the elections, chewing paan masala and damaging the culture of Bengal. These are the outsiders,” she said. She also referred to another BJP-ruled state, Tripura to emphasise that BJP’s promissory notes were not to be trusted. “What have you done in Tripura? There is no provident fund, no gratuity. Group-D employees have been outsourced to private agencies. Teachers have been sacked,” Mamata said. Earlier in his speech, Modi had referred to the neighbouring state of Assam, as a benchmark of development under the NDA to push his theory of “double-engine” government, the same party ruling at the Centre and the states. “Look at Assam. Earlier we would hear only about killings in Assam. Our government was formed five years ago and since then there is peace and development projects are being carried out. But here in Bengal, only echoes of guns and bombs can be heard,” he said. Without alluding to the Prime Minister’s claims, Mamata reminded the audience how she had brought peace to Junglemahal. The geographical area where Modi campaigned on Wednesday had turned into a stronghold of the Trinamul, courtesy the Adhikary family. From 2001 onwards, the Contai South seat has been a fied of the Adhikarys, with the father Sisir and his two sons Suvendu and Dibyendu having represented it in the Bengal Assembly. The adjoining Contai North, has swayed between the CPM and the Trinamul Congress in recent polls. In this election season the spotlight however is on neighbouring Nandigram where Mamata faces the son-of-the-East Midnapore-soil Suvendu and a 30-year-old Marxist woman, fielded by the CPM with the Congress support.  Bishnupur, which was once a Red-stronghold has since turned hands from the Trinamul to the BJP in recent times. Though the Prime Minister has yet to have any dialogue with farmers protesting outside the national capital for more than 100 days, he promised that the betel-leaf, cashew, paddy, jute and potato producers of East Midnapore would benefit from central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi. Mamata promised more doles like credit cards for students, delivering free ration at doorsteps, doubling the number of days in the 100 days employment scheme among others. (Contai North and Contai South go to polls on March 27, Bishnupur on April 1).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal|| Only those who create trouble before polls are outsiders for TMC, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday claimed that her party considers only those people sent from other states to foment trouble before elections as outsiders and not those who have been living here for ages. While her party has labelled BJP leaders coming from other states for canvassing as outsiders, she said that those originally hailing from other parts of India but residing in Bengal for ages are not outsiders but her "own people". "Why should we label those living here for ages as outsiders? They are an integral part of our state. "We consider only those pan masala-chewing, tilak- sporting people sent from states like Uttar Pradesh to foment trouble in Bengal before elections as outsider goons. We will continue to call them as such," the TMC chief said. Lashing out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in the state to campaign for BJP candidates, Mamata said, "I have great respect for the PM's chair, but I am sorry to say that Modi is a big liar." "What happened to Modi's promise of crediting Rs 15 lakh to everyone's bank accounts? Why should an LPG cylinder cost Rs 900? Why is kerosene scarce? What is the fate of the Ujjwala scheme? "Why are Modi and (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah silent even as farmers are agitating out in the open for months? Why are iron nails being laid out at the farmers' protest site? Is Modi concerned only about a large industrial group and not agriculturists?" the feisty leader said. Claiming that the Centre's 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' scheme has been a non-starter, Mamata said, "I deliver what I promise but Modi fails to keep his promises." She cited the implementation of state government projects like Kanyashree, Sabuj Sathi and Swasthya Sathi to back her claims. Flaying the BJP for promising to constitute the seventh pay commission for state government employees if voted to power in Bengal, the chief minister said, "First answer why the PSUs are being closed down and at whose behest? You are rendering lakhs of people unemployed. People don't trust you."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Will make a ‘son of the soil’ the CM if voted to power, Modi says in Bengal||Bengal has brought together the nation through 'Vande Mataram', and on this land, CM Mamata Banerjee was terming people "bohiragoto", Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, announcing that if voted to power, a son of the soil will be made the BJP chief minister of the state. Addressing an election rally in Kanthi in the Purba Medinipur district, Modi said that Bengal was the land of icons like Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, Rabindranath Tagore and Subhas Chandra Bose and on this land, no Indian was an outsider. "Bengal brought together the people of India through Vande Mataram, and on that land, Mamata-didi is talking about 'bohiragoto' (outsider). No Indian is an outsider here, they are children of Bharat Mata," he said. "We are being called 'tourists', fun is being made of us, we are being insulted. Didi, people of Rabindranath's Bengal don't consider anybody outsider," Modi added. When the BJP forms government in Bengal, the chief minister will be a son of the soil, he said at the rally amid loud cheers from his supporters. Modi's comments came amid an "insider vs outsider" debate with Mamata asserting regularly that she won't allow Bengal to be ruled by "outsiders" from Delhi or Gujarat, in a reference to the BJP and the prime minister. The Trinamul Congress has even launched the 'Bangla Nijer Meyeke Chaye' (Bengal wants its own daughter) campaign, with party leaders calling BJP functionaries visiting the state as "election tourists". The prime minister said that Mamata insulted the people of Nandigram with false accusations, and people would give her a befitting reply. "You are maligning Nandigram and its people before the entire country. This is the same Nandigram that gave you so much. The people of Nandigram will not forgive you and will give you a befitting reply," he said, apparently referring to the March 10 incident in which the chief minister was injured. Modi said that BJP would make every scheme in the state scam-free and bring in transparency, hitting out at the TMC over 'cut money', 'tolabaji' (extortion) and ground-level corruption. "The relief for Amphan was looted through the 'bhaipo (nephew) window'," he alleged. The prime minister said that Mamata was talking about 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorstep), while she will be shown the door on May 2. The popular 'Duare Sarkar' programme was launched by Mamata’s government months ahead of the election, delivering services through special camps at neighbourhoods. The chief minister has also promised that she will ensure doorstep delivery of ration, if voted to power for the third time. The prime minister was campaigning in Kanthi, the hometown of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CM accuses BJP of buying off TMC's polling agents||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the BJP of trying to buy off her party’s polling agents and asked Trinamul workers and politicians to keep an eye on these agents. Her remark came amid huge seizures of money and liquor and an acknowledgement from Election Commission officials that much more cash was being “used” this election compared with earlier Bengal polls. “You (Trinamul leaders and workers) should closely watch whether the BJP has been buying off our party workers. I too am keeping an eye out,” Mamata said at a rally in Raghunathpur, Purulia. “They (the BJP) have been asking some of our booth agents (polling agents) to work for them on polling day in exchange for Rs 5 lakh. I will not let them.” Mamata’s allegation comes in the context of the seizure of Rs 23.52 crore in unaccounted cash across the state between February 26, when the model code of conduct came into force, and March 21. Liquor worth Rs 11.05 crore too has been seized. Officials said both figures were huge considering the Election Commission never saw Bengal as an “expenditure-sensitive” state. A poll panel source said: “As far as I can recall, a total of about Rs 9 crore was seized in the entire period ahead of the 2016 Assembly polls. It’s clear that much more money is being used this time.” Mamata also referred to a social media video that shows a candidate purportedly promising someone to take care of expenses a day before the polls. “This is their character,” she told a rally in the Para constituency in Purulia. “They come before the polls and seek votes by providing Rs 500, or Rs 1,000, or Rs 5,000. Don’t vote for money.” In the video, a man resembling Jhargram BJP candidate Sukhamay Satpathi is seen but it’s not clear who speaks the words. Satpathi denied the charge and accused the chief minister of playing “dirty politics”. “I went to a vegetable market in Jhargram for a poll campaign a few days ago. I never uttered such words. Maybe an outsider who was in the market said that. I never imagined that Mamata Banerjee would lie to malign me,” Satpathi said. Trinamul leaders in the Jungle Mahal districts claimed the BJP was “inundating” the remote areas with cash and bribes in the form of mobile phones and television sets to lure away Trinamul workers. Senior Trinamul leaders from Calcutta have directed the district leaderships of the constituencies that vote in the first two phases (March 27 and April 1) to build a network to monitor the party leaders and workers who have been appointed polling agents. “Didi is right. The BJP has already started abusing its money power here. We had been alerted earlier and assigned only the proven faithful workers as polling agents,” said Nabendu Mahali, a Trinamul general secretary and party spokesperson in Purulia. “We have set up a network to keep a watch on our party workers. We trust them, but the BJP is trying to win this election by hook or crook.” Trinamul had trailed from eight of Purulia district’s nine Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato of the BJP had won the parliamentary seat by more than 2 lakh votes. Across Jungle Mahal, Trinamul had trailed the BJP from 31 of the 40 Assembly segments. Sources said the police had seized around Rs 50 lakh in cash on Monday morning from a car in Purulia and handed the money over to the income-tax department. The Purulia district administration has now formed an all-women police flying squad to monitor the areas bordering Jharkhand, having been tipped off that political parties might use women cash couriers in the poll-bound districts. Mamata too has asked the police to beef up monitoring in the areas bordering Jharkhand, saying she has information that cars bearing Union government stickers are being used to distribute money in the region. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh asked: “How does she know? It’s her party that buys votes. She is being paranoid now, knowing she is going to lose.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Hindi target not being met, Centre tells India's oldest science research institute||The Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, India’s oldest science research institute where the Raman Effect was discovered, has been told that it is not doing enough to meet the Hindi language targets set by the Centre. “It is to be noted that after reviewing the official language activities in the institute, it has been observed that the institute is not yielding the desired results in achieving the official language targets as given by the Government of India, ministry of home affairs, department of official language. We have received an adverse letter issued by DST (the department of science and technology). This is a very worrying situation,” said a circular issued by the acting registrar of the Indian Association on March 19. The circular was sent to the director, deans, Chairs, heads of schools and some other sections at the institute. The circular added: “It is also for your kind information that a Hindi officer has already been appointed in the institute. He may be contacted for any help regarding the implementation of the official language Hindi.” Sections of scientists from several institutions expressed outrage at the attempt to harass one of Bengal’s most respected institutions in the name of the official language. When The Telegraph sought a response on Tuesday, the association’s acting registrar, Purbasha Banerjee, said the March 19 circular stood superseded. The revised circular issued on March 23 reads: “DST… conveyed inadequacy in implementing official language at IACS. Individuals are requested to make a note of the same and approach the part-time Hindi officer of the institute for any help and assistance if needed.” A teacher at the institute wondered whether the earlier circular had indeed been superseded or merely couched in a less accusatory tone. The Centre is known for “encouraging” the use of the official language, often drawing charges of a cultural imposition. But academics at the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science and elsewhere said they could not recall an instance in recent memory when they had been blamed and then compelled to achieve the language targets. “The institute was created for the cultivation of science by Dr Mahendra Lal Sircar, not for the cultivation of Hindi as official language,” said Sabyasachi Sengupta, a former professor of electrical engineering at IIT Kharagpur who was associated with the Paschimbanga Vigyan Mancha. Sircar was a renowned physician, a social reformer and an ardent propagator of science education and research. On July 29, 1876, the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science was founded in a house taken on lease at the intersection of College Street and Bowbazar Street (the institute is now located in Jadavpur). Sircar was the secretary of the institute till his death. The second doctor of medicine (MD) from Calcutta University, Sircar frequently gave lectures on subjects like electricity, magnetism, heat, light and sound. Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose, Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray, Chunilal Basu and several other luminaries were regular speakers at Cultivation of Science at Sircar’s request. Some of the points listed by the “superseded” March 19 circular that was shared with the heads of departments were: ⚫ 55 per cent of the total correspondence should be in Hindi. ⚫ Letters received in Hindi must be answered in Hindi. ⚫ 33 per cent of file notings must be made in Hindi. ⚫ The names of the files should be bilingual (Hindi and English). They should be written in Hindi first and then in English. ⚫ The entries in the service books should be made in Hindi as far as possible. ⚫ During official work, signatures on the files may be written in Hindi, as and when required. ⚫ At the end of every quarter, each department should arrange to provide quarterly progress reports, with seal and signature, to the Hindi cell by the fifth of the following month. The circular added: “All are requested that the points stated above may be given special attention so that the institute can be saved from unpleasant situations at the time of official language inspection being carried out by the department of Official language, Kolkata/DST, New Delhi, in near future.” Veteran scientist Bikash Sinha said “it is a matter of deep regret” that an institution founded by Sircar was now talking about the neglect of Hindi instead of discussing science. “Today they are saying correspondence should be made in Hindi. Tomorrow they will issue an order asking teachers to deliver class lectures in Hindi. This may serve the purpose of those who love to impose Hindi at any cost as part of their political agenda but this will make an institute of higher learning more inward-looking and regressive as a result. An institute of higher learning cannot progress without English,” Sinha told The Telegraph. Sinha, former director of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, added that the erstwhile Left Front government of Bengal had done “permanent damage to a generation of students by promoting Bengali over English” at the primary school level. “Now by promoting Hindi over English, damage of a worse kind will be done,” said Sinha. Calls and messages to the institute’s director, Shantanu Bhattacharya, did not elicit any response. The institute was conceived and planned “in the backdrop of the great cultural and intellectual awakening of the nineteenth century Bengal and was desired by its founder to be an institution ‘solely native and purely national’”. C.V. Raman initiated serious research in the IACS as a part-time worker, while carrying out his duties in the Accountant General's office in Calcutta. The Raman Effect was discovered at the institute in 1928 and led to a Nobel Prize for Raman in 1930. The institute’s website says: “Till the early decades of this century the Association was the only place in India where higher research in Physical Sciences could be carried out. As a result, students from all over India began assembling at Calcutta to work in the creative atmosphere of the Association.” Bidhan Chandra Roy played a key role in providing land for the new campus in Jadavpur through a Bengal government gazette notification on November 20, 1947.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Mohanpur road blocked over school affiliation||Nearly 400 students of Garden High School-IISER, and their parents, blocked the entrance of the IISER-Calcutta campus in Mohanpur on Tuesday over the alleged inaction of school authorities on CBSE affiliation. Students and their parents blocked the NH12-Kalyani connector for about an hour and entered the campus for a heated verbal exchange with IISER director Sourav Pal, who accused parents of “manhandling” him. Haringhata police controlled the situation. The parents continued the protest and accused Pal of being “inhuman”. IISER director Pal said: “The matter is sub judice. But the parents were apparently forcing me for a resolution right here....They attacked me. I on my part, I have written to the (education) ministry, submitted an affidavit....Now the ministry and CBSE must decide.” Row over the school’s affiliation started in 2019 when the CBSE rejected its affiliation plea. In 2015, IISER-C chose the Satikanta Guha Foundation (SGF) to set up and manage a school on its campus. CBSE rejected the affiliation on the grounds that it had no wall and the NOC issued by the IISER-C was not vetted by the ministry. It prompted the SGF to move Calcutta High Court last August. On March 8, the HC directed the ministry to reconsider a provisional affiliation for the school in consultation with CBSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Sheikh Hasina goes global, Narendra Modi local||A tale of contrasts is unfolding not far from poll-bound Bengal — while Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina is earning respect for seamlessly taking a domestic celebration to international heights amid a pandemic, Narendra Modi will be crossing the border with an apparent eye on a state election. Hasina will receive Modi at Dhaka this Friday after having hosted several heads of state like President of the Maldives Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Nepalese President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Bhutanese Prime Minister Lotay Tshering over the past five days. The world leaders are guests at the Bangladesh government’s celebration of the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the Liberation War that created Bangladesh. Although there are several pending bilateral issues — ranging from an agreement on Teesta water-sharing to expanding the scope of trade — between the two countries, the Indian Prime Minister’s visit to Bangladesh has not sparked any expectations in the neighbouring country. On the contrary, expectations are high on this side of the border as Modi’s party is locked in a crucial battle with Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul for the seat of power in Bengal. The BJP is hoping to reap political dividends from Modi’s Bangladesh trip, especially in the context of the crucial Matua vote bank back home. Modi will be the guest of honour during the National Day programme on March 26. On Day One of his trip, he will also hold meetings with Hasina, Bangladesh President Mohammed Abdul Hamid and foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen. It is the Day Two itinerary that appears to hold the kernel of the Indian Prime Minister’s trip to Bangladesh. Modi will be visiting temples, travelling outside Dhaka to visit the Jeshoreshwari Kali temple at Satkhira and also offer prayers at a temple in Orakandi, a sacred place of worship for the Matuas on both sides of the border. “Anyone can understand that the Prime Minister is going to Bangladesh to visit temples, which will not only facilitate the BJP’s polarisation agenda along religious lines but will also woo the Matuas,” a retired Indian diplomat said. The Matuas, lower caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, play a key role in deciding the poll outcome in 30-odd Assembly seats in North 24-Parganas and Nadia. Although the community had voted en-masse for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, sections within the community are now sulking because of the delay in the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act as promised by the party. “The Prime Minister’s proposed visit to Orakandi, which is a sacred pilgrimage for us, will really help us politically in the Assembly polls,” said Subrata Thakur, a Matua leader and the BJP nominee for the Gaighata seat in North 24-Parganas. Subrata’s brother Shantanu, the BJP MP from Bongaon and the president of the All India Matua Mahasangha, and a few other members of the family who are descendents of Harichand Thakur, the founder of the Matua sect, will accompany Modi during his temple trips in Bangladesh. “With his visit to Orakandi, the Prime Minister will send out a message that he is with the Matua community,” added Subrata. The fact that Modi’s trip to Bangladesh has not created the usual buzz is clear from the coverage in the local media. Unlike in the past, there are no discussions on what the trip would yield for Bangladesh. The gracious hosts in Bangladesh are not talking openly about their lack of expectations — there are no bilateral meetings lined up during the trip — but in private some are saying they are aware of the reasons behind Modi’s visit against the backdrop of the elections in Bengal. This departure from the usual dynamics of an Indian Prime Minister’s visit to Bangladesh is defining the tale of the two leaders from the sub-continent. “Despite the pandemic, Hasina has managed to expand the scope of the celebrations in the country and got so many leaders to Dhaka…. This has indeed raised her stature,” said a retired Bangladeshi diplomat. “Our Prime Minister has also done a remarkable job by ensuring social distancing at the highest level by staggering the visits of the heads of state,” the ex-diplomat added. The strict physical distancing protocol that the Bangladesh government is maintaining — the guest list for the National Day programme has also been selective — is not the only good news for Modi. Despite overtures from Pakistan, which is trying to court Hasina, none from Islamabad has been invited to the 10-day celebrations. “I can’t predict what will transpire between the two Prime Ministers when they meet, but I strongly think that India should take advantage of the visit to come up with something more concrete on the highly sensitive issue of water-sharing…. Simple promises of solutions will not be enough as we have been waiting for a breakthrough for around a decade,” said the former Bangladeshi diplomat. A former Indian diplomat, however, said New Delhi couldn’t probably have asked for bilateral meetings when the Prime Minister had been invited to take part in the celebrations. He also questioned the perception that Modi’s visit is linked to the Bengal elections. “I think that the Prime Minister is trying to give some confidence to the Hindu community in Bangladesh as they are often under attack from fundamentalist forces.… This attempt to boost the morale of the Hindus in Bangladesh is a welcome step,” said the former diplomat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Shah, Didi trade barbs on Amphan relief||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday alleged “nephew and company” had looted the funds sent by the Centre for Cyclone Amphan relief in Bengal, but chief minister Mamata Banerjee retorted that no financial assistance had arrived from Delhi. “Modiji is sending a lot of money. Amphan had come, right... Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) had sent Rs 10,000 crore, did you get anything? Where did the money go? This nephew and company have usurped it,” Shah told a rally at Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. Gosaba is in the Sunderbans which bore the brunt of Amphan which struck the state in May last year. Shah’s attack was apparently directed at Abhishek Banerjee, Mamata’s nephew and a Trinamul Congress MP, whom, Shah claimed, the chief minister wants to make her successor. Debunking Shah’s allegations, Mamata said the Centre had sent no money to assist the state after the cyclone had wreaked havoc in south Bengal. “I heard (he) said in Gosaba that they had given money during Amphan. They haven’t given a single penny… (They are) a bunch of liars, a bunch of robbers, a bunch of slanders, a bunch of Duryodhans and Dushasans,” Mamata said at a poll rally in Purulia’s Raghunathpur. Mamata’s claims were echoed by Trinamul leader and minister Firhad Hakim, who elaborated that an initial sum of Rs 1,000 crore had been despatched by the Centre. However, the state’s demand was of Rs 6,000 crore and nothing was sent thereafter. BJP sources said to speak on Amphan was a strategic choice of Shah since he was addressing a Muslim-dominated, cyclone-prone electorate. Shah’s words showed how desperate he was to make inroads into South 24-Parganas district, which has around 35 per cent Muslim voters and is a stronghold of Trinamul. “If we go by the Lok Sabha poll results, southern part of Bengal, especially South 24-Parganas, is our weakest point. This is mostly because it has a high density of Muslim population,” a state BJP office-bearer said. “Hence, Amitji quite tactfully refrained from the narrative of appeasement and polarisation in his speech at Gosaba. He rather focussed on highlighting misappropriation of Amphan funds,” the BJP leader added. Trinamul had won the Gosaba Assembly seat in 2016 by securing 51.24 per cent of votes. In 2019, Trinamul won the Joynagar Lok Sabha seat, of which Gosaba is one of the Assembly constituencies, with a vote share of 56.13 per cent. “Don’t worry, the BJP (government) will send everyone, who stole every penny of the funds Modiji had sent, to jail by forming an SIT,” Shah said at the rally. He reiterated the promises in the BJP’s manifesto, including turning the Gangasagar Mela into an international event, setting up of Sunderbans Development Board, construction of multiple bridges, allocation of Rs 6,500 crore over five years to complete development in cyclone-prone areas, and providing Rs 6,000 annual assistance to Bengal’s fishermen. The BJP heavyweight said the Sunderbans would be declared a separate district within a year if the BJP was voted to power. “I promise that...It is the promise of Narendra Modi...the next time I come to seek votes, all our promises will be fulfilled, trust me...Whatever promises the BJP has made across the nation, we have fulfilled them...” Shah said. On the other hand, Mamata claimed Shah’s poll promises were full of lies and were never meant to be fulfilled. “They are saying that they will give jobs…bring the manifesto of Assam, bring the manifesto of Tripura…they have laid off 1,000 teachers…they have privatised seven public entities,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Congress rift deepens over seats, names||Congress workers are not on the same page with ally Left on seat-sharing in Murshidabad and are protesting against the party’s own candidate list in Malda. In Murshidabad, the Congress and the Left were to field nominees in 17 and five seats, but in two of 22 seats, the alliance has come unstuck over political differences. Samserganj will see nominees from both allies. Nowda will see a Congress nominee and a Left-backed Independent candidate. In Malda, Congress workers have demanded that candidates of Ratua and Mothabari seats be replaced. In Murshidabad, the Left had fielded Modassar Hossain in Samserganj seat that it had won in 2016. However, sources said local Congress leaders opined that as their party had secured a lead in the Assembly segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, they would field their candidate Rezaul Haque. “As of now, both sides have started their campaign. Talks are on (for a truce) but none of the parties is ready to back off,” said a Congress insider. In Nowda, the Congress fielded Mosharraf Hossain Mondal, the sabhadhipati of Trinamul-run Murshidabad Zilla Parishad. A few weeks back, Mondal joined the Congress but is yet to resign from the sabhadhipati’s post. This decision angered local CPM leaders who announced the name of Samik Mondal, a local leader, as a Left-backed Independent candidate. CPM leaders said they did not endorse the move of the local party leaders and had expelled Mondal and another local leader Gorachand Ghosh from the party. However, local CPM leaders are unrepentant in their defiance. “All the local leaders and party workers are with us and we will contest against the Congress as it fielded a candidate who even a few months back had tortured our workers,” Ghosh said. On Monday, hundreds of party supporters had demonstrated for three hours in front of the ancestral house of the Khan Choudhury family (descendants of late Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury), who are still at the helm of the Congress in the district, in Kotowali on the outskirts of Malda town. Protesters demanded the candidate of the Ratua Assembly seat, Najema Khatun, be changed. On Tuesday, Congress workers assembled in front of the district party office, demanding that Mohammad Dulal Sheikh, the candidate of Mothabari seat, should be replaced. Some later went to the block Congress office in Kaliachak and ransacked it. Police reached the spot and brought the situation under control. The protests, Congress sources said, prompted the district leaders to convene an internal meeting on Wednesday. “We will listen to our party workers’ grievances and resolve them at the meeting,” said Kalisadhan Roy, the working president of the Congress in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP shifts Lahiri, fields retired general in Calcutta||The BJP on Tuesday released its final list of candidates with 11 new names and two replacements. The party has denied ticket to Congress turncoat Dulal Bar, who is the sitting Bagda MLA. Trinamul turncoat and Bongaon North MLA Biswajit Das has been nominated from Bagda. The decision BJP sources said was a fallout of Bongaon MP and All India Matua Mahasangha chief Shantanu Thakur’s meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday night. Bar is considered opposed to Shantanu in the BJP’s scheme of things. “What can I say if this is the party’s decision? The party has seen the larger good I believe. I will not file nomination as an Independent and will discharge the duties the party assigns me,” Bar said. Shantanu and family had demanded 30 seats but the BJP did not concede. As a compromise, Shantanu wanted at least three candidates of his choice and opposed Bar. Subrata Thakur, Shantanu’s brother, has been fielded from Gaighata. Ashok Kritonia, the candidate from Bongaon North, is a close aide to the BJP MP. The party has fielded economist and former chief economic adviser to the central government Ashok Lahiri from Balurghat. While Lahiri was initially nominated from Alipurduar, he was replaced by local candidate Suman Kanjilal. Local BJP workers had refused to accept Lahiri and had termed him as an outsider. Lahiri had been a voter in Delhi, but in the meantime, he got his name registered on the Bengal electoral roll. Balurghat will go to the polls on April 26,. Another notable nomination is of former deputy chief of army staff Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha from the Rashbehari seat in Calcutta. Saha is often regarded as the poster boy for the Make in India initiative for the army and credited for setting up the Army Design bureau in 2016. The BJP also replaced two candidates — Shikha Mitra Chowdhury from Chowringhee and Tarun Saha from Kashipur-Belgachhia — who had said they were not members of the BJP after the list was announced on March 18. While Shikha is a Congress leader and wife of former state Congress chief Somen Mitra, Tarun is a Trinamul leader. On Tuesday, the BJP replaced the two with Debabrata Mazhi and Shibaji Singha Roy for Chowringhee and Kashipur-Belgachhia, respectively. While Shibaji is the president of the party’s North Calcutta organisational district, Debabrata is known as a staunch advocate of Hindutva. The BJP had already declared advocate Loknath Chatterjee as its candidate at Ballygunge, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Survey hints at close race||The Trinamul Congress could emerge as the single largest party in the Bengal Assembly but fall short of majority by a narrow margin, according to the third survey conducted ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections by pollster CNX for ABP Ananda. The survey conducted between March 12 and 21, in which 11,920 people spread across 42 Parliamentary constituencies took part, predicted Trinamul would bag 136-146 seats. The BJP is predicted to win 130-140 seats. Key findings of the survey are below||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Alipurduar Trinamul leader cries neglect||Mohan Sharma, a prominent Trinamul leader in Alipurduar district, has stepped down from two posts he held in the party and also from as many as nine official posts. On Monday night, Sharma announced his decision and accused a section of party leaders of “spreading lies” about him and “ignoring” him ahead of the Bengal elections. Based in Kalchini, Sharma is known to have considerable clout among the Gorkha and tribal population of the district and also has followers in tea gardens. “A leader based in Calcutta and camping in Alipurduar now is spreading lies against me. He has alleged that I am involved in illegal activities. I was forced to speak with our party supremo (Mamata Banerjee) who has asked me to wait for some time. I feel disheartened and have thus stepped down from the party’s posts,” said Sharma. He also alleged that Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul chief, was ignoring him. “They are organising political activities in my place and across the district. Surprisingly, I am not privy to these programmes as the district president does not pass any information to me,” Sharma said. According to him, he was a member of Trinamul’s state-level core committee and an invitee member in the district committee of the party. “I have stepped down from both posts,” he said. These apart, Sharma also resigned from nine official posts but not from the post of the chairman of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union and from the membership of the Zilla Parishad. Goswami, the district Trinamul chief, was brief in his reaction. “I will not make any comment about his decision. Only our party supremo and other state leaders can do that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: BJP hill nominees anger allies||The BJP on Tuesday announced its candidates for the three hill seats, opening a floodgate of protests not just from its two most important hill allies, the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) but also from within. The BJP fielded Subha Pradhan from Kalimpong, B.P. Bajgain from Kurseong and Neeraj Zimba from Darjeeling. Pradhan and Bajgain are former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp) leaders. Pradhan, a former Kalimpong civic chief, joined the BJP less than a week ago. Bajgain joined the BJP a few months back. Zimba, sitting Darjeeling MLA, is a GNLF leader who had contested on a BJP symbol in the 2019 by-elections and will do the same this time too. After the BJP’s list went public, GNLF president Maan Ghisingh voiced his dissent over candidates of “Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong”. Later, the GNLF issued another statement stating its protest was against the choice of candidates in “Kalimpong and Kurseong”, not Darjeeling. “The party will make its stand clear on this issue soon,” Ghisingh said. The CPRM also decided to announce their candidates from the three hill seats after the BJP’s nominations. R.B. Rai, president of the CPRM, said the party had decided to back the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after assurance that the issue of the national identity of Indian Gorkhas would be solved and the mention of “permanent political solution for the region,” in the party’s poll manifesto. “But after the BJP’s one-sided decision (to field its candidates) without taking allies into confidence and its decision to ignore regional aspirations, we have decided to field our candidates in all three hill seats,” said Rai. The CPRM fielded Kishore Pradhan from Kalimpong, Sunil Rai from Darjeeling and Arun Ghatani from Kurseong. Both the GNLF and the CPRM said they would not walk out of the alliance, but were registering their protest against the BJP’s choice of candidates. Protests also erupted in the BJP camp in Kalimpong with many demanding that recent turncoat Pradhan be replaced with a party old-timer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Hill boards to back Binay Tamang faction, Trinamul||Representatives of 13 hill development boards have announced their support to candidates fielded by the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in the three hill seats and Trinamul candidates in the foothills. On Tuesday, office-bearers of all development boards formed by the Trinamul state government came here and made the decision. “We will support the Binay Tamang camp because since 2017 they have carried out a lot of development work through the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration in hill interiors and also restored peace. As far as seats in Terai and the Dooars go, we will support Trinamul candidates,” said Lyangsong Tamsang, a development board representative. After being voted to power, Mamata had taken up the onus to address the grievances of various hill communities. Her government formed development boards for 13 such communities and allocated funds for the socio-economic development of community members. Among these include the Lepcha, Tamang, Mangar, Bhutia, Limbu, Khambu-Rai, Kami, Damai, Bhujel, Khas, Gurung, Newar and Thami communities. According to representatives of hill boards, there are 2.5 lakh voters of these communities who live in Darjeeling and Kalimpong. “If representatives of development boards can confirm that all members of their respective communities will support candidates fielded by the Tamang camp in the hills and Trinamul candidates in Terai and the Dooars, it will be a major boost for both parties,” said a veteran in hill politics. Asked why the boards did not consider candidates of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, particularly when he has severed ties with the saffron camp to ally with Trinamul, they came up with a clarification. “He (Gurung) was with the BJP and we suspect he will continue to be with them… these days, he has lost his support base and many of his leaders have deserted him. There’s no question of supporting him,” said Sanjay Moktan, a representative of a development board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Electoral loyalties change contours in hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung announced his candidates from the three hill Assembly seats on Tuesday, and underlined the need to “safeguard regionalism” from the BJP’s party alleged expansionist plans. Gurung announced P.T. Ola, a lawyer, former Darjeeling civic chief and a former GTA Sabha member, as the party’s candidate from Darjeeling. R.B. Bhujel, an educationist, was fielded from Kalimpong. Narbu G. Lama, a former GTA Sabha member from Teesta-Takdha constituency, was named from Kurseong. Way back in 2009, Gurung had brought the BJP to the Darjeeling hills with the hope that the saffron party would play a pivotal role in helping them create the separate state of Gorkhaland. Thirteen years later, Gurung has been forced to confine Gorkhaland to a manifesto mention and spend most part of his speech on the threats to regionalism. The hill leader on Tuesday also did not talk about Gorkhaland though the first issue in his faction’s manifesto stated they would work towards the formation of statehood. “Regionalism is under threat (from the BJP). I appeal to the GNLF, the CPRM, the ABGL and all other hill parties to come together, let us work together. Without regional parties, regional issues cannot be raised,” said Gurung, who till a few months back was backing BJP to the hilt. Gurung had largely been responsible for ensuring three back-to-back victories for the BJP in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat but on Tuesday he alleged that his one-time ally was now more focused in poaching his leaders than solving hill issues. “They poached our leaders and gave them tickets. They cannot even field their own candidates from the hills,” said Gurung. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader was speaking about Subha Pradhan, BJP candidate from Kalimpong, who had recently joined BJP after deserting Gurung’s camp. The saffron party’s candidate from Kurseong, B.P. Bajgain, is also a former spokesman of Gurung’s party. The BJP on Tuesday also decided to field sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba from the Darjeeling seat. Zimba is a GNLF leader who had contested the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly by-elections on a BJP symbol and the same formula will be replicated this time. The GNLF, however, voiced their opposition against the BJP’s candidates from Kurseong and Kalimpong. The CPRM, also an ally of the BJP, has decided to field their own candidate from three hill seats, presumably annoyed by the BJP’s decision to go all alone in announcing hill candidates. Throughout Gurung’s speech it seems clear that the hill leader was worried about the regional party losing its relevance because of the BJP’s recent moves. “Until recently (after having joined Trinamul) I was still being asked to join them (the BJP). I had told them clearly that I will not put two feet in two boats. I took this decision (to leave BJP for the Trinamul) after pondering for nearly a month,” said Gurung, adding that it was according to his wishes that Trinamul had left the three hill seats to regional parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul accuses BJP of harbouring criminals at Nandigram||The Trinamul Congress and the CPM have written to the Election Commission, accusing the BJP of harbouring criminals at Nandigram in East Midnapore, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari are locked in a tight fight. The CPM has fielded young face Minakshi Mukherjee in the seat which will go to the polls on April 1. Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’ Brien on Monday wrote to the chief election commissioner, naming four locations in Nandigram where the BJP was allegedly sheltering criminals. The CPM also submitted a letter to the district electoral officer, making similar charges against Suvendu’s men on the ground. Sources say the allegations come in the wake of an “overwhelming” surge of BJP supporters at Nandigram ahead of the polls. The Opposition claimed they were “outsiders” and “antisocials”. Derek alleged in the letter the homes of four BJP functionaries Kalipada Shee, |Meghnath Pal, Pabitra Kar and Bhojohari Samanta had become the hideouts of bikeborne youths, including criminals. “Our candidate faces threat from criminals who have entered the area. It is the Election Commission’s job to look into the matter without delay,” said a senior CPM leader in Nandigram. On Monday, electoral authorities granted police cover to the Left’s Nandigram nominee Mukherjee following concerns expressed by the party regarding her safety. “It goes without saying that Suvendu holds sway here notwithstanding his defection to the BJP, and he will not give up without a fight,” said a source, referring to local support for the former Trinamul leader who spearheaded the 2007 land agitation. Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Meghnath Pal denied the allegations. “Trinamul is being fearful and resentful. We have done nothing wrong. The local police are aware of all our activities.” The sources said local Trinamul leaders were on |the backfoot following a series of rallies conducted by Suvendu. “Suvendu has addressed at least 50 rallies, while Trinamul has not managed 10 in the past two weeks,” said a source. Earlier this week, Trinamul received another blow when over 50 leaders fled after police cases against them connected to the land agitation had been reopened following a Calcutta High Court order in response to prayer by the BJP nominee at Nandakumar in the district. Trinamul’s local election agent, Sheikh Sufian, claimed the BJP had been “terrorising the homes and families” of local Trinamul workers for the past week, taking advantage of their lull in activity. CPM sources concurred, with district secretary Niranjan Sihi adding: “The BJP has created an air of terror in the area and we are worried about our candidate’s safety.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
