25-03-2021||West Bengal||EC removes IAS, 4 IPS officers two days ahead of Bengal polls  ||An IAS and four IPS officers in Bengal were removed on Thursday by the Election Commission, two days ahead of the first phase of polling, on a day when Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the poll committee a ‘BJP Commission’. Additional Director-General (West Zone) Sanjay Singh was replaced by Rajesh Kumar, as per an official order. District Magistrate and District Election Officer of Jhargram Ayesha Rani was replaced by Joyeshi Dasgupta, it said. Jhargram will be voting in the first phase on March 27. The EC has decided to deploy 127 companies of central forces for booth management in this district, officials said. Arijit Sinha was named the new Superintendent of Police of Diamond Harbour, replacing Avijit Banerji, the order said. Debashish Dhar was named the new SP of Coochbehar, replacing K Kannan. Weeks ago, the poll commission ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. Meanwhile, at a poll rally in the South 24 Parganas, Mamata Banerjee hit out at the EC, claiming that the BJP was interfering with its functioning. The chief minister expressed strong reservations over the large-scale transfer of senior government officials by the EC in the last few days. "The way BJP is interfering in the functioning of EC, it appears to be a BJP commission," Mamata said at a public meeting at Danton. She said she learnt of the transfers while riding a helicopter from Sagar island to Danton. "I am telling you (EC) transfer all (officials). That will not prevent our victory because people are with us, " she said. The chief minister said, "While I have great respect for the EC, I would like to ask the poll panel why police forces are under the control of the Centre during Lok Sabha and Assembly polls. Why not under EC?" Alleging the EC is taking a step motherly attitude to her government, the firebrand TMC supremo dared the commission to showcause her. "You can send 10 letters to me. I am not bothered." Asking why every instruction of BJP has to be obeyed, Mamata wanted to know why the EC immediately complies when BJP seeks an officials' removal. She said, "EC is not doing the right thing. We are a regional party. There are many other regional parties. If you think the regional parties like us will be finished in this fashion, you are mistaken," she said. "BJP has lost the match and hence has resorted to the game of changing officers. Officers don't vote, people vote," she reasoned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Shadow of violence looms on eve of first phase of voting||Violent deaths since Wednesday night in far-flung corners of Bengal set the political mercury soaring as curtains came down on the campaign for the first phase of polling. On Thursday morning, two corpses with throats slit were found at Methidanga, on the outskirts of Shantipur town, in Nadia district, around 96km from Calcutta. The BJP was quick to latch on to the twin murders to score political points, claiming one of the victims, identified as Pratap Burman (24), was its supporter. The second victim has been identified as Dipankar Biswas (35). The BJP MP from Ranaghat (Shantipur is a part of the Ranaghat Lok Sabha seat), Jagannath Sarkar, who is the party’s nominee for the Shantipur Assembly seat, has called for a 12-hour bandh on Friday in the area. A little over two years ago, the Trinamul MLA from Krishnahunj, Satyajit Biswas, was gunned down in the same district, during a Saraswati Puja event. The family members had initially denied any political links of the victim but later retracted their statement. Both Trinamul and BJP blame each other for the escalation in violence. The Trinamul nominee and former MLA Ajoy De, claimed the BJP was trying to politicise Thursday’s murders. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 11 people were killed in Bengal and over 700 injured in politically-motivated clashes. Since the Lok Sabha polls, over 1,500 people have been killed in similar incidents. On Wednesday, a local BJP leader’s body was found hanging in Cooch Behar’s Dinhata. It had led to widespread violence by BJP cadres in the North Bengal town. Closer home to Calcutta in South 24-Parganas Baruipur, Trinamul supporters clashed with the workers of the Sanyukta Morcha, the new front formed by the Congress, the ISF and the Left Front. Local Trinamul leader Shyamsundar Chakraborty claimed a group of Morcha supporters had attacked their party workers when they were passing through Belegachhi area. “One of our workers later succumbed to injuries in hospital,” Chakraborty said. The local CPM has claimed that three of its workers are missing since the clashes. The recovery of the corpses were not directly linked to the spate of violence in other parts of the state but does raise questions whether the presence of the approximately 684 companies of central paramilitary forces was having any impact at all in the 30 seats that go to polls on Saturday in Purulia and parts of Bankura, Jhargram, West and East Midnapore. Each of these districts has a history of political violence that had witnessed much bloodshed towards the end of the Left rule more than a decade ago. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee can rightly claim to have brought peace to the area, with the subjugation of the Maoists guerrillas, intra-party clashes are still a phenomenon. The Election Commission of India’s decision to stagger polls to an unprecedented eight-phases this time bears testimony to the fact that neither the Left nor the Trinamul when in the seat of power had rightly assessed the damage their violent ways of dealing with political opponents was causing to the state. In 2011 and 2016, the Assembly polls were held in six-phases. "The present situation in Bengal is similar to what it was in the early 70s. Anti-socials have been let loose and the administration is not taking any steps," said BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya. Instances of poll-related violence are not restricted to the prized catch of an Assembly or a Parliamentary seat. Violence has been an intrinsic part of Bengal elections from the three-tier panchayat level. “Insurrection” and “annihilation” have been a part of Bengal’s political legacy, which can be traced to the revolutionary outfits and martyrs from the struggle for Independence. In post-Independent Bengal violence remained a part of the successive movements led by the Left parties against the Congress and the Naxalite movement. It was expected that the circle of violence would come to an end once the Left was voted out and Mamata Banerjee, a personal victim of many a violent attack, would bring it to an end. However, the atrocities have continued. Politicians of any hue believe more in muscle power than their own persona to draw the voters closer. “In West Bengal Violence has got a structural form, first by the Left and later Trinamul Congress. Both of them have turned Bengal’s politics ugly,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, political analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Days ahead of first phase of polls, EC removes IAS, IPS officers in Bengal||An IAS and four IPS officers in Bengal were removed on Thursday by the Election Commission, two days ahead of the first phase of polling, officials said. Additional Director-General (West Zone) Sanjay Singh was replaced by Rajesh Kumar, as per an official order. District Magistrate and District Election Officer of Jhargram Ayesha Rani was replaced by Joyeshi Dasgupta, it said. Jhargram will be voting in the first phase on March 27. The EC has decided to deploy 127 companies of central forces for booth management in this district, officials said. Arijit Sinha was named the new Superintendent of Police of Diamond Harbour, replacing Avijit Banerji, the order said. Debashish Dhar was named the new SP of Coochbehar, replacing K Kannan. Weeks ago, the poll commission ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. The move had come in the wake of several political parties complaining to the Election Commission, alleging that Virendra was inclined towards the ruling Trinamul Congress, sources said. The Election Commission had also removed Jawed Shamim from the post of ADG (Law and Order) of Bengal and replaced him with Jagmohan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal's development not on CM's mind, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday lashed out at his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, alleging that she is not interested in her state's development and only wants to promote goons and extortionists. He said the countdown to the end of the TMC rule in West Bengal has begun and the BJP will form the government in the state after 35 days to usher in a new era of development and progress. "West Bengal was once an advanced and progressive state. But the Congress, the Left Front and then the TMC stunted the industrial growth of the state and corruption blossomed," he said, while addressing a rally in Sagar assembly constituency in South 24 Parganas district. He alleged that central funds have been usurped by the TMC, which had happened also in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given Rs 1,000 crore to the state after cyclone Amphan but the money never reached the people and was usurped by the TMC leaders," he said. He said if the people of his state could get benefits of central schemes like the PM Awas Yojana, Ujjwala scheme, Ayushman Bharat and Kisan Samman Nidhi, why are people of West Bengal being deprived from these benefits. "This shows that the TMC is not bothered about the development of West Bengal," he said. Adityanath said after West Bengal gets the government of the same party that is ruling the Centre, people of the state will receive the benefits. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Choose Modi if you want schemes, or TMC if you prefer scams: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for failing to generate employment besides chasing away automobile industry and asked people to vote for BJP if they want pro-people schemes and for "incompetent" TMC government if they prefer scams. Reaching out to the politically crucial Kurmi caste population of the Purulia district, Shah promised jobs for their every family and education in their language. He also promised to build an AIIMS in the Junglemahal area. "Initially, it was the Left which ensured flight of capital. Then it was Didi who chased away the automobile industry from Bengal. She has failed to generate employment. "If you want schemes, you vote for Modiji and if you prefer scams, then vote for incompetent TMC. It is for you to decide," he said while addressing an election rally here. Accusing the TMC of running a "corrupt dispensation", Shah said the BJP will end "cut money" culture in Bengal. Noting that the TMC government has neglected the adivasis (tribals) and Kurmi caste voters, Shah said if voted to power, then every Kurmi and adivasi families will get one job each. "We will provide jobs to each adivasi and Kurmi families of the state. The adivasis dont get MSP for their produce; we will include their produce in the list of crops so that they also qualify for MSP," he said. "We will also ensure that the children of Kurmi family can get education till Class X in their language and that too free of cost," he said. Stressing on the need for pure drinking water in the area, Shah said the TMC government had forced Purulia natives to consume "fluoride contaminated water". "We will come up with Rs 10,000 crore clean drinking water project in Purulia. Didi has forced you to drink fluoride contaminated water," he said. Highlighting the prevalence of dengue and malaria in the area, the senior BJP leader said, "if you want to get rid of dengue and malaria, you have to defeat Didi in the elections. "She has a special affinity with dengue and malaria, and that is why she has done nothing to address the problem here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata takes dig at  'BJP-backed political party'||In an apparent reference to the Indian Secular Front, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the BJP of backing a new political party to eat into minority votes during the upcoming assembly polls. Without naming any party or any person, Banerjee also claimed at an election rally in South 24 Parganas district the founder of that outfit receives money from the BJP. "A new political outfit has been launched in the state at the behest of the BJP to grab a share of the minority votes and help the saffron party. Please don't vote for its candidates," she said. Abbas Siddiqui, a Muslim cleric, had recently launched the ISF and it is supporting the Left-Congress alliance in the assembly elections, the first phase of which is slated for Saturday. Siddiqui had also created a flutter by meeting All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief and MP Asaduddin Owaisi, whose party is likely to contest in the polls. At the rally in Patharpratima, Banerjee said the CPI(M) and Congress have an understanding with the BJP. Only the Trinamool Congress can prevent implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Population Register in the state, and ensure amity among different communities, she said. Responding to repeated allegations by the BJP against her and the TMC, Banerjee said, "Am I being called a thief and murderer because I love people, and always rush to be on their side whenever required?" The Trinamool Congress boss also dubbed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah as "the lords of thieves", demanding an explanation on "provident fund dues of lakhs of employees", and sale of PSU stakes. On cyclone Amphan and relief measures in its aftermath, she said, "Out of the Rs 1 lakh crore of damages, he (Modi) had promised only a small fraction (Rs 1,000 crore) as help. But, whose money is this? This is state's money. The Centre did not do Bengal any favour. "From cyclone Bulbul to Amphan, we have always come to the rescue of people. We monitored the situation risking our lives, and not sit in the comfort of home. The state government had managed to evacuate 19 lakh people from disaster zones during Amphan." Around 30 lakh damaged houses are being rebuilt, the CM said. "There can be one or two exceptions...," she said in reference to opposition parties' allegations of graft in execution of rehabilitation work. "However, if anyone has not received the relief amount, the person can get the same by writing to the administration after the elections." Banerjee also slammed Shah for asking in public meetings what the TMC had done for West Bengal. "Let me ask him, have you undertaken schemes like 'Kanyashree', 'Sabujsathi' and 'Khadyasathi'? Have you heard about 'Duare Sarkar' and its success? Are you giving ration free? "If the TMC returns to power, it will unveil more such historic social welfare projects covering every section of society," she asserted. Banerjee alleged that Shah had "instructed" few media houses to project a higher number of seats for the BJP in surveys, but "first let it cross the 75-seat mark, which the saffron party will not be able to". At another rally in Sagar in South 24 Parganas district, she gave the call for "Unnatataro TMC sarkar" (a TMC government with increased focus on development-centric activities).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP workers deny entry to nominee, attack car||Kaliaganj in North Dinajpur witnessed an unusual scene on Wednesday as BJP supporters hit the streets to protest against BJP’s candidate Soumen Roy and prevented him from entering the town. They said they wouldn’t allow anyone to campaign for Roy. Local sources said Roy did not have a “good reputation”. Since morning, BJP supporters burnt tyres and asserted they would prevent Roy from entering Kaliaganj. Any district party leader who supported Roy would also be denied entry, they said. As protests were on at Vivekananda More of the town, Roy along with Prakash Pusti, a co-convener of the BJP in North Dinajpur district, reached the outskirts of Kaliaganj. A group of agitated BJP supporters reached Baghan-Battali area near the town and attacked the vehicles with Roy Pusti and some others. “We were taking the candidate to his constituency when we were attacked. The attackers carrying bricks and stones targeted my vehicle. They also assaulted me. The situation was such that the candidate (Roy) was forced to leave,” said Pusti. Pusti, party sources said, er made another attempt to enter the town through another route. He was again intercepted, thrashed and his e-rickshaw was attacked. “We suspect some local Trinamul leaders have orchestrated this violence by inciting some people,” said a district BJP leader. This is the first time BJP supporters have denied entry to a candidate in his seat. “None of us want Soumen Roy as the candidate. The district and state leaders should change the candidate or else, our protests will continue,” said a BJP leader in Kaliaganj. In neighbouring Malda, Sheikh Ziauddin, the BJP candidate of Sujapur seat, wrote to the district leadership on Tuesday night, saying he did not want to contest the polls. By Wednesday afternoon, BJP, in a damage-control bid, could make Ziauddin assert that he was forced by “some Trinamul leaders” to write the letter. Nantu rally Former Trinamul leader and veteran politician Nantu Paul filed his nomination as an Independent from Siliguri Assembly seat on Wednesday. He also took out a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Ex-IPS is BJP’s richest nominee in phase 2||Former IPS officer and BJP’s candidate from Debra, Bharati Ghosh, is the richest among candidates in fray in the second phase of Bengal polls, says a report released by the West Bengal Election Watch, a civil society group. Ghosh has declared assets worth more than Rs 19.21 crore. She is closely followed by another BJP candidate Dipankar Jana of Kakdwip, who has declared assets worth over Rs 14.41 crore. Ghosh, once known for her proximity to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, switched to the BJP in February 2019. She was fielded by BJP from Ghatal Lok Sabha constituency the same year but lost to Trinamul candidate and film actor Deepak Adhikari a.k.a Dev. In her 2019 affidavit, Ghosh had declared assets worth a little above Rs 18.01 crore. In the last two years, her assets have increased by more than Rs 1 crore. The Bengal CID had registered cases against Ghosh and her aides by slapping charges of extortion and that of exchanging banned currency notes for gold, against her. The state investigating agency had also filed a charge sheet against Ghosh, her husband M.A.V. Raju and seven others. Raju was also arrested in the case and later released on bail. The average assets of the 30 BJP candidates, who will contest polls in the second phase, is Rs 2.31 crore. The corresponding figure for 30 Trinamul candidates is Rs 1.79 crore. However, of all the candidates the person with the lowest declared assets is also a BJP candidate. Nirmal Kumar Dhara, the BJP’s candidate for Indus has total assets worth merely Rs 1,700. West Bengal Election Watch has also analysed 171 candidates who have filed nominations for the second phase of polls. The BJP tops the list of parties with criminal cases in terms of percentage. At least 17 (57 per cent) out of 30 BJP candidates have declared criminal cases against them, while 16 of these candidates are named in serious criminal cases. For Trinamul, the corresponding number is eight (27 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Matua faces too few, rue TMC & BJP camps||The hope of the Matuas to get greater representation in the Assembly hit a hurdle with both the BJP and the Trinamul not fielding enough candidates from the community that has a significant number of voters in 25-30 seats. While the Trinamul nominated only one Matua candidate, the BJP nominated five. The count is too low given that the Matua faction of the Trinamul headed by Mamatabala Thakur and her counterpart in the BJP Santanu Thakur had been demanding a far greater representation from their respective parties. Former Trinamul MP Mamatabala heads the Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha. Her nephew Santanu Thakur is the chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha (AIMM) and a BJP MP. While Mamatabala has openly expressed her resentment about Trinamul not nominating many from the community, BJP MP Santanu was more diplomatic. “Expectation is not always fulfilled,” he said. Two days ago, Santanu’s father Manjulkrishna Thakur, one of the heads of Thakur family and a top leader of the AIMM, held a news meet to vent his anger on this issue. Trying to downplay Manjulkrishna’s outburst, Santanu said his father had been given wrong information by the media and claimed that the BJP had fielded not five but eight candidates, but could not name eight seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, the Matuas, considered to be the support base of the Trinamul, were swayed by the BJP’s citizenship offer and helped the saffron party win both the Bongaon and Ranaghat constituencies. The setback forced the Trinamul to try and woo Matua support in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Sources said that Mamatabala had asked the Trinamul leadership for a bigger Matua representation in the Assembly but her plea was turned down. “She demanded at least 12 seats but the Trinamul gave only one ticket. The lone nominee, Narottam Biswas, is known to be Mamatabala’s rival,” said a leader of the Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha. “The way Matua community members have been denied nomination is painful,” said Mamatabala. The scene is no different in the BJP camp. Sources said Santanu wanted 10 seats for Matuas. “Only five persons from the community have got BJP tickets,” a member of the AIMM said. AIMM joint chief and BJP’s Gaihata candidate Subrata Thakur said they had greater expectations but what they got “wasn’t a bad deal either”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Hemant Soren recounts his story of defeating BJP||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM leader Hemant Soren, here on Wednesday in support of Trinamul, recounted his experience of defeating the BJP in his state’s Assembly elections in 2019. Soren said winning Lok Sabha seats can’t guarantee Narendra Modi’s party a victory in Bengal Assembly polls. He reminded the crowd that despite winning 12 of the 14 Jharkhand seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP lost the state elections. The JMM, in alliance with the Congress and the RJD, bagged 47 seats to topple the BJP government, and Soren became the chief minister. “These people (BJP) won a few seats in Bengal in the last Lok Sabha polls and they have started dreaming of winning the Bengal Assembly polls, too. It was the same situation we faced in Jharkhand. The BJP had won 12 seats out of 14 (seats). But in the Assembly polls we forced them to wipe their tears (to cry). The same thing will happen in Bengal,” Soren said. Soren’s speech comes in the backdrop of BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, playing on the party’s success in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and claiming Trinamul would be wiped out in the Bengal polls. “Unishe half, ekushe saaf (Half in 2019, wiped out in 2021)” is the slogan that BJP leaders have been harping on since the party bagged 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bengal. Soren, who spoke at three campaign rallies in Purulia and Bankura in support of Trinamul candidates on Wednesday, said together with Mamata Banerjee the JMM will uproot the BJP from the soil of Bengal. The JMM leader debunked the BJP’s “double engine” government theory. “I witnessed a double engine government in my state. The BJP promised to increase the income of farmers twice, but did nothing. The concept of a double engine is not to serve the country but to loot it.” He echoed Mamata’s concern that the BJP would use money power to buy polling agents of rivals. “They (BJP) will first try to purchase the voters. If they fail, they will then try to purchase the MLAs and later to purchase the MPs too,” Hemant said. Soren’s Jharkhand Mukti Morcha enjoys some support in pockets of Jungle Mahal and amongst tribal voters, many of whom have links to the neighbouring state. Soren travelling to Bengal to address rallies in support of the Trinamul is significant because he had addressed a JMM rally in Jhargram in January and spoken about fighting the Assembly elections. “Hemant Soren’s speech in Jhargram had made the party leadership reach out to him and today’s rally was the outcome of that effort,” said a senior Trinamul leader and added that the JMM has some influence among the Kurmi community in the Jungle Mahal districts of Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura. The performance of Trinamul in Jungle Mahal is critical because the party had lagged behind the BJP in 31 of the 40 Assembly seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee battle over outsiders||Narendra Modi on Wednesday resorted to the national anthem and Bengali icons in a bid to establish that leaders of his party, air-dropped by the dozen in the state, are not bohiragawto (outsiders), as Mamata Banerjee spoke about alleged hordes of outsiders sent to destroy Bengal’s ethos. The Prime Minister and chief minister, some 200km apart in East Midnapore and Bankura, respectively, devoted significant time in their speeches to the bohiragawto issue. “That Bengal, which brought together the whole of India with the thought of Vande Mataram, in that Bengal, Mamatadidi is talking of bohiragawto. This soil belongs to Bankimbabu (Chandra Chattopadhyay), Rabi Thakur (Rabindranath Tagore), (Netaji) Subhas Bose, Matangini Hazra, Syama Prasad Mookerjee. The soil of Bengal and the soil of India...No Indian is a bohiragawto on this soil,” said Modi, peppered with laboured Bengali, at East Midnapore’s Contai. Though critical of Mamata’s alleged attempts to polarise voters over regionalist sub-nationalism with her bohiragawto versus Bangla’r nijeyr meye (Bengal’s own daughter) pitch, the saffron ecosystem has appeared unsure of how the outsider label will impact the BJP in this election. Modi and other top BJP leaders, therefore, have been found making a fervent pitch that the BJP does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. “No Indian is bohiragawto here. Everyone is a child of Bharat Mata (Mother India). Friends, Bengal from where Gurudev (Tagore) stitched all Indians in one garland... from this soil itself Gurudev said, which we repeat every day, “Punjab Sindhu Gujarat Maratha Dravid Utkal Banga / Vindhya Himachala Yamuna Ganga ucchala-jaladhi-taranga,” Modi quoted from the national anthem by Tagore. “...Didi, the people of Gurudev Rabindranath Thakur’s soil don’t consider anyone bohiragawto,” he added. However, he added that the BJP’s chief minister in Bengal, should it come to power, would be a son of the soil. Trinamul sources said Modi’s speech on Wednesday, three days before the first phase of polls, made it clear how Mamata managed to get under the BJP’s skin with the bohiragawto plank. Mamata was relentless in her attack against the BJP. “They can’t even properly pronounce the scripted Bengali they use…even their slogan, Sonar Bangla. Will those who can’t even speak the language properly rule Bengal? They are bringing goons from outside. Who are they? They are the same people who tortured Dalits, tribals and minorities (elsewhere in India),” said Mamata at her rally in Bankura. Mamata, yet again, clarified who according to her campaign pitch was bohiragawto. “We don’t call those (bohiragawto) who have made Bengal their home, from all over the country. Goons that are now being exported to Bengal for winning the election, destroying its culture… they are the outsiders,” said Mamata. ‘Insult to Nandigram' Narendra Modi on Wednesday accused Mamata Banerjee of insulting the people of Nandigram in a hint to the March 10 incident in East Midnapore in which the chief minister was injured. He said attempts were made to defame Nandigram with false allegations. Modi’s speech seemed to be drawn from Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s allegations of Mamata insulting the people of Nandigram with her immediate reaction after her accident when she had blamed “four-five people” for deliberately slamming the door of the SUV. Mamata and Adhikari are contesting from the Nandigram seat that goes to polls on April 1. “Didi, Nandigram gave you honour...And now, you are defaming the people of Nandigram... in front of the whole nation,” Modi said. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt benches security adviser Surajit Kar Purakayastha till end of assembly poll||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Wednesday issued an order to seize the powers and responsibilities of state security adviser Surajit Kar Purakayastha, who was the former DGP of the state, during the upcoming Assembly polls. The move, sources said, was prompted by a nudge from the Election Commission of India. “The chief secretary and DGP held a meeting with the full bench of the EC in Siliguri on Wednesday morning and the order was issued in the evening. It is clear that the EC had instructed the chief secretary to issue the order,” said a source. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the powers of all retired IAS and IPS officers, who had been serving the state government, had been seized. Purakayastha, who was appointed to the position of state security adviser in May 2018 after he retired as DGP, had the authority to access intelligence reports and send instructions to the district police superintendents, said sources. “As this is not a cadre post and it had been a political appointment, the poll panel might have apprehended that he could interfere in the poll process. This is why his powers have been seized during the elections,” said an official. Trinamul leaders said that the state security advisor was not interfering in the poll process as that was not within the ambit of his duties. “In 2019, his powers were seized during the Lok Sabha polls. We had won a majority of seats in 2019 and this year too we will come back to power,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader found dead, violence erupts in Dinhata||Dinhata town in Cooch Behar turned into a battlefield after a BJP leader of the town was found hanging at the premises of a local veterinary hospital. Hundreds of BJP supporters hit the streets in protest, alleging that Amit Sarkar, 50, the president of the party’s Dinhata town mandal committee was killed and hanged by Trinamul. They blocked roads, tore down Trinamul flags, festoons and banners and set those on fire. They also ransacked at least seven offices of Trinamul in and around the town. Policemen went to the spot to recover the body but were stopped by the agitated supporters. Party supporters also attacked the police with bricks and stones when they tried to clear the roadblocks. Police retaliated with batons and fired teargas shells. Shop owners hurriedly downed their shutters, and by the afternoon, the town bore the look of a curfew. Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar who is contesting from Dinhata Assembly seat, has demanded a CBI probe. Udayan Guha, the sitting MLA and the Trinamul candidate, has denied charges of wrongdoing. Sources said some residents of Dakbungalowpara of the town spotted Darkar’s body on the veterinary hospital campus in the locality. The body was hanging from a ceiling at a veranda of the hospital. As the news spread, BJP supporters started assembling in the area and they stopped the police team from recovering the body. Pramanik, the MP and the BJP MLA candidate, reached the spot. He alleged that Trinamul killed their party leader and hanged him. “It is a planned murder and Udayan Guha (the local Trinamul MLA and also party's candidate in the seat) is behind it. Amit Sarkar was a popular leader of the town and was steadily developing our organisation. That is why he has been murdered. We want a CBI probe into the incident and do not have any faith on the state police and administration,” said Pramanik. More and more BJP supporters assembled in various locations of the town, many took down Trinamul's flags, festoons and banners, piled them and torched them at a prominent crossing of the town and blocked a road. As policemen asked them to clear the road, an altercation ensued. Some pelted stones and bricks at the police, prompting the latter to retaliate with batons and teargas. The BJP supporters also attacked Trinamul offices and seven offices of the party, including two in Dinhata. The house of a Trinamul leader in Bhetaguri on the outskirts of the town was attacked. More police forces reached the spot and brought the situation under control. MLA Guha slammed the BJP violence. “Any death is unfortunate but the manner in which BJP tried to politicise it is condemnable. We want the police to find out the truth,” he said. The Election Commission has directed the special police observer to visit the spot and submit a report. Police said they have found a chit with names and contact numbers of three persons from the clothes the deceased was wearing. “His wife has filed a complaint with us. We have come to know that he went missing from home on Wednesday early morning. We are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said a senior police officer. In Birbhum, two BJP workers got injured and several crude bombs were hurled at the house of a BJP worker, Gorachand Mondal, allegedly by Trinamul-backed goons in Birbhum’s Nanoor on late Tuesday night. Police seized 40 crude bombs from Bejra village in Nanoor. Trinamul however denied the charge and blamed drunkards at the rally. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Observers being closely monitored: Election Commission of India||The Election Commission of India (EC) is keeping a close watch over the functioning of observers engaged to monitor the upcoming Assembly elections to be held in Bengal and three other states, as well as Puducherry. In all, the EC has appointed a total 209 general observers, 55 police observers and 85 expenditure observers in Bengal. “I would like to submit that even the observers are being observed. They are quite closely monitored by the commission and the special observer. If required, we will not hesitate in taking steps against the observers,” Sunil Arora, the chief election commissioner of India told newsmen here on Wednesday. Arora, who headed a six-member EC team, reached here on Tuesday afternoon to oversee preparations of the district administrations of the eight districts of north Bengal. They held meetings with administrative officials of these districts in presence of senior police officers and bureaucrats of the state. Arora said  that on March 22, a complaint was received against one of the general observers for misbehaving with a government official. “Couple of days’ back, some incident pertaining to one general observer was brought to the notice of EC by the CEO and additional CEO (of a state) for inappropriate behaviour with a lady officer. On March 22, he was removed with immediate effect and on the same day afternoon, he was sent back. Not only that, the commission has gone through details of the incident and instructed that he should be placed immediately under suspension and a charge sheet be prepared against him,” said Arora. Asked on a regional issue, the functioning of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) run by a nominated body with Anit Thapa, a Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader as its chairperson, Arora maintained they are looking into it. “It was brought to our notice when we were reviewing (the poll preparations) of Darjeeling district. I have told the CEO to send us a detailed report to Sudeep Jain, the deputy election commissioner. We have also spoken with the chief secretary and have asked him to take similar steps,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Didi, o Didi, why don't you listen, asks PM in Contai||So far we were wondering if Narendra Modi was using Tagore more or the Bengali language itself. On Wednesday at Contai, he added another dimension to his campaign by using a “time-honoured Indian tradition” in a Bengali way. It is the way he repeated Didi’s name at the rally, several times. “Didi, o Didi,” he called, again and again. But he was not addressing Mamata Banerjee. He was making a big statement, such as “Banglaye dorkar, BJP sorkar (Bengal needs a BJP government)”, then dropping his voice, and sotto vocez, as if it were possible at a massive rally, asking for Didi, in a leering, joking tone. She has to be called so many times because she just does not listen to anyone, he said. He seemed to be having such fun saying things in an undertone to a woman. It reminded one of the way a man often makes a lewd comment casually at a woman. Levelling a charge against the “bhaipo (nephew)”, Modi lowered his voice and teased her again. “Didi, o Didi,” he called out her name, extenuating every syllable to make the fun last longer. Modi would probably be happy to know that in Bengali this practice used to be called “comment mara” or “taunt kata”. Classically it was done by parar chyangra (neighbourhood boys, “useless” variety), on parar meye (neighbourhood girls), as an attempt by the boys to mark their territory. We live in the para, therefore we have the sole right to abuse our women. A good example is the “twist” scene in the film Teen Bhubaner Paare (1969), in which revered actor Soumitra Chatterjee is actually doing “comment mara”, musically, to a very elegant and slightly bristling Tanuja. Later, when the language became more mixed in this city, the “comment mara” evolved. Using a line from popular Hindi film songs was a common practice in any case, from Laila o Laila to Jumma chumma de de. There could also be wolf whistles and catcalls (what is special about these animals?). It could get much worse, of course, when a woman’s body parts were named. But Hindi or Bengali, slightly or highly lewd, a man harassing a woman would always use a certain tone, whether he was muttering under his breath, or throwing his voice: it showed he could say anything he wanted to the woman and was amused by the exercise. So it was nice of Modi to use Bengali to address Didi. He was using the Bengali “comment mara” tradition to the hilt. “Didi, o Didi,” he said, and every time the crowd went crazy. It does not matter of course that women constitute 49.01 per cent of the electorate in Bengal and that like Banerjee — she has repeated that the women of the state “ma bonera (mothers and sisters)” are her limbs, now that she has injured one leg — Modi is also appealing to women voters in the state. But respect for women is a separate speech. “Didi o Didi” also reminded one of the Rajesh Khanna cry in Amar Prem: “Pushpa o Pushpa”, only inverted radically. It is not a coincidence that we are thinking of film after film, because a great Indian cinematic tradition backs Modi’s performance. Men bully women and women submit — and this is called wooing. When the woman is not wooed — but she generally is, or used to be, till Dilwale Dulhaniya… at least — the audience is. The teaser is amused and amuses. Not that Didi is a frightened teenager. She has her weapons — her voice, her ability to rhyme, her rock solid onomatopoeia, and her own performances on stage, with which she attacks Modi back straightaway. On Wednesday, she promptly branded him a “big liar”. Modi says she has also called him “a Ravana”, “a danava” and “a daitya”, a monster, that is. But she did not sound lecherous. Modi and Didi are good at trading insults with each other. But a woman cannot often do to a man what he can to her. So Big Boy Modi, Prime Minister Modi, came to Midnapore today and did a “comment mara” to a woman. To mark territory in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Leopard found dead on train tracks||An adult male leopard was fatally hit by a train in western Dooars on Tuesday night. Foresters said the animal was crossing the railway tracks near the rail bridge located between Malbazar and Chalsa near Noweranuddy tea estate in Jalpaiguri district when the incident took place. “We suspect the leopard was hit by a train in the night hours. Our men have recovered the body. We are waiting for its post-mortem report,” said Dipen Subba, the range officer of Malbazar wildlife squad. The leopard’s carcass, he said, was hanging from the rail bridge. Some local residents spotted it and informed them. In recent years, this is the first time that a leopard has died on railway tracks. “We have come across incidents when leopards have been hit by speeding vehicles on highways passing through the Dooars. But it is rare that a leopard has died after being hit by a train,” said Manabendra Sarkar, a wildlife conservationist based in Chalsa. In Hridapur area of Banarhat, also located in Jalpaiguri, a herd of 20-odd wild elephants got stuck on Wednesday morning. “It seems that the herd was heading to Diana forest from Totapara forest and lost the way. There are couple of calves in the herd. We are keeping a watch as there are a number of villagers nearby and will try to steer them into the forest in the evening,” said a forester of Binnaguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Neeraj Zimba’s name brews dissent||The BJP seems to have put the house of its largest hill ally, the Gorkha National Liberation Front’s (GNLF), in disorder, with many disgruntled at the nomination of sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader. The BJP on Tuesday announced Subha Pradhan as their candidate from Kalimpong, B.P. Bajgain from Kurseong and Zimba from Darjeeling. Zimba, a GNLF leader who had contested on a BJP ticket the 2019 by-elections, will do the same this time around. Mann Ghisingh, the president of the GNLF, had voiced the party’s dissent regarding BJP’s candidates from Kalimpong and Kurseong after the list was announced on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Ghisingh faced dissent from his own party cadres as many GNLF supporters from Darjeeling started pitching for Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee. Hundreds of Edwards’s supporters visited their leader to express their solidarity. The supporters want Edwards to contest in the GNLF’s party symbol from Darjeeling. “Since the BJP has announced candidates, the GNLF can always announce its own candidate,” said an Edwards supporter. This message has been convened to Ghisingh, sources said, and a meeting with Edwards has been scheduled. The outcome of the meeting, likely to be held in Siliguri on Thursday, could give a clearer picture on how the GNLF deals with the situation. Recently Ghisingh had gone to Delhi and many believe he was aware of the BJP’s decision regarding candidates which some GNLF leaders said was not conveyed to the party’s central committee before the BJP announced their decision on Tuesday. Dissent within GNLF is also brewing in Kurseong. “Grassroots supporters and leaders of branch committees are not accepting candidates (named by BJP) and hence this talk of fielding candidates is coming in public domain,” said Mahendra Chhetri, the general secretary of the GNLF. Chhetri said that since the last day of withdrawal of nominations was till April 3, “the party will try and solve the issue (by then)”. On Wednesday, BJP candidate from Kurseong B.P. Bajgain filed his nominations from Kurseong. Candidates of the Binay Tamang faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha  — Ruden Sada Lepcha, Tshering Lama Dahal and Keshav Raj Pokhrel — also filed their nominations. BJP’s announcement has also triggered dissent from another of its ally in the hills, the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM). The party announced their own candidates for three hill seats. Trinamul youth wing  has also decided to field its own candidate from Darjeeling, though the party’s high command decided to leave the three hill seats to their “friends” in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: 'I am switching'||Name: Tanmoy Goswami Occupation: Information technology professional Age: 41 Education: Graduate Annual income: Rs 8 lakh Size of family: Wife and a 12-year-old son Assembly seat: Siliguri  Q: Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? I will consider a number of issues before I vote this time. Q: Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? No, I will vote for development and communal harmony. My previous choice has tied up with an outfit that I believe functions on religious lines. Q: Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? First, there has been a huge development in road network across north Bengal. We can travel seamlessly for personal and professional work and the commute time has also come down. Two, the health and allied infrastructure the state government set up to tackle Covid was enormous. Three, almost all state government departments are also functioning online and people are getting services sitting at home. Q: Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. One, losing her cool in the face of uncomfortable questions and slogans. Two, her government’s development initiatives have been undercut by a section of unscrupulous leaders and elected representatives. Three, the failure to conduct peaceful panchayat elections in 2018. Q: Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She certainly works for the poor. She has introduced numerous social security schemes that have helped the downtrodden. Q: What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? It is simply political propaganda promoted by the saffron camp. There is dynasty politics in other parties as well, including the BJP. Q: Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you. Can’t remember three but yes, certain developments have taken place in the road and rail networks. However, prices of train tickets have gone up. Q: Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, appeasement of a few selected industrialists and the privatisation of government assets.. Two, demonetisation. It damaged small-scale industries, shops and the MSME sector. Three, the absence of steady initiatives to help migrant workers during the lockdown. Q: Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? The policies of the Centre are centred around a few select industrialists. There are central government schemes, of course, but most of them have been there since the UPA days. Ujjwala Yojona beneficiaries cannot get cylinders because of the hike in the prices of petro products. Q: Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is of course better. New options have opened up in the state in the IT sector. Q: What do you think about the Left's chances and about its alliance? In principle, the Left is against capitalists. The Congress is a team of crony capitalists. Now they have joined hands. Their bond was based on secularism. However, after they included the ISF in the team, they have lost credibility. Q: Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Absolutely. Actually, we do not identify people as Hindu or Muslim here in Siliguri. We take pride in the bond among people here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Parties prey on desperation of jobless youths involved in illegal coal trade||First, joblessness drove them to join an illegal trade, now they have become pawns in a game of political brinkmanship. The livelihood of over 4 lakh people directly or indirectly involved in coal pilfering has taken centre stage in the Asansol-Durgapur belt this election season with a CBI probe once again halting the illegal trade. Coal smuggling is a parallel economy in this West Burdwan region, with political parties often being accused of patronising the high-stakes game because of the spoils. “Coal is easily available here and pilferers hire local jobless youths to extract coal from illegal mines and later load them onto trucks and bullock carts for transportation to the brickfields and iron and steel factories. The youths are paid between Rs 700 and Rs 1,000 a day as wages, depending on their performance,” a police source said. Recently, central agencies like the CBI and the ED have swooped down on coal smuggling, arresting a Trinamul youth leader’s brother. In the run-up to the elections, local Trinamul Congress leaders have launched a whisper campaign in the villages of Asansol and Durgapur, telling residents that their earnings have been hit because the BJP-led government at the Centre has sent the CBI to probe coal smuggling. “No political party can afford to ignore the plight of 4.5 lakh-plus people, even if they are involved in an illegal trade. The CBI probe and the frequent raids at the illegal mines by the central agency have brought coal smuggling to a grinding halt, hitting these families hard,” said a Trinamul leader in Asansol’s Jamuria. “We have been telling the villagers the truth… that the CBI has come here on the instructions of the BJP leadership. We have also been telling them that if the BJP comes to power in the state, they will lose their livelihood permanently,” he added. In 2011, the CPM had also conducted a similar campaign against Trinamul after Mamata Banerjee, then an Opposition leader, had mounted a scathing offensive following the murder of a party worker allegedly at the hands of Left-backed coal mafia in Jamuria. Police were compelled to crack down on the illegal trade after Mamata made it a poll plank against the CPM. The BJP is now promising proper jobs to the youths involved in coal smuggling. Although there are several large industries in the Asansol-Durgapur belt, most of them are public sector units that employ a limited number of people. The region’s economy is heavily reliant on Eastern Coalfields Ltd and IISCO in Asansol and Durgapur Steel Plant and Alloy Steels Plant in the twin town. Several public sector units such as Bharat Ophthalmic Glass Ltd, Mining and Allied Machinery Corporation and Hindustan Cables Ltd are lying closed, worsening the unemployment situation. The lack of private sector units has only added to the ranks of unemployed youths, forcing them to join the thriving coal pilfering trade. Since November last year, organised coal smuggling has almost stopped after CBI sleuths raided the house of alleged pilferage kingpin Anup Maji alias Lala in Purulia’s Neturia. Maji, who allegedly used to run the illegal operations, is absconding. The CBI has issued a lookout notice and also appealed for the seizure of his properties. The Bengal government has ordered a simultaneous CID probe into the allegations of coal smuggling. The police have increased vigil against smuggling and seized over 100 tonnes of pilfered coal from various areas in West Burdwan last month. Several villagers involved in coal smuggling appeared to have been swayed by the Trinamul campaign. “I haven’t had any work since November. I have seven mouths to feed at home. For now, I have been managing by dipping into my savings. But I don’t know what will happen in the near future,” said a villager involved in coal pilfering in Jamuria. “Trinamul leaders have told us that the BJP is responsible for our troubles. From what we have been seeing, that isn’t far from the truth,” the 30-year-old said, adding that he used to earn between Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000 a month by extracting coal from illegal mines. Lakshman Ghorui, the West Burdwan unit chief of the BJP, said many residents of Asansol and Durgapur had turned to coal smuggling and illegal mining allegedly because of the state government’s failure to create jobs. “Both the CPM and Trinamul deprioritised the creation of job opportunities for youths in the coal belt. It is their failure. We will take care of the plight of these people by giving them jobs once we come to power,” Ghorui said. Trinamul’s West Burdwan unit chief Apurba Mukherjee accused the BJP of having inducted coal pilferers into the party. “Coal smugglers are now the backbone of the BJP, not ours. People know everything,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
