26-03-2021||West Bengal||Wishes pour in for Mamata on Facebook on eve of first phase of voting||A day before voting for the unprecedented 8-phase Bengal elections, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Facebook account was flooded with messages of support from across the country, undoubtedly a huge morale booster for Didi as she faces the toughest election of her political career. It all began on Friday with Mamata posting a homage to Ananda Shankar, accompanied by a picture of hers with the late musician. “Fondly remembering notable musician Ananda Shankar on his death anniversary.” The flood of responses must have surprised her too. “Didi that you are the best will be proved again,” wrote Dipak Kumar Das, a private sector employee from Haldia. Not all those who responded were from Bengal. Like Dipak Singh Virpura Solanki, a native from Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state, who urged those in Bengal to make “Mamata didi victorious.” There were over 500 messages and comments till Thursday evening, and these were from across the country _ Delhi, Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Assam and more. There was a congratulatory message came from Dhaka as well, where the country’s 50th Independence Day is being observed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and a host of overseas dignitaries, in attendance. The message from Gujarat would have sounded especially sweet to Mamata for earlier in the day Modi had tweeted in Bengali about his arrival at Dhaka, his first trip abroad since the Coronavirus outbreak of last year. On Friday, Mamata campaigned in Debra, Chandrakona and Daspur, all in West Midnapore district, which will go to polls in the second phase on April 1. According to Trinamul sources, Mamata is likely to stay on in Nandigram, from where she is contesting the polls this time, till the second phase is over. The 2021 state Assembly election is arguably the toughest that Mamata is facing ever since she wrested power from the CPM in 2011. Despite the Saradha scam and the Narada sting operation happening in her first term as chief minister, Didi remained the electoral favourite. Mamata received the first jolt two years back when the BJP bagged 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats and was no longer a distant pretender but a formidable force to reckon with. One of the foremost reasons behind a large section of the Bengal electorate taking refuge under the saffron flag was recurring instances of assaults and atrocities against Trinamul Congress’s opponents, especially in rural Bengal, which peaked during the 2018 panchayat polls where Trinamul won 34 per cent of the total seats uncontested. Voters hit back with a resounding win for the BJP, a year later, where the party won only four Lok Sabha seats less than the Trinamul. Since then, the BJP has been trying to expand its support and has successfully lured 24 MLAs, three MPs and several other leaders into its fold. Many of the leaders who switched camps from the Trinamul were handpicked by Mamata from various walks of life, including sports. These days, Mamata has been forced to devote time to explain to the voters about the “Mirzafars” in her public meetings. The 30 Assembly seats, which go to polls on Saturday, had turned into Mamata’s bastion five years ago, when she swept the polls winning all but three. However, in the Lok Sabha polls, BJP led in 20 of these seats giving the party a firm foothold, thereby emerging as the strongest challenger to Mamata, and reducing the Left-Congress combine to a bit player. Areas like Binpur, Nayagram, Gopiballabhpur, Jhargram, Baghmundi, Balarampur, Bandwan, Jaipur, Purulia, Manbazar, Kashipur, Para, Raghunathpur, Raipur, Ranibandh, Chhatna and Saltora is where till a decade ago, Maoists called the shots. Erosion of the CPM’s support in these largely tribal belts had cost the party dearly and came in handy for Trinamul. This is the first time since the 2011 election of “Poriborton” in Bengal that Mamata is facing a real challenge. She launched populist schemes like Swasthya Sathi, Khelasree, Samabyathi and Baitarani, all in her second term. Will these be enough for Mamata to counter the BJP’s political and financial might?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Fans surround Mithun at Bankura, BJP star campaigner stays inside chopper||Actor Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the BJP recently, on Thursday had to stay inside his chopper for around 20 minutes in Bankura’s Saltora because over 2,000 BJP workers and fans had surrounded the helicopters. Mithun, who came for a road show to back BJP nominee Chandana Bauri, landed at Saltora College grounds around 10 am. A huge crowd waiting for the MLA Fatakeshto star broke through barricades. Jostling people pressed against the door of Mithun’s chopper. A scuffle broke out between the police and BJP workers as the former tried to clear the way. The star-politician finally boarded a car for the road show with Bauri and Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar. Instead of a 2.5 km ride Mithun got off after a kilometre. BJP leaders blamed the police for the chaos that prevented Mithun from completing the road show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah says  illegal infiltrators 'eating' up rights and rations of the people of Bengal||BJP leader Amit Shah on Thursday said that illegal infiltrators were “eating” up the rights and rations of the people of Bengal. The allegation came a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi starts his tour of Bangladesh — the neighbour that the saffron ecosystem usually targets over illegal immigration. Shah’s thrust had a ring of irony: he was citing alleged infiltration from Bangladesh — without naming the neighbour — to polarise voters in Bengal while Modi plans to use his Bangladesh trip to visit temples there and woo Bengal’s voters. “The infiltrators are taking away your income; you don’t get to earn because of the infiltrators. You aren’t getting (your full quota of) rice because the infiltrators are eating it,” Shah told a rally in Purulia. The Union home minister added: “I’m telling you, remove Didi’s government; the infiltrators will be identified and thrown out of Bengal by the BJP government.” With Modi scheduled to arrive in Dhaka on Friday on a goodwill visit at a time Bangladesh is celebrating 50 years of its independence and the centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Shah’s comment raises questions about the BJP’s priority -- poll victory in Bengal at any cost or a friendly relationship with Bangladesh, the most trusted neighbour in the region. Shah had earlier called infiltrators “termites”. On Thursday -- the last day of campaigning before Bengal votes in the first phase on March 27 -- Shah raised the question of infiltration at three other rallies in Jhargram, Mecheda and Bishnupur. Since the days of L.K. Advani as deputy Prime Minister and home minister, infiltration from Bangladesh has been part of the BJP’s narrative in Bengal. Many political scientists believe that the repeated flagging of the issue has yielded political dividends for the BJP in most border districts of the state, which shares a 2,200km-plus border with Bangladesh. Cross-border immigration in a region that has had to bear the pain of Partition twice --  in 1947 and 1971 -- is a historical fact. It is well documented that people from Bangladesh and the erstwhile East Pakistan crossed over to this side in turbulent times. Tens of thousands, irrespective of religion, entered India in search of a better life in the early years of Bangladesh as the country was then known as a “basket case” because of abject poverty. The situation, however, has changed with the size of the Bangladesh economy surpassing that of Southeast Asian tigers like Singapore and Malaysia. The International Monetary Fund has predicted that Bangladesh’s per capita income in dollars is likely to overtake that of India’s this year, which means Bangladeshis have no incentive to cross over any more. If Dhaka’s stellar show on the economy is juxtaposed with the absence of any data on infiltration -- questions on the number of illegal immigrants in India have not elicited any response from the ruling party in Parliament – holes can be drilled into the narrative of infiltration spun by the BJP leadership. In poll-bound Bengal, scores of BJP leaders -- from Shah to Rajnath Singh, Union defence minister -- are referring to infiltration, which makes it clear the party is keen on using the issue to polarise voters ahead of the Assembly polls. “One cannot stop a party from spinning a poll narrative.… But if the senior-most leader of the party in power makes such comments without producing any proof, that too at a time the country’s Prime Minister is visiting the neighbouring country, it is clear that the Bengal polls are more important to the BJP than the country’s relationship with Bangladesh,” a strategic affairs expert said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Tollywood artistes appeal to vote wisely||You bash education to satisfy the spite of the ignorant/ Your devotion is bloodstained, you love none…. You shout your hollow words louder and louder, the thicket of your lies hide the truth/ I spotted your reflection in Goebbels’s mirror/ I have seen the shark teeth, how venomous they are These are lines from a music video created by some of Bengal’s young and accomplished artistes, and featuring a few celebrated veterans, with the aim of warning people against the politics of hate ahead of the Assembly elections. A refrain keeps reappearing: “I am not going anywhere/ I’ll live in my country.” The music video is the brainchild of three young actor friends who coaxed their elders into joining up, marking a rare display of defiance from a fraternity that is often accused of being too careful about image and career. Several of those in the video are successful actors such as Parambrata Chattopadhyay, Anirban Bhattacharya and Riddhi Sen and composer-singer Anupam Roy and singer Rupankar Bagchi. “We are not aligned with any political party but are opposed to a certain ideology — one that looks at things through a prism of polarisation. That ideology is being imposed on the country and in our state in the run-up to the elections. We urge people to resist that ideology,” Parambrata told The Telegraph on Thursday. The cast members said they were aware of the risks but felt that they needed to act before it was too late. Anirban, who wrote the lyrics, said: “If a time comes when I’m denied work because I don’t subscribe to a certain ideology, I’m ready to face it.” Anupam said he was “okay with not being considered for awards” as a possible retribution. “But I want to be clear to my conscience. I want to sleep in peace.” Actor Rwitobroto Mukherjee and Riddhi directed the video. The two of them collaborated with Surangana Bandyopadhyay to write the screenplay. Also featured are the octogenarian stage stalwarts Rudraparasad Sengupta and Arun Mukhopadhyay. The song was released on Wednesday night on the Facebook, Instagram and Twitter profiles of Citizens United. Apart from a song that excoriates Right-wing politics, the six-minute film has visuals carrying messages from luminaries of the Bengal renaissance, such as lines from Sukumar Ray’s Abol Tabol that make fun of authoritarianism and Rabindranath Tagore’s vow to “never allow patriotism to triumph over humanity”. The bit about Goebbels’s mirror is accompanied by images from Charlie Chaplin’s The Great Dictator. There are pictures of the February 2020 Delhi riots, showing a mob attacking a man who lies on the ground, hands covering his head. Forming the backdrop are landmarks and spots emblematic of Calcutta, such as College Street, the Chinese Kali Temple in Tangra, St Paul’s Cathedral, Nakhoda Masjid and Gyan Manch. Right at the start, two paragraphs appear on the screen, setting the tone. “Our country, India, is a land of diversity and love, a country of togetherness. We have to speak out if there is an attempt to foster falsehood and hatred,” it says. “Bengal is the land of friendship, peace and pluralism. If someone tries to drive a wedge between people here, it’s imperative as an Indian, as a Bengali, to resist the attempt. We shall look hatred in the eye and say, ‘This is not your country, this is the country of love, this is India’.” Visuals of posters follow, before a young girl is seen selling a balloon to a young musician on a roadside. Then comes the opening song, which goes: “Ancient texts are history to you; and history to you is dated. You bash education to satisfy the spite of the ignorant. Your devotion is bloodstained, you love none. You are here to rule the nation, yet you know nothing of patriotism.” The video names no political party but flashes pictures of purported newspaper reports and headlines on events and policies attributable to Right-wing politics and BJP governments. Examples: the birth anniversary celebrations of Nathuram Godse, the RSS refusal to hoist the Tricolour, India’s slide down global freedom indices, Internet curbs in Kashmir, the torture of Dalits, Yogi Adityanath’s anti-women comments and atrocities on his watch, and the Rafale controversy. The video highlights issues like the farmers’ protests, fuel price hike and the horrors of demonetisation. The Narendra Modi government’s favourite target finds a mention: “All your explanations begin and end with Pakistan....” Some of the actors display a copy of the Constitution with a picture of B.R. Ambedkar on its cover. Some are seen tearing up sheets of paper inscribed with Right-wing slogans and terms such as “anti-national”, “Go to Pakistan”, “urban Naxal”, “achchhe din” and “Cow urine cures cancer”. The unequivocal assertion that “I am not going anywhere/ I’ll live in my country” is a reminder of the protests against the new citizenship matrix, the backdrop against which the song was written. “Anirban Bhattacharya wrote the lyrics a year ago. We wanted to make the music video at the time but the lockdown stalled everything,” Riddhi said. “We renewed our effort now because of the atmosphere being created before the Bengal elections. Voting is a personal choice and we cannot interfere there, but we can highlight the dangers of majoritarianism.” Anirban said a “political conspiracy” had prompted him to write the song last year. “Artists speak, react and protest through their own medium — films, theatre, music, poetry and so on. But there has been an attempt to destroy that medium of protest,” he said. Some actors and directors who have been openly critical of the Modi government have faced a barrage of online abuse and, sometimes, income-tax and Enforcement Directorate raids. The coming together of so many leading artistes to make the music video is a throwback to civil society’s involvement in the 2007 Nandigram movement against the Left government of the day. Theatre and film veteran Koushik Sen, who was part of the Nandigram movement and is featured in the latest video, was forthright. “Autocratic governments come and go, but the current regime at the Centre is unlike any previous tyrant,” he said. “People, a section of our fraternity included, are still looking at the BJP as just another party. But they (the BJP) are far more dangerous. The upcoming election will be a battle for the soul of Bengal.” Rudraprasad Sengupta, 86, said he participated in the video after being approached by a “bunch of kids”. “The video is self-explanatory. My participation is a reflection of my approval of the video’s message,” he said. The video ends with the little balloon seller entering an auditorium where the artistes are singing in chorus, which she interrupts with the lines: “I am not going anywhere/ I’ll live in my country India.” She rushes on stage. Someone takes the balloon off her hand and gives her a national flag. Another hands her a copy of Tagore’s play Raktakarabi or Red Oleanders, which is about freedom from tyranny. A few lines from the Preamble to the Constitution float into view before the light gradually fades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal election damper for Holi tourism in Digha||The East Midnapore district administration and police on Thursday banned the flow of visitors to the district — famed for seaside towns, including Digha — for two days starting Friday, the poll-related decision a blow to tourism during Holi. The decision, taken amid a fresh Covid-19 surge, is reportedly being taken for security considerations given that Egra and Contai sub-divisions of the district go to polls on Saturday, the first phase. Holi falls on Sunday, and continues on Monday. “The SDOs of Egra and Contai have issued the order stating that no outsiders can enter the area on March 26 (Friday) and 27 (Saturday),” said district magistrate Smita Pandey. Sources said Holi, spanning Sunday and Monday this year, is traditionally a time when the district’s tourist hubs Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur see a massive surge of tourists, in addition to heightened advance bookings. As no vehicles ply on Holi, tourists come in advance. This year, owing to Thursday afternoon’s notification, there will be a marked change. Following the notification, hoteliers in the area were forced to turn back new guests, send existing ones home, and cancel weekend reservations en masse. The average footfall in Digha during Holi is over a lakh, said an official. District officials and civic volunteers made loudspeaker announcements throughout Digha on Thursday and visited hotels to make authorities on the notification. Hoteliers’ association joint secretary Dipra Das Chakraborty said pre-Holi is usually an important time for them in the tourism business, because people usually stay in the area on Holi owing to low traffic. “This time, Digha will be empty during Holi,” he said. “Covid was a bad deal the past year. So, we were looking forward to the Holi season, which is always a good time commercially for us. However, poll timings have affected our hope of good business during Holi,” added a hotelier. Tourists were also disappointed. Howrah resident Mousumi Mukherjee, who arrived in Digha on Wednesday evening in a group of 10 friends and family members, was asked to check out on Thursday evening. “Given the long lockdown, we had all been looking forward to an enjoyable Holi weekend this time. But unfortunately that was not to be,” Mukherjee rued. Hoteliers in Mandarmani also confirmed that they had been cancelling bookings through most of the second half of Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP seeks CBI probe into Dinhata death||Senior BJP leaders on Thursday reached Dinhata town to stand by the family of Amit Sarkar, 50, the BJP president of town committee of the party, who was found dead and hanging on the premises of a local veterinary hospital on Wednesday. Party leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dinesh Trivedi and others who reached Dinhata continued to blame Trinamul for killing Sarkar and hanging him to make it look like suicide, and sought a CBI probe. They also drew parallels with the death of Debendranath Roy, the BJP’s party MLA of Hemtabad in North Dinajpur whose body was found hanging last year. Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, drew attention to a handwritten note found from Sarkar’s clothes on Wednesday that they said had names and numbers of three local BJP leaders and demanded a thorough probe into the case. “Trinamul killed him and hanged his body to make it look like suicide. They planted a note in his pocket to cast blame on (BJP) party workers. A similar incident happened with our MLA in Hemtabad. We want a CBI probe,” Vijayvargiya, BJP national general-secretary, said on Thursday. Later in the day, Sarkar’s mortal remains were released from Cooch Behar Government Medical College & Hospital. Hundreds of BJP supporters, along with leaders, joined Sarkar’s funeral procession to Dinhata for his last rites. MLA Guha said the police should speak with those named in the note. “The BJP is trying to reap political dividend from this death,” he said. Police officers said Munmun’s complaint named 22 persons — mostly Trinamul leaders — accusing them of murdering her husband. It includes Udayan Guha, sitting Trinamul MLA from Dinhata and this election’s candidate. The Election Commission that has ordered a police observer be sent to Cooch Behar for a report, also transferred Cooch Behar SP K. Kannan on Thursday along with some other senior IPS officers. Debashish Dhar will be the new police chief of the district, said the EC order. On Wednesday, some residents spotted Sarkar’s body hanging in Dakbungalowpara of the town. He had gone out early on Wednesday, his wife Munmun told the police. As the news spread, hundreds of BJP supporters on Wednesday blocked roads, tore down Trinamul flags, festoons and banners and set them on fire, and ransacked Trinamul party offices. As police intervened, BJP supporters clashed with them and police retaliated with batons and teargas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: BJP leader quits party over nominee||Alok Sen, a senior BJP leader of the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat, which is the constituency of state tourism minister Gautam Deb, will contest as an Independent from the seat after severing ties with the saffron camp in protest of the selection of the BJP candidate. Veteran BJP leader Sen, who was also a district secretary of the BJP in Jalpaiguri, articulated his grievances here on Thursday. He said the decision made by the BJP to field Sikha Chatterjee from the seat had not gone down well with him and some other party old-timers. “A few names, including my name, of probable candidates were sent to the state leadership for the Dabgram-Fulbari seat. But unfortunately, the leaders selected a former Trinamul leader. That is why I walked out of the party and will contest as an Independent,” said Sen, who had been with the BJP for over a decade. According to party insiders, Sen’s departure would affect the BJP base in Dabgram-Fulbari area and can indirectly help incumbent Trinamul MLA Deb. “He (Sen) has good number of followers in the area. It was because of him that the BJP could develop its base in Dabgram-Fulbari and managed to secure a lead of 86,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from this Assembly segment,” said a source in BJP. Sen, political observers pointed out, is the second veteran politician from Siliguri to leave his party in a matter of days over dissatisfaction with the party’s nominee. In a similar move, Nantu Paul of Trinamul recently filed his nomination as an Independent from Siliguri. He had quit Trinamul following the party’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra as the candidate in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Fan frenzy over Mithun Chakraborty in Bankura||Actor Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the BJP recently, on Thursday had to stay inside his chopper for around 20 minutes in Bankura’s Saltora because over 2,000 BJP workers and fans had surrounded the helicopter. Mithun, who came for a road show to back BJP nominee Chandana Bauri, landed at Saltora College grounds around 10am. A huge crowd waiting for the MLA Fatakesto star broke through barricades. Jostling people pressed against the door of Mithun’s chopper. A scuffle broke out between the police and BJP workers as the former tried to clear the way. The star-politician finally boarded a car for the road show with Bauri and Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar. Instead of a 2.5km ride, Mithun got off after a kilometre. BJP leaders blamed the police for the chaos that prevented Mithun from completing the road show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Cop injured, finger at BJP road show||The inspector in charge of Raghunathpur police station here had to be hospitalised after some BJP workers allegedly manhandled him when the police stopped the party’s road show on Thursday. Police sources said the team of Sanjay Chakrabarty tried to stop the BJP road show — with actress Shrabanti and singer-turned-BJP leader Manoj Tiwari — as it was taken out without permission. BJP leaders on the other hand said there was no road show and the police harassed them. Purulia police chief Biswajit Mahato, who rushed to the site after the incident, said when Raghunathpur inspector-in-charge Chakrabarty and his men stopped the road show, people from the rally “pounced on him” and he received chest injuries. “Chakrabarty complained of breathing troubles and was admitted to the Raghunathpur superspeciality hospital,” said SP Mahato. “A criminal case will be lodged against the road show organisers.” BJP’s Purulia chief Bidyasagar Chakraborty, on his part, said: “Our leaders were on way to Kashipur from Raghunathpur. There was no road show. The police intentionally harassed our people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Murders trigger BJP-TMC slugfest ||Two men were found killed in a banana orchard at Santipur in Nadia district on Thursday morning and the BJP claimed the duo were its supporters and they had been murdered by Trinamul Congress activists. A Trinamul Congress worker has been killed in a clash at Baruipur in South 24-Parganas. Six Indian Secular Front activists were arrested in connection with the murder. In a separate incident, a Trinamul worker was killed and two injured when a crude bomb exploded inside a house at Andal in West Burdwan on Thursday morning. The bodies of Pratap Burman, 25, and Dipankar Biswas, 36, were found in the banana orchard at Methirdanga village. Police said their face had been smashed with a blunt object. Both were painters by profession. The BJP said both had belonged to the party. “They were killed by Trinamul supporters to unleash panic among people before the Assembly polls,” said a BJP leader. BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, who is also the party’s candidate from Santipur, visited the victims’ home. BJP workers blocked a road connecting the Methirdanga village and held a demonstration in front of the Santipur police station demanding the immediate arrest of the murderers. Police and family members said Burman and Biswas had been addicted to liquor and had left home on Wednesday afternoon. As they did not return at night, the villagers launched a search and found the bodies. “It appears the two were killed by people known to them. None of the victims seemed to have any strong political association. Nevertheless, we are looking into all possible aspects,” an investigating officer said. BJP candidate Jagannath Sarkar said: “Police are trying to suppress the truth. They know well that both the victims were BJP supporters, but are trying to mislead the people at the direction of their political bosses.” Trinamul’s Santipur candidate Ajoy De rejected Sarkar’s allegation and accused the BJP of politicising the murders. “None of the two victims was associated with any political party. The family members had also initially told us so. But later, they were compelled by the BJP to change their version,” De said. At Belegachi in Baruipur, Ruhul Amin Midda, 59, a Trinamul worker died at a hospital after he had suffered critical injuries during a clash between activists of the ruling party and the ISF late on Wednesday night. Six ISF activists were arrested. Police and local sources said a group of Trinamul supporters had gone to a house and challenged ISF activists who were holding an internal meeting. A clash ensued and Midda suffered multiple injuries. He was taken to Baruipur subdivisional hospital where doctors declared him dead early on Thursday. Alleged Trinamul workers ransacked around a dozen homes of ISF supporters in the area on Thursday. Trinamul candidate in the Baruipur East constituency Bibhash Sardar said: “None of us went to disturb the ISF meeting. Rather, ISF supporters attacked our men.” The Trinamul activist killed in the blast at Andal was Sarwan Chowdhury, 39. Police said preliminary investigations revealed that Chowdhury and two others had been making crude bombs, one of which had gone off accidentally. The other two suffered injuries in the blast. The area comes under Pandaveswar Assembly constituency where Trinamul turncoat Jitendra Kumar Tiwari is the BJP candidate. His former aide Narendra Nath Chakraborty is the Trinamul candidate. The police seized explosives and other materials used in crude bombs from the spot at Jambad village. The body was sent to Asansol district hospital for post-mortem. The BJP alleged that Trinamul workers had been making bombs at the behest of Chakraborty to create terror in the area. Trinamul leaders, however, said the blast had been caused by a cooking gas cylinder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata recalls Amphan evacuation and rehabilitation ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday recounted how she had spent a sleepless night at Nabanna on May 20 last year when Cyclone Amphan had scythed through south Bengal and how she had used the entire pool of resources at her disposal to support people, from shifting them to safe houses to providing relief and rehabilitation. The chief minister’s reminiscence, albeit it wasn’t the first time she brought it up, was apparently a bid to counter the allegation by the BJP that Trinamul Congress leaders had looted funds and other material granted for Amphan relief. “The person who is a self-proclaimed chowkidar (watchman) fled before Amphan hit our state. I spent three days at Nabanna before the cyclone hit. I recall that the entire building was trembling and we were almost apprehensive of the building collapsing…. But we were at Nabanna till the cyclone’s tail left Bengal,” Mamata said at her election rally in Sagar. The Trinamul supremo who attended two meetings at Pathapratima and Sagar in South 24-Parganas — a district substantially affected by the cyclone — did not pull her punches in her attack on Union home minister Amit Shah, who had been accusing “the nephew and company” of swindling the Amphan relief funds. “(Narendra) Modiji has been sending a lot of money. Amphan had come, right... Modiji had sent Rs 10,000 crore, did you get anything? Where did the money go? The nephew and company have usurped it,” Shah had told a rally at Gosaba in South 24-Parganas earlier this week. Gosaba is in the Sunderbans, which bore the direct brunt of Amphan. Mamata said at her two rallies in the coastal areas of the district, claiming that none other than her government had given money to extend help to Amphan-affected areas. “Those asking Mamata Banerjee about Amphan money, ask them whether they gave even a rupee for Amphan…. Narendra Modi came once and surveyed the situation from a chopper, like a film, and left the state. Later, he sent only Rs 1,000 crore, as an advance from what we already get from the Centre. We have spent Rs 8,000 crore to rebuild houses, roads, restore electricity in the affected areas,” said Mamata. “If anyone gave money as relief for Amphan, it is Mamata Banerjee. Narendra Modi, you have to answer where the (Centre’s) money for Amphan went. You have to answer why you did not give money after Amphan,” she said in her rally at Pathar Pratima. “It is large scale work and there were one or two mistakes, naturally. But for that, how dare they tag Trinamul a thief? Am I a thief? Am I a robber? Am I a murderer? You are all murderers, and you looted money by selling all assets in the (Union) government sector,” she said from her meeting in Pathar Pratima. Mamata said how her government had shifted around 19 lakh people to safe homes before the cyclone had hit the state. “My mothers and sisters, you witnessed the tragedy of Amphan. If we did not shift 19 lakh people before the cyclone hit in six districts, at least 17 lakh people could have died. Twenty lakh houses were damaged,” said Mamata. She also accused the Modi government of not helping the Gangasagar Mela, despite its support to the Kumbh event in Allahabad. “You always give money for Kumbh, but you never helped the Gangasagar Mela. Here, we, the state government, arrange for everything. We ensured insurance of Rs 5 lakh for each pilgrim. One day, we will make Gangasagar bigger than the Kumbh event,” said Mamata. Trinamul leaders said Mamata bringing up Gangasagar Mela was an attack on the BJP, an attempt to turn the Hinduism tables on it. “It is a fact that the Centre did not help in the Gangasagar Mela. Didi has made several infrastructure arrangements to organise the fair peacefully and in an exponentially better way. It will resonate with the people of Sagar,” said a Trinamul leader. Mamata, who later attended two more rallies in Dantan and Midnapore of West Midnapore, persisted with her attacks on the Modi government over the Amphan issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: EC shunts five officials, timing raises brows||The Election Commission on Thursday transferred five senior IAS and IPS officers, including the district magistrate of Jhargram and the ADG of the Western Zone. Thirty Assembly segments, including Jhargram, and many from the Western Zone will vote on Saturday. The EC shunted the SPs of Diamond Harbour and Cooch Behar, and divisional commissioner (South) of city police. The EC ordered Joyoshi Dasgupta, a 2010-batch IAS officer, would replace Ayesha Rani as the Jhargram DM, and Rajesh Kumar, a 1990-batch IPS officer, would replace Sanjay Singh as the ADG of Western Zone. Diamond Harbour SP Avijit Banerji would be replaced by Arijit Sinha, a 2011-batch IPS officer. Cooch Behar SP K. Kannan would be replaced by Debashish Dhar, a 2010-batch IPS officer. The divisional commissioner of South Calcutta, Sudhir Neelkantha, would be replaced by Akash Magharia, a 2009-batch IPS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Bimal Gurung’s campaign in south ||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Thursday reached Kharagpur in West Midnapore, accompanied by his second-in-command in the party Roshan Giri, to address Gorkha voters in the region and rally them behind the Trinamul Congress. “We have come to meet our supporters who have organised a meeting here,” said Giri over the phone. Salua in the Kharagpur Assembly segment has around 22,000 Gorkha voters, most of whom come from families that have served in the Eastern Frontier Rifles. The EFR is headquartered at Salua. Gurung is campaigning for Trinamul in the Bengal Assembly elections and in what is being predicted as a close contest, even a swing of 10,000-15,000 votes could be a game changer. Sources said Gurung had also addressed the public meeting at Salua . Many believe the visit could have political ramifications not only in this south Bengal constituency but also in the Darjeeling hills. “So far, there has been no clear message that Trinamul has publicly endorsed Gurung’s faction as an ally,” said an observer. “This visit would clear many doubts.” Also many organisations in the hills which are inclined towards Trinamul have recently extended support to the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha and not the Gurung camp. The Tamang camp has been claiming that Gurung has not been fully accepted by Trinamul “Can they show a single picture with senior TMC leaders? They are just in touch with the I-PAC team (which is headed by poll consultant Prashant Kishor),” Tamang said. The visit is, however, being seen by many that Trinamul is taking Gurung seriously. “In the last Lok Sabha elections, Tshering Dahal of the Tamang camp had campaigned in Kharagpur, accompanied by Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Shanti Chhetri,” said an observer. Tshering Dahal is the candidate of the Tamang camp in Kurseong. “The fact that Bimal Gurung and Roshan Giri have been asked to campaign also suggests Trinamul still believes that Gurung has some hold over the community,” the observer said. Even though both the Tamang and Gurung factions are allies of Trinamul, they are adopting different methods in the election campaign. Tamang had announced his faction wouldn’t hold joint election campaign programmes with Trinamul in the hills. Gurung has not yet held any joint election campaign with Trinamul in the hills. But in the plains, he has been sharing platforms with Trinamul candidates. With Trinamul deciding to leave the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong for their “friends”, a section of the workers in the ruling party seems disenchanted. Sources said the Trinamul leadership had called a meeting in Siliguri on Friday to smoothen ruffled feathers. Gorkhaland activist Anjani Sharma Bhujel has decided to contest as an Independent in Darjeeling. Anjani had earlier planned to contest in Kalimpong. There are allegations that Anjani changed the decision as the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha fielded her father-in-law R.B. Bhujel in Kalimpong. “It is true he is my relative. He is an able candidate. However, the issue (of self-determination) is more important than the family,” said Anjani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: It’s BJP’s full force  versus Mamata Banerjee||If the Bengal elections have drawn comparisons with epic battles such as the one in the Mahabharat, it is not merely because of the BJP’s affinity towards mythology. The vyuh or battle formation of the main opponents throws up an unusual sight: one woman against many men and women — much like the skewed numerical array in the colossal chronicle. The BJP has fielded its entire galaxy of national leaders in the state election, including them in the star campaigners’ list. Trinamul also has lined up its permissible 30 stars but there is little doubt that it is Mamata Banerjee versus the entire BJP on the campaign trail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
