27-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MPs meet EC, complains about outsiders as booth agents||An eight-member team of Trinamul MPs met the Bengal chief electoral officer on Saturday to point out that the BJP was gaining undue advantage from a rule tweak which allows outsiders as booth agents, hours before the surfacing of an unauthenticated audio clip that seemed to discuss this very issue. In the clip, two senior leaders are purportedly discussing the importance of allowing political workers from other parts of the district to function as booth agents and how that could help tide over organisational deficiencies. “I have been in electoral politics since 1971. I have never seen such a thing happening. For the polls to be free and fair, the process has to be clean. Booth agents are selected from the locality of the booths because they know the voters, they can identify false voters. The EC has changed this provision without consulting any other political party. This has to be removed,” said Subrata Mukherjee, veteran Trinamul minister. The audio clip could not be independently authenticated. In the conversation, the two callers address each other as “Shishir” and Mukul-da”. The discussion is about booth agents. Excerpts: Caller 1: Shishir? Caller 2: Mukul da. Caller 1: When is the EC coming? Day after tomorrow? Caller 2: 21st. They will call us. Caller 1: I will also come along. Caller 2: OK. Caller 1: Whatever points you are making, add two on my behalf. We want in Bengal that there should not be any specific rules about deployment of agents in the polling booth. A person from any place can be the agent in a booth in any part of the state, as long as he is a resident, a voter. Otherwise, there is a certain percentage of booths where nobody can go. You can understand what I am trying to say. Caller 2: Understood. Understood. Clear. Caller 1: This can be done by an administrative order. There is no law regarding this. We have to tell them and explain why we want this. Second thing is the voters slip which are not distributed _ these have to be returned to the observer. Caller 2: I have already written about this. Speculation is rife on the identities of the callers. Going by the names, sources said, “Mukul da” mentioned by Caller 2 could refer to BJP leader Mukul Roy, a one-time Mamata confidante who switched over in November 2017. Roy could not be reached for comment. It is also not when the purported conversation took place, or if the “21st” mentioned by Caller 2, refers to January 21, 2021 when a full bench of the Election Commission had come to Calcutta on a three-day visit. Veteran Trinamul minister Mukherjee alleged that since the BJP did not have workers in all booths in Bengal, they had to depend on outsiders from other states to conduct the polls. “This is not about a loss or a victory in an election. This is about the conventions of parliamentary democracy. Since BJP is the ruling party in the Centre, they can do anything,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections 2021: Audio clips, sporadic violence rule Day One of voting in Bengal||Principal rivals Trinamul Congress and the BJP both claimed significant gains on Day One of voting in the eight-phase Assembly elections of Bengal on Saturday amid sporadic violence in some of the 30 constituencies that went to polls and the dramatic surfacing of two unauthenticated audio clips allegedly featuring voices akin to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, BJP leader Mukul Roy and an industrialist-politician. About 79.79 per cent of voters had cast their votes till 5.46pm. There were allegations of malfunctioning electronic voting machines in some constituencies. “The higher the turnout the happier we will be. We expect the turnout to be around 85 per cent,” said veteran Trinamul minister Subrata Mukherjee. “Out of the 30 Assembly segments that went for polls today, AITCOfficial lead in 10, BJP in 20 in the 2019 LS elections. The CM was not on the ticket in 2019. Reports from ground suggest all looking very different today. Significant gains in Phase 1. Good opening day. #KhelaHobe,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul leader in Rajya Sabha and national spokesperson. The state BJP president Dilip Ghosh also exuded confidence after the poll. “They are trying everything to influence and intimidate voters, but we are coming to power with over 200 seats,” said Ghosh. At least in the three previous elections in Bengal, high turnouts, 82.91 per cent in 1996, 81.92 per cent in 2006 and 83.07 per cent in 2016 went in favour of the ruling party. The first of the two audio tapes to surface on Saturday was that of a purported conversation between a BJP leader and a woman with a voice resembling that of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, asking him to return to the Trinamul fold. The second audio clip was of a purported conversation between two BJP leaders- Mukul Roy and an industrialist-politician. In the tape, a voice resembling Roy's is heard explaining why officials of the Election Commission of India had to be convinced not to implement strict rules regarding polling agents of political parties. It goes on to explain why strict guidelines would prevent the party from assigning polling agents in several booths. The authenticity of the audio clips could not be independently verified. In the first audio clip, about which the BJP leadership has complained to the Election Commission, the BJP functionary is said to be Pralay Pal, a former Trinamul leader who had switched over to the BJP after Trinamul came to power in 2011. In the conversation, the woman is heard requesting Pal to “help us a little”. Pal, now a district vice-president, turns down the request voicing several complaints, ranging from assault and the denial of a Scheduled Caste certificate. The BJP alleged the voice in the audio clip was that of Mamata. Sharing it on its official Twitter handle, the BJP’s Bengal unit tweeted, “Mamata Didi called BJP district vice-president and pleaded for help in Nandigram. Pishi is definitely losing Nandigram, her fear is evident enough in the call.” Trinamul Congress did not deny the conversation but asked why such a telephone call was recorded. “I have to ask where did this readymade tape come from? If the President of India calls me, will I record and release it to the media,” asked Subrata Mukherjee. “If a BJP worker gets upset and the Prime Minister does not call him then what kind of a leader is he?” Earlier in the day, the Congress and ISF-supported CPM nominee Sushanta Ghosh's vehicle was attacked in West Midnapore's Salboni. In East Midnapore's Contai, the car of Soumyendy Adhikary, a local BJP leader and younger brother of Suvendu, was attacked. His driver Ramgobind Singh sustained injuries. A BJP worker Mangal Soren's body was recovered from his home early on Saturday morning in Keshiary also in West Midnapore where voting was held on Saturday. Later, the BJP announced a roadshow by Union Home minister Amit Shah. “The MamataOfficial campaign in Nandigram just got another boost. We hear that a member of the Tourist Gang (part time HM) will be doing a roadshow there on March 30. #KhelaHobe Bring it on,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul leader in Rajya Sabha. Nandigram will go to the polls on April 1 in the second phase. It is among 30 seats spread over four districts of south Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses PM of wooing Bengal voters during Bangladesh visit||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his visit to Bangladesh, accusing him of trying to influence voters in Bengal where polling began for the eight-phase assembly election in the morning, according to NDTV.com. The CM was referring to the PM offering prayers at a temple in Bangladesh's Orakandi, the birthplace of Hindu mystic figure and Matua community's spiritual guru Harichand Thakur, earlier in the day. Orakandi is the abode of hundreds from the Hindu Matua community, a large number of whom are now residents of Bengal and an important factor in elections. PM Modi, whose visit during the temple was seen by many as a political message, also addressed the members of Matua community, saying, "I was speaking to some people here. They were saying who could have thought that India's Prime Minister would visit Orakandi." He also promised to make it easier for people from India to Orakandi and announced that his government will upgrade a girls' school and set up a primary school in the area. "Elections are underway here and he (PM) goes to Bangladesh and lectures on Bengal. It is a total violation of code of conduct of the election," Banerjee said at a campaign event in Kharagpur according to news agency ANI. "In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when a Bangladeshi actor attended our rally, BJP spoke to Bangladesh government and cancelled his visa. When polls are underway here, you (PM) go to Bangladesh to seek votes from one section of people. Why shouldn't your visa be cancelled? We will complain to the Election Commission," NDTV.com quoted the Chief Minister as saying. Not taking too kindly to the canvassing across the border, NDTV.com quoted Banerjee saying, "Sometimes they say Mamata has brought people from Bangladesh and did infiltration. But he (PM) himself goes to Bangladesh for vote marketing." Bengal is holding elections in a record eight phases starting Saturday in a contest that has seen the BJP pull out all stops, including poaching a large number of Trinamool leaders, to unseat the two-time Chief Minister. Results are set to be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Fight BJP goons with kitchen utensils, Mamata tells women ||Alleging that the BJP was bringing in goons from outside to stop people from exercising their franchise in Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged women to "confront the hoodlums with ladle, spatula" and other cooking utensils. Addressing two public rallies at Narayangarh and Pingla in West Midnapore district, the TMC boss dubbed bete noire Suvendu Adhikari and his family as "traitors", and claimed that one member of the household was seen distributing money among people on Friday night, hours before 30 assembly constituencies of the state went to polls. "Yesterday, one of the Adhikari brothers was seen distributing money... Women in the area caught him red-handed and asked the police to arrest him. They also handed over 30 goons, all hired from outside, to the police," she said. Banerjee asserted that the saffron party's fate will be sealed after the first phase of the polls. "The BJP is bringing in goons from outside Bengal to places where the party has some foothold. I will urge the women of the state to come out with 'hata and khunti' (ladle and spatula) and confront the hoodlums." She further requested the Election Commission to ensure that the assembly polls are conducted in a fair manner. "Delhi's Amit Shah wants to conduct the polls in Bengal. With due respect to the Election Commission, I urge the poll body to see to it that the elections are held in a free, fair and impartial manner," the CM underlined, taking a swipe at the home minister. The TMC chief also said that she will be putting up in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram constituency, where polls are scheduled on April 1, to keep an eye on the activities of 'Mir jafars' (traitors). Three members of the Adhikari family -- which wields considerable influence in Purba Medinipur -- have quit the TMC and joined the saffron camp over the past few months. Banerjee is locked in a fierce battle against her former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. "I was responsible for giving them plum positions in public offices. They, however, betrayed the TMC and crossed over to the BJP... they were lured with money," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
27-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP stirs up a row over purported audio clip of Mamata ||A controversy erupted on Saturday amid polling for 30 Assembly seats in West Bengal with the BJP releasing an audio clip in which a woman, purportedly chief minister Mamata Banerjee, is heard cajoling a BJP leader from Nandigram to rejoin the TMC. A BJP delegation, led by party general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, met the state's chief electoral officer and handed over the tape, claiming Banerjee was using her official position to influence the outcome of the bitterly contested assembly poll. PTI could not independently verify the authenticity of the audio tape. The ruling TMC asserted that since Pralay Pal was a former TMC leader who switched over to the BJP, there was nothing wrong with Banerjee trying to woo him back. Banerjee is pitted against her former protege and now BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, the spring board that propelled her to power in 2011, dislodging the Left Front from power after a 34-year unbroken rule. Pal, who pledged his allegiance to the Adhikari family, whose two members are still TMC Lok Sabha members, claimed Banerjee personally called him up and asked him to help her win the Nandigram seat. "You should help us win Nandigram. Look, I know you have some grievances, but that's due mostly to the Adhikaris who never allowed me to get into Nandigram or East Midnapore. I will take care of everything henceforth," the woman, who the BJP claims is Banerjee, is heard saying in the audio clip. Pal, a BJP official in East Midnapore where the Adhikari family holds sway, claims Banerjee was speaking to him, but that he was not game. "Didi, you called me and I am honoured. But I can't betray the Adhikaris as they have stood by me through thick and thin," the voice on the other side, which the BJP claims is Pal's, is heard saying in the audio clip. Pal later told TV news channels that Banerjee called him up and requested him to return to the TMC, a proposal he declined. "I am now working for the BJP and can't betray them," said Pal. Sharing the clip of the purported conversation, BJP's social media head Amit Malviya tweeted, "Massive! Mamata Banerjee calls Proloy Pal, BJP's district Vice President in Nandigram and pleads for help! Proloy tells her that he was humiliated in TMC, and he, along with this family, cannot betray the BJP. Pishi is definitely losing Nandigram and TMC Bengal." "Only a candidate who has accepted defeat can speak the way Mamata Banerjee has spoken," Vijayvargiya told journalists. When asked about whether the tape was authentic, the BJP leader retorted: "I was saying what I am saying with full responsibility (jawabdari)." "She's imploring (yachna) for help. It shows she has accepted defeat," he said. The TMC said the tape was not verified but found nothing wrong in Banerjee approaching a former partyman. "First of all, the clip is not verified. We don't know whether it is true or false. But we don't see anything wrong in a politician calling her former leaders or aides. This is quite natural in politics," TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. Nandigram will go to polls on April 1 in the second phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal, Assam votes with enthusiasm||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Sporadic violence marks first phase of Bengal polls||Sporadic incidents of violence were reported from some areas that are voting in the first phase of the assembly elections in West Bengal on Saturday, even as the overall poll situation was peaceful with 36.09 per cent turnout recorded till 11 am, officials said. Elections are being held in 30 seats, most of which are in the once-Naxal-affected Jungle Mahal region, across five districts amid tight security, they said. "Till 11 am the voter turnout is 36.09 per cent. It has been by and large peaceful so far," a senior Election Commission (EC) official said. The elections are being held following COVID-19 guidelines in all nine seats in Purulia, four in Bankura, four in Jhargram and six in Paschim Medinipur, besides the seven seats in high-stakes Purba Medinipur. The seats in Purba Medinipur recorded the highest turnout at 38.89 per cent, followed by Jhargram (37.07 per cent) and Bankura (36.38 per cent). The seats in Paschim Medinipur recorded 35.50 per cent turnout, while those in Purulia saw 33.58 per cent voters exercising their franchise. In the Kanthi Dakshin seat in Purba Medinipur, voters staged a protest outside a polling booth over EVM malfunctioning. The protesters blocked a road outside the polling station at Majna, claiming that even if they voted for one party, the VVPAT slip showed another party. A contingent of central forces was deployed to control the situation, an EC official said, adding that the VVPAT machine was replaced. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's younger brother Soumendu was attacked in Kanthi by TMC supporters, his party alleged. His car was vandalised and his was driver injured in the attack. In the Salboni seat of Paschim Medinipur, CPI(M) candidate Susanta Ghosh was heckled and stones were hurled at his car allegedly by TMC supporters, police said. As soon as he reached Salboni Bazar, some TMC supporters gheraoed and heckled him, following which they also attacked his car, eyewitnesses said. Police personnel posted in the area rescued and escorted him to safety. "This is an attack on democracy. This is jungle raj going on," said Ghosh, a former minister in the Left Front government. Some journalists who were reporting on the attack were also manhandled and their vehicles vandalised. An EC official said that three persons were arrested in connection with the incident and a report has been sought from the district administration. The TMC denied any involvement. A man, in his mid-30s, was found dead in Keshiary's Begumpur area in the Paschim Medinipur district in the morning, police said. He has been identified as Mangal Soren, they said, adding that his body was found outside his home. The BJP claimed that Soren was their supporter and was allegedly killed by TMC "goons", a charge rubbished by the ruling party. However, the district administration in its report to the EC said that there was no connection of the death to the polls. Long queues were seen outside most booths in the morning hours with people stepping out early to avoid the sweltering heat, besides the uncertainty of being able to cast their votes in case of violence later in the day. Voters in several areas, including Bhagabanpur in Egra and Midnapore, complained of intimidation to the central forces who assured them of security and took them to the polling booth. Besides, there were allegations against both BJP and TMC of trying to influence voters by providing them food packets, tea and snacks. So far, 107 EVMs have been found to be non-functional, an EC official said. "Forty-seven EVMs have been restored by our sector officers and the rest are being mended," he said. The Trinamool Congress also raised concerns over the fluctuating turnout figures on the EC's mobile app and malfunctioning of EVMs at several booths. Most of the voters and political party workers were seen without masks amid a resurgent coronavirus. In some booths, the voters were provided masks, while sanitizers and polythene gloves were made available at most locations. More than 73 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 191 candidates in these 30 seats. The elections, which will continue till 6 pm, are being held amid tight security with the EC deploying around 730 companies of central forces, guarding 10,288 polling booths housed in 7,061 premises, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Polling begins for 30 seats in first phase of Bengal elections||Polling began at 7 am on Saturday for the 30 seats in the first phase of the assembly elections in Bengal amid tight security, officials said. More than 73 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 191 candidates in these seats, most of which are located in the once-Naxal-affected Jungle Mahal region. The elections are being held following COVID-19 guidelines in all nine seats in Purulia, four in Bankura, four in Jhargram and six in Paschim Medinipur, besides the seven seats in high-stakes Purba Medinipur -- the home turf of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. The elections, which will continue till 6 pm, are being held amid tight security with the Election Commission deploying around 730 companies of central forces, guarding 10,288 polling booths housed in 7,061 premises, officials said. Each company of the central forces consists of 100 personnel, they said. Besides, 22,092 state police personnel have also been deployed at strategic locations, they added. Long queues were seen outside many booths even before polling began with people stepping out early to avoid the sweltering heat, besides the uncertainty of being able to cast their votes in case of violence later in the day. Most of the voters and political party workers were seen without masks amid a resurgent coronavirus. In some booths, the voters were provided masks, while santisers were made available at all the locations. The Trinamool Congress is contesting 29 of the 30 seats, while supporting an Independent in the Joypur assembly segment in Purulia as the nomination of its official candidate Ujjwal Kumar was rejected by the EC due to a discrepancy. The BJP is also contesting 29 seats and backing ally AJSU Party of Jharkhand in Baghmundi. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance has put up candidates in all 30 seats, even as there are "friendly fights" in some. Of these 30 seats, 27 were won by the TMC in the 2016 assembly elections, the Congress bagged two and RSP one. However, the equations changed in 2019 with BJP making massive inroads in the tribal-dominated Jungle Mahal region, winning all five Lok Sabha constituencies -- Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram, Medinipur and Bishnupur. West Bengal has been caught in the throes of violent political clashes between the TMC and BJP supporters which have claimed several lives on both sides over the last few days, prompting the Election Commission to deploy such a massive number of central forces. Tension was palpable at Tulsidi village in Purulia's Bandwan as an election vehicle was set on fire hours before the polling began. Forces are at present keeping a close vigil in the area, surrounded by forests that were once the hideouts of Maoists, officials said. Total 73,80,942 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in the first phase. Of them, 37,52,938 are male and 36,27,949 female, while there are 55 third gender voters. Bengal is voting in eight phases for 294 seats. The votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nandigram and Netai telling tale of contrast for Suvendu Adhikari||Nandigram and Netai, two names considered the first and the final nails in the coffin of the 34-year Left Front regime in Bengal, are a telling tale of contrast for BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, once Mamata Banerjee’s aide and torchbearer in the region. In Nandigram, Adhikari’s collaborators in the anti-land acquisition movement are forced to go into hiding to avoid arrests in murder cases from the movement era, reopened recently through judicial intervention brought on by a BJP candidate. In Netai, then CPM rivals of Adhikari are now his comrades in the saffron camp. Netai, a remote village by the bank the Kansabati, witnessed indiscriminate firing, allegedly by the CPM, on protesting villagers, which claimed nine lives and injured 28, on January 7, 2011. The CPM had allegedly sheltered a group of gunmen for their training to ward off a Maoist attack on the house of then CPM leader Rathin Dandapat. The villagers who came to know about the gunmen had gone to protest in a group, when they had allegedly opened fire. Mamata, then the Union railways minister in UPA II, had rushed to the village along with Adhikari, and went to town with the issue later, turning it into a major poll plank against the CPM and defeated it, that summer. After she came to the power, Adhikari was the leader responsible for looking after Netai, especially the kin of the slain. A member from each family was given a government job after Trinamul came to power. Although the villagers, including the bereaved families, acknowledge the contribution of Adhikari, they are not ready to join the BJP after his desertion, as the CPM workers and leaders, whose aides had allegedly opened fire on innocent villagers, are now Adhikari’s colleagues in the BJP. Trinamul leaders claimed Netai is now a thorn in Adhikari’s side. “We have no problem with Suvenduda. We were ready to join him if he floated a new party. But he betrayed us by joining the BJP, which now shelters the killer of my father. Now, it is ours solemn duty is to make Suvenduda lose,” said a member of the Netai Shahid Smriti Raksha Committee. In the last Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had secured a lead in Netai, by over 800 votes. Dwarakanath Panda, president of the Committee, said: “We are grateful to both our chief minister and Suvendu. But he has now chosen a different political platform, which we have no interest in.” Asked if it was largely because of the former CPM workers who are now in the BJP with Adhikari, Panda agreed. Debu Sen, son of Dhiren Sen, one of those slain in the Netai incident, asked how he could join the BJP, especially after Mamata ensured a state government job for him. At a March 17 rally in Lalgarh, Mamata also underscored this issue. “The CPM’s goons are now the BJP’s leaders… so, don’t trust them at all. If you make that mistake, they will bring back that era of fear, like before 2011,” she had said. The house of now imprisoned Rathin Dandapat, from where the alleged firing took place, has only one resident, his 80-year-old mother Madhuri Dandapat. “I did not go to any government camps. I don’t take any government aid. My son is still in jail. Nobody comes to my home to check on me,” she said, claiming her son was not even present when the alleged incident took place in 2011. The BJP acknowledged that the CPM workers in Netai had joined the saffron camp, but ruled out the local discontent over that as a factor, asserting that the fight was between Mamata’s Trinamul and Narendra Modi’s BJP. “There is no longer any CPM in Netai. All CPM leaders and workers are now with us. We will defeat Trinamul in Netai, like elsewhere in Bengal,” said Tufan Mahata, the BJP’s Jhargram unit chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Left Front’s bid to leave mark in campaign||The CPM’s young face and Sanjukta Morcha candidate at Nandigram, Minakshi Mukherjee, is something of a lone warrior. She was nominated by the Left Front as the candidate pegged to enter an epic poll battle in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former aide Suvendu Adhikari would be keenly watched. Sitting in front of the home of a 55-year-old woman in Nandigram’s Kalicharanpur earlier this week, Minakshi cut close to the image of a Left politician. The woman, who did not want to be named, lost her husband in the 2007 land agitation, which arguably was a pitfall for the Left at Nandigram, where CPM offices at Kalicharanpur, Gokulnagar, Sonachura, Kendemari and Ahmadabad have all been shuttered since 2011. Minakshi has taken it upon herself to reverse the trend and to bring local politics back to “the basics”. However, the task for Minakshi is immense as she carries the burden of the police firing that killed 14 villagers on March 14 in 2007. The CPM candidate is aware of the challenges and caught between the high-decibel campaign of the big two. Minakshi is trying to collate the votes that had left the Left fold over the years while trying to reach out to those who are upset with alleged corruption of Trinamul Congress leaders in the area. “Most residents in this area, especially those who wanted to vote for the Left, have been threatened in the past 10 years. All that we want back is our right to vote,” said the widow, casting a furtive glance at Minakshi, who wore a concerned look. Nandigram is home to 17 gram panchayats and the Left has reportedly had almost zero presence in 12 in the past 10 years. Minakshi has been visiting each of the panchayats for the past 10 days, leaving home as early as 6am and campaigning till 10pm on most days. Although she is not equipped with the kind of resources that Suvendu or Mamata has, she has been resilient and unforgiving on herself, having covered nearly 200 booths across Nandigram’s 1 and 2 blocks over the past week and a half. “I am telling the people to be fearless. Yes, they may have been threatened or beaten in the past, but that will come to an end now. Trinamul has thrived on false promises, something evidenced by former party member Suvendu. But even he, who was not of much use in one party, will be no better in the other,” she said. Minakshi brought up the issue of nearby Garupara, which is infamous in the Nandigram area for its history of political violence. “People have often been told to wait outside the booths while their vote is cast, or marked with black ink the night before and told to wait at home,” Minakshi explained, the 55-year-old woman nodding in agreement. “Nandigram has been dishonoured by robbing us of our franchise,” said the widow. At the CPM’s district headquarters, district secretary Niranjan Sihi was circumspect about the April 1 polls in Nandigram, where campaigning ends in five days. “If votes can be cast rightfully, we are hopeful of the CPM making a comeback,” he said. “The people have been confused a lot by Suvendu’s defection, but hopefully, it will benefit us,” Sihi added while news poured in that a campaign vehicle of the CPM had been damaged allegedly by rivals. There are approximately 2.53 lakh voters in Nandigram, of whom nearly 70,000 hail from the minority community. Aware that the minority votes would play a crucial role in deciding which way Nandigram would vote, CPM politburo member Mohd Salim and Indian Secular Front leader Abbas Siddique addressed a rally in support of Minakshi at the Sitananda College grounds in Nandigram on Friday. Siddique emphatically appealed to the people to vote for the Left as they had a long history of stalling the entry of the BJP into Bengal. “We have asked the people to remain united and ensure that their voting rights are not snatched away,” Minakshi said and added that the people of the state should look forward to a surprise on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Car on duty for first phase election set ablaze||Two unknown men set on fire a car on duty for elections after they asked its driver to get off in Purulia’s Bandwan on Friday night. Police have started a probe to find out if Maoists were involved in the incident. The police said such an incident of arson had not happened in the region after 2011. Bandwan will go the polls in the first phase of the voting on Saturday. Police sources said Bandwan was a known Maoists bastion in the Left Front era. They said the incident, which was carried out by unknown goons, who had their faces covered with clothes, could not be taken lightly as the style of attack matched that of Left-wing extremists. “We have already started a probe. We are interrogating the driver who claimed he was stopped and forced to get down before they set the car on fire,” said Purulia district police chief Biswajit Mahato. Asked whether the police suspected the Maoist role behind the incident, he said: “I can’t rule out the doubt right now.”The police sources said a car assigned to deliver food for polling personnel at various booths had been returning to a nearby village in Supurdih when the unknown men stopped the vehicle. “The driver told us that he was first asked to get off the car and later they took fuel from the tank and set the vehicle ablaze. He could not recognise the duo as they used black clothes to hide their faces,” said a police officer. Bandwan was once a Maoist-dominated area and several attacks on police had taken place since early 2000 when the activities of Left wing extremists were very high in the region. In 2003, the then officer in charge of Bandwan was killed in a landline explosion by Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP importing 'outsider' goons to loot votes, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamul Congress on Friday alleged BJP leader and her opponent at Nandigram Suvendu Adhikari had harboured bohiragawtos (outsiders) at different locations in East Midnapore with an intention to disrupt the first and second phase of voting. Trinamul workers had captured some alleged outsiders at Contai in East Midnapore on Thursday night and handed them over to police. Three of them were arrested by the police and produced in court. The trio secured bail from the court. At a rally in Daspur on Friday, the Trinamul chief said her repeated allegation of the BJP importing bohiragawto goons to Bengal had been proven by the Contai incident. “I have been saying for long that they have been assembling bohiragawto goons. See, it was proved yesterday. In the morning, reports arrived that in Contai 1 and 2 (blocks), where the traitors (of the Adhikari clan) live, 30-odd goons from Uttar Pradesh were caught red-handed with guns in their possession,” said the chief minister. Police sources, however, said the number of persons arrested was three, all unarmed, and they are residents of Delhi. “They have hired Bargi raiders from outside to loot votes here,” Mamata said. The Bargi was a sub-category of troops of the Maratha Empire that used to carry out large-scale pillage across the vast western swathes of Bengal almost annually through the 1740s. The chief minister said she would stay at Nandigram from Sunday till the end of polling on April 1 to closely monitor the situation and to minimise the possibility of the alleged outsider goons disrupting the polls. “You can understand how outsider goons have been coming here, I proved it to you…. Remember, I am on the frontlines. Do not allow a single bohiragawto goon to enter. If they stand in your way with guns… I know goons have been sent to Nandigram, I know the names…. I am saying this clearly, listen, if they try to harass you, the women chase them out. But no bullet for bullet, that is not the nature of my politics,” said Mamata. “Their desperation has been intensifying… with each passing day, the BJP is realising it is losing this election,” she added. Later in the day, a Trinamul delegation, led by leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien and Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, lodged a formal complaint with the Election Commission, seeking deployment of additional armed forces in the Contai North and South, Bhagabanpur, Khejuri, Egra, Ramnagar and Patashpur Assembly segments, and specifying nine locations where Adhikari had allegedly harboured armed criminals. “We have received inputs that… there is going to be considerable violence planned by the BJP on the day preceding the poll as well as the polling days… the Election Commission’s deployment of central forces is significantly less in these areas, which we suspect is out of failure of local intelligence collection, or ignoring local intelligence inputs, or deliberate avoidance to blatantly favour the BJP,” wrote Trinamul in its complaint. It added that Adhikari, the BJP’s candidate against Mamata at Nandigram, had been allegedly harbouring the armed criminals at specific locations in Gokul Nagar, Samsabad, Nandigram Hospital More, Haripur, Khodambari, Ahmedabad and Boyal. “Local police have been informed of this, however, no steps have been taken yet,” alleged Trinamul in its complaint. “We call upon you to immediately intervene and direct necessary steps to be taken by the police under your supervision to forthwith apprehend all such armed criminals hired and harboured by Shri Suvendu Adhikari,” it added. In her Daspur address, Mamata warned Trinamul supporters against complacence. “Don’t become overconfident, don’t suffer from complacence. The BJP is the biggest fraud and a party of garbage… it will stop at nothing to win the election,” she said. “They think this election can be rigged. We won’t allow that to happen,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Voting in 30 seats on Saturday||A total of 730 companies of paramilitary forces will be deployed in the first phase of the Bengal Assembly polls on Saturday. Thirty seats spread across five districts — East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram — would go to the polls and a total of 73,80,942 people are eligible to exercise their franchise. Each company of the central force comprises nearly 80 armed jawans. Sources in the Election Commission of India said each booth premises would be guarded by paramilitary personnel and state police would be responsible for maintaining law and order in the area outside the polling premises. Single-booth premises would be guarded by eight jawans (one section) of central forces, while two, three and four-booth premises would be secured by 16 jawans (two sections). “The central force would guard the polling premises and they would be responsible to deal with untoward incidents within a radius of 100 meters. The rest of the area would be under the jurisdiction of state police. The police would have quick response teams that include central forces so that security personnel can reach the spots in case of anything untoward happens,” said a source in the poll panel. According to the plan, 659 companies of central forces would be deployed to guard 10,288 booths during the first phase of the polls and the remaining 71 companies of central forces would be deployed to form quick response teams along with the state police and sector duty. The police have also deployed more than 40 inspectors and 100-odd sub-inspectors, along with nearly 4,000 constables, home guards and NVFs, for the first phase . “I last saw such a heavy deployment of central and state forces during the 2006 Assembly polls where 100 percent booth premises were guarded by the central force jawans,” said a senior IPS officer. “The state police were not given any responsibility within a radius of 100 meters of the booth premises then. Only an NVF person would be allowed on the booth premises to arrange the queues.” Sources in the administration said the heavy deployment reminded the promise of Union home minister Amit Shah in his recent public meetings that no goons of Trinamul would be on road due to the heightened security arrangements. Several leaders from the districts where polling would be held said that such a heavy deployment might actually frighten the common people and many of whom might not come out to vote out of fear. “A total of 21 Assembly segments in Jungle Mahal would vote tomorrow (Saturday). The area is sensitive about the presence of armed forces. Common people consider heavy force deployment as a sign of something wrong. This might leave an effect on the polling percentage,” said Pulin Bihari Baske, the CPM district committee secretary in Jhargram and a party nominee from West Midnapore’s Kesiyari. Moreover, the EC announced the entire polling process would be web cast from 5,399 booths. The unprecedented deployment was visible in several booths by Friday afternoon even before polling officials reached the booth. In Amdanga Rural school in Lalgarh, it was found that eight armed SSB jawans were deployed there from 2.30 pm on Friday even if the polling officials were yet to reach the polling station. “We have reached here early to check the situation here. The force would take their position as soon as the polling personnel reach here,” a sub-inspector of SSB said. Chhatradhar Mahato, Trinamul's state committee member and face of Lalgarh movement, also said that he never witnessed such a heavy deployment in recent elections in Jungle Mahal. “I don’t know why such a tight security arrangement was made. In this area, over 90 percent of people come to polling booths to cast their votes. If the polling percentage dips this time, the heavy deployment extra security will be the sole reason,” said Mahato. BJP leaders, however, said the commission did the right thing considering the situation happened in the last Panchayat election when oppositions could not file nomination papers too. “Trinamul will not get any chance to manipulate the polling system this time. They should recall what they did in the last panchayat polls,” said a BJP leader in Jhargram. A section of the officials, however, said Jungle Mahal usually don’t have a record of electoral malpractices and even in 2018 panchayat polls, elections were held in majority of the rural body seats where the Trinamul candidates were defeated in a large number of seats. Common voters of Jungle Mahal were surprised over such a huge deployment of forces. “This year’s election is completely different. So many forces and leaders are visiting our village this time. I hope everything is fine,” said Sushil Mahato, 72, a voter from Salbani’s Bhimpur village. Tension erupted in Salboni after the body of a BJP worker Lalmohan Soren was found hanging from a tree in Bagmari village on Friday morning. ADG (law and order), Jag Mohan, said: “The matter is being investigated and no report has reached the state administrative headquarters yet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Crash kills three civic volunteers in Malda district||Three civic volunteers died and six others were injured after the SUV in which they were returning to a police station overturned on NH12 at Jalalpur in Malda district on Friday. Sources said a team of Kaliachak police had gone to Sujapur on Thursday night to arrest some people against whom warrants had been pending. While they were returning to the police station on Friday, one of the three SUVs carrying nine civic volunteers lost control. It rammed into a road divider and overturned on the national highway. Local people and police personnel in the other two SUVs took all the injured to Malda Medical College and Hospital where doctors pronounced three of them dead. The deceased have been identified as Pankaj Mandal, Obaidur Sheikh and Ebanul Sheikh — all aged between 30 and 35 years. Alam Sheikh, another civic volunteer, who suffered injuries to the head and shoulders, was immediately referred to Calcutta by the doctors. “The SUV was heading fast towards the police station. A vehicle carrying two persons who were arrested was ahead of us while the third SUV was behind us. Suddenly, the vehicle hit something on the highway and overturned,” said Ruksena Khatun, an injured civic volunteer. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said families of each of the deceased civic personnel would receive a compensation of Rs 6.50 lakh and a job for their immediate next of kin. The entire cost of treatment of the injured would be borne by the state police, he added. Gaur enters hamlet Three persons, including a woman, got injured after a gaur (Indian bison) strayed into West Chepani village of Alipurduar district from the Chhipra forest that is under Buxa Tiger Reserve on Friday morning. Among the injured, the woman has suffered serious injuries and has been sent to NBMCH. Locals said after the animal got into the village, it started running around and attacked people who came near it. As it injured the residents, foresters were informed and a team reached the spot. It took time for them to dart the animal. It was then taken away from the village and will be released in the forest in due course, said a forest officer. The department will also bear the medical costs of the injured as per the policy, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Business conclave: Meeting yields start-up ideas in North Bengal||Around 50 proposals for start-ups mooted by budding entrepreneurs of north Bengal were placed at a business conclave hosted by the North Bengal chapter of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) here on Friday. “For quite some time, the ICC has been focussing on start-ups and encouraging young entrepreneurs who are coming up with new ideas. A number of prospective investors who want the start-ups to develop in north Bengal and Sikkim were present at the conclave. Of the proposals, eight to 10 have been selected and pitched for investments to the tune of Rs 30 crore,” said Nishant Mittal, chairman of the ICC north Bengal. Sources in the ICC said the proposals included new commercial ventures in sectors like horticulture, IT, organic food and grocery. Mittal said the ICC could bring in some stalwarts of the industry as well the young entrepreneurs together at the conclave. “We wish to promote budding entrepreneurs of north Bengal and link them to industry experts and business leaders from all parts of the country. This step would help them showcase their concepts at macro level,” he added. In the course of the event, the ICC north Bengal also launched its YLF (Young Leaders’ Forum) Start up ICC Next, an initiative that had been introduced by the trade body to encourage new business ideas and promote investments. A number of youths in north Bengal and Sikkim, many of whom used to work outside in different sectors, conceived a number of new business concepts in the past few years and particularly during the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year. “While some of these are IT-enabled concepts which can offer varied services to consumers at door steps, there are also new business ideas which involve utilisation of the natural resources and the efficient manpower we have in the region, particularly in the Darjeeling hills. Now that things are returning to normal, it is time to nurture these ideas to promote alternative employment options in north Bengal and Sikkim,” said a senior industrialist based in Siliguri. CII initiative The north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with National Marwari Foundation and a private group distributed artificial limbs among specially-abled people at the National Marwari Foundation Artificial Limb centre in Siliguri on Thursday. Sanjay Tibrewal, the chairman of the CII NB zonal council, said the initiative would help the beneficiaries in their locomotion. The trade body will take the initiative to ensure that each of them receives the monthly assistance of Rs 1,000 under a government scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: GNLF backs three BJP nominees at Shah ‘plea’||GNLF president Mann Ghisingh on Friday said Union home minister Amit Shah had “implored” him to support the BJP in the three hill Assembly segments, following which the GNLF “emptied our pockets” and decided to support the saffron party. When the BJP had announced the candidates for the Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong seats four days ago, Ghisingh had first opposed all the nominees but soon changed his stance. The BJP fielded Subha Pradhan and B.P. Bajgain in Kalimpong and Kurseong, respectively. Neeraj Zimba is the BJP candidate in Darjeeling. Zimba, a GNLF leader, had won the Darjeeling seat on a BJP ticket in a bypoll in 2019. A section of GNLF leaders, however, wants Zimba to be replaced with Ajoy Edwards. Aware of the dissent, Ghisingh addressed his supporters in Darjeeling on Friday in the presence of senior leaders, including Edwards, to justify his support to all the three BJP candidates in the hills. “Binti garyo (Amit Shah implored me). I had not seen a home minister imploring so much,” said Ghisingh who added that he had seen an opportunity in the plea. The opportunity, Ghisingh said, was to tell Shah that he must showcase a clear framework of the “permanent political solution” that the BJP had promised to the hill people in the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. Neither the BJP nor its hill partners have explained what the “permanent political solution (PPS)” means. “We have emptied our pockets as one last chance (to the BJP),” said Ghisingh. The GNLF leader said the party had “winning candidates like Edwards and others in Kurseong and Kalimpong” but had decided to extend support to the BJP as they could not afford to “disconnect” themselves from Delhi. “This decision has been taken keeping in mind the interest of our community and our issue (PPS),” said Ghisingh. “Be united, do not look at the face of the candidate but the issue we are working at,” added Ghisingh. The GNLF leader’s mention of the candidates’ face seems to be another attempt to smoothen ruffled feathers among Edwards supporters. Edwards, despite being present at the meeting, has not made public his mind on whether he would contest from the Darjeeling seat or not. “Edwards is under tremendous pressure from his supporters. It would still be too early to say water has been cleared. His supporters are expected to hold another meeting on Saturday,” said a source. Many believe if Edwards ultimately decides to plunge into the fray after the GNLF’s Friday decision, it could change the political contours in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 646 new cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday witnessed the 15th consecutive day of rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases, which crossed the 4,000 mark yet again after falling below it on February 15. The number of active cases rose by 281 on Friday to touch 4,231. The state recorded 646 new infections (239 in the city) and 361 recoveries on Friday. Four Covid patients died, one of them in the city, during the day. The recent spell of rise is part of a wider national trend. A 136-day stint of fall in the number of active cases in Bengal, since Vijaya Dashami last year, snapped on March 11. Before the rise since March 12, the active case count had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 to 3,110. Despite the recent surge, Bengal has 0.94 per cent of the national total of active cases and is 13th on the list of states with most active cases in the country. This is largely because other states have been doing far worse. “This is part of a nationwide second wave.Bengal is also vulnerable because of all the disregard for safety protocols,” said a minister. The recovery rate in the state is 97.5 per cent, considerably ahead of the national rate of 94.83 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Violence rocks Cooch Behar again||Three houses were vandalised and two men injured in a clash between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP near Dinhata on Thursday night. In a separate incident, alleged BJP supporters ransacked a club near Mathabhanga on Thursday night. Fresh bouts of violence had been reported in Cooch Behar district before Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed by the Election Commission of India, reached here on Friday to review the law and order. Dube was instructed by the commission to visit the district after BJP leader Amit Sarkar had been found dead in Dinhata and the consequent violence. Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed at Futani Bazaar of Shakdal village in the Bhetaguri 2 panchayat of Dinhata subdivision on Thursday night. Four houses — three of Trinamul and one of the BJP — were ransacked. Two Trinamul supporters suffered serious injuries in the clash. Police brought the situation under control and seized crude bombs from Bhetaguri and the adjoining Burirhat. “There are reports that crude bombs are lobbed at night to intimidate people at some villages. We are keeping a watch over the situation and have intensified patrolling,” said a police officer. The club ransacked by the alleged BJP supporters is located at Bherbheri-Manabari near Mathabhanga. Bikram Dutta, the club’s secretary, has filed a complaint with police. “We suspect the attack was carried out as club members are into various social works in the area with the assistance provided by the state government,” he said. BJP leaders have denied the charges and said the vandalism was the fallout of differences among the club members. Lalit Pramanik, who had left Trinamul recently and joined the BJP, alleged that some Trinamul supporters had manhandled him on Friday evening. Sources said Pramanik had been returning from Lalbazar in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment under the Mathabhanga subdivision when some people had intercepted his car. “They ransacked my SUV and assaulted me and two BJP supporters who were in the vehicle. The attackers have asked me not to campaign for the BJP,” said Pramanik. Trinamul leaders have brushed aside the allegation. Dube, who arrived in Cooch Behar by a helicopter, held a meeting with the district magistrate and other administrative and police officers. The Election Commission had transferred district police chief K. Kannan on Thursday. District Trinamul leaders have demanded that the investigation into the death of Amit Sarkar be expedited and the findings be made public at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Jungle Mahal votes in 1st phase of Assembly elections today ||It is 3pm and the summer sun is beating down on Rabindranath Mahato, 30. Never mind the heat and the 13km journey on his paraplegic aid tricycle, Mahato is not short of enthusiasm on his way back from a campaign rally of Mamata Banerjee. The resident of Lalgarh in Jhargram who lost his legs to polio has been receiving a monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 under the Bengal government’s Manobik scheme for the disabled. He became a beneficiary after submitting documents at a camp near his home under Duare Sarkar, the Trinamul government’s reach-out drive for those missing out on social schemes. It is schemes like these that Trinamul is banking on when 23 seats of Jungle Mahal, a forest expanse straddling West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura and 40 Assembly constituencies, go to the polls on Saturday in the first phase. Once a stronghold, Trinamul has lost ground to the BJP in this belt dominated by tribals, Scheduled Castes and OBCs. Mahato had been eager to attend an election rally of the chief minister since he began receiving the stipend. “I can’t move my legs since childhood. My elder sister gave me this tricycle. I earn my living by selling fish at Khariamura in Jhargram. Now, I am also receiving Rs 1,000 as stipend. I got the benefit without paying anything to anybody. That’s the reason why I will support Trinamul this time,” Mahato said when The Telegraph met him on March 17. Not only Mahato, there are thousands in Jungle Mahal who have been receiving government benefits through Duare Sarkar camps, drawing more and more people to Mamata’s campaign rallies in the region. The impressive turnouts at the rallies have given Trinamul hope of recovering ground ceded to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP had bagged five of the six Lok Sabha seats of Jungle Mahal. “The first change of mood was noticed during the 2018 panchayat polls. The BJP bagged a significant number of seats wherever elections were allowed to be held in Purulia, Jhargram and Bankura. Corruption at the gram panchayat level had angered people, which showed in our poor performance in the Lok Sabha polls,” said a Trinamul leader in Purulia. He, however, added that the situation had changed significantly since then and the party was confident of staging a better performance. Even the biggest optimist in Trinamul can’t claim that the party will repeat its 2016 performance, when it had won 33 of the 40 seats, but leaders are confident of a clawback. The political history of Bengal suggests that the party that wins the majority of the seats in Jungle Mahal always has an edge over others in capturing the seat of power in the state. The Congress used to pocket most seats in Jungle Mahal till 1972, when it ruled the state. The scenario changed in 1977 when the Left turned the region into its stronghold by wooing the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Jungle Mahal became a Trinamul bastion in 2011 and continued to be so till the shocker in 2019. In the first phase of polling on Saturday, 23 seats of Jungle Mahal — which has an SC population of 22 per cent and an ST population of 15 per cent — will vote. The remaining 17 seats will vote on April 1. “The Lok Sabha poll results had pointed to our failure in the region and we have tried addressing them in the past two years with the government machinery.… Then came Duare Sarkar, through which we reached out to people,” said a senior Trinamul leader, exuding hope. Binay Jana, a 72-year-old marginal farmer from Sahersai village of Jhargram, can be a poster boy for the Duare Sarkar programme as he is thankful to the state government for giving senior citizens like him a pension of Rs 1,000 a month. “I have diabetes and high blood pressure. Now I don’t need to seek money from my sons to buy medicines. I got the pension after visiting the Duare Sarkar camp,” Jana said. Records available with the state government show that around 90,000 beneficiaries were added under several pension schemes through Duare Sarkar camps in Jungle Mahal. Besides, 22,000 caste certificates were distributed. Senior bureaucrats said Duare Sarkar, the brainchild of poll strategist Prashant Kishor, was planned as the ruling establishment wanted to reach out to people directly through government officials, not the panchayats. “People were angry with panchayat-level leaders. We wanted to keep them away from the service-delivery mechanism. The footfall at the camps clearly suggests that the people are happy with the services offered without hassles. This also proved that many people had been deprived, which we needed to address,” an official said. Service delivery through camps manned by government officials raises the question whether the Trinamul dispensation is weakening the three-tier panchayat system — local self-governments tasked with implementing the majority of development work. Senior Trinamul leaders said the party could address the issue if it returned to power, for which Duare Sarkar seems to be the trump card. “We have realised that holding panchayat polls properly is very important as people can defeat those they don’t like. As it did not happen in 2018, we had to pay a price in the Lok Sabha polls. We need to change a lot of things in the region, but for that we need to return to power.… And our hopes hinge on the success of Duare Sarkar,” a minister said. Sources in the BJP said the party had invested heavily on strengthening the organisation, which was earlier dependent on the RSS. “In 2019, people had voted against Trinamul. Now, we want people to vote for us because of our work and visibility in the area.… We have strengthened our organisation after the Lok Sabha success, which will help us to do better this time,” said a BJP leader in Jhargram. The poll planners in the saffron camp have ensured that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah visit Jungle Mahal several times to hold rallies and create a development narrative that Mamata can’t match. “They have made it clear that jobs will be created, safe drinking water will be provided and pension for the old will be enhanced. People have cheered the Prime Minister whenever such announcements have been made. It is clear that we will win the majority of the seats this time too,” the BJP leader said. This newspaper’s visits to different Jungle Mahal districts have, however, revealed that Trinamul has made a course correction through Duare Sarkar and the BJP’s promises appear to echo the Mamata administration’s projects. “This is the difference between 2019 and 2021. People were angry in 2019 and now they have received some government services. Now, the BJP has to play a different role. They have to convince the people that they will offer more.… That’s going to be easier said than done as the Trinamul government has ensured delivery of services in the last three-four months,” a political observer said. According to him, the BJP will find it difficult to repeat its 2019 performance because of a general perception in Jungle Mahal that the party’s elected MPs have been missing in action. Against this backdrop, the large turnouts at Mamata’s rallies suggest that Trinamul is ready to put up a strong fight against the BJP and the contest will be close. “Many of those attending our rallies are coming after receiving government services. That’s our biggest strength.... But it’s also true that the BJP has a silent voter base and they will vote irrespective of whatever we deliver,” admitted a Trinamul leader in Bankura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Birbaha Hansda is not only known for her stardom, but also her political legacy||In the star-studded candidates’ list for the Bengal Assembly elections, one person stands out. Birbaha Hansda, 37, the Trinamul nominee from Jhargram, is not only known for her stardom in the Santhali film industry, she also inherits a political legacy. “I come from a tribal family and have seen my parents contest elections. Although I grew up to become an actor and have acted in Santhali films, I have inherited the spirit of serving the people from my parents. I am a daughter of Jungle Mahal and can mix with the people here easily,” Birbaha says while campaigning near Jhargram Palace last week. Birbaha, which means flower in Santhali, has been fielded from an unreserved seat. “The choice of Birbaha has been strategic as Trinamul had trailed the BJP in the Jhargram Assembly segment by 1,600 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The constituency has nearly 30 per cent tribal votes and we want to use her popularity to woo back voters,” says a Trinamul leader who has been campaigning with the party candidate since six in the morning. The English teacher of a local high school, Lalit Hansda, echoes the leader: “Birbaha will help Trinamul get both tribal and non-tribal votes.” Birbaha, who began her film career as an 18-year-old, is pitted against the BJP’s former district president, Sukhamay Satpathi, and the CPM’s Madhuja Sen Roy, who was Birbaha’s classmate in primary school in Jhargram. Although the CPM had trailed the BJP and Trinamul in the Lok Sabha polls, Madhuja feels her “school friend” is not “much in the fight”. “Both the BJP and Trinamul are our rivals but in Jhargram the battle will be between the CPM and the saffron camp,” Madhuja says. Sathpati agrees. “Anyone can contest polls but people have no trust in Trinamul.” Birbaha’s popularity is evident on campaign trail — fans line the roads and speak enthusiastically about Bardu, the film that made her a star. “The film was a superhit and I liked my role. The film was based on Maoist activities in Jungle Mahal,” says Birbaha, a history graduate and mother of two. She has acted in 19 movies, but Bardu is considered to be her best. It was selected for screening at the Goa Film Festival in 2014. “She is very popular in the Santhali film industry, which enjoys viewership in the Jungle Mahal districts and neighbouring Jharkhand. To us she is the equivalent of Suchitra Sen and Hema Malini,” said Opel Mandi, state convener of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal and a resident of Burdwan. Pointing out how Birbaha stood out among other celebrities contesting the elections, Mandi said: “She is not just a star but a girl who has imbibed the tradition of struggling for a better Jungle Mahal.” Birbaha’s father and founder of the Jharkhand Party, Naren Hansda, was a two-term MLA from Binpur. Her mother Chunibala Hansda also represented the seat for two terms. Birbaha has unsuccessfully contested elections thrice. Her first plunge was in the municipal polls, then the Assembly elections in 2011 and the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 in which she had been a candidate of the Jharkhand Party (Naren) in Jhargram. “I have joined Trinamul to strengthen the hands of Mamata Banerjee. Acting in films is my passion but I have joined politics as I want to do something for the people,” Birbaha says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
