28-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP will win over 200 seats and form govt in Bengal, says Shah||Union Home minister Amit Shah claimed on Sunday that his party would win 26 out of the 30 Assembly seats where polls were held on Saturday during the first phase, leading to a fresh round of verbal sparring with the Trinamul Congress led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Polling was peaceful in both Assam and West Bengal. After discussions with booth-level workers and party leaders, I can say we are going to win 26 out of the 30 seats. BJP will win more than 200 seats in Bengal and form the government,” said Shah, at his residence in Delhi. “It is not just that we will win these seats, but our victory margin is also going to increase,” he emphasised. But the Trinamul was quick to counter his claims. “Mind games won’t work. Mo-Sha. Try your seat prediction stunts at the Gujarat Gymkhana. This is Bengal,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha. Shah, who is scheduled to campaign in Nandigram on Tuesday, claimed the change of political power in Bengal could start from Nandigram. “If the people of Nandigram can bring the change then there will be change in Bengal,” Shah said. The Union Home minister also questioned how a telephone conversation between two BJP leaders from Bengal was “leaked” while polling was on. “We gave that request (not to restrict booth agents only to local residents) in writing to the Election Commission. The question is how was the conversation leaked? Who gave the permission to tap the phones? After the model code of conduct is in vogue can a government issue such an order?” Shah asked. On Sunday evening Mamata was at Reyapara’s Shib Mandir Dol Mela ground in Nandigram to deliver a double dose _ political messaging along with a soiree with Aditi Munshi, the Trinamul nominee for the Rajarhat Assembly seat. “I have rented a house here (Nandigram). I am staying here till the elections and I will come again after the election is over. They will get a big rasogolla without the ras,” said Mamata who visited her constituency on Sunday for the first time since her foot injury during a political event there. In all, she is expected to address seven rallies and hold a couple of roadshows there on a wheelchair till Tuesday evening. The first of these was held on Sunday evening after a visit to the local temple in Reyapara. On Monday and Tuesday, Mamata is expected to address three rallies each in the constituency which has been firmly with the Trinamul since 2008. Monday’s road show will begin from Nandigram block-II. Ahead of the second-phase of polls, when Mamata herself is among the contenders, the Trinamul called Shah’s statement was an attempt to confuse the voters. “Amit Shah has a consistent record when it comes to predicting election results. He consistently gets it wrong. Check track record since 2015,” said O’Brien in another tweet. An accompanying chart showed Shah had claimed the BJP would form governments in Bihar and Delhi in 2015, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan in 2018 and in 2019 Jharkhand and Maharashtra and Delhi in 2020. BJP lost in all the states but went on to form governments later in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Asked about a purported telephonic conversation Mamata had with a BJP leader, who was earlier in her party, to woo him back to her fold, Shah said everyone had the right to solicit support. TMC leader arrested Trinamul leader from Lalgarh Chhatradhar Mahato, who was the face of the land movement more than a decade ago, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing several cases against him. Since his release from jail Mahato had joined Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC asks EC to withdraw its earlier directive on appointment of polling agents||The Trinamool Congress has written to the Election Commission urging it to withdraw a recent order that relaxed a rule on the appointment of polling agents, and alleged that the EC had taken the step to help the BJP. According to a March 2009 rule by the EC, polling agents who are appointed by the contesting candidates shall have to be electors in the same polling stations or from neighbouring polling stations falling in the same constituency. However, the provision was amended recently to allow an elector from any part of an assembly constituency to be appointed as a polling agent. The reason for the same has been stated to be based on inputs and for the convenience of the candidates. Such reasoning is not only ambiguous in nature but also leads us to a conclusion that it has been implemented to help certain political parties, namely the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), due to them not possessing the strength to muster enough polling agents, the Trinamool Congress alleged in a letter to the EC dated March 26. The party released the letter on Sunday. It claimed that the new instructions were made with a mala fide intention to benefit the candidates of Bharatiya Janata Party. Such instruction passed by the Election Commission of India just before the scheduled date of election to take place in West Bengal is arbitrary, motivated and biased, it alleged and urged the EC to withdraw the direction and restore the earlier rule. While the first of the eight phases of assembly polls in West Bengal was conducted on March 26, the second phase is on April 1. A TMC delegation led by MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay had on Saturday raised the issue at a meeting with Chief Electoral Officer Aariz Aftab in Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records 84.13 per cent polling in first phase of assembly elections||Voting percentage in 30 assembly seats that went to polls during the first phase of West Bengal elections was 84.13, according to an updated report of the Election Commission. Polling was "mostly peaceful", barring a few sporadic incidents of violence, an EC official said on Sunday. Of the 30 seats that went to the polls on Saturday, nine were in Purulia, four each in Bankura and Jhargram, six in Paschim Medinipur, and seven in Purba Medinipur district. The highest polling percentage of 86.32 was recorded in the Purba Medinipur district, followed by Jhargram (84.74 per cent), Paschim Medinipur (84.71 per cent), Bankura (84.27 per cent) and Purulia (81.77 per cent). "This is approximate data. We are working on it and the final figure will be released soon," the official told PTI. Till 5 pm on Saturday, 79.79 per cent polling was recorded. Voting had begun at 7 am and concluded at 6.30 pm, with the timing extended by an hour and thirty minutes to ensure that COVID protocols are followed. Sporadic incidents of violence were reported from various places that went to the polls during the first phase of the state assembly elections, the EC official said. Voting was held in 30 seats - several of them part of the once-Naxal-hit Jangalmahal region -- amid tight security and strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, he said. At least 10 people were arrested for allegedly being involved in incidents of violence that occurred in various places during the first phase of polling. The ruling TMC and the opposition BJP are in a fierce fight in the state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: What was not good for Ferdous Ahmed is good for Narendra Modi||2019: Bangladeshi actor Ferdous Ahmed allegedly campaigns for a Trinamul candidate at an election rally. The BJP complains to the Election Commission. The Indian visa of Ferdous, who had an acting career in Bengal, is cancelled. 2021: Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits Orakandi, the birthplace of Matua sect founder Harichand Thakur, at Gopalganj in Bangladesh on Saturday, the first day of polling in Bengal. Modi tweets pictures of his “blessed moments” at Orakandi Thakurbari, making sure the description is translated into Bengali too on his Twitter account. Images of Modi at Orakandi compete on TV with those of election day. The Matua community, immigrants from Bangladesh, has considerable clout in North 24-Parganas and Nadia, which will vote in the subsequent phases. Some Matua leaders did say later on Saturday that Modi’s visit would influence the community’s voting preferences. Question: Didn’t Modi virtually campaign for elections in India from a foreign country? Before Modi and the BJP vehemently dismiss any parallels with Ferdous, here’s a nugget: the Bangladeshi actor had played Harichand Thakur, whose birthplace Modi visited on Saturday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday demanded action against Modi for violating the model code of conduct after accusing him of trying to woo “one community” during his visit to Bangladesh at a time elections are being held in Bengal. Addressing a rally in West Midnapore, Mamata asked: “Why are you in Bangladesh while there are polls in Bengal? If you go to Bangladesh to seek votes from people belonging to one community while the poll process is on, why shouldn’t your visa and passport be cancelled for violation of the model code?” She added: “We will complain to the Election Commission. Sometimes they are saying that Mamata has helped infiltration from Bangladesh, and sometimes he is going to Bangladesh for marketing during the poll process. We want answers to who is right and who is wrong.” The BJP has been trying to woo the Matua community in poll season as it accounts for a significant segment of the electorate in districts like North 24-Parganas and Nadia. The Matuas had been with Trinamul till the BJP ate into the 35-lakh-plus vote bank ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by promising implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. As the act has not been implemented yet, some Matuas are sulking. Many believe that Modi made it a point to visit Orakandi to win them over again just before the polls. The Prime Minister was on an official tour of Bangladesh to participate in programmes held to mark the centenary of the nation’s founding father, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, and the 50th birth anniversary of Bangladesh. Modi visited the Jeshoreshwari temple in Satkhira and the Matua temple in Orakandi. After offering his prayers at the temple, Modi addressed a gathering of the Matua community and announced the Indian government would upgrade a middle school for girls in Orakandi with modern amenities and set up a primary school there. “I spoke to some people here. They told me that no one would have thought that India’s Prime Minister would visit Orakandi,” Modi said in his address. The Prime Minister added that the Indian government, with the cooperation of its Bangladeshi counterpart, would work towards making the visit of Matuas from India to Orakandi hassle-free. On Saturday, Mamata spoke about the Prime Minister’s “marketing” in Bangladesh. Trinamul sources said she was referring to the promises Modi had made at Orakandi. The chief minister referred to the controversy over Ferdous for allegedly campaigning for Trinamul candidate Kanhaiyalal Agarwal in Raigunj in North Dinajpur. The BJP had written to the Election Commission objecting to Ferdous’s presence at the rally, and the actor had to lose his visa. “In 2019, Bangladeshi actor Ferdous participated in one of our rallies. The BJP spoke to the government and got his visa cancelled. And what happens if the Prime Minister goes to a foreign country and speaks after polls have been notified? Everything is okay in your case and not in others’?” Mamata asked. The BJP didn’t officially react to Mamata’s allegation but multiple Matua leaders this newspaper spoke to said the Prime Minister’s visit, his activities and promises in Orakandi would indeed yield political dividends for the party in the Bengal polls. “Modiji met the representatives of the Thakur family in Orakandi. They demanded the establishment of a primary school and the upgrade of the middle school. Modiji was kind enough to oblige. We believe this historic visit will considerably increase the Matua vote share in favour of the BJP,” said Mohitosh Baidya, general secretary of the All India Matua Mahasangha, who was part of the Matua delegation that went with Modi. BJP MP and chief of the Mahasangha, Shantanu Thakur, his father Manjul Krishna Thakur and wife Soma Thakur too were in Bangladesh. Ferdous, who has acted in around 50 Tollywood films, has suffered collateral damage. The actor had told this newspaper he had gone to the rally unknowingly and had just waved at his fans. Filmmaker Shyam Benegal had selected Ferdous for the role of Tajuddin Ahmed, regarded as one of the most influential figures in the creation of Bangladesh, for a biopic on Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, a film jointly produced by India and Bangladesh to mark the centenary celebrations. Ferdous lost the chance as Indian authorities did not issue him a visa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Jungle Mahal strongmen back after a decade||Chhatradhar Mahato and Sushanta Ghosh — the two strongmen of Trinamul and the CPM, respectively, in Jungle Mahal — were seen in their old form, after almost a decade, on poll Saturday. The Telegraph followed the two leaders to see what they were doing and assess their impact on voters in Bengal elections 2021. The 57-year-old took an early bath on Saturday and got dressed in a white kurta-pyjama — not his usual attire as he is usually seen in shirt and trousers — before stepping out to vote on Day One of the eight-phase polls in Bengal. Standing at the courtyard of his two-storey mud house in Amlia, a remote village in Lalgarh, Jhargram district, he told this correspondent: “I am feeling like a first-time voter. Do you know I am going to cast my vote after 12 years?” As the car to take him to the poll booth arrived, he was heard prodding his wife Niyati to get ready to take part in the festival of democracy. Soon, Niyati was ready in a new sari. “It is really amazing,” said Chhatradhar while stepping out of his home in Lalgarh, the seat of the Maoist movement in the area between 2008 and 2011. His humble presence and the salt-and-pepper look belies the fact that Chhatradhar had played a major role in the movement organised with Maoist support and under the banner of the People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCAPA) in Jungle Mahal. He was arrested in 2009 under the UAPA and sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case. A lot has changed since then. Chhatradhar has resurfaced in the area as Mamata’s man in  Jungle Mahal in her fight against the BJP. On reaching Birkanr primary school, he queued up with other voters for about an hour to cast his vote. “This was the first priority for me. I voted for Trinamul,” said Chhatradhar after getting inked. Voting done, it was time for Chhatradhar, a state committee member of Trinamul, to focus on his assignment of ensuring victory of 12 Trinamul nominees from four Jungle Mahal districts — Purulia, Bankura, West Midnapore and Jhargram. His phone kept ringing as party colleagues gave him feedback on polling trends. Unlike mainstream politicians, he was talking less and listening more. “There is pressure on us, but we are confident of winning the game here in Jungle Mahal,” he said. “People in the area still love me and more importantly they know Mamata Banerjee has delivered...I think I will deliver what Didi expects from me,” he said. What does she expect? The Trinamul strongman in Jungle Mahal said that his assignment was to connect his party with the people on the ground. “ I tried to be a bridge between the people and Trinamul. I think it will work...that’s what you may find on May 2,” he said. His connect will people is evident. As he stopped near a booth, Putul Mal, 30, from Jamshol village came in front of him with a request. “Dadu, will you fulfil my wish? It is very small. I want to meet Mamata Banerjee,” Putul, with her three-year-old son in her lap, smiled. “Why not. I will make it happen very soon,” Chhatradhar said. By the end of the day, he visited at least hundred booths in his district and attended scores of calls. In between, he visited Lalgarh private hospital where his ailing mother was admitted on Friday night. The only time he looked perturbed was when he reached the hospital. “Is it a hospital? Where are the doctors and nurses? It is so dirty. Can any patient stay here?” he grumbled before ensuring the presence of a doctor and a nurse near his mother. A large number of villagers of Benachapra village gathered in front of Birsinghpur primary school around noon. Some were voters, but most had gathered for a glimpse of Sushanta Ghosh, CPM strongman who was not seen the area for around a decade, but had returned to contest as a CPM nominee from Salbani. Benachapra, a village in Garbeta which now falls under Salbani Assembly, is not just the ancestral home of seven-time CPM MLA Ghosh, now 63. The dusty village had been in the news in the fag end of the Left rule after seven skeletons of allegedly of missing Trinamul men were recovered near Ghosh’s house. Ghosh was arrested in August 2011 for his alleged involvement in murdering the seven Trinamul men. He could enter the area only on December 6 last year. The CPM veteran, a former minister in Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s cabinet, met people. “I voted in 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls with special permission from the Election Commission. But after a decade I am a candidate here and can freely roam around in my constituency,” said at Benachapra village. Moving around the constituency on the poll day was not easy for Ghosh as he faced attacks at Chhototara Sishu Siksha Kendra allegedly by alleged BJP and Trinamul supporters. Not only was he manhandled and brickbats were hurled at his car, he said that he was threatened by the goons, who didn’t even spare the media persons. “My rivals, both BJP and Trinamul, are worried about my return here... They attacked me as they don’t want to see me here as a leader of common people,” he said. His mood lifted when supporters told him they were voting for him. “He always interacts with us with a smiling face. He was beaten up a little while ago, but see, he is so composed. That’s our leader,” said Pintu Pan, a CPM supporter in Benachapra. Asked about Ghosh’s alleged involvement in the skeleton case, Pan said: “He was framed, that has been established... We aren’t bothered about such allegations.” Ghosh’s return has helped the CPM tiptoe back in the region. He oversaw reopening of 100-odd CPM offices in Garbeta and Salbani since December 6, 2020. Though the party had suspended him, his popularity prompted Alimuddin Street to field him as a candidate from Salbani. The presence of Ghosh was not only good news for the CPM, it also gave Trinamul a reason to be happy. Along with Ghosh, at least 1,000 CPM workers, who had fled the region, returned, said a Trinamul source. If the CPM gains organisationally, the job of defeating the BJP becomes easier, goes the logic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Edwards and Zimba in popularity contest||The equations of the BJP-GNLF camp still seem unsettled in Darjeeling with supporters of GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards bringing out a rally in town on Saturday, demanding that he file his nomination papers instead. The development comes  despite the GNLF’s senior ally BJP naming sitting MLA Neeraj Zimba as their candidate from Darjeeling. GNLF president Mann Ghisingh has clarified that the hill party will support BJP candidates in the three hill Assembly seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. Zimba is a GNLF leader who had contested on the BJP symbol during the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly by-elections and won. On Saturday Edwards’ supporters gathered at Chowrasta and marched to his residence at the famous Darjeeling eatery Glenary’s, raising anti-Zimba slogans. Edwards tried to smoothen ruffled feathers. “One need not be an MLA to serve the public. From tomorrow (Sunday) itself I will start my social work,” said Edwards who further explained to his supporters that standing as an Independent would bring about a chasm in GNLF unity. The rise of Edwards to prominence is being credited to his relentless social work during the Covid-19 pandemic. Even though Edwards had hinted that he would not go against the GNLF’s decision to field Zimba, questions are being raised whether Edwards supporters would at all cast their votes in favour of Zimba. Zimba, who normally does not lose an opportunity to air his views, has been uncharacteristically silent throughout this controversy. On Saturday, he told The Telegraph that he did not want to “add fuel to the fire” by commenting on the unfolding situation. Zimba admitted that in “big parties” there would be aspirants but added that he was just adhering to his party’s decision. “It is not that I got the ticket (it is of the party, the GNLF’s) or I manipulated (to get) the ticket,” Zimba told this correspondent. Despite the raging controversy within the party, Zimba made it clear that he was in no mood to give up the ticket. “I would have been happy if anyone (from the party) got the ticket. Now that I have been given the ticket, I can’t go back, I have to fight, I have to take up the challenge,” said Zimba. The BJP candidate will file his nomination on March 30 and is “100 per cent” sure that Ajoy Edwards would accompany him. “I am sure Ajoyda will ensure my win. In my win is the win of Ajoy Edwards, and in Ajoy Edwards’ win the party wins,” said Zimba. In a statement which is seen as an attempt to reach out to Edwards, Zimba said : “Ajoy Edwards will be my coach in the 2021 finals. He will plan the strategy for me. We are together.” The BJP candidate has been claiming that the 2019 Assembly by-elections was a “semi-final” in hill politics and the upcoming Bengal elections the final match.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: BJP workers start fast against nominee||Protests in the BJP in Kaliaganj of North Dinajpur district over Soumen Roy’s candidature took a significant turn on Saturday with angry workers and supporters of the saffron party starting an “indefinite hunger-strike” in Sukanta More, a prominent crossing of the town, demanding Roy be replaced. “He is an outsider to Kaliaganj and questions have been raised about his personal image time and again, even by his wife. We do not want such a person as candidate here in Kaliaganj. District and state leaders should realise that if such a person is fielded, it would make the contest tough for us,” said a BJP worker. Roy’s estranged wife Sarbari Sinha Roy, who stays in Falakata of Alipurduar district, had a few days back filed a complaint against her husband, accusing him of threatening her. According to party sources, Sarbari who stays with their daughter — the couple’s divorce case is pending in court — had put up certain posts on social media questioning her husband’s character after his name was announced as the BJP candidate. “Then, on Wednesday, she filed the complaint at Falakata police station, saying Soumen Roy had sent his two aides to her and had asked her to upload fresh posts to nullify the charges and apologise for her earlier posts. As she refused, they warned her of dire consequences and said her daughter might be abducted,” said a party insider. District BJP leaders are red-faced. “We will speak with party supporters who have launched the hunger-strike. Such activities will affect the party’s image ahead of polls. We have told everything about Roy and the situation to the state leadership,” said a district leader. Roy brushed aside the charges levelled by his wife. “They are baseless. Our divorce case is pending in court. I plan to start my poll campaign from Sunday,” he said. Roy’s candidature had angered BJP supporters in Kaliaganj to the extent that they had blocked roads to deny him and his supporters entry earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP lauds EC for the peaceful voting; TMC complains ||A role reversal of sorts marked the first of the Bengal election’s eight phases, with the ruling Trinamul lodging several complaints of muscle-flexing by the BJP and the BJP congratulating the Election Commission for the peaceful voting. Barring stray violence, polling was largely peaceful in the 30 Assembly seats in five western districts that voted on Saturday, with the high turnouts becoming a talking point within political and administrative circles. “By 5pm, almost 80 per cent polling had been recorded. With the polling due to end at 6.30pm, the figure is likely to cross 85 per cent,” an official said. Although 80-84 per cent turnouts are not uncommon in Bengal’s western districts, officials feel even a two to three per cent hike above that range could turn into a deciding factor in this year’s Bengal election. Complaints of malfunctioning electronic voting machines came from Contai South in East Midnapore and Kharagpur in West Midnapore. The voting machines were replaced and polling restarted in these areas. “We have acted on all specific complaints. In about six booths, the voting machines or the VVPATs (voter-verifiable paper audit trail) were changed on account of technical glitches. No complaint of electoral malpractice was found true,” a poll panel source said. The violence included an alleged attack on Sushanta Ghosh, CPM candidate from Salboni in West Midnapore, and the ransacking of a car belonging to Trinamul turncoat Soumendu Adhikari, brother of fellow Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, in Contai South, East Midnapore. Soumendu was not inside the car. There was overnight trouble between BJP and Trinamul supporters in Bhagbanpur, East Midnapore. “The ECI (Election Commission of India) has taken appropriate steps on all these incidents. Overall, the polling was peaceful, especially compared with previous elections in the state,” a senior police officer said. Saturday’s polling involved 10,288 booths, with more than 73 lakh registered voters, spread across the districts of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, West Midnapore and East Midnapore. Some 730 companies of the central forces guarded the booths and sought to maintain order within 100 metres of the booth premises. Many of Trinamul’s complaints related to its polling agents being allegedly driven away by BJP cadres in the two Midnapores and Purulia. The ruling party also accused the BJP of preventing voters from going to the booths in Keshiari, West Midnapore, and some other places. It further alleged that the central forces had tried to influence voters to back the BJP in several Assembly constituencies in Jhargram and West Midnapore. Around 2pm, the BJP congratulated the commission. “We have come to congratulate the ECI as 90 per cent people could cast their votes without any major problem,” the BJP’s Bengal minder, Kailash Vijayvargiya, said after meeting Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab. “We have also requested the ECI to arrest some noted criminals backed by Trinamul before the next phases to ensure that people can exercise their democratic right without any problems.” Mamata decision Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would be camping in Nandigram, from where she is contesting this year’s election against Suvendu, to see how the BJP can flex its muscle there before Thursday’s vote. Sources said Mamata had decided to set up base in Nandigram till polling day to try and boost the morale of her party workers and colleagues. “The BJP has been creating trouble in the area by getting musclemen from outside,” a Trinamul politician working on Mamata’s campaign in Nandigram said. “Some villagers had to gherao Nandigram police station to pressure the administration, which has so far remained inert despite several complaints being lodged. The chief minister’s presence will definitely help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sporadic violence on Day One||The first phase of the crucial Bengal polls held on Saturday, with 30 Assembly constituencies in 10,288 polling booths from five districts, was mostly peaceful, but not without some sporadic incidents of violence. The Telegraph throws light on a few that pock-marked the first day of the state elections that has the whole country riveted. What: A polling agent of the BJP was allegedly hit on the head in a fight between BJP and Trinamul workers at Begumpur booth, a sequel reportedly to the discovery of the body of BJP worker Mangal Soren near home on Saturday morning, with the BJP claiming it was a planned murder by Trinamul. Where: Keshiari in West Midnapore When: 7am on Saturday Officialspeak: “Our probe says the death of the BJP worker had nothing to do with elections,” said a district official. What: Sanjukta Morcha candidate Sushanta Ghosh was threatened by alleged Trinamul workers at Chhototara booth and his car severely damaged. Ghosh claimed he was physically assaulted as well in the incident that also left two journalists injured and media vehicles damaged. Where: East Midnapore’s Salboni When: 7.30am on Saturday Officialspeak: “The Election Commission asked for a report. We have arrested one person,” said a police source. What: Booth 112 near Mejna was surrounded by Trinamul workers who alleged the EVM and VVPAT had been tampered with. “Trinamul votes are going to the BJP,” said a protester. Tyres were burnt in the protest, which lasted three hours. Where: South Contai When: 8am on Saturday Officialspeak: The presiding officer said allegations of tampering were baseless. Voting resumed after a VVPAT was changed under official supervision. What: Crude bombs were hurled in Trinamul-BJP clashes near the Birbandar booth after a Trinamul worker was allegedly beaten up at 9am. Where: East Midnapore’s Battala When: Throughout the day Officialspeak: Central forces were sent to quell the agitation and assure citizens of peaceful voting. What: Soumendu Adhikari, Suvendu Adhikari’s brother and fellow turncoat from Trinamul to BJP, was surrounded by Trinamul workers at the Sabajput High School booth for over an hour. His car was damaged and his driver beaten. Four BJP and Trinamul workers were injured. Where: South Contai When: Noon Officialspeak: “Central forces were rushed to bring Soumendu Adhikari out of the situation,” said a source. What: Trinamul candidate from Purulia Sujoy Banerjee threatened to fire at a BJP worker following a heated exchange. Where: Purulia town When: 11am Officialspeak: Police started a case against Sujoy. What: Central forces lathicharged to disperse a dozen Trinamul workers approaching a polling booth. Around 10 persons received injuries. Where: Basantapur village in Purulia’s Bandwan. When: Around 1.30pm. Officialspeak: Trinamul lodged a complaint with the Election Commission and a probe has started. What: Trinamul candidate from Bankura’s Chhatna Subhasish Batabyal was allegedly pushed around and forced out of a polling station after Batabyal was involved in an argument over why the polling agents were not allowed inside the booth. Where: Bagjuri primary school in Bankura’s Chhatna. When: 10.30am. Officialspeak: Administration has started a probe. What: Central police allegedly ransacked a Trinamul camp office and beat up ruling party workers. Eight persons were injured in the incident. Where: Vidyasagar Bani Bhavan Primary School, Jhargram town. When: 1.30pm. Officialspeak: Trinamul has lodged a complaint and the administration has started a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Didi to camp in Nandigram for five days till April 1||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would be camping from Sunday in Nandigram, from where she is contesting this year’s election against Suvendu Adhikari, to see how the BJP can flex its muscle there before Thursday’s vote. Speaking at a rally in West Midnapore’s Pingla on Saturday, Mamata anticipated “antics” by “Mir Jafars” in the epic poll battle that awaits her in Nandigram. “Starting tomorrow (Sunday) I will be staying in Nandigram... I am curious to see the antics of these Mir Jafars (Adhikari and associates),” she said. Party sources in Nandigram said Mamata’s early arrival was needed as the BJP had gained an unfair edge of sorts with a Calcutta High Court order reopening the 2007 land protest cases against 63 Trinamul workers, forcing them to leave the area. This week, Trinamul election agent Sheikh Sufian got relief from the Supreme Court that granted a stay on the high court order. A local Trinamul leader said the high court order led to a “dip in morale and strength at a time the BJP is trying to lure away our people”. “We are glad Didi will be here,” he said. Party leaders Dola Sen, Purnendu Basu and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy had been managing Trinamul’s affairs on behalf of Mamata. “Those leaders who have come from outside can stay in Nandigram till March 29 and will have to leave the area in accordance with the Election Commission’s order. The Supreme Court giving respite to Sufian is a big relief and we hope to get similar relief for us too,” said another Trinamul leader from Nandigram Abu Taher, also implicated in the case. Taher and 61 others have moved the Supreme Court on Saturday seeking relief similar to Sufian’s in the 2007 land agitation cases and hope a stay will help them join the campaign in the crucial last few days leading to April 1. At Pingla, Mamata referred to Suvendu Adhikari in rhetorical first-person and said: “Why are you making such a hue and cry about Nandigram if it is indeed your making? I have done everything here, and yet you write your names on all the walls.” “Everyone has been seeing since morning what is going on in Egra, Bhagabanpur, Khejuri, Patashpur and of course Contai South... People are not being allowed to vote,” she added. “You (Sisir and Suvendu) have done as you pleased in Haldia and Digha (as administrators)...Youths there have seen everything,” she added. BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal dismissed her allegations. “Trinamul is unable to accept that it will lose,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Mamata holds aloft amity in art||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday devoted over a third of her campaign speech at West Midnapore’s Pingla to highlight the rich tradition of the Bengal patachitra, practised famously by artists of the Naya village in the area for generations, all of whom are Muslims. Using the patachitra instance, the chief minister upheld secularism and the communal amity at the very core of the complex, multidimensional Bengal ethos that the saffron ecosystem has been allegedly trying to attack. “I am grateful to the people of Pingla, because it is one of the few hubs, exemplary globally…. I would request the Delhi leaders to come and see this. Minority brothers and sisters, how beautifully they draw Hindu gods and goddesses. This is such a heartwarming instance of our communal harmony. They do this with a great deal of love. They are globally known for this,” said Mamata at the Pingla campaign rally. “Come and see, leaders from Delhi, how our Muslim brothers and sisters lovingly draw Ram and Sita,” she added, referring to the foremost deities in the Hindutva universe. Pingla has 2.65 lakh voters, including around 80,000 Muslims. In the Assembly polls of 2016, Trinamul’s Soumen Mahapatra had won by a margin of over 21,000 votes. It was shaved down to barely 6,500 in the extrapolated results of the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Patachitra — pata meaning cloth and chitra meaning picture — is a general term for traditional, cloth-based scroll painting found in Bengal and Odisha. The artform is known for its intricate details and Hindu mythological narratives and allegories. It is a key component of an ancient Bengali narrative art, originally serving as a visual device during the performance of a song. Bengal Patachitra dates back to the pre-Pala period, and is referred to as far back as Buddhist literature of the 1st century AD. The Patachitra has sub-genres such as Durga Pat, Chalchitra, Tribal Patachitra, Midnapore Patachitra, and Kalighat Patachitra. Mamata was mainly referring to the Naya artists, who practise the Midnapore sub-genre. The work of the Naya artists are displayed in several international museums. Naya is part of Pingla. The village has about a hundred families, all belonging to the Muslim community, who have been specialising in the art form for generations. “If we gift a patachitra (piece) to foreigners, they treasure it, it occupies a pride of place in their homes…. Lovely saris are also made (with this art form). In future, I would like to have these sold globally, with four five showrooms at important cities abroad,” said the chief minister. The Naya artists make (Hindu) religious artwork, with stories from mythological epics such as the Ramayan and the Mahabharat, besides Bengal’s own important goddesses Kali, Manasha and Chandi, as well as folk tales such as that of devoted wife Behula and her husband Lakhinder. “In future, women from here can ramp it up (the art form), by forming self-help groups…. Be proud. In what you do, you are Number One in the world,” added Mamata. On Saturday, Mamata enthusiastically spoke about the art form. “Please make some nice patachitra items for me….I buy from you every time I come to this region, because I have to gift foreigners who love your work. I will remember you. I will take big initiatives for you, so that you get more income and wider recognition,” she said on receiving several patachitra gifts from the artists. The chief minister on Saturday once again accused Union home minister Amit Shah of exerting undue influence on the Election Commission of India to try and manipulate the Bengal elections. “Delhi’s Amit Shah is conducting these elections…. Elections should be free, fair and peaceful. Amit Shah is running the Election Commission of India,” she said. Mamata also lambasted the Adhikari turncoats. “They have been trying to stop people from voting wherever they can...The more I speak of them, the more intense my hatred for them becomes,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 16th consecutive day of rise in total number of cases||Bengal on Saturday reported the 16th consecutive day of rise in the total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 377, to 4,608. The number had been falling since Vijaya Dashami last year till March 11. Prior to the rise since March 12, the total active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26, 2020, to 3,110. The state on Saturday reported 433 Covid-19 recoveries, but 812 new infections — the highest since January 10 — were detected. There were two deaths, neither in the city. Despite the recent surge, largely because other states have been doing far worse amid the national trend of a renewed rise, Bengal has 0.96 per cent of the national total of active cases and is 14th on the list of states with most active cases in the country. “Around January 10 we had around seven per cent of the national total of active cases, and were third on the list of states with most active cases. So, there has been considerable improvement since then,” said a minister. “The challenge now is to ensure that the damage, presumably from disregard of safety protocols in such a massive election campaign, does not quickly drag us back, undoing the exemplary turnaround since Durga Puja last year,” he added. The recovery rate is 97.44 per cent, still considerably ahead of the national rate, which is 94.6 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.43 per cent. On Saturday, the state reported 24,413 tests, taking the total past 90.86 lakh, at 1,00,961 tests per million people. Of the total death toll of 10,322, 8,673 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate improved marginally to 1.76, while the national rate was 1.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: 1946 Calcutta Killings becomes topic of discussion||The 1946 Calcutta Killings, a black chapter of history, has re-emerged from the mists to suddenly become a topic of discussion in poll-bound Bengal, courtesy under-the-radar fear-mongering by the saffron ecosystem over social media. While the BJP’s campaigners and official accounts have not mentioned the 75-year-old communal conflagration, its supporters have been broaching the topic over WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter in the context of the elevation, or possible elevation, of any Muslim politician or official. The idea is to polarise Hindus by portraying the 1946 violence as a conspiracy by the state’s then Muslim leadership, and suggesting that the purported promotion of Muslim politicians and officials by the BJP’s rivals could bring back those disastrous days. “This attempt to reap political dividends in 2021 from things that happened so many decades ago may or may not work for the BJP. But it certainly carries the risk of reopening old wounds in a Partition-torn region,” said a Calcutta-based historian, unwilling to be named “amid this politico-social volatility”. He stressed that the 1946 violence had happened largely because of a dubious role played by the British Raj — whose historical wrongs have tended to evoke only silence from the Sangh parivar. The killings began on August 16, 1946, also known as Direct Action Day, following years of divide-and-rule by the British rulers and an utter administrative failure on the day of the violence. Direct Action Day was to mark a nationwide protest by Muslims in response to a call by the Muslim League’s Muhammad Ali Jinnah. The 1946 Cabinet Mission to India, assigned to plan the transfer of power to the Indian leadership, had proposed a three-tier set-up: a centre, groups of provinces, and the provinces separately. In this formation, the so-called groups of provinces were supposed to accommodate the Muslim League’s demand for independent states in Muslim-majority areas. Initially, both the Muslim League and the Congress accepted the plan. However, Jinnah and his colleagues suspected that the Congress was insincere about it and, in July 1946, the League withdrew its assent to the plan. Jinnah called for a general strike on August 16 to push the League’s demand for a separate homeland for Indian Muslims. A series of avoidable and unfortunate events led to large-scale communal violence in Calcutta and elsewhere in the then undivided Bengal. It left at least 4,000 people dead and over 100,000 homeless in the city alone within the first 72 hours. The much-questioned role of the Muslim League’s Bengal provincial government head, Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, is what keeps the saffron camp enthusiastic about this particular chapter of South Asian history. For months now, the Sangh parivar ecosystem has been issuing an overt, or sometimes implied, message: if a Firhad Hakim can become Calcutta’s mayor or a Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui contest elections today, tomorrow could see a return of the days of Suhrawardy. “It’s clear what they want to do. They missed their chance to use these things to access power in post-Independence Bengal, despite the wounds being raw then, because of the positive role played by the Congress and the Left in shifting the focus to secular issues,” a city-based political scientist said, requesting anonymity because he works for a central government institution. “They are betting big on reawakening the public memory of such chapters of Bengal’s history, and using every little development – such as a Hakim becoming Calcutta’s mayor, or a Siddiqui deciding to contest elections — to reignite the majority community’s fears of a possible return to a Suhrawardy-like regime. To the discerning audience, these fears are laughable. But the discerning audience perhaps makes up less than seven lakh among an electorate of seven crore-plus.” Apart from the social media campaign, small groups of BJP supporters have been raising the subject in informal chats at, say, tea stalls at villages and urban slums. To the BJP, such a polarisation campaign is a necessity in a state where almost 30 per cent of the voters are minorities, making it imperative for the party to consolidate as much support as it can among the remaining 70 per cent. A social scientist said that when people receive motivated communication about communal tensions, to most of them it matters little whether the events happened seven days or seven decades ago, or what role the British had played. She said that only the privileged few with a quality education or progressive upbringing can resist such dog whistling. “What the saffron IT cell and its bosses seek to gain from this is immediate. They are not concerned about the consequences or the future,” the academic, who teaches at a top city university, said. “Their insatiable politico-electoral ambition is fuelling this and the risks are immense. But this Neanderthal myopia was, perhaps, to be expected of them. “However, if there is a grisly recurrence as a fallout of the BJP’s polarisation politics, there’s no Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi left among us to go on a fast until all sides drop their weapons.” The social scientist too sought anonymity, citing the political uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Gandhi Bhavan, where “Miracle of Calcutta” took place in 1947||In the middle of an ever-expanding concrete jungle in Beliaghata stands Hyderi Manzil, a 400sqm, single-storey, 19th-century structure on a 1,000sqm plot. Now better known as Gandhi Bhavan, this building — a rundown and virtually abandoned structure then at the heart of what was Mianbagan — is where the “Miracle of Calcutta” took place in September 1947. Coined by Manubehn Gandhi, the epithet refers to a series of events that occurred over a 26-day period, culminating in a frail Mahatma’s single-handed rescue of Calcutta and Bengal from a frenzy of communal violence. It was in one of Hyderi Manzil’s eight rooms, cleaned up to make it relatively liveable, that Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi spent the tumultuous period between August 13 and September 7, 1947. Staying with him was the Muslim League stalwart and head of the (undivided) Bengal provincial government, Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy. It was in this mansion that Gandhi personally brokered peace between Hindus and Muslims, fasting for 73 hours until key leaders of the warring groups had laid their arms down at his feet and sworn off communal violence on September 4. On September 7, Gandhi was quoted as telling a large gathering at the Ochterlony Monument (now Shaheed Minar): “Even if you want to fight, against whom will you fight? Against your own brothers? I request those who have weapons to surrender them. Weapons will not save anyone; God alone is the saviour of all, so seek His protection.” The colonnaded Hyderi Manzil, with wooden louvres on the facade, was presumably an outhouse surviving from a much larger property that members of the Dawoodi Bohra community from Surat had bought in the middle of the 19th century. However, the Hyderi Manzil sequence in Richard Attenborough’s 1982 film Gandhi was shot not in Beliaghata but in Mumbai. In one scene, just before breaking his fast, Gandhi talks to Nahari, a fictional Hindu rioter who has murdered a child after his own son was killed by Muslims. The Mahatma asks Nahari, played by Om Puri, to adopt a Muslim orphaned by the riots and raise him as his own, and raise him as a Muslim. Historians said Hyderi Manzil had indeed witnessed many such incidents during Gandhi’s September 1-4 fast. “In many ways, the building bears witness to a brief but vital chapter of history that may be deemed a beacon of light in what was perhaps the darkest hour for modern South Asia,” a Calcutta-based political scientist said, requesting anonymity. “The Sangh parivar would like people to forget such chapters of history and remember only what suits the Hindutva line.” He added: “Despite the dubious role the likes of the RSS and the Hindu Mahasabha had played through the 1940s, the saffron ecosystem today stresses only the League’s responsibility and some questionable acts by the Congress. This (propaganda) has been a discernible part of the saffron bid to win Bengal.” The Hyderi Manzil stay marked Gandhi’s last visit to Calcutta, a city he had toured at least 64 times from 1896 and where he spent a recorded total of 566 days. Several historians have underlined that Gandhi chose the location, then primarily a Muslim neighbourhood, for his stay as it had witnessed considerable violence during the 1946 Calcutta Killings. Gandhi spent August 15, 1947, the day of India’s Independence, fasting and praying. Historian Sugata Bose, grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, said it was the Mahatma’s moral force that ensured peace in Calcutta on August 15, 1947. “Gandhi published an editorial titled ‘Miracle or Accident’ on August 16, the first anniversary of the Great Calcutta Killings, in which he narrated how Hindus and Muslims had chanted ‘Jai Hind’ in unison. It was neither miracle nor accident but the willingness of human beings to dance to God’s tune. ‘We have drunk the poison of mutual hatred,’ Gandhi wrote, ‘and so this nectar of fraternisation tastes all the sweeter, and the sweetness should never wear out’,” said Bose, the Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University. Echoing Bose, a city-based social scientist said the Mahatma’s role had been of immense importance to Bengal and Calcutta, perhaps for the rest of the country. She said: “On September 7, 1947, Gandhi said: ‘Let us work with God as witness. Bengal must remain calm, even if the whole of Hindustan is reduced to ashes…. It would be wonderful if the Muslims and Parsis are as free to read the Koran and the Zend Avesta as the Hindus in Bengal are to read the Gita, to recite the Gayatri and perform sandhya.’ That is the Bengal he had envisioned, even after the Partition brutally dismembered it.” Senior historian Rajat Kanta Ray said Gandhi’s tactic was to avoid getting into the reasons for the quarrels and peacefully negotiate a compromise. “He did it very successfully in Noakhali and Calcutta, for instance,” said Ray, professor emeritus of history at Presidency University and former vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati. “Regrettably, there’s nobody left like that nowadays. Least of all, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been trying to appropriate some of Gandhi’s sermons while growing a beard like that of Rabindranath Tagore.” Ray added: “No matter how hard he tries to compare himself to the Mahatma or the Kabiguru, I do not believe the people of India, or Bengal, will accept that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
