29-03-2021||West Bengal||Vote for Left-Congress combine to bring Bengal out of darkness||Three days before the second-phase of polling in Bengal, former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee appealed to the electorate to vote for the Samyukta Morcha comprising the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front to save the state. "The Left Front, Congress and ISF have formed an alliance against authoritarianism and communalism. Only this alliance can bring the the state out of this darkness," Bhattacharjee said in a signed statement issued on Monday evening. Battling ill-health for long,  Bhattacharjee has largely kept himself home-bound in the 10 years since his defeat in Jadavpur in the summer of 2011. This year, he stayed away from the Brigade Parade ground rally where the Left, Congress and ISF had pledged to contest the polls jointly. "There is graveyard's silence in Singur and Nandigram. Those who conspired then are now busy trading charges at each other. The opportunity of gainful employment is lost. Our children are moving to other states," said Bhattacharjee. The former chief minister's statement came at a time when the debate over the Nandigram firing was rekindled by his bete noire Mamata Banerjee, who blamed her former confidantes, the Adhikarys of Contai. Bhattacharjee, who also held the home department while he was chief minister, had denied any order to the police to enter Nandigram on March 14, 2007. Many in social media apologised to the septuagenarian former chief minister. "In these 10 years Bengal has slid. The youths dream of getting jobs have crashed, education is in shambles, healthcare is out of the reach of the poor. Corruption, extortion, syndicates have made life difficult for the people," Bhattacharjee said. "The grassroots approach to development during the Left Front has been destroyed. The atmosphere of secularism is poisoned," he said, expressing confidence that the youth of Bengal will take the opportunity to bring about a turnaround in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||For Mamata, ‘gaddar’ Suvendu embodies ‘dirty, mischievous politics’  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee admitted on Monday that the largesse showered on the Adhikary family by her had allowed them to keep the East Midnapore district on a tight leash, attempting to distance herself from the family on the penultimate day of campaigning at Nandigram, the only seat she is contesting from. Mamata narrated the parable of the mouse that was turned into a tiger but could not stay so for long and was forced to become a mouse again to prove her point. “I feel sad that this boy (Suvendu Adhkary), I made him the minister for irrigation, environment and transport. I made him the chairman of the Haldia Development Authority. His father the chairman of the Digha Development Authority (Sisir Adhikary is also three-time MP from Contai). His brother was the chairman of the Contai Municipality, Contai Co-operative Bank, Midnapore Co-operative Bank. One person ten posts. “Now they have made so much money, the BJP has caught them. Either join BJP or perish. He will be neither here nor there,” Mamata said while addressing a public meeting at Thakurchak in Nandigram, referring to her former cabinet colleague and the current BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari. “I have heard the ITI here is theirs. Trawlers, houses, hotels, petrol pumps everything, they have everything,” Mamata said, while she accused Adhikary of “dirty, nuisance and mischievous politics.” She also refers to him as “Gaddar” (traitor). Not just administrative power, Mamata had entrusted the responsibility of the party’s youth wing to Adhikary as well as and made him the party’s observer in key districts like Murshidabad, the home turf of Adhir Chowdhury, the state Congress president and a bitter critic of Mamata. Adhikary had successfully encroached into Chowdhury’s camp to poach some of the closest aides of Chowdhury like the former Kandi legislator Apurba Sarkar. “She gave a free hand to the Adhikary family because she understood their clout was crucial to keep the support base in the two Midnapores intact. There was no one in the organisation to keep a check on the growth of Tamluk as a separate power centre within the party,” said a senior Trinamul leader who did not want to be named. In his affidavit to the Election Commission, Adhikary has listed as “nil” with reference to commercial buildings and investments made on land for development and construction. In 2016 when he first contested from Nandigram, Adhikary had declared his assets to be around Rs 62 lakh. In the 2021 affidavit, Adhikary’s assets are valued at Rs 1,05,52,749 crore. The acrimony between the chief minister and her once-trusted aide from the region has now spilled over to the campaign where Adhikary is the sitting MLA and is seeking re-election on a BJP ticket. Union Home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to hold a roadshow for him on Tuesday. The 2007 anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram had propelled Mamata’s career as a politician and brought her to the forefront against the erstwhile Left Front government. On Sunday, Mamata raked up the events of March 14, 2007 in Nandigram, when 14 villagers were killed in police firing. In her days as the principal Opposition leader in Bengal, Mamata had claimed that CPM had sent its cadres with police. Then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee had denied sending the police, though the denial was largely seen as a face-saver. The Nandigram movement had sealed the fate of the Left Front government, which was voted out of power in 2011. While campaigning, Mamata claimed that police could not have entered Nandigram without a green signal from the Adhikarys, though she did not name them. On Monday, Mamata claimed the Adhikarys were hand-in-glove with CPM-backed goons. “The CPM leader, Naba Samanta, who had committed atrocities on the people of Nandigram, is now a BJP leader and Gaddar is his leader,” she said. “The CPM (Left Front government) filed cases against everyone but not Gaddar. He was not there. He did not lead the movement,” she said. Filmmaker Kamaleswar Mukherjee, an active votary for the Left-Congress alliance, questioned why Mamata had pointed fingers at then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in a social media post. “The chief minister has said the firing on Nandigram villagers was done by armed men under the orders of a member of her cabinet and undisputed leader. Questions: Why didn’t she stop them that day? Despite being aware of it, why  hasn’t she punished them? Why did she call Leftists “mass-murderers”? If she knew everything, why had she held the former chief minister responsible?” Mamata has claimed that for the April 1 polls, goons have been brought from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh who would  be sent to the villages in police uniform to threaten local residents to vote for BJP. In a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal, the Trinamul Congress has officially requested not to deploy policemen from any of the NDA-ruled states in the country. The party has also alleged that “outsiders” have been given accommodations in hotels, lodges, guest houses, houses of BJP leaders and even rented ones, on Nandakumar High Road and Chandipur, and also in some schools and an election office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Death of BJP worker's mother sparks political uproar in Bengal||The BJP on Monday claimed that an 82-year-old woman, a party worker's mother, succumbed to her injuries sustained during an attack by Trinamool Congress supporters in Nimta area of West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district last month. BJP workers staged a protest in front of Nimta police station and burnt tyres on M B Road, even as the TMC claimed that its activists were not involved in any attack and she might have died due to age-related ailments. Expressing grief over the woman's death, Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, "Anguished over the demise of Bengal's daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers," he said in a tweet. Union minister Debasree Chaudhuri told reporters that the elderly woman succumbed to her injuries sustained during the TMC attack on her house on February 27. She had undergone treatment at a hospital for 27 days. Dismissing the allegations, TMC MP Sougata Roy said, "The incident has no relation with politics and the BJP is unnecessarily trying to cash on a death." "Any death is unfortunate and tragic. TMC men were not involved in any attack. We have information that she might have died due to old age-related ailments," he added. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday said she does not support violence against women and is not aware of the real reason behind the death and wondered why Union Home Minister Amit Shah remains silent when women are "tortured to death" in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. "I don't know how the sister has died. We don't support violence against women. We have never supported violence against my sisters and mothers. "But the BJP is now politicising the issue. Amit Shah is tweeting and saying Bengal Ka Kya Haal hain. Why does he remain mum when women are attacked and brutalised in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh?" Banerjee said while addressing a rally in Nandigram. Highlighting that Model Code of Conduct is in place, law and order is now under the jurisdiction of the ECI, Banerjee said, "Three Trinamool Congress workers have been killed in the last few days."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah says Modi's Bangladesh trip not aimed at influencing Bengal polls||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday denied that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bangladesh visit was aimed at influencing the Bengal elections. “The Prime Minister’s trip is to strengthen the ties between the two countries, to revive the cultural ties,” Shah said in reply to a reporter who had referred to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that Modi had violated the model code of conduct by courting “one community” during his Bangladesh trip. But before answering, Shah sought to question the reporter for asking the question. “They (Mamata and Trinamul) will raise questions, why are you (doing so)?” the home minister asked. Mamata had threatened to ask the Election Commission to act against the Prime Minister after Modi on Saturday visited Orakandi, the birthplace of Matua sect founder Harichand Thakur in Bangladesh, and tweeted pictures of the “blessed moments”. The Matuas, immigrants from Bangladesh, have a sizeable vote in at least 40 Assembly seats in Bengal and the BJP has been systematically courting them. Several Matua leaders have said Modi’s Orakandi visit would influence the community’s voting preferences. “Kal pradhan mantri ne koi baat ki hai prachar ki (Did the Prime Minister say anything yesterday that amounted to campaigning)?” Shah asked. “Koi baat nahi ki (He didn’t say anything).”
He added: “There, the Prime Minister didn’t say anything about Mamata Didi or the BJP or the election.” Shah did not mention Modi’s visit to Orakandi. Shah predicted the BJP would win the overwhelming majority of seats in the first phase of polls in Bengal and Assam, citing specific figures. The Election Commission had on March 26 banned the media from publishing or broadcasting, till the end of the last phase of voting, anything —“astrology, tarot card 
readers, political analysts or by any person” — that sought to predict the election results. Asked about Shah’s predictions at the news conference, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “A frustrated home minister is resorting to fake claims, which is his characteristic style. Will Shah tell us how many people refused to even take BJP tickets in Bengal? They gave tickets to people who are not members of the BJP. He is frightened and is now trying to mislead the voters.” Shah had sounded as though he was still the BJP president as he addressed the media on the sprawling lawns of his ministerial residence, a party banner in the background. Conventionally, it’s the BJP president and not the country’s home minister who holds such media briefings relating to the party’s poll prospects. Shah had handed over the party reins to J.P. Nadda in January last year. BJP insiders said everyone knew that Shah continued to be the de facto party chief, and Shah appeared to be underscoring that reality on Sunday. Shah congratulated the Election Commission for the violence-free voting – repeating sentiments expressed by the BJP on Saturday in a role reversal that saw Trinamul complain of muscle-flexing by its rival. “After many years, polling was held without any violence (in Bengal). The Election Commission deserves credit for the peaceful polling,” Shah said. He thanked the women voters, claiming they had voted in large numbers for the BJP. Asked about the purportedly leaked phone conversation between BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Shishir Bajoria about the need to appoint non-resident polling agents, Shah asked how the call had been “tapped”. “The question is, who tapped it and how did it happen?” he said. He claimed there was nothing secretive about what the two BJP leaders were discussing and added that they had made the demand in writing to the Election Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Change in nominee, Trinamul fields Gorkha ||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday announced a Gorkha as the candidate of the Matigara-Naxalbari Assembly segment near here, replacing a retired army officer whom the party had earlier named for the seat with a substantial number of Gorkhas. The new nominee, Rajen Sundas, was an officer in the Bengal transport department. Retired army captain Nalini Ranjan Roy was the party’s earlier candidate. “Rajen Sundas is a well-known face in the Terai, particularly in Siliguri and the surrounding areas. Nalini Ranjan Roy has been made the chairman of the constituency-level committee formed by Trinamul to oversee the election,” said Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) Trinamul district president. The decision, Trinamul insiders said, was made by the central leadership of the party after both the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha had stressed that a Gorkha candidate could help Mamata Banerjee’s party win the seat. Trinamul has never won Matigara-Naxalbari. “There are over 50,000 Gorkha voters in the constituency. That is why the change has been made. Rajen Sundas is the second Gorkha candidate fielded by Trinamul in the state,” said a Trinamul insider. The other Gorkha candidate nominated by Trinamul in the Assembly polls is Passang Lama in the Kalchini seat in Alipurduar district. In 2011, Trinamul had left the Matigara-Naxalbari seat for the Congress, whose Sankar Malakar had won the election. Malakar had retained the seat in 2016 and is the current Congress candidate also. The BJP has fielded Anandamoy Burman in the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Polling ends, NIA arrests Chhatradhar Mahato||The National Investigation Agency arrested Trinamul state committee member Chhatradhar Mahato, former poster boy of a Maoist-backed tribal movement in Jungle Mahal, from his Lalgarh home in an old terror case early on Sunday, hours after the region had voted on Saturday. Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy alleged a political conspiracy to target a man who had played a key role in the party’s campaign for the first phase of the Bengal elections. “As soon as Phase I ended, he was picked up in a political conspiracy. The NIA is a central agency and we suspect the BJP-led government ordered the arrest,” Roy said. Chhatradhar, formerly a leader of the People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCPA) — a tribal body accused of being a Maoist front in Jungle Mahal — has been arrested in connection with a train hijack by villagers in late 2009. His wife Niyati said a group of “at least 40-50 people” raided the house early in the morning. Chhatradhar was later produced at Bankshall court in Calcutta and remanded in NIA custody till March 30. Chhatradhar is also accused of the June 2009 murder of CPM leader Prabir Mahato in Jhargram and spent over 10 years in jail as an undertrial before getting bail in February last year. Both cases are with the NIA, which has slapped the anti-terror law UAPA against him in both. On Thursday, Calcutta High Court had directed Chhatradhar to appear before the NIA in Calcutta thrice a week in connection with the cases against him. The NIA said he was arrested for disobeying the court directive. But a Trinamul leader from Jungle Mahal said: “Chhatradhar had travelled to Calcutta on Friday too, but they arrested him not then but on Sunday morning from his home, after the vote.” Trinamul insiders believe the NIA did not arrest Chhatradhar before the polling lest it hand Trinamul a sympathy plank. They said Chhatradhar looked after a dozen seats in Jungle Mahal and held hundreds of meetings in crucial pockets. Niyati said NIA officers had snatched the couple’s phones after barging into their home early in the morning. “He was pushed and brought down from the terrace. When he asked what the matter was, he was told he had to come out. They said they had come from the police station,” Niyati told reporters. Chhatradhar’s lawyers alleged the NIA had not told the family the reason for the arrest after storming the house with around 35 police personnel. Chhatradhar had come into the limelight as an articulate PCPA spokesperson over a decade ago, enjoying local support for his criticism of the then ruling Left Front over the lack of development in parts of Jungle Mahal. Thousands would gather to listen to him. After several civil society members met him in Lalgarh, Mamata Banerjee decided to share a dais with him in February 2009. But then came Prabir’s murder in June, and Chhatradhar was arrested by the state police before the case was handed over to the NIA. Four months after the murder, a group of villagers blocked tracks and stopped a Bhubaneswar-bound Rajdhani Express at Banshtala station in Jhargram. The armed hijackers allegedly abducted the driver and his assistant and asked the passengers to vacate the train. The NIA accuses Chhatradhar of orchestrating the incident to secure his release from jail. After Chhatradhar walked out on bail last year, Trinamul inducted him into the party realising his reach in parts of Jhargram, Bankura and West Midnapore. But two months after Chhatradhar’s release, the Union home ministry asked the NIA in April 2020 to probe the hijack case and the alleged role of the PCPA and Chhatradhar. A case had already been registered under penal code sections 121 and 121A (waging war against the nation), 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting) as well as provisions of the Railways Act. The NIA added the UAPA saying the case involved the “hijacking of persons to threaten sovereignty of India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||15 Himalayan griffons die in Jalpaiguri, posion suspected||Fifteen Himalayan griffons died and 25 other birds fell ill on Saturday evening apparently after consuming a cattle carcass at Damdim in the Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri district. Himalayan griffon is a vulture species. The forest department has started treating the ill birds and suspects the poisonous carcass caused the vultures’ death. Sources said a group of around 50 Himalayan griffons had gathered near the cattle carcass dumped by some people near a quarry on the bank of the Chel river to feed on the dead animal. “As the evening rolled, one bird after another started falling on the ground. We immediately informed foresters,” said Nafsar Ali, a wildlife conservationist at Odlabari in the Dooars. Officers of the Targhera forest range and the Malbazar wildlife squad seized the dead birds and took the sick vultures to the nature interpretation centre at Lataguri, on the fringes of the Gorumara National Park, for treatment. Later, Gorumara additional divisional forest officer Riya Ganguly went to the spot. “We suspect the carcass was poisonous, which led to the deaths of vultures. Our officers have contacted vets to carry out post-mortem of the birds to know the exact cause of the death. The ill birds have been treated and are under observation,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata returns to Nandigram with plot charge||Mamata Banerjee returned to Nandigram on Sunday, hosting two rallies in the afternoon and evening and visiting Birulia Bazaar where she had suffered injuries to the left foot on March 10, and alleging that it had been an attack aimed at immobilising her during the election campaign. The chief minister said she had got injured at Birulia Bazaar, when “four-five people” had slammed the door of an SUV she was travelling in during her campaign at Nandigram. “I was standing on the footboard to greet people.… Suddenly, four-five people slammed the door on me, and my ankle got smashed. It started bleeding,” said Mamata, addressing a rally at a ground barely a few hundred meters from the site of the incident. “There was a conspiracy and it was an attack to immobilise me during the campaign.” After conducting two programmes — one each in Chandipur and Reyapara — she came to Birulia. “I am here to clarify what happened that day... some people had said that the car had hit a pillar. It’s wrong,” she said, referring to the BJP’s allegations. Then, Mamata took care to explain that although she got injured she didn’t hold any grudge against anyone in Nandigram. “I came here to thank that young man, who got a pack of ice for me after I was hurt,” said the Trinamul Congress chief, while adding that the gesture of the youth proved how much the people of Nandigram loved her. In her 40-minute address, Mamata took care to explain her close association with Nandigram since the anti-land acquisition movement of 2007. The chief minister also used the occasion to counter the BJP narrative, that the Nandigram movement was led by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now the BJP’s candidate. “I was planning the protests and sending people here... after the March 14 firing, when I came here, the father and son duo were not here,” she said. “Now they call me an outsider? I could have contested from any seat in Bengal. But I chose this place because you wanted me,” she added. Mamata’s Sunday events marked the beginning of a five-day stay in the area. Mamata is taking on her former protege Suvendu Adhikari, who left Trinamul and joined the BJP, at Nandigram. She gave her usual call to unity in the face of Hindutva and remonstration toward the “father-son” turncoat duo of the Adhikari clan. Mamata also mocked Union home minister Amit Shah over his claim, made in New Delhi, that the BJP would win in at least 26 of the 30 seats that went to the polls in Phase I on Saturday. “Yesterday, votes for 30 seats in Bengal were cast.... Amit Shah is saying the BJP will get 26.... They will get golla (zero),” she said. Mamata was especially critical of central forces deployed in the state, alleging that they had been acting out of order. “Central police have been beating people over here... I don’t know who is directing all this, but people are being denied their right to vote because they are not wearing a mask. This is not the police’s role,” she added. The chief minister’s evening address at Reyapara, a residential area, was a mixture of culture and politics, with Mamata paying her regards on the occasion of Holi as well as lashing out at the Adhikaris. Signing off, Mamata made several references to the history of the land agitation, and underscored how contesting from Bhowanipore would have been relatively effortless for her. “It is your love, how you reacted to the idea when I first brought it up (in January), which encouraged me to contest from here,” she said. “I am contesting from here to honour the innumerable icons of our struggle for freedom who were born here,” added Mamata. The chief minister repeatedly underscored the inclusive, pluralistic worldview of her party, contrasting it with that of the BJP. “The BJP may say otherwise, but in my party, Hindus and Muslims are two petals of the same flower.… Does anyone remember Kazi Nazrul Islam as a Muslim poet? Or Rabindranath Tagore as a Hindu poet? No, they are remembered as poets of the world,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Basanta Utsav turns unofficial in Santiniketan||Basanta Utsav, the time-honoured spring festival in the varsity town of Santiniketan that coincides with Holi, was celebrated here on Sunday at two different locations even as varsity officials made no official comment on its own celebration. Traditionally, Visva-Bharati hosts a carnival in celebration of the event that is visited by tens of thousands of tourists. However, it was cancelled owing to Covid-19 in 2020 and went officially unobserved this year following a spate of controversial on-campus events involving the vice-chancellor and purported on-campus politics. Still, two Trinamul Congress-backed entities — a Durga Puja committee in Jamboni, and the Bolpur traders’ committee at the Kabiguru handicrafts market — organised their own celebrations. “Visva-Bharati is slowly trying to phase out Santiniketan’s culture. We will never allow that and did not want to feel the absence of celebration,” said Jamboni organiser Debabrata Mondal. In the evening, Tagore’s dance drama Chitrangadawas staged. “We had planned the programme after discussing with a group of former students and officials of Visva-Bharati, as our goal was to bring the actual traditional programmes before the crowd. We are successful,” organiser Mondal. In the traditional Basanta Utsav observed by Visva-Bharati, the programme starts from the eve of the Holi through a procession called Baitalik. In the morning, over a 1,000 students marched in a procession singing Tagore songs. In the evening, the varsity organises a dance drama by Tagore. Varsity sources declined comment on the events, alluding to an event last week that reportedly mimicked Basanta Utsav but was held within closed quarters owing either to Covid-19, or the campus climate, or both. “We followed precautions in hosting a song and dance here today, and a performance of Rabindrasangeet,” said organiser Aminul Huda at the handicrafts market. Trinamul’s Bolpur candidate and fisheries minister Chandranath Sinha was present at both the events. “We want the people of Bolpur to enjoy their heritage and we support these events. They are being held to protest the varsity dispensation’s attitude,” he said. Sources in the ruling party said the events were organised to prove a point to the current varsity authorities led by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, allegedly with a saffron bias. In a related event, BJP workers led a folk-song procession in observance of Holi up to the campus grounds on Sunday afternoon. “We always want Visva-Bharati to uphold its traditions. If Trinamul is alleging politics in this, it’s because they are closely linked to the VC. We have nothing to do with all this,” said BJP candidate Anirban Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee wanted one hill seat for Trinamul Congress, says Bimal Gurung||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha founder president Bimal Gurung on Sunday claimed that Mamata Banerjee had wanted the Trinamul Congress to contest the Kalimpong seat, while leaving Kurseong for the Binay-Tamang-Anit Thapa faction of the hill party and Darjeeling for the Gurung camp. The Gurung and the Tamang-Thapa factions of the Morcha, despite being bitter rivals, are allies of Trinamul. Trinamul decided to leave the three hills seats to “friends” in Darjeeling. While campaigning in Darjeeling for his faction’s candidate on Sunday, Gurung said: “Don’t you think Mamata Banerjee did not tell me to leave the Kalimpong seat for the TMC, Kurseong for Anit Thapa and was I not asked to stand from Darjeeling? I, however, said these (three seats) are ours and even if the TMC fields candidates, we will go ahead and field our own candidates. It is then that the hills were declared a free zone.” Gurung’s revelation, if true, provides an insight into Mamata’s actual plan for the hills and also his poll strategy to project as a true guardian of the hills. However, Mamata’s  decision to leave the three hill seats to “friends”, which could be both the Tamang-Thapa camp and the Gurung camp, has hurt her party in the hills. Trinamul has not been able and cannot afford to ask its supporters to vote for a particular faction of the Morcha as both are its allies. “In the process, Trinamul foot-soldiers are feeling let down,” said an observer. On Friday, Trinamul workers from the hills met in Siliguri to discuss this particular issue. “We have always sacrificed a lot for the party, but where do we stand now?” a senior Trinamul leader said when asked about the meeting. “But we tried our best to explain that our party’s stand is in our interest.” Gurung’s revelation on Sunday, many believe, is also an attempt to send an impression that he is close to Mamata and he would not be ignored if Trinamul forms the government in Bengal. An insider of Tamang’s camp, however, rejected Guurng’s speech. “We had sent three names to Calcutta (Mamata Banerjee). The list included Amar Singh Rai for Darjeeling, Tshering Dahal for Kurseong and Ruden Lepcha for Kalimpong. It is another story that the party leadership decided to change Amar Singh Rai’s name at the end,” the insider said. Keshav Raj Pokhrel is a Binay-Anit camp’s candidate from Darjeeling. New GTA chief Surendra Gupta, principal secretary, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), was appointed the “administrator” of the GTA, replacing Anit Thapa as the chairman, board of administrators, GTA, on Sunday by the Bengal government. The development came after Thapa had “appealed” to the Election Commission of India (ECI) through social media, to replace him till the model code of conduct is in place for “fair and free” elections in hills. Thapa’s appeal was made public a few hours before the state government’s replacement decision came. “Thapa was smart in his move as he was replaced by the state government and not the EC,” said an observer. The state government’s order read: “WHEREAS the Election Commission of India has received complaints on the disharmony in GTA between political nominees in Board of Administrators and the principles of level playing field and…” Before the EC’s decision, the state government replaced Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
