30-03-2021||West Bengal||Battleground Nandigram||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Time to create new history for Bengal, urges Buddhadev ||Once his was the only baritone emanating from the Left camp in Bengal’s political landscape. Ill-health has kept him away from active politics, and the annual Brigade Parade Ground rally,  for a long time now, so much so that the former chief minister has recused himself from the highest decision-making body of his party. On Tuesday, in an audio message that was shared widely by the CPM and its supporters, Buddhadev Bhattacharjee spoke out. In a trembling, halting voice, he asked voters to create history in Bengal. “Everybody realises that this is a crucial juncture for the state. The Left Front came out with the slogan, 'Farming is our base, industry is our future'. We gained in agriculture and were on the verge of expanding industry. Since the Left Front was voted out, everything has come to a standstill,” Bhattacharjee said in the 3.41minute-long message, released as the campaign for the second phase of polling on April 1, came to an end. “Since Trinamul came to power, a dangerous situation has been created in the state. Economy is in peril. Agriculture and farmers are under threat. Prices of farm-produces are touching the sky,” he said. “No major industry has come up in the last 10 years. Democracy is under threat. Urban livelihood is feeling the pinch,” he said a day after  he had issued a statement seeking support for the Left-Congress Sanyukta Morcha. Bhattacharjee said the situation could not be allowed to continue as the youth of the state were becoming the victims of it. “While there is a threat to the state from the Trinamul and BJP, this has also given rise to a possibility. The Left, Congress and a secular party have formed a front to fight to preserve democracy and bring Bengal back on the path of development,” he said. “This government will be alert to the needs of farmers, workers and the common people. This is my appeal to create a new history in Bengal,” he said. Five years ago, he had lobbed the idea of the CPM and the Congress shedding their political differences and coming together for the sake of the state. That was also the last time he was heard at a public meeting, as he pitched hard for a Left-Congress government while sharing the dais with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The 2016 Assembly results had proved to be a disaster and the electoral experiment had evidently failed. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, feeble attempts were made but the two fought separately and were decimated. The only difference that the CPM has offered this time is by fielding number of young candidates, some fresh from the party’s dwindling organisational pool. Bhattacharjee, in his back-to-back messages, also emphasised on the youths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC lodges formal complaint to EC against Modi's Bangladesh visit||The TMC has written to the Election Commission alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit to Bangladesh violated the model code of conduct in place for the West Bengal Assembly polls and some of his programmes there "intended to influence the voting pattern" in certain constituencies of the state. The letter dated March 28 was released by the Trinamool Congress on Tuesday. Modi visited Bangladesh from March 26 to 27 to attend the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the country's independence and the birth centenary of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman following an invitation from his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina. The subject line of the letter written by TMC national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien read: "Gross violation of democratic ethics and the Model Code of Conduct by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi during his visit to Bangladesh." "We have no objection whatsoever to his visit to Bangladesh for this official purpose. After all, India played a critical role in the liberation of Bangladesh. West Bengal, in particular, made an immense contribution to the heroic struggle of our fellow Bengalis in (what was then) East Pakistan for freedom from the brutal regime in West Pakistan. "However, the All lndia Trinamool Congress strongly objects to Shri Modi's programmes in Bangladesh on March 27. These had nothing to do with either the 50th anniversary of the independence of Bangladesh or the birth centenary of 'Bangabandhu'. Rather, they were solely and exclusively intended to influence the voting pattern in certain constituencies in the ongoing elections to the Legislative Assembly of West Bengal," O'Brien said in the letter. "No lndian Prime Minister has so brazenly indulged in an unethical and undemocratic act and violated the Model Code of Conduct by indirectly campaigning for his party from foreign soil," he said. The TMC leader further alleged that the political motive behind Modi's visit is proven by the fact that he took along with him BJP MP from West Bengal Santanu Thakur, who holds no official position in the government of lndia. "No MP or representative from the Trinamool Congress or other parties was invited to accompany the PM. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has thus grossly misused his official position to interfere from foreign soil in the election process in West Bengal," O'Brien said. "The All lndia Trinamool Congress demands that the Election Commission of lndia not only censure him but also take deterrent punitive action against him so that he dares not repeat such misconduct in future," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Police forces from BJP-ruled states 'terrorising' Nandigram residents, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged police forces from BJP-ruled states have been brought in to "terrorise" voters in Nandigram assembly constituency and also accused BJP ministers and security forces of distributing cash to lure voters. Banerjee is pitted against her one time loyalist-turned- rival Suvendu Adhikari of BJP in the high-profile Nandigram constituency that will go to vote on April 1. Criss-crossing the assembly segment on wheelchair in the last leg of campaigning,the TMC supremo alleged at Sonachura that huge amount of cash was being brought from all over the country and "distributed from hotels by the (BJP) ministers" to lure people cast their votes in favour of the saffron party nominee. Banerjee further alleged that cash was also being distributed from vehicles of the security forces to bribe voters and accused BJP of crossing all norms to come to power in the state. "This is the money of PM Cares Fund, this is unaccounted cash amassed during demonetisation, this is the cash having swelled their coffers after sale of PSUs. "This is the public money they had looted and now giving in Rs 500/1000 to each voter. We had informed the Election Commission about this but it still continues unabated," she said. At the second meeting at Basulichak, she said, "several ministers from BJP-ruled states and Central ministers are behind distribution of cash." The feisty Bengal leader also asked at Basulichak "why more than 100 cars are in the convoy of Union Home Minister Amit Shah while not more than 5 vehicles are allowed in a convoy during elections? "Someone is being given more privileges than others," she alleged. At the meeting at Basulichak, the CM while taking an apparent dig at Suvendu Adhikari said "CPI(M) harmad (pirate) from whose house shots were fired at protestors in Nandigram in 2007, has now become the right hand man of the betrayer of people." At the Sonachura meeting, Banerjee alleged "police forces from Madhya Pradesh and some other BJP-ruled states have been brought to Nandigram to terrorise voters in villages and tilt the verdict in favour of the saffron party". Predicting a massive win from the seat and her party returning to power in the state, she warned "they (police forces from outside) will be here only for few days. Make no mistake. We will be back and give the betrayers a befitting reply." She said the Election Commission is being apprised of the alleged act by police forces from outside of terrorising villagers. "We have no issue if the outsider police function impartially. But, we have credible information they are not," she alleged. Banerjee iterated her call to the electorate to wait if the EVM malfunctions during voting and "not leave the place even if you are asked to come back after a while to avert any bid to change your verdict." Banerjee urged the people to be on alert against "any bid to instigate communal riots in the seat in the run up to the polling and on the day of polling." "They have plans to kill their own people and pass the blame on us to engineer riots. We have information. Be on guard," she said without naming the BJP. "Nandigram stands for united battle against forcible land acquisition participated by different communities. Be on guard against any bid to fuel tension by keeping any object in places of worship. We are all united. Defeat riot mongering BJP," she said. Banerjee promised a model Nandigram connecting the place with the industrial hub Haldia to expedite economic development in the area. Trying hard to explain that she never meant people from Nandigram were involved in alleged attack on her on March 10, Banerjee said "outsider goondas were brought in to attack me." Banerjee on Monday accused Adhikari of plotting attack on her drawing a sharp retort from her former ministerial colleague who accused the cm of wearing crape bandage in public to gain sympathy of voters and wanted her x ray report be made public. The TMC supremo took part in a road show covering 3 km meandering through the narrow alleys of Nandigram as crowds shouted "Jai Hind", "Jai Bangla", "Mamata Banerjee Zindabad" and criticised 'Mir Zafars' (betrayers) who had left TMC to join BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata greeted by 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans in Nandigram||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the assembly elections from Nandigram, was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans by BJP supporters on Tuesday at Reyapara here, where she had been camping for the past two days. The chief minister, moments before she was about to leave for her programme at Bhangabera in the constituency - set to go to polls on April 1 -- was seen sitting calmly inside the vehicle, as police personnel deputed for her safety made sure that the saffron camp supporters got out of her way. Banerjee, who is scheduled to address multiple rallies on the last day of the campaigning here, had strongly reacted to 'Jai Sri Ram' slogans in the past. A senior BJP leader here said raising 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan was not a crime, as people across the country revere the Hindu deity. Local TMC members, however, claimed that the "BJP, sensing defeat, is resorting to cheap tactics" to inconvenience others. The TMC chief, an MLA from Bhawanipore, this time decided to fight the elections from Nandigram, where her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari has been fielded by the BJP. The two had engaged in a bitter war of words over the past few days, with Adhikari accusing Banerjee of practising appeasement politics, and the TMC boss alleging that the saffron camp had been trying to polarise voters on religious lines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah holds roadshow in Nandigram amid 'Jai Shri Ram' chants||In a show of might ahead of the second phase of Bengal elections, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday held a massive roadshow in the high-profile Nandigram constituency. Standing atop a lorry, decked up with flowers and BJP flags, Shah, with TMC turncoat and party candidate Suvendu Adhikari by his side, waved at enthusiastic crowds that gathered along the four-km stretch between Bethuria and Rayapara in the East Midnapore assembly segment. Locals queued up on two sides of the road and watched the procession, which inched its way through the narrow streets amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Narendra Modi Zindabad' and 'Amit Shah Zindabad'. Many of them were seen shooting videos and clicking selfies at the roadshow. Later, while talking to reporters at a party office in Nandigram, Shah exuded confidence that BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari will win the elections from Nandigram by a record margin by defeating TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, a co- contestant from the seat, terming it as "absolutely necessary to bring about the much-desired change in Bengal." He further said that the saffron camp's victory margin "should be so big that no politician will dare to fool the masses with false promises ever again." "By defeating Mamata didi in Nandigram, you can bring about the much-desired change in West Bengal. You defeat her here, The TMC will automatically get defeated in other parts of the state," he said. Referring to a recent incident of rape in Nandigram, Shah wondered why women are not safe in the state, despite "tall claims" made by Banerjee. "She talks big about women's safety. What is the situation here? A woman was raped here, just a few kilometres away from where she has put up in Nandigram," he said. All eyes are on battleground Nandigram, where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has locked horns with her protege-turned-rival Adhikari. The campaigning in the constituency, which will go to polls on April 1, is set to end at 5 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Amphan key issue in coastal belt ||In an election campaign largely woven around identities such as religion, caste, culture and ethnicity, Cyclone Amphan takes centrestage in the storm-torn coastal South 24-Parganas. Sources said the BJP and the Sanjukta Morcha have been going to people of Amphan-hit areas to highlight the alleged corruption over relief funds and other resources by ruling Trinamul, even as Trinamul leaders highlight examples of how many people received help from the state and how the BJP-led Centre deprived the people there. Four constituencies of the coast — Gosaba, Kakdwip, Sagar and Patharpratima — will go to the polls on April 1, while the rest 10 seats of the region will vote on April 6. Union home minister Amit Shah had openly in his campaign rally from Gosaba on March 22 alleged that “nephew and company (referring to Mamata’s nephew Abhishek)” had swindled central funds for Amphan relief. It was strongly countered by chief Mamata Banerjee during her poll rally in Sagar. On March 25, she recounted how she had spent a sleepless night at Nabanna on May 20 last year, when Cyclone Amphan had scythed through south Bengal, and how she used the entire pool of resources at her disposal to support people, from shifting them to safe houses to providing relief and rehabilitation. BJP leaders in South 24-Parganas said Amphan is the prime issue as the people remember their sufferings and how Trinamul leaders allegedly diverted the relief money to the accounts of their relatives. In every village, BJP leaders have been collecting names of villagers deprived from Amphan relief and referring to them personally in their poll campaigns. “Amphan is the prime issue here as people have not forgotten the blatant corruption of Trinamul leaders. It is easier for us to reach them and ask for votes for better development and governance. We have asked the villagers to ask the Trinamul leaders to publish village-wise lists of beneficiaries to show who actually received money. This is an issue which could ruin Trinamul here,” said Palash Rana, a BJP secretary in the Mathurapur organisational district in South 24-Parganas. Bikash Kamila, BJP’s nominee from Sagar, has been reaching out to people every day over “Amphan corruption”. “Amphan is recent in public memory. Hundreds of youths who protested against corruption (in relief funds) were tagged in criminal cases by Mamata Banerjee’s police. We are highlighting that,” said Kamila. The CPM has fielded Kanti Ganguly, a party veteran and former minister, from Raidighi. Ganguly became popular for helping out in relief work by way of food, shelter and rebuilding breached embankments. The CPM youth wing even made a song on Ganguly, which talks about how only he came to people’s aid. Ganguly is reminding people of this too amid fears of whether the BJP’s agenda of polarisation will take precedence. “I have been going to the people with the issue of Amphan. I have been telling them that I can help them in a better way if I become an MLA again. But as a great misfortune for Bengal, polarisation is also a reality here,” said the CPM veteran. Trinamul leaders said the issue of Amphan was a “staged” campaign by the BJP and the CPM in South 24-Parganas. “People know how little the BJP-led Centre did for people,” said a leader. “We have been admitting to the few mistakes during distribution of Amphan aid. But there are thousands of examples of people who got help. Many BJP and CPM workers also received the aid,” said Bankim Hazra, Trinamul MLA from Sagar and party nominee. Dinhata death report Special police observer Vivek Dubey, in his probe report of the death of BJP leader Amit Sarkar, told the Election Commission that it was suicide. The BJP had alleged “Trinamul goons” had murdered Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Harmony at peril: Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee on Monday issued a statement, listing the alleged ills of 10 years of Trinamul Congress rule and urging the electorate of Bengal to vote for the candidates nominated by the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, dubbed as the Sanjukta Morcha. In a six-paragraph statement issued in Bengali, Bhattacharjee has accused the BJP of harming the economy in favour of capitalists, and indulging in divisive politics and communal polarisation. “The economic-political concept we have been trying to convey to the people since the time of the Left Front government is, agriculture is our foundation, industry is our future. We have followed that path since,” Bhattacharjee wrote, echoing the efforts of the Left Front to weave their poll narrative around the promises of employment and industrialisation. “We have fallen back in agriculture in the past 10 years under the incumbent government. There has been no significant industry in the past decade. There is the silence of a cemetery in Nandigram and Singur. The conspirators of the shrewd screenplay of that time are now divided into two and throwing mud at each other. The youth of Bengal have lost the possibilities of employment. There is no appointment in the government sector. Bengal’s intelligence and skill which is our asset is being bound to leave our state and go to other states,” Bhattacharjee wrote. Bhattacharjee’s allegations are targeted at both Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari, her former protégé who is now contesting against her from the Nandigram seat on a BJP ticket. He also alleged that the people of the state had been suffering the nexus of the “corruption-extortion syndicate”. During the Left rule democracy had percolated to the bottom of the democratic structure and had proved to be the basis of development, Bhattacharjee said and added that this system had been ruined in the last ten years. “Most important, the environment of communal harmony which was the pride of West Bengal has been poisoned. On one side, there is Trinamul’s autocratic hooliganism, on the other side, BJP’s dangerous economic policies for the sake of large capitalists, divisive politics, communal polarisation — behind which is the dangerous ideology of the RSS...,” Bhattacharjee’s statement read. “I appeal to the people of all sections to help this force win the Assembly polls to form a new government for the sake of the people. This state government will work for West Bengal’s democracy, communal harmony and for the sake of the life and livelihood of labourers-farmers and hardworking people. Hence, help the candidates of the Sanjukta Morcha win in all the seats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Politics is no bar for tea and muri with opponents||A few politicians are embracing courtesy to shape their poll campaign in Bengal where politics is usually all about being merciless to rivals. Sometime around 5pm on Saturday evening, CPM’s Dumdum North nominee Tanmoy Bhattacharya dug his heels into an anti-Trinamul polemic at a media event. He echoed the “cut money” refrain sounded out by the BJP. But minutes after the media event ended, Tanmoy made a unique gesture of inviting his rival party workers to tea at a nearby stall. The gesture seemed to echo Calcutta’s Coffee House culture of endless debates minus personal attacks. In this poll season, some of Bengal’s political faces are keeping these unwritten manners alive. Tanmoy and a handful of CPM rivals ended their day’s work with an hour’s worth of conversation and puffed rice. The stoic vendor did not know how to tell his customers apart politically. Speaking to The Telegraph, CPM candidate Tanmoy, also the sitting MLA of Dumdum North, said: “I always interact with people without political prejudice. To me, interaction at a personal level is important. I do not believe all Trinamul workers are bad. There are many good people among our rivals. I never mingle with the bad elements.” He said he recently walked into Trinamul’s office in Durganagar in his constituency. “After some pleasantries, one of the Trinamul workers offered me some almonds. Then I found them taking tea with muri (puffed rice). Without hesitation, I picked up some muri from the bowl and joined the chat and returned,” said Tanmoy. In Kalyani, CPM candidate Sabuj Das feels the same. “Polls last only a month. Life is much longer,” smiled Sabuj, who tries to keep vitriol out of his campaign messages. Sabuj added: “I believe that politics is for people. For me, it will be unfortunate if relationships with people are soured just over political differences. So, I never mind interacting with activists of my political rivals and seeking votes inside their party offices.” In Chakdah, Trinamul candidate Subhankar Singh, who is no stranger to the acerbic nature of most Trinamul-BJP fights, tries to keep a cool head. Residents of the area take note of his ability to befriend rival party workers even as they are drawing opposing graffiti on walls. “We have grown up together. A (political) party is not going to put a wall between us,” he says. Singh credits his party chief Mamata Banerjee for the lesson in manners. “She never mixes politics with personal relations. She always inquires after rival leaders if they fall ill or meet with an accident.” Singh’s efforts in particular made waves on social media a few weeks ago. In its wake, netizens have also found out about Sabuj and Tanmoy, who are sure-footed enough to remain pleasant. “This courtesy is the culture of Bengal. These are gestures we have always expected from our politicians. There is definitely an acrimonious battle ahead. Nevertheless, amid such political enmity, it is great to see that these candidates are keeping their culture of courtesy alive,” said Anirban Sen, a playwright in Calcutta. Singh may have the last word here. “The polls will be over soon, but people will always remember my behaviour. To me this is very important,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Four boys drown in Damodar on Holi||Four teenagers drowned in the Damodar river near the Durgapur Barrage at Borjora in Bankura after playing Holi on Monday afternoon. Six others were rescued from the river and four of them hospitalised. Police said only one of the deceased had been identified — Aviraj Gupta, 14, of Durgapur town in West Burdwan — while the three other deceased were from nearby Borjora in Bankura district and remained unidentified so far. Police said after celebrating Holi, Aviraj, a student of Class VIII, had gone to the Damodar Barrage at Borjora, 2km away from his residence at Karangapara in Durgapur town, with six of his friends to bathe in the river around 2pm. Three other boys from Borjora joined them. “Initially the boys were bathing where the water was chest-deep. Suddenly three boys went towards the gates of the barrage where water was at least 30-foot deep,” said one of the eyewitnesses. “The others went after them and soon they all went under.” People, mostly fishermen, raised an alarm and many dived into the river to save the boys. Police and rescue teams from Durgapur’s Coke Oven and Borjora police stations also rushed the spot. “We managed to drag out all 10 boys and rushed them to Bankura Sammiloni Medical College and Hospital where doctors declared four of them dead on arrival. Four others were admitted to Durgapur subdivisional hospital,” said a police officer. The area falls under Borjora police station limits in Bankura. Local residents alleged lack of police patrolling along the river bank leading to such incidents. “The police should not allow people to go into the river,” said a Borjora resident. “Our policemen were patrolling in the area. We will investigate why they overlooked the boys bathing,” said a police officer. He however admitted ladditional workload ahead of the Assembly elections. The police and local administration had earlier installed boards warning people about the dangers of going into the river. Another death Police said that on Sunday Sourdipta Sengupta, 23, from Durgapur’s City Centre locality drowned in the river while bathing. Sengupta’s body was recovered later in the evening and sent for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||EC: 697 companies of central forces for phase 2||The Election Commission of India is set to deploy 697 companies of central forces during the second phase of Bengal polls on April 1. Thirty Assembly constituencies, including Nandigram in East Midnapore where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is pitted against her former protégé and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, will go to polls in the second phase. The 30 Assembly segments which would go for polls in the second phase are spread over four districts — East and West Midnapore, Bankura and South 24-Parganas. In the first phase on March 27, again where 30 Assembly segments had voted, the EC had deployed 730 companies. “A total of 636 companies of central forces will be deployed to guard the booths and other related activities on poll day. The remaining 61 companies will be used as security cover for teams carrying postal ballots to voters aged above 80 and the physically challenged voters and provide security to the strongrooms,” said a source. According to sources,189 companies of central forces would be deployed for nine Assembly seats to go for polls in the second phase, in East Midnapore. Similarly, 198 companies will be deployed for nine Assembly seats in West Midnapore, 161 companies for eight Assembly seats in Bankura and 89 companies for four Assembly seats in South 24-Parganas. The state police will deploy more than 100 inspectors and 300-odd sub-inspectors in the second phase. The central forces will guard polling premises and the area within 100-m radius of each polling station. The state police will maintain the law and order in the rest of the areas. Sources in the EC said as all booths would be guarded by the central forces, the deployment of so many companies of central forces was needed. Officials said the huge deployment in the first phase was somehow justified as it included Jhargram, Bengal’s only district considered Maoist-hit by the Centre. “But as there is no Maoist-hit district in the second phase, the deployment (of 697 companies) could be considered huge,” said a senior government official. “The overall peaceful polling in the first phase has encouraged the EC to deploy all its resources to hold polls peacefully in the next phases too,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Feud-hit candidate in front of returning officer, BJP recalls him ||The BJP’s proposed candidate from East Burdwan’s Galsi, Tapan Bagdi, on Monday had to return from the district election office without filing his nomination papers as the saffron party denied him the ticket at the last minute. In the evening, the BJP replaced Bagdi with Bikash Biswas, a leader of BJP teachers’ wing. Sources said that after the BJP had announced the name of Bagdi as the party’s nominee from Galsi, many party workers started campaigning against him and openly condemned the party’s decision to field him as he had been accused in a case of molestation. Bagdi, however, had started campaigning with graffiti in his name. At the same time, many BJP workers protested against him with posters, which became embarrassing for the party. On Monday morning, Bagdi arrived with five of his aides to file his nomination at the district election office. “When he was before the returning officer, a phone call from Calcutta arrived on his cell phone. Apparently, some senior leader told him to not file the papers,” a BJP leader of the area said. BJP district president Abhijit Tah, when contacted, said: “There was some embargo and so we could not field him, because of his alleged involvement in a criminal case. It the party leaders in Delhi changed the name.” On why the issue was not scrutinised before Bagdi’s name was announced as the candidate, Tah said he could not comment about it. A BJP leader who was part of those who protested against Bagdi’s candidature, said: “Despite knowing his criminal background, the party announced his name. That was the reason for our protest. There were many in the party who could have been fielded instead of him.” On the sudden turn of events, Bagdi said: “I came to file nomination but the party did not give me a ticket. I was asked by a leader not to submit my papers. I can’t say more.” BJP insiders said Bagdi’s removal was part of a much larger ongoing feud between the BJP old-timers and newcomers. Bagdi is an old-timer. The district saw fierce infighting between the old and new camps on January 21, when a new three-storey BJP party office in Burdwan town, inaugurated by its national president J.P. Nadda in December, was stoned by party workers during an alleged clash between two factions, over charges that then district president Sandip Nandi had been neglecting old-timers for turncoats. Later, Nandi was showcaused and removed from his post. Sources said some BJP old-timers had decided to stand as Independents in places where the party chose candidates from among the newcomers. “Old-timer Ganesh Majhi has already filed his nomination in Burdwan North. Another will file his papers soon in Burdwan South. All the old-timers have said they will try their best to defeat the party’s official candidates,” said a BJP source. Tah, the BJP’s district president, insisted there were no such issues. Even Alok Majhi, the Trinamul MLA from Galsi and a party candidate from Jamalpur, vouched for Bagdi. “Tapanda (Bagdi) is an old-timer in the BJP, we had seen him working for the party since early 1990s,” Majhi said. “He may have some cases against him, but there are such cases against scores of BJP candidates. This (denial of the party ticket to him) proved once again that the BJP is neglecting its old loyalists. It will ruin the dream of the BJP coming to power,” Majhi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Death of Shova Majumdar after assault sparks political uproar||Shova Majumdar, the octogenarian mother of a BJP worker in Nimta of North 24-Parganas, on Monday died of month-long injuries allegedly at the hands of Trinamul goons, her death prompting Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda to promise a safer Bengal for women and chief minister Mamata Banerjee to ask why the BJP was silent over Hathras. “Anguished over the demise of Bengal’s daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata (Banerjee) didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers,” Shah tweeted. Echoing Shah’s words Nadda also took to Twitter. “I pray for peace for the soul of Nimta’s old mother Shova Majumdar. She had to give her life because (her) son Gopal Majumdar is a BJP worker. BJP will always remember this sacrifice. She was also Bengal’s ‘mother’ and Bengal’s ‘daughter’. BJP will always fight for the security of Bengal’s mothers and daughters,” Nadda tweeted. The use of the words “mother” and “daughter” in the posts appeared to be a direct jibe at Mamata’s poll slogan, “Bengal only wants its own daughter”. Mamata, at a poll rally in her constituency Nandigram, reacted to Shah’s tweet by reminding him of atrocities against women in other states, especially those ruled by the BJP. “I condemn any attack on women...I cannot digest attacks on mothers and sisters. Some people are raising questions about our Bengal...I would like to ask them what is the condition of women in states like Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan? How far are they safer there? Where were you when the Hathras incident occurred? Did you close your lips with leucoplast?” Mamata said. Allegations against Trinamul were refuted by her party colleagues Saugata Roy and Partha Chatterjee. “The BJP is trying to encash on the death. The woman’s death has nothing to do with politics,” Roy said. Chatterjee added the clash was the result of a family issue. “There was no political angle. The woman died of old-age ailments.” On February 26, Shova and her son Gopal were allegedly assaulted by Trinamul activists at their home under ward 4 of North Dumdum Municipality. The BJP claimed Gopal was attacked because he was key to developing the party organisation in the area, and Shova was injured when she tried to save her son from attackers. “She was punched on her face and also beaten with sticks...” said a relative. Nimta police are investigating the case. A group of BJP workers, led by BJP’s general secretary Sayantan Basu, demonstrated in front of the Nimta police station demanding the arrest of goons. Archana Majumdar, the BJP’s North Dumdum candidate, visited the family on Monday and alleged the doctor called in to write Shova’s death certificate was “threatened” to fudge it. As Archana is a doctor, she signed the death certificate, she said. A delegation from the BJP Bengal women’s wing called upon governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on this issue. They demanded charges against the accused in the FIR include section 302 of IPC (punishment for the offence of murder) and that the matter be moved to and tried at a Fast Track court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Amit Shah set for Nandigram road show ||Union home minister Amit Shah will hold a road show here on Tuesday, covering a part of the route that Mamata Banerjee traversed in a wheelchair on Monday afternoon. The last-minute decision by the BJP to field Shah on the last day of campaigning in Nandigram, which votes on April 1, is being seen as a clear affirmation of the “khela hobe (match is on)” slogan coined by the Bengal chief minister. “Our leader and India’s strong home minister, Amit Shahji, will hold a road show from Reyapara Bridge to Shiv Mandir tomorrow,” said Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s candidate from Nandigram. After Shah, Mithun Chakraborty will hit the streets before campaigning ends for the second phase of Bengal polls. BJP sources said Shah had volunteered to be in Nandigram amid suggestions that Mamata’s prolonged presence in the area ahead of the polls may cost Suvendu, the BJP’s most prized catch in Bengal, dear. Shah will visit a temple along with Suvendu and address a meeting near Shiv Mandir. Around the same time, Mamata will be in Sonachura, less than 20km away, after a road show. “The contest is getting really close. Amitji’s presence will give Dada’s campaign a boost. Besides, his temple trip will help our polarisation agenda,” a source in the BJP said. The explanation from the saffron camp — an unofficial one — suggested that despite its claims of having an edge over Trinamul, the BJP is deploying all its resources in Nandigram. With both Mamata and Shah campaigning in Nandigram on the same day, a nervous district administration was finalising the security arrangements on Monday evening. “Keeping law and order under control will be a challenge tomorrow.… Both sides are really charged up,” a senior district police officer said. The Election Commission has already deputed 22 companies of central forces to Nandigram while the state police have stationed over 1,200 men and women in uniform to ensure peace in the area till April 1. Nandigram, the epicentre of the anti-land-acquisition movement that catapulted Mamata to power in 2011, has become the most important battle ground in Bengal since Mamata nominated herself to take on turncoat Suvendu, whose rise in state politics too owes to the land crusade. An impression that the battle for Nandigram is turning into a cliff-hanger gathered ground last week when Mamata announced she would camp in the East Midnapore village for five days in a row till April 1 to expose the turncoat before the people who had elected him five summers ago as their Trinamul MLA. Since she launched an intensive campaign here on Sunday afternoon — the chief minister attended seven programmes, including a road show, in less than 24 hours — Mamata has been walking the talk and carrying out a vitriolic attack on Suvendu and his father, Sisir. “What were the traitors doing when the police fired on March 14 (2007)? Where were they on November 10, the day known as Operation Sunrise (recapture of Nandigram by the CPM in 2007)?” Mamata thundered at a rally in Thakur Chowk on Monday afternoon. The meeting was held after a 10km road show through Nandigram under the blazing March sun. Mamata, in a wheelchair and holding a cordless mic, urged the people standing along the road to vote for her for the development of Nandigram. “The weather was so hostile, but the chief minister still chose to suffer the sun for two hours. It’s set to be a close contest,” said Naresh Manna, a middle-aged shopkeeper, near Reyapara Bridge. At the rally after the road show, Mamata made an all-out attempt to dissociate Suvendu from the anti-land-acquisition protest, which the Trinamul turncoat claims he had led. At meeting after meeting, Suvendu has been saying that Mamata became chief minister in 2011 only because of the movement he had led. The war of words between Mamata and Suvendu over the ownership of the movement has become the overt theme — the covert one being the polarisation along religious lines — of the campaign in the last lap before the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Hill leaders change colours||On Holi, the predominant conversation across Darjeeling was on hill politicians changing colours in the ongoing festival of democracy, the Bengal elections. Ajoy Edwards, owner of Glenary’s, the most prominent eatery in the hill town of Darjeeling, who had so far not been accepting the GNLF’s decision to field a “losing” party candidate on a BJP symbol (sitting MLA Neeraj Zimba) till very recently, changed his mind on Monday. Edwards, who had so far been almost choking up in every other speech while saying Zimba was a “losing candidate” for GNLF-BJP, on Monday smiled and hugged him. Edwards also accompanied Zimba as the latter went to file his nomination papers. The Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), a Left ideology party which had allied with the Right-wing BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, on Thursday said they would not support the saffron party, but made a U-turn on Monday to support the saffron party again, brewing dissent within the party ranks. “Can we trust the current lot of hill politicians?” asked a political watcher from the hills. “Can they first take a stand, discuss and decide and then make public their views?” The CPRM, which had earlier decided to field their own candidates from the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong, on Monday decided against it. The party justified this support to the BJP on the grounds that they would stick with the saffron ally GNLF till 2024. However, many CPRM leaders were not convinced with this sudden change in political stance by “central leaders” of the party headquartered in Darjeeling . On Monday itself, CPRM leader from Kalimpong Kishore Pradhan said that they would neither “vote for the BJP nor support the BJP” in the upcoming elections. “We cannot accept this decision (to support the BJP) and the Kalimpong regional committee (of the party) will not vote for the BJP,” Pradhan, who had been named a CPRM candidate from Kalimpong, said. There was no immediate reaction from the CPRM central committee leadership to Pradhan’s announcement. “Political developments during the festivity of Holi definitely suggest that hill leaders are comfortable changing colours unlike the hill people,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
30-03-2021||West Bengal||6-year wait for teaching job||Name: Nitu Bera Occupation: Preparing for competitive examinations Age: 28 Education: MA (history) Annual income: None Size of family: Parents, elder brother and herself Seat: Nayagram, Jhargram Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? My choice was based on two major issues — bad roads and joblessness. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016 and why either way? Yes, I voted for the same party I had supported in 2016. I believe in the ideology of the party I voted for and have seen them work for the people since childhood. Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you. The schemes of the Mamata Banerjee government did not benefit me in any way. Three things she has done that hurt you? One, there has been no recruitment of teachers during her tenure. Two, the Trinamul-run gram panchayat did not undertake development in our area and her government did not look into it. Three, only Trinamul cronies have benefited from government schemes like housing projects. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? Throughout her 10-year rule, Mamata and her party leaders had nothing but narrow political benefit in mind. What do you think of the charge that she is only a pishi? She could be a pishi or mashi of anyone, but to us she is our chief minister. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefit you? There is not one scheme that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or his government has undertaken that has benefited youths like us or the poor. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, the Centre cares less for farmers and the three farm laws will in the long term harm every citizen Two, the hike in prices of LPG cylinders, petrol and diesel is affecting us. Three, the unplanned demonetisation made people suffer. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? A: Modi has done nothing for the poor and the schemes of his government are nothing but an eyewash. The Modi government has been working to serve his cronies, who are big industrialists. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is worse as I did not get appointed as a schoolteacher after passing the School Service Commission exam in 2015. What do you think about the Left's chances and about its alliance? I think the Left alliance will not come to power in this election, but I believe they will get more votes than they did in the last polls. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? There are no Muslim residents in my immediate neighbourhood, but there is harmony elsewhere.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: TMC worker shot at, clashes turn heated||Incidents of political violence were reported from parts of Bengal with campaign ahead of the remaining seven phases of polls gaining pace. In the past 24 hours, a Trinamul leader received a bullet wound, while over a dozen workers of various political parties suffered injuries in clashes. Trinamul leader and Amjhara gram panchayat member Anup Halder, 37, was shot at from close range in Basanti of South 24-Parganas on Sunday night. Anup was returning home with his elder brother on a bike when he was shot at in Taldah village. “He suffered bullet injuries in the back while trying to flee on the bike,” said a police officer. Both Anup and his brother fell when goons attacked them with sharp weapons. Residents rescued them and admitted them to the Canning sub-divisional hospital. The local Trinamul leadership accused the BJP of engineering the attack. BJP candidate for Basanti Assembly seat Ramesh Majhi attributed the attack to personal rivalry. In Haroa of North 24-Parganas, at least 14 persons, including women and children, were injured on Sunday night in a clash between Trinamul and Sanjukta Morcha supporters. Police said a group of goons with alleged Trinamul links had attacked the homes of some Indian Secular Front (ISF) activists of the Sanjukta Morcha in Bakjuri-Mathura village of Haroa. “The goons attacked us with sharp weapons and firearms. They did not even spare women and children,” said one of the victims. The ISF and Trinamul filed complaints against each other with Haroa police after which a police contingent has been deployed in the area. In Bhandarkhali village of Hasnabad in North 24-Parganas, at least five Trinamul workers were injured on Sunday night after being allegedly attacked by armed BJP workers. The BJP denied the charge. “BJP workers tore our party flags and began beating us when we protested and tried to stop them,” said local Trinamul leader Govinda Das. “The local BJP leader Liaqat Gaji has unleashed terror in the area along with goons.” BJP leader Gaji denied the allegations and claimed Trinamul workers were injured in the party’s infighting. “This has nothing to do with our party,” he said. The police have started a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Trinamul leadership, against seven BJP workers, including Gaji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Water woes trigger no-vote decision||Residents in Sunderbans’ Sahebkhali panchayat and East Midnapore’s Sonachura panchayat under Nandigram constituency have decided not to cast their votes in the Assembly elections to protest against the district administration’s inefficiency to solve the long-pending crisis of pure drinking water. People in both the areas have been suffering from water crisis for almost a year due to damage caused to the tube wells during cyclone Amphan. While the repair and fresh installations were completed a few months ago, they have been facing a fresh water crisis with the onset of summer as the water level has dropped alarmingly. Angry over the inaction of the administration to settle their long-pending water crisis, the residents of the two pockets of Hingalganj and Nandigram, from where chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will fight this time, have decided not to cast vote, and also decided not to allow the political parties campaign in their areas. Last week Sahebkhali residents blocked Dulduli-Hemnagar road demanding immediate installations of pump sets and water storage tanks in the areas, whereas the villagers in Southkhali of Nandigram asked Trinamul and BJP workers to leave the area as they were not ready to rely on empty “promise”. “Why should we vote? If the administration cannot meet our basic needs like water, there is no purpose in taking part in the poll process. We have made it clear,” a villager in Sahebkhali said. The residents of Sahebkhali, Gobingakati, Kalitala, Jogeshganj, Dulduli, Panchabali of Hingalganj as well as Gangra, Southkhali of Sonachura areas alleged that every year during February to June they suffered tremendous water crisis due to drop in water level. “This year the water level dropped so much that it takes an hour to fill a pot of ten litres,” Gouranga Mistry, a villager said. Villagers in Sahebkhali said the drop in water level compelled them to undertake a cycle ride of about 3km to bring water from adjacent village. In Sahebkhali, the situation has come to such a passé that around 100 tube-well in the area had become non-functional. The families who have no means to fetch the water from such a distance are being compelled to drink pond water after boiling it at home. “We don’t have money to buy water. Amphan had destroyed our lives,” a villager said. Residents of Gangra in Southkhali echoed the allegations of Hingalganj’s Sahebkhali. “The problem of the dropping of water level is there for over a decade. But the state government has never bothered to resolve it. The situation has aggravated with no rain during the past few months. As a result, the crisis of drinking water has become bigger here,” said Kanai Chandra Pal, 54, a resident of Gangra in Sonachura. “Suvendubabu was the MLA during the past five years, but did nothing despite being several reminders,” Pal added. Badal Samata, a quack from Southkhali said: “Many of us are not in a position to fetch water from distant areas and are forced to drink pond water. Many villagers are suffering from water-borne diseases as they are compelled to drink pond water.” Acknowledging the problem, Sonachur panchayat pradhan Kalikrishna Pradhan said: “This is definitely a long-pending problem. In certain areas we have installed submersible pumps, which has not been done in Southkhali because of land issue. The problem is likely to be resolved by 2022 when the river surface water supply project in Chandipur is completed.” Hingalganj BDO Saswata Prakash Lahiri said: “It is a recurring problem. We are trying our best to solve the water crisis by arranging water for the villagers through PHE supply.” BJP leader in Hingalganj Tarun Mandal said: “We will urge the administration to assure the villagers to solve the water problem so that they take part in voting.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
