31-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP files complaint with EC against Mamata accusing her of threatening its supporters||Accusing Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of issuing threats to its supporters in her rallies, BJP has registered a complaint with the Election Commission over comments made by her. In its letter to the poll panel, BJP on Tuesday alleged, despite "pro-active" role of the commission, "large- scale violence" has been reported during past several days due to such utterances by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief. To back up its claim, the letter mentioned a widely circulated video of a meeting addressed by Mamata at Nandigram on March 29. "In the meeting she said the central paramilitary forces will go one day, but she will stay in Bengal. Who will then save her rivals," the letter quoted Banerjee as saying. Raising objection to the TMC supremo's remarks, the letter signed by BJP leaders Shishir Bajoria, Arjun Singh and Pratap Banerjee said, "Such statements are a threat to free, fair and peaceful elections ... and have been brought to the notice of the commission." The saffron party also described the speech as a violation of the model code of conduct that urges political parties to avoid offences such as intimidation of voters. "Threatening and criminal intimidation is not only an abuse of free and fair polls but also a criminal act as well as an electoral offence which needs strong and immediate check," the BJP said. Referring to the video clip, the letter alleged that the Trinamool Congress dispensation has failed to prevent incidents of violence such as attack on voters, stopping polling agents from entering polling stations, targeting BJP workers in the run up to polls and on the voting day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Prohibitory orders imposed in Nandigram ahead of polling||The Election Commission (EC) on Wednesday imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in Nandigram assembly constituency in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, a day ahead of the high- stakes elections here, a senior official said. Besides, the EC has also started air surveillance in the area with the help of a helicopter, he said. People who are not voters of Nandigram are not being allowed to enter the constituency in view of the sensitivity, he added. "Nandigram is a sensitive constituency with high- profile candidates like Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikary. We want to ensure that the law and order situation is not compromised and people can vote freely without fear," the official told PTI. "That is the reason for imposing the prohibitory orders, which will be in place till Friday midnight. A person who is not a voter of Nandigram will not be allowed to enter the area till the polling is over," he said. The order prohibits the assembly of five or more persons, besides imposing other restrictions, he said. Twenty-two companies of central forces are being deployed in the constituency, which has a total of 355 polling booths and 75 per cent of them will have a webcasting facility, the official said. Central forces along with the state police have already started naka checkings at crucial junctions in the area, he said. "Vehicles are being thoroughly checked before they are allowed to enter Nandigram. No outside vehicles are being allowed in," the official said, adding that anybody found trying to create a disturbance "will be handled strictly". The EC has also decided to deploy a 22-personnel quick response team (QRT) in the area on the election day, the official said. The EC has also constituted a team of officials who will supervise the proceedings in Nandigram on the poll day, he said. The local authorities were also asked by the EC to execute all the pending arrest warrants by Wednesday night and take people, accused in various cases, into custody, he said. Nandigram wore a deserted look during the day with only a few shops open. Vehicles such as e-rickshaws and autos were mostly unavailable with people choosing to stay indoors. "We want peaceful polling and no disturbance here on April 1. People should get a peaceful environment so that they can cast their votes without any fear," a resident of Sonachura said. All eyes are on battleground Nandigram that is going to the polls on Thursday with the chief minister engaged in a fierce contest with her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Goons have come to Nandigram to intimidate voters, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Election Commission to take action, alleging that goons from other states have come to Nandigram to foment trouble and intimidate the voters. Speaking to reporters before hitting the campaign trail for the later phases, Mamata alleged that locals are being hounded out of various villages in the assembly constituency in the Purba Medinipur district. "Goons from other states have entered Nandigram to intimidate the voters. The villagers of Balarampur and many other areas are being hounded out. They are intimidating voters," she alleged. "We are lodging a complaint with the EC. The Election Commission must take note of it and take action," she added. BJP leader Jaiprakash Majumdar said that although it is for the EC to look into the allegations, it seems that sensing defeat the chief minister is making such claims in advance. All eyes are on battleground Nandigram that is going to the polls on Thursday with Banerjee engaged in a fierce contest with her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. On Tuesday, the chief minister had alleged police forces from BJP-ruled states have been brought in to "terrorise" voters in Nandigram assembly constituency and also accused the saffron party ministers and security forces of distributing cash to lure voters. Mamata is pitted against her one time loyalist-turned- rival Suvendu Adhikari of BJP in the high-profile Nandigram constituency that will go to vote on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata ends Nandigram campaign, stands up to National Anthem||Mamata Banerjee was on her feet in full public view on Tuesday, 20 days after she suffered an injury in her left leg, as she sang the national anthem to wrap up her campaign for Thursday’s poll in Nandigram. The image captured her resolve — as well as the challenge confronting her — to take on the might of the BJP in the most high-profile contest in the eight-phase Bengal elections. “I am ending my campaign for the April 1 poll.… We should end it with the national anthem. I will somehow try to stand on one leg and with help,” said Mamata at the end of her third and last rally on Wednesday at Tengua in Nandigram. The chief minister criss-crossed Nandigram on the last day of campaigning, holding two road shows and covering at least 6km on a day the mercury hovered around 40 degrees Celsius and discomfort peaked because of high humidity. A veteran of Bengal politics with seven Lok Sabha and two Assembly poll victories to her credit, Mamata admitted that she had never campaigned as extensively in an election as now. “In the case of Bhowanipore (from where she contested and won in 2011 and 2016), I used to address at best two rallies. Here I started my campaign on March 8 and went around meeting people and holding meetings on March 9 and 10 till I got injured. I came back again on March 28 and since then I have been going to the people. Yes, I gave more time to Nandigram as I think it’s my responsibility,” said Mamata, who looked relaxed as the curtains came down on campaigning for the April 1 poll. After explaining how she was giving extra attention to Nandigram, Mamata elaborated on why she decided to contest from the East Midnapore constituency, the epicentre of the anti-land acquisition movement that she had led in 2007, in an apparent attempt to answer Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari, who has called her an “outsider” and accused her of contesting from the seat to “finish” his “political career”. “I have a special place for Singur and Nandigram in my heart and I always wanted to contest from any of these two seats. Actually, I had considered contesting from Singur in 2016 but could not by replacing an aged person like Rabindranath Bhattacharya (who has recently switched to the BJP),” said Mamata. “But when I decided to contest from Nandigram, the sitting MLA had resigned by then,” she added. In a departure from her fiery speeches against the BJP and the Adhikari clan that the people of Nandigram had heard in the past three days, Mamata chose to be humorous and sarcastic. Some of her salvos: ⚫ Thank God, the traitors left the party before the elections. And they got tickets as BJP candidates. ⚫ But I feel so sad for those who have been with the BJP for years as they haven’t got nomination. Even Jayprakash (Majumdar), who abuses me through the day, didn’t get nomination. ⚫ The old-timers in the BJP, who have been denied tickets, don’t have any option other than donning saffron robes and singing “Hare, Hare”. ⚫ Mukul Roy was not as bad as Suvendu Adhikari. But look at his plight, instead of giving him nomination from Bhatpara-Jagaddal where he grew up, he has been pushed to Krishnagar. ⚫ I compliment Amit Shah on his chubby looks. He has such glowing cheeks. After leaving the audience in splits, Mamata returned to the basics as she rolled out a list of welfare schemes she had launched as chief minister. Addressing the audience — the majority of whom belonged to the Muslim community — she accused the BJP of fanning communal hatred to polarise voters in Nandigram. “The entire world came to know of Nandigram during the anti-land acquisition protest days as the Hindus and the Muslims fought shoulder to shoulder.… But the BJP is now trying to divide the people here. Please do not let that happen,” said Mamata in her last appeal before the most important battle of her life on Thursday. Many in Trinamul believe that Mamata’s repeated pleas to maintain harmony are underscoring the BJP’s agenda of polarisation along communal lines. “Suvendu had been successfully polarising people with his communally loaded speeches.… With her steady presence in the area and multiple programmes in the past three days, Didi has partially defused that bomb and we have made significant recovery of the ground initially lost to the BJP,” claimed a Trinamul insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee investigates reports of BJP violence||A wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sprang back into the mould of the firebrand Opposition leader that made her a household name decades ago, taking a 10km journey at the close of another round of gruelling campaigning to investigate reports of violence allegedly perpetrated by the BJP. On her way out from a rally in East Midnapore’s Tengua, which was slated to be her final political activity in the area before Thursday, an incensed chief minister sat in the front seat of her hatchback. “I will go.… Let me see who is doing what,” she said, patting the head of a young man crying inconsolably. Raju Manna, 24, had complained that his father Rabin was grievously injured and currently admitted to a government hospital in Calcutta. Rabin was allegedly beaten up by a group of BJP supporters outside his house in Balarampur last Friday, apparently because he is sympathetic to Trinamul. Sources said pockets like Balarampur, underdeveloped and located far from concrete roads, have been replete with reports of BJP-Trinamul clashes since Suvendu Adhikari’s defection in December. “What is happening over here? A youth is terrorised and cannot live in his own home, with his own family, just because the BJP has managed to scare everyone else in the area? This cannot go on,” the chief minister said after hearing out Raju and as the convoy began to pull away around 5.30pm with the youth in the back. The chief minister’s intention to go to Balarampur threw her security detail — headed by director (security) Gyanwant Singh — into a tizzy. “The road to Balarampur is a 10km stretch paved in mud. The road is also filled with ditches, making the journey an arduous one. Not to mention the security angle of driving through the forests after dark,” said a source. Once the convoy reached Balarampur, Mamata made her way to the Mannas’ home where family members, including Raju’s mother, grandfather and sister, fell at the chief minister’s feet. They said their lives had “become hell”. “The BJP has been giving us all kinds of threats. We are helpless, and on Friday, they beat my husband almost to death. He is in hospital now,” said Lakshmi Manna, Raju’s mother. “On Friday midnight, 20 BJP goons came to our door and asked for our father, a known Trinamul supporter. They threatened him and immediately beat him senseless,” added Raju. Central forces were reportedly called later that night. Rabin was taken to a government hospital in Calcutta. The chief minister assured them of medical help and security against further attacks. Family patriarch Manoranjan appealed to Mamata to be allowed to vote, saying the family “had been cautioned against leaving the home”. Addressing reporters, Mamata said: “The BJP does not believe in democracy. So, they have taken to the path of violence. I have said innumerable times that the area is full of outsiders who are doing these things.” Mamata left the area after spending almost an hour with people in the neighbourhood, who echoed fears of an “atmosphere of BJP terror”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Nigerians held for cyber fraud||The cyber cell of Sikkim police arrested two Nigerians from Delhi on March 26 for allegedly duping a resident of Gangtok of Rs 82 lakh through online transaction. John Obilor and Charles Chisvoki Nwanyan were arrested from Noida adjoining Delhi and booked under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act. They have been taken to Gangtok where they are presently in police custody. Tenzing Loden Lepcha, the superintendent of police of the CID, told reporters in Gangtok that the accused had duped a Gangtok resident of Rs 82 lakh in 2019 by fraudulently promising huge returns on online business. “Both have records of indulging in such duplicity in Uttarakhand and Bihar as well.” “We have seized 14 mobile phones, a laptop, seven debit cards, passports of Myanmar, the Republic of New Guinea and the United States and Indian Aadhaar cards and driving licences from them,” added the SP. Pranita Sinha, 70, a Visva-Bharati alumnus and member of the women’s socio-cultural outfit in Santiniketan, Alapini Mahila Samity, on Tuesday danced to a Rabindranath Tagore’s song celebrating spring — but on a rebellious note. Over a dozen members of the samity, mostly senior citizens, on Tuesday observed Basanta Utsav — the traditional festival of spring started by Tagore in the university town — along a road on Visva-Bharati campus to protest against the varsity’s steps to stop many traditional events that would connect the people of Santiniketan with Tagore’s varsity since the latter came up. Aparna Das, 86, president of Alapini Mahila Samity, said the event was organised to protest against the varsity and its vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty’s attempt to cut off the institution from Santiniketan residents. Sources said the varsity had organised a programme similar to Basanta Utsav earlier this month, but in a hush-hush manner, without any formal intimation to anyone. As the varsity did not organise any public celebration of the festival of spring, the Trinamul organised a Holi event on Sunday in the manner celebrated by the varsity over the years. Last year, the varsity did not organise the traditional festival of colour because of the pandemic. Report by Snehamoy Chakraborty,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Amit Shah holds road show in Nandigram||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday that “all of Bengal” should “support a BJP government” to ensure that infiltrators are not allowed to step into Indian territory, marking his party’s first overt reference on the Nandigram campaign trail to the controversial citizenship matrix that feeds into the party’s polarisation agenda. Shah, who on Tuesday morning held a road show in Nandigram’s Reyapara, held a news conference at party candidate Suvendu Adhikari’s election office, making it clear through his comments that Adhikari’s divisive agenda for the April 1 vote had his backing. “This is not a battle for Nandigram alone, this is a battle for all of Bengal. All of Bengal should support a BJP government. All of Bengal wants infiltration to stop. All of Bengal wants that refugees get citizenship via the CAA, they want development, progress, employment for their youth and good education and infrastructure, for Calcutta to become a global city again and for the culture of Bengal to spread all over the world again,” Shah said. Although Shah did not elaborate further on the CAA during his four-minute speech, his juxtaposition of refugees and infiltrators — a topic he had dwelt on at a rally in Assam days earlier —suggested he was adding to the polarisation debate that Suvendu has stoked in his recent campaign speeches. Adhikari has pulled no punches in his attempts to polarise the electorate, targeting the minority community and making it clear that he was reaching out to the “70 per cent majority” among Nandigram’s 2.65 lakh voters. During his news conference, Shah also criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has fielded herself from Nandigram, over the alleged rape of a woman in the area earlier in the day. “I have been informed that 5km from Mamata Didi’s local residence, a woman was raped. Now I want to ask her, if the perpetrators are able to act within 5km of your residence when you are in Nandigram, then what will happen to the larger issue of women’s safety in Bengal?” Shah asked. The Union home minister signed off by referring to the CAA. Shah said that the party’s victory in the constituency by a “huge margin” was imperative to bring “change” to all of Bengal. Sources said Shah’s roadshow earlier in the day was attended by over 10,000 people. The 1.5km road from Reyapara bridge to Shibmandir was decked with saffron cloth, bouquets and banners, an elaborate arrangement reportedly overseen by a BJP team from Uttar Pradesh. Speaking about the event later in the day at a rally in Tengua, Mamata alleged that Shah’s road show had been attended by “outsiders”. “They have no support here, so they have called in outsiders to attend the road show,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Dissidents BJP pick Bharatiya Jana Sangh||BJP workers disgruntled with the party for giving tickets to turncoats, particularly from Trinamul, have now joined its political parent, the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. These dissidents are gearing up to contest in at least eight of the 12 Assembly seats of Malda “to teach a lesson to the BJP’s official candidates”. Sanjit Mishra, former district BJP president, is the new district president of Jana Sangh, said sources. “The Jana Sangh had merged with the Janata Party in 1977 and L.K. Advani was its last president. A few years ago, Jana Sangh was revived by Subrata Mukherjee, the great-grandson of Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Being true BJP supporters, we joined the Jana Sangh,” said Mishra on Tuesday. He said they spoke to BJP leaders who felt cornered by defectors. Jana Sangh will field candidates from eight seats under the  “diya” (traditional oil lamp) symbol, originally that of the Jana Sangh. This sudden political development in Malda, a district with a minority population of around 55 per cent, has come as a fresh poser for BJP, said political observers. “In Malda, the BJP is trying to polarise votes by focussing on seats where the minority populace is fewer. If Jana Sangh, with a similar ideology as that of the BJP, fields candidates, BJP votes may split and help its rivals,” said an observer. The BJP leadership sounded unperturbed. “Voters know well that the battle is between the BJP and Trinamul. They are keen to put an end to Trinamul’s misrule. Hence, they will not waste votes to support a party that has no chance of winning any seat of Malda,” district BJP chief Gobinda Chandra Mandal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Ear slashed in BJP-TMC clash in Jalpaiguri||A BJP supporter’s ear was slashed allegedly by Trinamul supporters on Monday night in the town while the two rival parties clashed at one more location around the same time in Jalpaiguri Sadar block. Trouble started when BJP supporter Subhas Roy forcibly smeared colour on a Trinamul supporter and shouted “Jai Shri Ram” in Padri Kutir on the outskirts of Jalpalguri. Soon, some 100 Trinamul supporters reached the local BJP office, ransacked it and attacked Roy who was there, alleged Alok Chakraborty, a district BJP leader. “Trinamul supporters attacked him with a sharp weapon and slashed his left ear. They also hit him in his head. He is hospital and in a critical condition,” Chakraborty said. Police  have arrested four Trinamul supporters, and later, two of the BJP for the violence. In another incident, supporters of both parties clashed on Monday night in Dhapganj area when BJP supporters were putting up flags. BJP supporter Rabi Roy was injured and hospitalised. Trinamul leaders dubbed both clashes as the outcome of BJP’s internal feud. “They are falsely implicating our supporters in police cases,” Trinamul’s youth wing chief (Jalpaiguri district) Saikat Chatterjee said. On Tuesday, BJP supporters demonstrated at Kotwali police station to demand arrests of all attackers. Leaders of the Jalpaiguri district youth Trinamul also alleged that a BJP office-bearer molested a 10-year-old girl in Dhupguri during Holi celebrations on Monday. The accused was arrested under Pocso based on a complaint by the girl’s family. The BJP has said that the accused did not hold any post of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Coal pilferage case probe||Anup Majhi alias Lala, one of the prime accused in the multi-crore coal pilferage case, appeared before the CBI for questioning on Tuesday, riding a recent Supreme Court order restraining the central agency from arresting him till April 6. A division bench of the Supreme Court, while passing the order recently, had instructed Majhi to cooperate with the agency in its probe in the coal pilferage case. Armed with the apex court’s order, Majhi turned up in the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in Calcutta — with two lawyers in tow — around 11am to face a team of interrogators from the CBI, which has been on his lookout for several months. Sources said the CBI had questioned Majhi about the beneficiaries of the alleged pilferage of coal, which was apparently carried out with the help of a few officials of the Eastern Coalfields Limited  in Bengal’s coal belt in Asansol. The CBI apparently wanted to know from Majhi the extent of his reach across districts in Bengal and even beyond and who active players in the pilferage of coal were. Apart from issuing lookout notices against Majhi, the central agency has raided Majhi’s office, residences and other properties in Asansol, Raniganj and Calcutta. On Tuesday, the CBI said Majhi evaded several questions leaving the interrogators looking for another engagement with him over the next few days. “We will want to question him further in this case,” said a CBI officer. “Hopefully, he will respond to our appeal.” The CBI, which has been probing into the case since November last year, is of the opinion that Majhi has masterminded the pilferage of coal from some of the abandoned quarries in and around Asansol and Raniganj coal belts and the amount involved is several hundreds of crores of rupees. The central investigating agency is of the opinion that a part of this money had moved out of India to bank accounts abroad. The Enforcement Directorate is probing into this alleged money laundering in this case. In Bengal, the CID has started a parallel probe into the coal pilferage and made the first arrest — Randhir Singh — from West Burdwan district on March 13. Singh is said to have been involved in this case and is believed to have been working for Majhi, according to CID officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP and CPM accuse TMC of attacks in East Midnapore||Two BJP candidates — Dr Harekrishna Bera and Ashoke Dinda — and party supporters accompanying CPM’s Nandigram candidate Minakshi Mukherjee were injured in three separate attacks in East Midnapore since early Tuesday. The victims of all the attacks have pointed a finger at Trinamul, an allegation the ruling party has denied. In the first incident, Dr Harekrishna Bera, the BJP candidate from Tamluk, was allegedly attacked by Trinamul supporters outside Tamluk police station around 1.30am. Bera had gone to the police station to complain against a prior attack on BJP workers. When Bera and party supporters came out of the police station, a group of Trinamul workers allegedly led by Raghunathpur-I gram panchayat pradhan Atiar Rahaman beat them up. Bera and two other BJP supporters, were rushed to Tamluk district hospital where they are being treated. Speaking from the hospital, Bera said: “They tried to finish me off. It is alarming that a candidate was beaten up outside the police station. Imagine the security of our party supporters elsewhere.” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh who called on the injured Bera at the hospital, said: “Trinamul is scared of losing the polls and the attack  is an outcome of the fear.” In Moyna, BJP candidate and cricketer Ashoke Dinda’s car was attacked when he was returning home around 4pm. The former cricketer and the BJP’s Moyna nominee was attacked along with his party workers while he was participating in a road show. “We were taking part in a road show when Trinamul men with party flags attacked us with sticks. They badly beat up my party colleagues and pounced on me. Two of my party workers had to be hospitalised and I had to take primary treatment from a local hospital. My car was vandalised,” said Dinda. Minakshi, the CPM candidate from Nandigram, and her supporters were allegedly attacked by Trinamul-backed goons in Bhutamore area of her constituency. “Trinamul is wary because they know they will lose in Nandigram. All those who attacked us had Trinamul caps on,” Minakshi, who escaped unhurt, said. Trinamul’s Tamluk candidate and district president for the party Soumen Mahapatra denied his party’s involvement. “We are in no way involved in the attacks,” he said. In the district’s North Contai, the body of BJP supporter Janmenjar Doloi was found from a pond near his home on Tuesday morning. BJP district president Anup Chakraborty claimed that Doloi had been murdered. Senior CPM leader Rabin Deb, who was present when the attack on the CPM rally took place, said: “Trinamul feels that the minority votes are shifting towards the Left and this made their supporters attack our cadres accompanying our candidate Minakshi Mukherjee. But the question is how did Trinamul get permission to take out a rally on the route for which we had permission? The EC should reply.” The Election Commission has decided to deploy 22 companies of central forces in Nandigram to hold polls peacefully in 355 booths in the Assembly seat while 22 quick response teams will keep vigil on the constituency that saw a sudden rise in political temperature on the last day of campaign on Tuesday. This is so far the highest deployment of central forces in any Assembly seat in this year’s elections. Maximum number of quick response teams have also been deployed in the Assembly segment since the situation is tense and the poll panel does not want to take any chances, said a senior official. On Tuesday, top state government officials, including the chief secretary and the director general of police, held a video conference with the officials of East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Bankura and South 24-Parganas that would go for polls on April 1. Sources said the top brass of the government had instructed the district authorities to initiate all possible steps to ensure a free and fair poll. “The officials of East Midnapore have been asked to initiate all possible steps to ensure that polls are held peacefully. The entire country is keeping watch on Nandigram. If violence mars the elections in Nandigram, it will send a wrong message,” said a source. Senior officials said East Midnapore district officials were asked to increase the deployment of quick response teams if they deem it necessary, and set up additional sector offices in Nandigram so that security personnel can reach the spot at the earliest in case of any untoward incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya's Nepal remark stirs hills||BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya has stirred up a hornet’s nest in the Darjeeling hills by linking 11 local communities seeking tribal status with Nepal. While addressing the media in Kurseong on Monday, Vijayvargiya said: “Nepal’s 11 communities’ problem will be solved by the state and the Centre. We are confident that the BJP will form the government in the state.” He made the statement while accompanying Kurseong BJP candidate B.P. Bajgain to file his nomination. On Tuesday, there was widespread condemnation of Vijayvargiya linking the 11 communities — Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal — with Nepal. Indian Gorkhas do not like being tagged with Nepal and even the demand for a separate state is linked to establishing a distinct identity of Indian Gorkhas from Nepali-speaking citizens of the Himalayan country. That is why most hill parties demand abrogation of the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty 1950’s Clause VII which allows for free movement and other privileges in residence and conducting business in each other’s territory. Proponents of Gorkhaland believe that these privileges blur the distinct identity of Indian Gorkhas from citizens of Nepal. Against this background, Vijayvargiya’s statement, the BJP leader has clarified that it was a slip of tongue, has put the saffron party on the backfoot. Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang said: “The BJP has insulted the Gorkhas in their homeland by calling us those from Nepal. When will the BJP agree to call us Gorkhas as Indians?” Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, said Vijayvargiya’s statement reflected the BJP’s thinking about Gorkhas. “We had in the past repeatedly met senior BJP leaders, including Vijayvargiya, and submitted memoranda for conferring tribal status on the 11 communities. His statement makes it clear the BJP thinks we are from Nepal. We must defeat the BJP in this election,” said Giri. Not just political parties but individuals, too, have been flooding social media with messages of protest against the BJP. This is not the first time that the BJP has been caught napping in understanding hill sentiments. In the run up to the 2019 general election, then Darjeeling BJP MP, S.S. Ahluwalia, had said many demanding a son-of-the-soil candidate for the hill seat “were born in Nepal”. Following widespread protests, Ahluwalia had to issue a clarification in English and Nepali and many also believe that his remark was one of the reasons behind the denial of a BJP ticket for him in Darjeeling. He was fielded in the Burdwan-Durgapur Lok Sabha seat. There have been numerous instances of leaders who are from outside the Darjeeling hills coming up with statements which are not in sync with hill emotions and sentiments. Such statements have put their respective parties in uncomfortable positions and handed advantages to rivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: ‘Outsider’ tag clings to BJP||The ‘outsider’ tag has clung to the BJP this election season in Bengal, with Mamata Banerjee making it a poll plank and alleging that the party was bringing in leaders to manipulate the polls. The BJP has parachuted 18 leaders to Bengal to ‘conduct’ the Assembly elections for the party and take complete administrative control over its state unit. The Telegraph introduces the 18 lesser-known ‘outsiders’ — who came in two batches of 5 and 13. Five leaders arrived in Bengal last November. Each had been put in charge of an organisational zone of the party. They toured their respective zones for 3-4 days and spoke to local leaders and workers before returning to Delhi to report to Amit Shah and J.P. Nadda. On the basis of their findings, the BJP decided on its strategy for Bengal. Sunil Deodhar Designation: National secretary. Profile: Deodhar, who hails from Maharashtra, is a former RSS pracharak. He was Narendra Modi’s campaign manager in Varanasi in 2014. Deodhar was instrumental in helping the BJP assume power in Tripura, but later fell out with chief minister Biplab Deb. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the party’s Howrah-Hooghly-Midnapore organisational zone. Vinod Tawde Designation: National secretary. Profile: Tawde, from Maharashtra, had served as minister in the Devendra Fadnavis government. He handled the higher and technical education, sports and cultural affairs and Marathi language portfolios. Denied a ticket in 2019, Tawde rebelled against Fadnavis. Earlier, a row had erupted over his educational qualification as he had claimed to be an engineering graduate from a college that did not allegedly have affiliation. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Nabadwip zone. Vinod Sonkar Designation: National secretary and MP from Kausambhi, UP. Profile: Sonkar was born in Sadiyapur, Allahabad. He is chairperson of the parliamentary committee on ethics. Sonkar’s election affidavit states he has four cases pending against him, where he has been charged with promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language, and bribery and illegal payments during elections. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Durgapur zone. Harish Dwivedi Designation: National secretary and MP from Basti, UP. Profile: Born in Basti district, Dwivedi once led BJP youth wing Yuva Morcha’s UP unit. His election affidavit states there are five pending cases against him, where he has been accused of rioting, wrongful restraint and confinement, intentional assault to provoke breach of peace, obstruction of public way, and assault on a public servant. Dwivedi had infamously observed that Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wore jeans in Delhi but sported vermilion and sari in UP. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the north Bengal zone. Dushyant Gautam Designation: National general secretary and Rajya Sabha member. Profile: Gautam was born in Delhi and was elected from Haryana to the Upper House. He was associated with the BJP’s Scheduled Caste wing for long, and also with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). The Delhi University passout had unsuccessfully contested the Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Assembly polls. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Calcutta zone. Five general secretaries from various states have been posted in Bengal since December to man the organisational zones. In addition, eight leaders, including ministers, have been air-dropped to hold rallies and other outreach programmes. Sunil Bansal Designation: General secretary (organisation), UP. Profile: Born in Rajasthan, Bansal was associated with the RSS and has been the national joint organising secretary of the ABVP. A close associate of Amit Shah, Bansal is credited with the BJP’s stellar performances in UP in the 2014 parliamentary polls and the 2017 Assembly elections. Role in Bengal: Coordinate and oversee the Bengal BJP’s Calcutta zone. Ravindra Raju Designation: General secretary (organisation), Haryana. Role in Bengal: Looking after the Burdwan zone. Bhikhubhai Dalsaniya Designation: General secretary (organisation), Gujarat. Profile: Dalsaniya acts as a bridge between the RSS and the BJP. Considered close to both Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, Dalsaniya’s name had done the rounds for the Gujarat chief minister’s post after the resignation of Anandiben Patel in 2016. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Nabadwip zone. Ratnakar Designation: Joint general secretary (organisation), Bihar. Profile: A resident of Deoria in UP, Ratnakar was an RSS pracharak and an ABVP activist. Role in Bengal: Heads the north Bengal zone. Pavan Rana Designation: General secretary (organisation), Himachal Pradesh. Profile: An RSS pracharak, Rana enjoys considerable influence in the Himachal government. Jwalamukhi MLA Ramesh Dhawala had accused him of interfering in his constituency’s work. Role in Bengal: Handles the BJP’s Howrah-Hooghly-Midnapore zone. Sanjeev Balyan Designation: MP from Muzaffarnagar, UP, Union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries. Profile: An accused in the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. Although he was already in custody during the riots as a precautionary measure, he had taken part in the September 2013 mahapanchayat that is often held responsible for the riots. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Designation: MP from Jodhpur, Rajasthan, Union minister for water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation. Profile: Born in Rajasthan’s Sikar district, Shekhawat was an ABVP activist. In his 2019 election affidavit, Shekhawat has declared that he is an accused under IPC Section 182, which charges him with spreading false information with an intent to cause a public servant to use his lawful force to the injury of another person. A Rajasthan court had ordered a probe into Shekhawat and his family’s purported complicity in a deposit collection scam. He is among the leaders accused by Congress chief minister Ashok Gehlot of trying to topple his government. Nityanand Rai Designation: MP from Ujiarpur, Bihar, Union minister of state for home. Profile: Born in Bihar’s Hajipur, he has represented the local Assembly constituency multiple times. In 2017, Rai had remarked that any finger or hand raised at Modi should be “broken or chopped off”. He later expressed regret. Charges against Rai include extortion, theft, promoting enmity between two groups, statements conducting public mischief, and assaulting public servants. Arjun Munda Designation: MP from Khunti, Jharkhand, and Union minister for tribal affairs. Profile: Born in Jamshedpur, Munda has been chief minister of Jharkhand in three phases. He was a part of the JMM’s Jharkhand movement and joined the BJP later. Munda had stated in his 2019 poll affidavit that a criminal case was pending against him. Dr Narottam Mishra Designation: Cabinet minister for home, law and legislative affairs, prisons and parliamentary affairs in Madhya Pradesh. Profile: Born in Gwalior, Mishra had contested the 2009 Lok Sabha polls and lost to Jyotiraditya Scindia. In June 2013, Mishra was disqualified by the Election Commission for three years on the charges of filing wrong election expenditure accounts in the 2008 Assembly polls and using paid news in his campaign. The order was later set aside. He had refused to wear a mask at public events during the pandemic and had accused the web serial Tandav of hurting religious sentiments. Keshav Prasad Maurya Designation: Deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Profile: Born at Sirathu in Uttar Pradesh, he was appointed the head of the state BJP in 2016 with an eye on Yadav OBC votes. He was an active member of the RSS and had been arrested during the Ram Janmabhoomi and Gau Raksha movements. Prahlad Singh Patel Designation: MP from Damoh, Madhya Pradesh, Union minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and culture. Profile: Patel was born in Narsinghpur, Madhya Pradesh. In June 2019, his son Prabal, nephew Monu and five others were arrested in Madhya Pradesh for attempted murder. Patel is a strong advocate of banning cow slaughter. Mansukh L. Mandaviya Designation: Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat and Union minister of state (independent charge) for port, shipping and waterways, chemicals and fertilisers. Profile: Born in a small village in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat, Mandavaiya was a state executive member of the Gujarat unit of the ABVP. He has also represented the BJP in the Gujarat Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
