01-11-2021||IN the face of what is unfolding as one of the most virulent dengue outbreaks in recent history||Dengue burden||Such circumstances once more red-flag the inadequacies that assail the health system. Prominently painful are the lack of specialists and machines lying defunct or damaged in the public sector, especially in the rural and small-town facilities. While the Covid pandemic roused the authorities to the ills in the system and both the Central and state governments pledged to enhance health budgets to ensure top-class amenities for all, filling the gaping holes is still a work in progress. It is the common man and the poor who generally bear the brunt of this lackadaisical attitude. Betraying it is the absence of specialist doctors or technicians in many hospitals, even though dengue has of late become a regular phenomenon during the monsoon. That the necessary medical machines are gathering dust in some places is a criminal waste of scarce resources.Adding to the woes of the victims of the mosquito (Aedes aegypti) bite-induced disease is the fleecing indulged in by many a private facility and lab. Despite the cap on the prices for tests and blood units with SDPs (single donor platelets) imposed by the Punjab Government in the wake of the outbreak, reports of charging double or more call for strict and deterrent action. At the same time, people must take the preventive step of keeping their surroundings clean and dry to prevent mosquito-breeding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dengue-burden-332566
01-11-2021||COMPARED to 10||Farmer suicides||Haryana recorded 280 such deaths, all by farm labourers. In Punjab, farm unions have rejected the findings that farm-related suicides have declined, down to 257 from 302 in 2019. They claim the figure would be much higher had there been due diligence in recording such deaths, and not attributing these to other reasons. Much of the argument rests on the findings of a survey by three universities of the state that involved collection of data from 2000 to 2016: a total of 16,606 farmers and agricultural labourers died by suicide. That comes to an average of 1,000 per year. A drastic reduction, the contention is, defies logic in the absence of any change in the underlying conditions.Suicide is the ultimate sign of distress. Falling incomes and rising indebtedness are cited as trigger points, but such deaths can have complex causes. Preventing such extreme steps calls for an attitudinal change not only of the government, but also of those who care for farmers. That seeking mental healthcare is a sign of strength, and not weakness, needs to be driven home. Start an open conversation on mental health and end the lack of interest and intention in offering counselling. In 2014, 9.4 per cent of all national suicides were classified as farmer suicides. By 2018, it had fallen to 7.7 per cent. In 2020, it was 7 per cent. It’s a very long road ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/farmer-suicides-332563
