02-11-2021||COME Diwali||Let’s breathe easy this Diwali||Sadly, this apathy has been on display despite the interventions and orders of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal, upholding the primacy of the right to life. Urgently realising the need to arrest the distressingly soaring pollution levels in many areas of India, bans and restrictions on the manufacture, sale and use of firecrackers have been imposed over the years, including in many areas of the NCR, Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana. Yet, the age-old prickly issues remain unresolved, with petitions annually filed on the eve of the polluting festive season spanning Chhath and Durga puja, Dasehra, Diwali, Christmas and New Year’s Eve. Callously tossed up in resounding decibels are matters of health, ‘green’ patakas (barium use prohibition is flouted) and livelihood of firecracker industry workers (they should have been re-skilled and absorbed in other sectors by now). Of late, the venom of religion (Hindus vs others) has also crept into the debate, vitiating the atmosphere further.The apex court on Friday again emphasised that ‘nobody can be permitted to play with the life of others’, while clarifying that the ban on crackers was not total. Undoubtedly, the booms of crackers cannot fall silent unless families pitch in and sensitise kids to the health hazards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lets-breathe-easy-this-diwali-333032
02-11-2021||THE world leaders who attended the G20 summit in Rome have agreed to discontinue financial support for building coal-based power plants||The coal conundrum||New Delhi has hinted at linking the phasing out of coal power generation to its pending membership of the Nuclear Suppliers’ Group (NSG). Just 2 per cent of the country’s power supply comes from nuclear sources, even as ambitious plans are afoot to install a capacity of 175 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030. Being a non-NSG nation, India faces restrictions in procuring supplies from international markets for building and operating nuclear reactors. The stumbling block is China, which is against India’s entry into this elite group — unless Pakistan is inducted as well.The longer it takes India to become an NSG member, the bigger will be the challenge of indigenously developing technologies, generating nuclear supplies on its own and making major investments in N-projects. The fact that more than 35 per cent of the world’s power came from coal and only 10 per cent from nuclear sources in 2020 shows that the journey ahead won’t be easy for various countries. The reliance on coal obviously won’t end overnight, but India can show the way by laying emphasis on renewables like solar and wind energy, coupled with the N-push.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-coal-conundrum-333030
