04-11-2021||TUESDAY’S tragic blaze in a furniture factory of Panchkula that quickly engulfed two floors||Up in smoke||But, unfortunately, public memory seems to be short. Other than knee-jerk promises by the authorities of ensuring an improvement in the situation as also probes initiated, it is business as usual. Until, another fire accident strikes. That the burning issues brought to the fore during most fire incidents in our country have remained more or less the same over the years underscore that smokescreens are put up to hide the poor standards of firefighting gear, that are prerequisites for clearing building plans. The common, but lame, reasons are inoperable fire extinguishers or hydrants, lack of emergency exits, fire brigades falling short on engines and water and delayed response to an emergency call. The horrific end of a young man falling to death from the burning 19th floor of a new building — notably, sans a functional firefighting system — in Mumbai last week was avoidable. Such callous oversight and lacunae put both the authorities concerned and builders on the mat for giving short shrift to safety and regulation.The loss of many precious lives and properties can be prevented if all buildings are secured with new-age, technology-driven alarms and other smart firefighting fittings wired to spark immediate action. Fire-mitigating measures are fundamental to lifting the country out of the rut of its shameful statistics. As per the NCRB data, on an average, 35 Indians die every year in a fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/up-in-smoke-333965
04-11-2021||THE Gurugram namaz issue is becoming increasingly contentious. Just four days after the police arrested 26 protesters for attempting to disrupt Friday namaz||Gurugram namaz||It’s unfortunate that so much energy and emotion are being expended over offering prayers in public — as if this is the most pressing issue of the times, and as if we have defeated all challenges in fields such as healthcare, law and order, poverty and education. Then, using public space for religious affairs is a debatable issue, one with which the authorities must deal in an even-handed and equitable manner. If religious events cause nuisance and law and order issues, they all must attract the same attention of the government and law — the state cannot single out minorities.Experience has taught us that the rights of minorities and the weakest sections of society are secured best in secular democracies — where the separation between the church and the state is absolute. The Indian version of secularism, however, has not led to a separation of the state and religious institutions; perhaps it’s so because in South Asia, religious and ideological contestations have a bitter history and an increasingly unpleasant present. As Marx noted, ‘religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions’; yet, if justice, social security and gainful employment could be provided in this very world by man-made institutions, it would be possible to wean people away from dogma and even religion. Until then, dogmas and religious practices will be widely followed — it’s just that if public nuisance occurs, the law must be blind to the faith of those causing it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gurugram-namaz-333962
