06-11-2021||INDIA-MADE vaccine Covaxin has||Covid prevention & cure||As far as prevention goes, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin becoming the seventh vaccine to get WHO recognition for emergency use listing comes as a huge relief as foreign travel curbs on Indians injected with its doses (over 120 million shots administered so far) would ease. Notably, no more quarantine upon arrival abroad for them, nor the need for other approved jabs for NRI students to attend offline classes. India gets a proud space among the select few countries making and exporting Covid vaccines as the approval clears the hurdles and scepticism that have beset Bharat Biotech till now. To meet the imminent sharp rise in demand globally, the pharmaceutical major will need to boost production.Regarding cure, the Covid-weary world would be closely following Britain’s use of a drug — molnupiravir — to treat adult patients having at least one risk factor for developing severe disease. To be taken at home on the doctor’s advice, if the pill succeeds in easing the symptoms and hospitalisation of mild Covid (as trials show), it holds a groundbreaking, easy-on-the-purse promise. More so, since Merck has, commendably, agreed to allow all other firms to make its drug in a bid to enable poorer countries get equal access, even as the rich nations have placed bulk orders. With the wait for vaccination for millions of underprivileged nations being very long, molnupiravir could well be the answer to their ills. Pending review, time will tell if it proves effective or goes the way of some other drugs, like remdesivir, that were eventually taken off the Covid treatment protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-prevention-cure-334413
06-11-2021||THE reduction at long last in excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10||Fall in fuel prices||The cascade effect on household budgets has been too much to bear for far too many. Whatever prompted the announcement, be it the setback in the October 30 bypolls where price rise emerged as a key issue or as a sop going into the crucial Assembly elections next year, there has been undue delay. The last such surge during the UPA-II years was on account of a sharp rise in international crude prices, but even then, effective intervention ensured a check on retail prices. There is apprehension, and not without reason, of no immediate impact on the ground, since manufacturers or traders seldom reduce prices of essential items after an increase, unless the government comes down heavily.The country’s dependence on energy import does make it vulnerable to volatility in the international market. Reducing the import bill by shifting to renewables is a long-term project; high Central and state taxation is the issue at hand. The Diwali-eve reduction rolled back a part of theRs 13-16 per litre increase in taxes effected between March and May last year. That, incidentally, was done to avoid passing on to consumers the benefit of the sharp fall in international oil prices. The people deserve better, especially by a government that professes to be their ‘sewak’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fall-in-fuel-prices-334412
