08-11-2021||As crackers||Stumbling on stubble burning||A couple of years back, the Supreme Court’s suggestion to incentivise farmers with a cash reward was not found feasible. Given the frustratingly tardy progress in the mission to curb stubble burning, a viable commercial model is being seen as a solution that could eventually bring a perceptible change. Some private firms have taken the lead in Punjab in buying stubble from farmers to produce gas and other by-products in biogas plants. The ventures need encouragement. Delhi has claimed success with the use of bio-decomposers — the spray decomposes most of the stubble within 20-25 days — but in Punjab, where the gap for sowing wheat after the paddy harvest is narrow, the trials, at least, have not been as favourable as expected.In the political slugfest on the issue and in the eyes of urban dwellers, the farmer is the culprit. The perception is that he simply does not care, even though the farmer and his family are the first victims of air pollution. Obduracy and a mental block are seen as the key roadblocks, but a simpler explanation could be his limited options. That calls for better, intelligent solutions, not a blame game that is of no help in confronting an existential issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stumbling-on-stubble-burning-335345
08-11-2021||Cricket earned a victory in the effort to root out bigotry and racism from the sport when the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) banned county club Yorkshire from hosting international matches. The action was taken over the failure of the Yorkshire County Cricket Club (YCCC) to act on complaints by a Pakistan-born player||Ban on Yorkshire cricket club||The scenario changed after two events: one, several of YCCC’s sponsors abandoned deals with the club over its handling of the case; and two, a former teammate of Rafiq’s, Gary Ballance, admitted that he used a racist slur against Rafiq. Cynics would argue that the ECB’s ban on Yorkshire came only after the sponsors started pulling out — that the ECB, despite mounting protests and evidence about institutional racism in English cricket, had pushed the dirt under the carpet for decades. However, loss of revenue is often greatly persuasive in changing attitudes and minds and however belated, ECB’s stern penalty must be welcomed.We in India must become resolute in stamping out bigotry, too. Our own record on this problem is far from clean, both in society and on the sporting field. But bigotry is so deeply internalised in many people that they don’t recognise it in themselves. For example, in 2017, a BJP MP, Tarun Vijay, blithely declared: ‘If we were racist, why would we have the entire South? Why do we live with them? We have blacks, black people all around us.’ The same year, Tamil Nadu cricketer Abhinav Mukund disclosed that right from his childhood, he had been subjected to name-calling over the colour of his skin. And it was only last year that Daren Sammy, the former West Indies captain, revealed that when playing in the IPL, fellow cricketers had given him a name based on his complexion. Many Indians have buried their heads in the sand regarding their racism problem — they think they can’t be racist. Correcting this would be the first step toward solving this problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ban-on-yorkshire-cricket-club-335341
