09-11-2021||Ravi Shastri||End of Shastri-Kohli era||It must be said, however, that it would be unwise to look back at the Shastri-Kohli era with despair due to the immediacy of the T20 World Cup failure. Fans may find greater thrills in T20 cricket, but among professional cricketers, the Test format is the pinnacle of the sport, and India have done rather well under Shastri-Kohli since Shastri took over. The Indian team is currently ranked No. 2 in Test cricket and has won the last two Test series in Australia — the conditions in Australia are so challenging, no other Asian team has won even one series in that country. And when the Test series against England was disrupted due to Covid in September, India were leading 2-1 after some stirring performances under Shastri and Kohli.Shastri-Kohli should also be credited with taking India to the final of the World Test Championship this year and the semifinals of the 50-over World Cup in 2019. To forget all these achievements merely on the basis of two defeats — to Pakistan and New Zealand — in the current T20 World Cup would be churlish. T20 is a fun format, the most fickle of the sport’s three formats, as can be gauged from the fact that five different teams have won the six T20 World Cups held before this year. Kohli’s feats in the Test and ODI formats have earned him the respect of his peers and failure in his only T20 World Cup as captain will not change that.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/end-of-shastri-kohli-era-335696
09-11-2021||The fratricidal incident in which four CRPF jawans were killed and three injured in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Monday points to the challenges confronting the security forces||Fratricide in CRPF||Paramilitary and armed forces have well-laid-out procedures and hierarchy for functioning which are strictly abided by. While the Sukma incident is prima facie being described as having been triggered by ‘emotional stress’, preventive measures are needed to rule out such incidents. The CRPF has asked its formations to identify personnel who are either under depression or are stressed and undertake appropriate counselling to curb suicide and fratricide. But more needs to be done to raise the morale of the forces by looking into their problems and finding ways to redress grievances.The job of the CRPF is unenviable and its personnel have to function under difficult conditions like insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir and Naxalism in Chhattisgarh. Round-the-clock vigil and the constant threat to life can prove testing along with long duty hours, staying away from family and the easy availability of firearms. Human resource is precious, more so for the security forces, and should be managed more effectively and compassionately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fratricide-in-crpf-335697
