10-11-2021||This Sunday||Murder in Arabian Sea||Initially, Pakistan provided a graphic account of how the Indian boat ‘Jalpari’ was intercepted. A day later, Pakistan has turned to its previous tried-and-tested tactic of maintaining ambiguity and preserving its options. Islamabad has been acting obdurate with India ever since Pakistan PM Imran Khan patched up with the military and replenished the empty exchequer with a bailout from Saudi Arabia. First, Indian trucks taking wheat for the impoverished Afghans were denied transit through Pakistan. Then, Pakistan walked out of the meet of regional NSAs on Afghanistan to be held in Delhi on Wednesday. And later, it cancelled overflight permission for a flight from Srinagar to Sharjah.The repeated acts of provocation by Pakistan come at a time when there is a pressing need for the region to cohere around rules and norms after the Americans exited Afghanistan. The fragile situation has encouraged deluded and volatile gangs to ply their deadly trade at Kabul airport and at Shia mosques in Kunduz and Kandahar. Afghanistan cannot be turned around by the China-Pakistan duo. If nations continue to remain at odds with each other, it is only a matter of time before the region begins to feel the heat. Pakistan needs to realise its provocations are ill-timed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/murder-in-arabian-sea-336126
10-11-2021||For the families of victims of the 1997 Uphaar cinema tragedy in Delhi — 59 people lost their lives and more than 100 were injured when a fire broke out during the screening of Hindi film ‘Border’ — it has been a relentless struggle for justice||Uphaar sentence||Sentenced to a two-year jail term by the Supreme Court in 2015, the Ansals were released taking into account the prison time they had served on the condition that they pay Rs 30 crore fine each, to be used for building a trauma centre. Reviewing its decision later, the apex court had sent Gopal back to jail for a year, sparing the brother because of old age. In the fresh conviction, the lower court has observed that the accused had destroyed critical documents ‘which were capable of proving their complicity’ in the tragedy. In other words, it goes on to say, they fiddled with the judicial system to escape punishment by scuttling the trial process, showing deep disrespect for the law and the victims.Fined Rs 2.25 crore each, the Ansals will have to bear all expenses of the complainant, the Uphaar victims’ association, during the course of the long trial and after that, compensation will be paid to those who lost family members. Money can provide little solace, what could is the court’s observation that the collective cry of society must be responded by way of appropriate punishment to prevent recurrence of such crimes. The wheels of justice move slowly, but move they certainly do.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/uphaar-sentence-336125
