11-11-2021||The loss of 15 lives in four days in fire at two hospitals — in Ahmednagar and Bhopal — must stir the conscience of the nation and lead to accountability||Fire at hospitals||When it comes to fires in hospitals, this year has been particularly bad as hospitals have been overburdened due to the Covid-19 pandemic and have had to expand in a hurry, causing, among other things, greater laxity in laying of infrastructure. Also, due to the pandemic, there is more inflammable material in hospitals — such as sanitisers and disposable safety equipment made of synthetic material — and higher oxygen content in the air. The ICUs need to be kept sterile and thus are completely sealed against ventilation, resulting in life-threatening fumes overpowering the helpless patients. In March-April this year, around 60 deaths were caused by hospital fires, more than half of them in Maharashtra and Gujarat.However, it would be incorrect to lay the blame for the fires solely on stress on hospitals due to the pandemic. The fact that fires have been reported from across the country shows that indifference to safety norms is a national trait, and this is exacerbated by our native fatalism — that what will be, will be. Ten years ago, in December 2011, 89 lives were lost in a terrible fire incident at a Kolkata hospital. Investigation laid bare lapses, including in storage of medical waste and chemicals. In the immediate aftermath of this, random, unofficial audits at hospitals across the country exposed poor safety practices. Sadly, our desensitised polity and society, after a bit of handwringing, forget such horrors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fire-at-hospitals-336605
11-11-2021||Policy changes are not random acts of whims and fancies of those in power. The Haryana government would have done due deliberation before arriving at its decision to assume the control of key appointments in the state universities. That said||Control of varsities||On the political front, the BJP-led government, as expected, has been accused of trying to control academic institutions and impose the party ideology. On the academic front, the unions view it as an attack on the autonomy by trying to wrest control of appointments, which they claim is a violation of the University Grants Commission guidelines. For the government, if the motivation behind the decision is to set the house in order and bring transparency, the route adopted may not be the desired one. State funding does not equal state control. Issues of merit being compromised and back-door entry are better served with further layers of checks, sound accountability and strict adherence to rules. Added responsibility, and not detention is what is required.Assuming tasks with little domain knowledge and rewriting the rules of engagement, at times, only muddle the process instead of refining it. A rethink is called for. For those protesting against the government decision, it is time for serious introspection. Autonomy carries with it huge responsibility and adoption of best practices. Clearly, that is not happening in the state universities. Something is not right and needs fixing. Acrimony is no answer, self-correction is.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/control-of-varsities-336603
