12-11-2021||It is a tribute to India’s nimble diplomacy as well as its considerable geopolitical weight that New Delhi became the focal point this Wednesday for efforts to stabilise Afghanistan. Less than three months ago||Regional NSAs’ meet in Delhi||As President of the UN Security Council, India began influencing events in Kabul soon after the Taliban takeover. But it has been a hard climb. Pakistan and China have been active spoilers, evident by their no-show at Delhi. Despite their absence, the Delhi Declaration reflects the unanimous view of the participants on critical issues such as an inclusive government; zero-tolerance for terrorism; trafficking of drugs and arms; addressing the humanitarian crisis and providing social space to women. Whether Islamabad wanted it or not, all these consensus points at the Delhi Dialogue have now become a template. They form the basis of discussions at the meeting of the ‘Extended Troika’ comprising the US, Russia, Pakistan and China in Islamabad on Thursday where a Taliban delegation led by its foreign minister has conveniently arrived.Though Russia, China, the US and Pakistan are the principal players, the collective weight of the five Central Asian countries, Iran and India in influencing events in Afghanistan cannot be ignored. The ethnic groups represented or offered refuge by many participants at the Delhi Dialogue account for over half of Afghanistan’s population. The Pakistan-China duo does not generate trust among these ethnicities as they were instrumental in bringing the Pashtun-dominated Taliban to power. As NSA Ajit Doval put it, this is the time for close cooperation and coordination among the regional countries. Countries need to pool complementarities because the complexities and requirements of Afghanistan need an all-hands-on-deck approach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/regional-nsas-meet-in-delhi-336918
12-11-2021||The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) has ruled that builders and promoters of real estate projects must pay customers the assured monetary returns mentioned in the builder-buyer agreement. Hearing a bunch of 26 cases||Relief for home-buyers||In the four years since HRERA was set up in Gurugram, the majority of complaints it received pertained to delay in giving possession and issuing of refunds. The story is the same in most other construction hubs in the country as the economic downturn of the last several years has been exacerbated by demonetisation and the Covid-19 pandemic, causing delays in construction and completion of projects.The real estate sector is a major contributor to the growth of economy, but is riddled with malpractices and lacunae. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court lamented that ‘builders can put in any clauses’ and that there was no uniformity in agreements. The court emphasised the need to frame a model builder-buyer agreement under RERA. ‘This is an important issue of consumer protection, which is put on back-foot,’ observed a Bench. Everyone wants a home, but many buyers end up bitter and poorer if they get into the clutches of the wrong kind of builder/promoter. The RERA Act has helped, and HRERA’s new judgment should help in restoring consumer confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/relief-for-home-buyers-336916
