13-11-2021||The Char Dham Highway project presents very difficult options before the nation||Highway to the border||This order came not long after the bloody clash at Galwan with the Chinese army, and this altered the scenario. The Highways Ministry, noting that certain roads are of strategic importance because of national security, or because they are feeder roads to the Indo-China border, amended the circular in December — it increased the recommended width of such roads from 5.5 metres to 7 metres, ‘with 1.5m paved shoulder on either side’. This followed a request from the Defence Ministry, which demanded wider roads leading up to the northern border with China.During the hearing of the case, the Supreme Court has underlined the need to balance concerns over defence and the environment. The NGO that has been fighting the case, Citizens for Green Doon, insists that the ‘best defence for our country is the mountains’. However, with a belligerent neighbour determined to alter the LAC and building infrastructure all along it on its own side, this notion seems naive in the extreme. The Indian government insists that to match the Chinese combat capabilities, they must transport their most effective arsenal to the border areas — and for this, broader roads are needed. A negotiated settlement to the border row is imperative, but until that happens, the defence forces must be empowered to our best abilities — landslides or no landslides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/highway-to-the-border-337375
13-11-2021||It would be convenient to say that politics||Resolve BSF issue||Last month’s notification extending the zone of the BSF’s operations for search, seizure and arrest from the existing 15 km from the International Border (in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam) to 50 km would, supposedly, have been premised on tackling the new cross-border challenges, like the drone weapon-drug drops. If that indeed is the case, a joint, coordinated approach would have worked better than what is being perceived as a unilateral diktat that diminishes the role and stature of the state police forces, and violates the federal structure. Time is of the essence, and a quick resolution is of paramount importance.The Union Home Secretary is already on a visit to West Bengal, another state like Punjab that has made its displeasure over the order known. The Centre has to take the lead. The political leadership in the states should be taken on board, the apprehensions addressed, roles clarified. Both the Union and state governments, as also leaders of every political party, must go the extra mile to not let the issue fester. There is too much at stake. A security threat knocking at the doors cannot be reduced to political sloganeering and whipping up passions. A bipartisan outlook is essential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/resolve-bsf-issue-337373
