15-11-2021||WITH the number of daily Covid-19 infections soaring to new heights and hospitals under stress to deal with severe cases||Covid resurges in Europe||Battling the new wave, Germany has stepped up testing and treatment along with making proof of vaccination or recovery from infection mandatory for entry to public places. To stem the tide and contain the rapidly worsening health situation, the Netherlands has imposed a partial lockdown and other countries are also mulling some unpopular Covid curbs.In short, the virulent virus is very much around and the way around it are the same old regulations as have been emphasised upon by medical experts and governments ever since the pandemic broke out two years ago. The spike in Europe (incidentally, Britain has bucked the trend) holds a potent lesson for the rest of the world: don’t yet lower the guard or become complacent. The dictum applies more so to developing countries like India. If the public health infrastructure in the well-equipped West is feeling the strain, their coping mechanisms will crumble faster. With more and more borders opening for travel, work and studies, ensuring Covid-preventive measures assumes more significance — for our own collective good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-resurges-in-europe-338202
15-11-2021||WINDS of change are blowing in the armed forces||Winds of change||Calling it the first step towards gender equality and empowerment, the Army Chief had set the tone at the NDA passing-out parade recently. Gen Naravane was lucid in his message that the female cadets should be welcomed ‘with the same sense of fair play and professionalism that the Indian armed forces are known for the world over’. Yet, the task at hand is formidable. Fresh templates would be set over a period of time on aspects such as medical standards, accommodation, training capacity, privacy and segregation of living quarters. The inevitability of resistance and recalibration of mindsets would require deft handling.As more avenues open for women in the military, their number has increased substantially in the past few years. The frequent knocking on the courts’ doors for the resolution of service matters and demanding what they feel is rightfully theirs, though, indicate an uneasy transition. The tough service conditions, where discipline is non-negotiable and the demands can be rigid, do set the armed forces apart. The standards can’t be lowered at any cost. This, however, cannot be ground enough to simply deny opportunity. Women are an integral part of the armed forces. That’s where it starts and ends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/winds-of-change-338200
