16-11-2021||The Supreme Court has been unsparing in its criticism over Delhi’s worsening Air Quality Index. On the Centre’s submission that stubble burning||As Delhi chokes||Odd-even scheme, truck entry ban and a complete lockdown for a few days in the entire NCR have been suggested as emergency measures as the national capital continues to choke. The top court has ordered urgent deliberations between the Centre, Delhi, Punjab, UP and Haryana governments for drastic actions such as work-from-home for employees and farmers being told to halt stubble burning for a week. In short, a plan that can be put into place without delay, and not long-term proposals that the experts have been advocating, without much headway: a strictly enforced integrated, multi-sector plan for the NCR and beyond.The comparatively low contribution of farm fires to 0Delhi’s air pollution in no way reduces the debilitating impact on health and well-being, be it in the villages, in the adjoining towns and cities or faraway Delhi. Punjab in recent days has been seeing the clock turning back on stubble burning, a worrying development that is not being accorded the seriousness required at the highest levels. The apex court has reiterated what it considers is the best bet: incentivising farmers to not burn stubble. Why not just try it out?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/as-delhi-chokes-338523
16-11-2021||Bypassing parliamentary and democratic traditions||Nehru’s birth anniversary||The BJP has been persistent in its attack on Nehru, holding his policies responsible for problems in Kashmir or in relations with China, even as it has been vocal in recognising the contribution of Sardar Patel. It was only recently in his Independence Day speech that PM Modi mentioned Nehru along with Patel and Ambedkar in a conciliatory manner for the ex-PM’s role in nation-building. For the BJP that has been at the helm for some time now and under different prime ministers, it would do well to remember that it is political and cultural pluralism that has helped bring political parties to power and sustain them. Departure and deviation from them are no guarantee of continued political success. For the Congress, too, it is important for its leaders to revere their icons. Criticism is a given in a democracy and Nehru was also no exception, facing it from his own party leaders. Former PM Vajpayee, who made his political debut in Nehru’s time, had famously described him as a combination of ‘Churchill and Chamberlain’ which was not taken as offensive.But it is not just political sparring, recent times have seen parliamentary traditions being undermined, reflected in curtailed sessions, fewer debates and normal lawmaking procedures being bypassed. While Covid-19 and the lockdown were exigencies, Parliament needs to retain its traditions to continue to reflect the voice of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nehrus-birth-anniversary-338524
