17-11-2021||A day after the Supreme Court lamented that||Tackling pollution||What is the actual math of AQI? We need to find the real causes for a real solution. For that, the Central and the state governments of the region must work in unison, enabling and empowering public institutions and local communities. Irrespective of the contested numbers, stubble-burning remains a significant contributor to pollution, not only in the NCR but also in the industrial cities and towns of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, making lives of residents difficult. The governments involved must spare no cost to root out the problem, for the cost to the citizen’s health and the public health infrastructure is incalculable in comparison.Equipment such as a Straw Management System must be made available to the farmers across the region to deal with the residue from the previous crop. Farmers, in turn, could join hands to buy machinery, aided by government subsidy. Residue decomposing material should be tested and put to use. A stick and carrot policy would wean farmers away from cultivating paddy, which leaves a large quantity of residue behind. All these steps have been discussed before and they need to become part of all-year policy — and not to be reiterated every winter, when the smog is upon us. It is governments and government institutions that must ensure clean air for citizens to breathe in, without being nudged by the Supreme Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tackling-pollution-339075
17-11-2021||IN an environmentally fragile state like Himachal Pradesh||Debris dumped along Beas||The NHAI used technology like plastic and polythene waste in constructing the Jammu-Srinagar highway because it is believed to be more resistant to wear and tear. The possibility of using plastic as fuel in cement plants has also been explored. Non-biodegradable material which includes construction and demolition waste have also been recycled for use in building highways, providing great relief for civic bodies and the local residents as piles of waste can pose threat to public health. Himachal Pradesh has found controlling pollution in the Beas to be tough also because of the waste generated from adjacent towns being dumped into the river and its tributaries, which points to the problem of urban waste management and the water bodies increasingly getting polluted for want of treatment facilities. The NHAI, while coming up with solutions, should also take the lead in preventing the unscientific disposal of waste because while construction of roads is a pre-requisite for development, it cannot be at the cost of the environment. Agencies executing work on its behalf should give an undertaking to abide by the norms and face action for violations.Himachal is not just ecologically sensitive but also aware, with villagers protesting disruption to their lives over the dumping of waste and boycotting elections over anticipated damage to the environment. Public awareness can act as a check because only sustainable development can be the best bet for a hill-state prone to the vagaries of nature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/debris-dumped-along-beas-339076
