18-11-2021||The sudden announcement of a ceasefire along the Line of Control in February gave hope for a thaw in ties with Pakistan. The exact opposite seems to be taking hold months after the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan||Neighbour at it again||Not much importance can be attached to the decision, after much delay, to allow the use of Pakistani territory for wheat from India to be sent to Afghans, who have been suffering from severe shortages of essential commodities. The gesture on the movement of aid and release of 20 fishermen is being attributed more to an attempt to dial down maritime tensions and avoid retribution, after Pakistan’s coast guard killed an Indian fisherman, than any keenness to repair ties. Pakistan remains invested in its bid to deny New Delhi — which is yet to recognise the Taliban government — any foothold in Kabul. It was made apparent when Pakistan’s NSA flatly turned down his Indian counterpart’s invitation for a meeting of regional powers on Afghanistan, and was quoted in media reports as saying that ‘a spoiler can’t be a peacemaker’.Even as India confronts the heightened terror and infiltration threats from across the border, it has not shied away from keeping a window open for peace. Reconciliatory steps despite repeated provocations demonstrate a desire for normalisation of relations and easing of tensions. The reopening of the Kartarpur corridor puts the onus, fair and square, on Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/neighbour-at-it-again-339462
18-11-2021||The RBI Governor||Cryptocurrency fears||These remarks come days after the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance held a meeting with various stakeholders to discuss the pros and cons of crypto finance. With the government likely to introduce a Bill on cryptocurrencies during the upcoming winter session of Parliament, it remains to be seen whether a regulatory mechanism will be worked out instead of imposing a blanket ban. Fears over the use of cryptocurrencies for unlawful activities such as money laundering and terror financing have prompted several countries, including China, Russia, Nigeria and Turkey, to curb or prohibit trading in bitcoin and other digital currencies. However, there are reports that cryptocurrency trading continues to thrive in Nigeria — with transactions worth $400 million being conducted last year — as wily traders have found ways to circumvent the ban, exposing more people to online fraud.Lack of transparency in the evolving crypto industry makes foolproof regulation or prohibition an onerous task. Volatility of cryptocurrencies is another vital aspect — you never know when the bubble will burst. Bitcoin, which had touched a new high of $69,000 last week, dropped to $58,600 on Tuesday. While taking a call on legitimising cryptocurrencies, the Indian government must factor in the prospect of a crypto crash that may hit millions of investors. For a start, the Centre should crack the whip on advertisements making misleading claims of enormous returns on cryptocurrency investments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cryptocurrency-fears-339463
