19-11-2021||The Supreme Court has again come to the rescue of citizens troubled by the mighty State. A Bench led by CJI NV Ramana has restrained the Tripura Police from arresting two lawyers and a journalist booked under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The trio||UAPA overdrive||Of late, India is witnessing a disturbing trend of activists and journalists being booked under the UAPA, touted as an anti-terror law. Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan was booked by the UP Police under this law last year while he was going to Hathras to cover the case of the gangrape of a Dalit woman. JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha faced a case under this law in connection with the communal violence in Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act last year.Holding that the right to protest is a fundamental right which can’t be termed a ‘terrorist act’, the Delhi High Court had, in June this year, granted bail to Kalita and Narwal. It was constrained to note that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, “the State has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and ‘terrorist activity’. If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” Later, the Supreme Court stayed the Delhi High Court’s order reading down the UAPA and said the order can’t be treated as a precedent. Part 3 of the Constitution guarantees a set of fundamental rights, including the right to free speech, which are essentially in the form of a limitation imposed on the State. The Constitution provides for a mechanism for their protection by constitutional courts. It’s heartening to see the apex court perform this task. The court has already issued a notice to the Centre on a PIL challenging the validity of UAPA provisions. It should take a decision on the matter at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/uapa-overdrive-339954
19-11-2021||The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) for rural India completes the picture that had been painted piecemeal through anecdotal reportage — the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the country’s education system has been severely detrimental. The survey — conducted over the telephone and covering 76||Virus’ effects on education||Enrolment in government schools had been steadily declining since 2006, settling below 65% in 2018, as parents believed that private schools offer better education and facilities to their children. The pandemic has reversed the trend. Simultaneously, there has been 40 per cent rise in the number of school-going children taking private tuitions while their schools were closed during the pandemic. Taken in conjunction, this suggests that while economic distress has caused parents to opt for government schools, they have also been burdened by the cost of private tuitions.The most worrying aspect of the report is that the youngest students — those just entering the formal education stream — have been left most vulnerable: One-third of the children in Class I and Class II have never attended an in-person class. Even more alarming is the fact that these pupils have the least access to technology — one third of Class I and Class II students do not have a smartphone at home. This is likely to widen the gap between the haves and have-nots in the education system, in which access to quality education — and, thus, access to opportunities for economic advancement — is dictated by a family’s economic and social position. The survey has shown that urgent steps must be taken to address this challenge because we cannot afford to further polarise access to education on economic lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/virus-effects-on-education-339955
