20-11-2021||CEMENTING firmly the legal safeguards for children and women against sexual assault||Primacy of intent||The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, enacted in 2012 to shield children from sexual abuse, clearly says that any act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is sexual assault. An attempt to create ambiguity in this matter would be an error of judgment, leading ‘to a very detrimental situation, frustrating the very object of the Act, inasmuch as in that case, touching sexual or non-sexual parts of the body of a child with gloves, condoms, sheets or with cloth, though done with sexual intent, would not amount to an offence of sexual assault under Section 7 of the POCSO Act,’ the SC Bench pointed out.For a country that reported over 43,000 POCSO offences in the past one year and where the conviction rates are abysmally low, the SC observation that when two interpretations are possible, the one favourable to children must be preferred should help steer and accelerate things towards an unmistakably clear-cut and firm view of the situation. For, it is still a grey area. That ambiguities exist is apparent from not only the above case but also another one of the Bombay High Court that is slated for hearing by the apex court. Under consideration is whether the act of holding the hand of a minor girl and opening up the pants’ zipper constitutes sexual assault. The present case does shine some light on the likely verdict.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/primacy-of-intent-340372
20-11-2021||IT’S a historic climbdown||Victory for democracy||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40-odd farm unions, has welcomed PM Modi’s announcement, but stated that it will wait for the repeal to take effect through ‘due parliamentary procedures’. The morcha has flagged pending issues such as statutory guarantee of remunerative prices for all agricultural produce. For now, the wisest course for the farmers would be to end the agitation and return to their fields. Though agriculture was easily the most resilient sector during the Covid pandemic, Indian farming finds itself at the crossroads, with climate change and dwindling natural resources being among the major challenges. There is no room for intransigence anymore. Our agriculture can be future-ready only if the spirit of cooperation and collaboration prevails over discord and discontent.The Centre should honour the hardy farmers’ love for the soil and soul of this land. They farm and fight for the nation, and their apprehensions should be allayed while the Centre regains their valued trust, looking beyond political and electoral considerations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/victory-for-democracy-340371
