22-11-2021||WITH good scores on many indicators||HP’s e-classes do well||However, while this is commendable, it is not sufficient for the real test, which is whether these provisions have translated into learning outcomes of the schoolchildren on both academic and cognitive accounts. Even as the National Assessment Survey designed to throw light on this aspect is eagerly awaited, there are many fundamental gaps requiring attention to ace the game. Unless poor Internet access, especially in remote and hilly areas, is addressed, the phone in the child’s hand won’t serve the purpose of e-learning. That many more HP kids are resorting to physical tuitions, as per ASER, is a sure pointer to the absence of reliable telecom connectivity and other factors such as parents’ literacy levels.Additionally, the e-class can be more effective if teachers are regularly trained and upskilled in more interesting ways of engaging with their students in a tech-savvy setting. Though the schools are headed for offline classes, the digital mode of learning is not likely to completely vanish. With both the educators and the students initiated into the vast and exciting potential of myriad online tools, the hybrid model is emerging as the future form of education. It again raises questions of the huge inequalities and digital divide in the country. A lot of ground remains to be covered before every child gets the optimal benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hps-e-classes-do-well-341211
22-11-2021||FOR the past couple of years||Biden-Xi summit aftermath||But the standout Biden observation was that ‘competition between our countries should not veer into conflict’. If the two countries established ‘common-sense guardrails’, there will be just ‘simple, straightforward competition’, Biden told Xi. This was an acknowledgement that hostility had reached its limits and a top-level engagement was necessary to prevent an unintended flashpoint. Biden, as it is, has his hands full with domestic issues: deepening inflation, a Democratic washout at the 2022 election cycle and implementing the $1.75 trillion social spending plan. As is the case with the US, India has kept open communications channels with China. This has maintained optimism despite border negotiations appearing to be a tad overstretched.By next year, India’s S-400 systems will counter similar Chinese deployment in Aksai Chin and Arunachal Pradesh. With T-90 tanks, cruise missiles and other military hardware, the Indian position on the borders will be further boosted. Taking a leaf from the Biden-Xi playbook, both sides can then ponder over where they want to take the bilateral relationship. China has provided some signals. It is amenable to finally permitting imports of Indian critical care drugs. Also, Sino-Indian concerns are similar on Afghanistan, climate change and western financial institutions. A military balance on the border should lead to conversations on managing its risks and more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/biden-xi-summit-aftermath-341209
