23-11-2021||It has taken its time||New faces in Rajasthan||Anticipating a cacophony of angry voices of those feeling sidelined, Gehlot, after being shown who the boss is, has expertly put the onus on the Gandhis. He has reminded the rank and file of his own experience since Indira Gandhi’s time of the supremacy of the high command, terming it ‘our great strength’. It’s a Congress culture that has only worked to the party’s disadvantage more often than not, but has been warmly embraced by the BJP, of late, with its own unique nuances and delivery.Seven of the legislators now part of the expanded council of ministers come from the SC/ST category, catering to the verdict in 2018 when the Congress had won majority of the reserved seats. With two years left for the Assembly polls, a key part of the strategy is to ‘empower’ as many MLAs as possible. Rajasthan, in the coming days, could see a string of appointments to various posts. A clear reflection that in the political arena, though public service may be the avowed role, it is public office that is the prized goal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-faces-in-rajasthan-341571
23-11-2021||The UNESCO study pointing out the effects of prolonged closure of educational institutions on learning outcomes and gender equality also underlines the need for taking corrective measures. The report says that disruption of education due to Covid-19 affected young men and women in different ways||Covid impact on education||The prolonged closure of schools and colleges also meant having to keep abreast of learning goals in the face of uncertainty. Confinement also meant more responsibility with household chores increasing for girls and boys undertaking more income-generating activities which tended to affect learning. It also meant being away from support networks physically and the need to stay connected through digital platforms. Online learning regularly over a prolonged period also had possible fallouts on health. The closure of educational institutions revolved around the whole well-being of young adults as they had to search for alternative ways to pursue education and nurture their creativity while maintaining a healthy lifestyle. With Covid-19 affecting lives and livelihoods profoundly, the psycho-social strain acted as an impediment to learning.As educational institutions gradually reopen, efforts should be made to bring back normalcy to the classrooms, with a distinct focus on reducing gender disparity. Encouragement needs to be given for girls to be able to pursue education and choose a vocation of their choice, while also raising awareness among them to prevent possibilities of abuse in the form of early marriage and domestic violence. They should be imparted skill-based knowledge for economic and social empowerment that will guarantee them the individuality to confront social mores and lead life on their own terms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-impact-on-education-341570
