24-11-2021||THAT there is no scope for laxity in combating the coronavirus is evident from the rise in Covid cases in Haryana over the past fortnight. Though the health authorities have sought to underplay it by describing it as only marginal||Covid surge in Haryana||The Union Health Ministry wrote recently to the union territories of Ladakh, Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir, and also to the states of Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Assam, asking them to ensure that basic public health strategies are followed which entailed adhering to the regimen of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. The health authorities in Haryana should also ensure that the protocol is followed in all districts of the state. While the vaccination drive should cover the whole population, cases of breakthrough infection like in Gurugram imply that testing and tracing also need to be stepped up besides containment measures.The Centre claimed that the single-day spike in the country was the lowest in 538 days on Tuesday, and the recovery rate stood at over 98 per cent, the highest since March 2020, but states will have to take steps at their own level to rule out negligence. After the first and second waves, it is clear that variants and virulence of the virus determine the severity of the disease. Precautionary measures are best called for to fend off any further outbreak of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-surge-in-haryana-342032
24-11-2021||FOUR years after the Supreme Court ruled in a landmark judgment that privacy is a fundamental right||Dissent over privacy law||Nearly a fourth of the 30-member JPC, however, gave dissenting notes to the report, arguing that it falls short of providing an airtight legal framework and that the report has retained clauses that exempt government agencies from the purview of the law. They have cited Section 35 of the Bill, under which the Centre can exempt any government agency from any or all provisions of the proposed law in the interest of ‘sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states and public order’. Section 35 marks a big departure from the 2018 version of the Bill, which provided for exemptions in the processing of data only ‘in the interests of the security of the state’. Some members have said the report has failed to provide safeguards — such as parliamentary oversight — in Section 35 to prevent its misuse. Concern has also been expressed over Section 12, which pertains to processing personal data for provision of a service to an individual.The concerns over the report, as enunciated by the dissenting members, are valid. The possibility of the exemptions in the privacy law being misused by the government or its agencies is real. In this year of the Pegasus spyware controversy, which is being probed only due to the Supreme Court’s persistence, it is not unnatural that opposition members of the JPC and privacy activists are particularly concerned over the report submitted to Parliament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dissent-over-privacy-law-342031
