25-11-2021||THE Himachal Pradesh police data for this year||Killer roads||The only way accident-proneness can be curtailed is by strictly enforcing and following rules. But, sadly, many people have acquired the DL through dubious means, without passing the test that equips him/her with road safety rules. It is commonly known that fake addresses are resorted to get the DL to bypass a ‘strict’ office that refuses to bend the rules. A countrywide uniform model exam is needed to quell this malaise. Not wearing helmets, using mobiles, drunk driving and overspeeding are the major offences that put both the driver and other innocent road users in danger.In this context, Tamil Nadu, which was the worst performer in 2016, offers an exemplary model. Earlier this year, it won an award by the Centre for impressively bringing down its road accidents by 38 per cent and deaths by over 54 per cent in four years since 2016, despite the total number of vehicles in the state rising by around 30 per cent. The method employed is one that is well known, but rarely implemented. The prominent steps include cancelling/suspending DLs of errant drivers, road safety awareness drives, including road safety in school curricula, using IT to collect real-time accident data to help ambulances reach victims within the golden hour, shutting of liquor shops on highways and incorporating road safety work in appraisals of field officers. If all states sped up to halt the offenders, the accident rate would accelerate to near-zero levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/killer-roads-342435
25-11-2021||THE proposed legislation to ban private cryptocurrencies in the country||Cryptocurrency law||The coming days could see animated debates and discussions on the definition of ‘private cryptocurrencies’, what will not be allowed, the exceptions, the technological loopholes in the new regulations. At the core of the entire exercise would be the serious concerns that cryptocurrencies pose. Not only to macroeconomic and financial stability, as the RBI Governor has been stressing, or becoming conduits for illegal activity, but also the pitfalls of being lured into an investment trap that has few or no openings. A gamble, in other words, that can go horribly wrong, with no recourse.A complete ban looks unlikely considering the impracticality. An e-activity that has huge global appeal needs better handling than outright rejection, which will only encourage clandestine indulgence. As the framework for creation of a central bank digital currency takes shape, there is a clamour for recognising cryptos as an asset class with tight regulation. Where the capital gains of investors are taxed, there is a code of conduct, transparency and misleading advertising has no place. It is still uncharted territory, but marks a decisive step forward by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cryptocurrency-law-342434
