26-11-2021||THE rush for admissions to Delhi University (DU) and the high marks scored by students in Class XII Board exams||Admission rush at DU||Concerns had been raised earlier also over the high cut-off in DU, but with students from state boards faring well in the admissions this time, the committee is now considering admitting students based on their Class XII performance as well as the score in a proposed entrance test. The panel is considering normalisation of marks obtained in various board exams, not an easy task because each board follows its own curricula and method of marking, with Class XI marks also taken into account for evaluation. With the pandemic causing disruptions, the examination system also took a hit. A centralised admission process does not leave much scope for analysing board-wise intake.Holding an entrance test for undergraduate courses right after the Class XII exams will have to ensure that the process is transparent and will lessen the crowd. Colleges may also consider increasing seats on a regular basis to cope with the rush. The rush at DU is also a reflection on universities in other states where academic sessions run late and the education imparted fails to meet the required standards. The University Grants Commission should focus on maintaining the quality of other universities also and encourage parallel academic centres of excellence equipped with the necessary wherewithal to decongest the leading universities and provide the students with avenues to enhance their knowledge and acquire the necessary skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/admission-rush-at-du-342827
26-11-2021||THE public health indicators of 2017-19 captured by NFHS-5 (National Family Health Survey)||Fall in fertility rate||Significantly, the credit largely goes to women for bringing the TFR below the replacement level of 2.1, which paves the way for an eventual reduction in our population figures. For, the onus of family planning, as has been seen all along, continues to lie with women. This is apparent from the considerable increase in the use of contraceptives or sterilisation by women as compared to men. At the same time, it reflects positively on the strategies aimed at the empowerment and education of women as they own up their agency inasmuch as having a say in matters of their health and reproduction. Of course, improved and easier access to hospital care and reduction of infant mortality rates played key roles.However, this in no way spells a hunky-dory scenario. The health and nutrition parameters are not only still far from ideal, but they also show a slide in certain areas. Particularly grim is the struggle against anaemia. Its prevalence is, worryingly, up among both men and women and children have been the worst hit, predisposing them to health concerns. The efforts to stem stunted growth among children too have not been encouraging, even as malnourishment remains a formidable challenge. An increase in public health investment is called for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fall-in-fertility-rate-342825
