27-11-2021||DAYS after senior medical officers of the country like the AIIMS Director and the ICMR chief were quoted as saying that a third wave of Covid-19 comparable to the magnitude of the first and second waves was unlikely in the country and that no booster dose of the vaccine was required as of now||New Covid variant||Countries in Europe, like Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Russia, have already reported a fresh outbreak of Covid-19 because of factors like waning immunity and vaccine hesitancy, even as India has sought to resolve the row over the international acceptability of its vaccines and validity of vaccination proof while stepping up the inoculation drive. But with a substantial number yet to be covered fully, the possibility of a resurgence remains. With fully vaccinated cases also contracting the new strain, the importance of testing and tracking, along with precautionary measures, cannot be underestimated.The apprehension also arises at a time when the country has decided to normalise international travel by mid-December. The European Union and Britain have announced curbs on air travel to countries reporting a large number of cases, prompting early and pre-emptive action. Further disruption is bound to have an adverse effect on economic activities. What the emergence of the new variant confirms is also what the country’s medical experts had pointed out, that Covid, like swine flu (H1N1), would become endemic and cyclically affect the vulnerable population. Avoid letting down the guard to keep the disease at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-covid-variant-343204
27-11-2021||IT is Verghese Kurien’s hundredth birth anniversary. Nobody deserves the honour of being called the jewel of India more than the nation’s milkman||Jewel of India||He was not just a visionary CEO, but also a magician who turned labour into capital and gave it back to the very same labourer. All of Amul’s profit goes to its owner — the dairy farmer. When a litre of full-cream milk sells for Rs 58, the farmer gets Rs 49.1. Of course, magicians are mere tricksters; so Kurien should rather be called a social reformer who created a farmer-owned behemoth while empowering rural women producers by handing them cash for milk. He was also a wealth creator who made thousands of villages prosperous, while ensuring that villagers retained ownership of their means to wealth.Operation Flood was indeed a real revolution that brought in lasting social change. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Tribhuvandas Patel played their part in strengthening the cooperative movement and Kurien’s hands, but Kurien’s achievements are entirely his own. This atheist scripted even his last journey, honouring the traditions of his karmabhoomi: though born a Christian, he was cremated. There are rare occasions when an award becomes meaningful when conferred on a certain person. Bharat Ratna deserves Kurien.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jewel-of-india-343203
