29-11-2021||THE Centre has decided to review its move to end the 20-month ban on scheduled international flights — imposed with the first lockdown in March 2020 — as alarm bells are ringing across the world over Omicron||Omicron shadow on travel||The PM rightly emphasised the need to be vigilant and proactive, and India must be rigorous in monitoring inbound and outbound travellers. Until now, under the air bubble arrangements, India has been allowing a limited number of flights with around 30 countries. The government had initially decided to allow full-capacity flights from mid-December onwards to and from countries deemed not at risk from the coronavirus infection, while some restrictions were to be placed on flights with nations in the ‘at risk’ category.One key learning from our coronavirus experience is that life just cannot be brought to a standstill — doing this, we’ve seen, causes economic downturn, job losses, reverse migration of workforce and a sharp rise in poverty. The cruellest part is that despite the lockdowns and restrictions, the insidious virus still managed to infect tens of millions of people, causing a health crisis. The pandemic has endangered lives and livelihoods — we need to strike a balance between health security and financial security. On their part, the citizens must adhere strictly to the Covid-19 protocols and shed vaccination hesitancy — that would be the responsible thing to do.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/omicron-shadow-on-travel-343987
29-11-2021||The more things change the more they remain the same. That a large percentage of women — varying from 84 per cent in Telangana to 14 per cent in Himachal Pradesh — approve of wife-beating by husbands for various reasons||Patriarchy still reigns||It smacks of how deeply embedded the patriarchal attitudes are and how they continue to be ingrained into both girls and boys. This is the unsaid condition on which girls are being increasingly allowed to study and take up jobs. No wonder, gender crimes are under-reported, for reporting leads to a backlash: the victims are shamed and face societal retaliation and embarrassment. The NFHS-5 indicators of the women’s falling fertility rate and rising bank accounts are evidence of the huge strides made by them over the years and their contribution to the socio-economic development of the country. However, the increased autonomy and empowerment that they enjoy today is hard-earned, on the basis of their own ability to do multi-tasking and juggle the demands of their homes and careers. Most men have failed to travel the distance to meet them half way in household work and match their steps hand in hand.Along with the laws enacted to promote and safeguard women’s rights, of utmost importance is a shift in the societal mindset over traditional gender roles and parity. The endorsement or condoning of domestic abuse is reflective of a regressive society. Only when the abhorrent practice is regarded as unacceptable will domestic violence be tackled head-on and the victims would come out confidently to report the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/patriarchy-still-reigns-343983
