10 July 2020||LUCKNOW/ Bhopal,||U.P. gangster, wanted for killing 8 policemen, arrested in M.P.||Vikas Dubey, the main accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur’s Bikru village last week, was arrested in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, on Thursday. Later in the evening, he was handed over to a team of the Uttar Pradesh police. “He was taken to their State by road,” an M.P. police official said. However, Opposition parties as well as the family of Circle Officer Devendra Mishra, who was killed in the Bikru ambush, have questioned the manner of the gangster’s arrest, terming it a staged surrender. Held in temple Dubey, who has more than 60 cases against him, was on the run since the attack on a police team on the intervening night of July 2 and 3. He was arrested at the Mahakal temple after an alert shopkeeper tipped off the security on spotting Dubey on the premises. Dubey arrived at the temple around 8 a.m. and asked a shopkeeper where he could get a ticket, said Ujjain Collector Ashish Singh, who also heads the temple committee. “The shopkeeper became suspicious and informed the temple security that he appeared to be the person whose photograph was being circulated,” he said. Dubey bought a VIP ticket for Rs. 250; by then, temple officials had begun tracking him, said another temple official. “When he exited the temple gate, he was called in for questioning. They asked for his identity card, but he showed one that didn’t match his face, and he started scuffling with the officials,” said Mr. Singh. Eventually, he was handed over to the police, who took him to the Mahakal police station. “There he confessed to his actual identity, which was also confirmed using his mobile number,” said Mr. Singh. In a video doing the rounds on social media, Dubey can be seen being escorted out of the temple by security personnel. In another video, before the police bundle him into a jeep, he is heard shouting, “ Mai Vikas Dubey hoon, Kanpur wala (I am Vikas Dubey, from Kanpur),” at which a policeman is seen slapping him on the back.  ‘Success for M.P.’ Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said Dubey’s associates Bittu and Suresh had also been arrested. “Our police don’t leave anyone. They have arrested Vikas [Dubey] and he is in our custody,” Mr. Mishra told mediapersons, describing it as a huge success for Madhya Pradesh.  The police said two more aides of Dubey, including one who was being brought to U.P. on transit remand from Faridabad, had been shot dead earlier in the day in encounters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-gangster-wanted-for-killing-8-policemen-arrested-in-mp/article32037406.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. ‘watching’ WHO alert on airborne spread of virus||Continuing to rule out community transmission of COVID-19 in the country, the Union Health Ministry on Thursday said it is “closely watching the dynamic evolution of the virus situation in India, with the World Health Organisation (WHO) now indicating that the virus may be airborne”. After earlier denials, the WHO on Tuesday said there is evidence emerging of the airborne spread of the coronavirus, after over 230 scientists across the world urged the global body to update its guidance. “We have been talking about the possibility of airborne transmission and aerosol transmission as one of the modes of transmission of COVID-19,” Maria Van Kerkhove, technical lead on the COVID-19 pandemic at the WHO, had said. Ms. Van Kerkhove said the WHO would publish a scientific brief summarising the state of knowledge on modes of transmission in the coming days. “A comprehensive package of interventions is required to be able to stop transmission,” she said. “We are keeping abreast with the information coming from WHO headquarters on this aspect,” said Rajesh Bhushan, OSD, Union Health Ministry, on Thursday at a press briefing, adding that India is currently seeing what can be termed as localised outbreak of the virus in various parts of the country. “Presently, there are 2,69,789 active cases under active medical supervision with India’s recovery rate now at 62.09 %. It would perhaps be not fair to compare India to other countries in terms of absolute numbers. India has 195.5 cases per million population which is amongst the lowest in the world,” said Mr. Bhushan. He added that India currently has a fatality rate of 2.75%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-watching-who-alert-on-airborne-spread-of-virus/article32037400.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India seeing ‘green shoots’ of economic revival, says PM||As the Indian economy sees a revival, global investors should invest in the world’s “most open economies,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, “Indians have the spirit to achieve what is believed to be impossible. No wonder that in India, we are already seeing green shoots when it comes to economic recovery,” he observed at a ‘India Global Week’ conference, organised by the London-based NRI group Indian Inc. Modi’s call to investors “India remains one of the most open economies in the world. We are laying a red carpet for all global companies to come and establish their presence in India. Very few countries will offer the kind of opportunities India does today,” he stated, listing the gains the country had made in “total financial inclusion, record housing and infra construction, Ease of Doing Business, bold tax reforms, including the GST”. Mr. Modi’s reference to “green shoots” or small signs of revival comes a few days after the Ministry of Finance published its macroeconomic report for June 2020, which said activity had “picked up” in certain areas, even though the GDP growth estimates have plummeted further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-seeing-green-shoots-of-economic-revival-says-pm/article32037449.ece
10 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Bangarpet tahsildar stabbed to death||Bangarpet tahsildar Chandramouli, 55, was stabbed to death by a land owner during an inspection at Toppanahalli village, Bangarpet taluk, on Thursday. The police arrested Venkatapathy, 65, a retired government school headmaster. Mr. Chandramouli hailed from Tumakuru and was posted at Bangarpet about two years ago. Two surveyors had been to the village on Thursday after Ramamurthy, Venkatapathy’s neighbour, had sought a survey of two land parcels to sort out a boundary dispute. However, Venkatapathy objected and demanded that the tahsildar come to the spot. Mr. Chandramouli went to the village around 3.30 p.m. and oversaw the survey, and the boundary stones were placed as per the maps, which showed Venkatapathy had encroached upon his neighbour’s land. When Venkatapathy objected to this, Mr. Chandramouli reportedly asked him to file an appeal against the decision, if he so wished. “Venkatapathy went home and brought some land documents, and in the garb of showing them to the tahsildar, he fished out a knife and stabbed him in the chest twice. A profusely bleeding Chandramouli collapsed on the ground. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, but was declared brought dead,” said Srikanthaiah, circle inspector, Bangarpet. Venkatapathy, who had fled from the scene, was later arrested. As is the practice, two policemen from the local station were also present during the survey. “It [the attack] happened all of a sudden,” an official said. However, the police role has come under criticism. Another tahsildar told The Hindu that if such incidents were to happen even when the police were present, there was no point in taking their protection during surveys. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced Rs. 25 lakh compensation and a government job to a member of Mr. Chandramouli’s family. Condemning the incident and offering condolences to the tahsildar’s family, he said that instructions had been given to perform the last rites with police honours. Instructions had been given to the police to act against the accused as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bangarpet-tahsildar-stabbed-to-death/article32037450.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Alarming local spread, 339 new cases in State||COVID-19 is spreading fast across several urban areas in Kerala, resulting in multiple clusters and superspreader events and has begun to show all signs of disease transmission going out of control in the next few days. Sounding this dire warning, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday that the number of new cases being reported daily had crossed 300 now and it was highly likely that this number could go up significantly again. On Thursday, the State reported 339 new cases, showing no let up in the exponential increase trend. With 149 recoveries reported, the number of active cases now undergoing treatment in hospitals across districts is 2,795. Of the 6,534 cases reported till date, 3,341 persons have recovered.  On Thursday, while 191 out of the 339 new cases were imported cases, the number of cases which occurred through local transmission was 148. This includes four cases reported in health-care workers, one Border Security Force jawan in Thrissur, a Defence Security Corps jawan in Kannur and two personnel of Indo-Tibetan Border Police in Alappuzha. The number of tests done in the last 24 hours was 12,592. Over 1.85 lakh people are now in quarantine, of whom, 3,261 with symptoms are isolated in hospitals. Poonthura critical The capital district of Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 95 of the new cases reported on Thursday, 92 of which had resulted from local transmission. Of these, 88 cases have been reported at Poonthura, where a superspreader event has been driving the disease transmission, putting the capital city in a situation of triple lockdown. Mr. Vijayan said that a similar situation now seemed to be evolving at Aryanad, in the district’s suburb. There were other districts such as Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Palakkad where the trend was no different. He said the current situation warranted the imposition of stricter controls across the State on the movement of people, so that further superspreader incidents may be avoided. The Chief Minister appealed to be people to be sensible enough to understand that the stringent restrictions were meant for the safety of everyone and that none were safe from the virus. ‘Needs self-control’ Hence, people should exercise immense self-control and do not venture out of homes except for dire necessities. There cannot be a situation of people crowding anywhere because one infected person in a crowd can rapidly transmit the disease to everyone, he said. The total number of hotspots in the State now is 181.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alarming-local-spread-339-new-cases-in-state/article32037710.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India seeing ‘green shoots’ of economic revival, says PM||As the Indian economy sees a revival, global investors should invest in the world’s “most open economies,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, “Indians have the spirit to achieve what is believed to be impossible. No wonder that in India, we are already seeing green shoots when it comes to economic recovery,” he observed at a ‘India Global Week’ conference, organised by the London-based NRI group Indian Inc.  “India remains one of the most open economies in the world. We are laying a red carpet for all global companies to come and establish their presence in India. Very few countries will offer the kind of opportunities India does today,” he stated, listing the gains the country had made in “total financial inclusion, record housing and infra construction, Ease of Doing Business, bold tax reforms, including the GST”. Mr. Modi’s reference to “green shoots” or small signs of revival comes a few days after the Ministry of Finance published its macroeconomic report for June 2020, which said activity had “picked up” in certain areas, even though the GDP growth estimates have plummeted further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-seeing-green-shoots-of-economic-revival-says-pm/article32037407.ece
10 July 2020||Mumbai,||MMR needs to catch up in COVID-19 battle: CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed concern on Thursday at the surge in COVID-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in recent days and urged municipal commissioners of Mumbai’s neighbouring districts to emulate the efforts made by officials in the State capital, where fresh infections have been slowed down and healthcare capacity ramped up in the past few months. The MMR, including Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Palghar, Raigad, Panvel and Kalyan-Dombivli, reported 2,816 cases on Thursday, while Mumbai city reported 1,268 cases. These corporations now account for over 70,000 of the nearly 1.6 lakh cases from the region, which in turn forms a bulk of the 2.3 lakh plus cases in the State. Citing the large COVID-19 care facilities built in Mumbai city from March to July, the CM said: “We expected that similar facilities would be constructed in the MMR. Repeated instructions were given. But that did not happen. Anticipating a rise in number of patients in the future, it is important that such facilities are built now.” After over three months into the pandemic, it has become clear what measures need to be taken to arrest the spread, the CM pointed out. “We will get the expected result if all directions issued by the State are followed. It is now clear that the positive cases have multiplied, and we need to take urgent actions,” he said. Stressing that citizens need to be brought on-board in the battle, Mr. Thackeray directed municipal officials to form ward-level committees, by involving citizen groups and NGOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mmr-needs-to-catch-up-in-covid-19-battle-cm/article32037832.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Consider Class XII marks for medical admissions’||Tamil Nadu has urged the Central government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to not hold the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and consider the Class XII marks instead for admissions to medical courses this year, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Thursday. Rural areas “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has written to Mr. Modi regarding the issue on July 8. In his letter, he stated that it would be difficult for students, especially those from the rural areas, to take the test in the present circumstances,” the Minister said in a statement. Medical courses He recalled the efforts being taken by the AIADMK government against the conduct of NEET for admissions to medical courses. Referring to reports of the Centre contemplating a revision of the criteria for the creamy layer among the Other Backward Classes (OBCs), the Minister said, “Reservation should be based only on social and educational conditions. Reservation based on economic conditions would go against social justice.” “People are aware that this government is a pioneer in protecting the ideals of social justice and the interests of the poor and the downtrodden. This government will continue to protect the welfare of the backward classes,” he said. Petitions filed in SC Mr. Vijayabaskar also referred to the petitions filed by the State government in the Supreme Court and the Madras High Court for 50% reservation for the OBCs in medical seats, which were surrendered by the State governments to the all-India quota, in non-Central government colleges.  Reservation should be based only on social and educational conditions C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/consider-class-xii-marks-for-medical-admissions/article32037506.ece
10 July 2020||DHARWAD,||Private hospitals agree to treat COVID-19 patients from today||With private hospitals consenting to part with 50% of their total beds, the Dharwad district administration has announced that treatment for COVID-19 patients would begin in private hospitals on Friday. Chairing a District Health Task Force meeting and also of private hospital managements in Dharwad on Thursday, Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that private hospitals registered under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka Scheme had agreed to part with 50 % of their beds for treating COVID-19 patients. “As private hospitals have handed over 50 % of their beds to the district administration, it has been decided to provide treatment to patients of the pandemic in these hospitals and the process will start on Friday,” he said. Mr. Patil said that 18 hospitals that had been identified for COVID-19 treatment had provided details of the number of beds, ICU and ventilator facilities available with them and 50 % of these facilities would be utilised to treat COVID-19 patients. The Deputy Commissioner said that symptomatic patients and those with fever would be admitted to private hospitals. Private hospitals should admit patients referred by the district administration and treat them under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka Scheme. If patients come directly to them, then the cost should be borne by patients, he said. He said that private hospital staff would be given training at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) on the mode of treatment and protocol to be followed in the case of COVID-19-related deaths. Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat B.C. Sateesh asked private hospital managements to join hands with the government in the fight against coronavirus and said that based on symptoms, patients would be sent to COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. Medical Superintendent of KIMS Arun Kumar told the meeting that treatment for patients from other districts would be given at KIMS only if there were no beds available in their districts. “Only patients with letter from the designated hospital or the district hospital facing shortage of beds will be admitted at KIMS. A communication will be sent to medical colleges and authorities of neighbouring districts,” he said. Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissioner R. Dileep, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Yashwanth Madeenkar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-hospitals-agree-to-treat-covid-19-patients-from-today/article32037628.ece
10 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal reports over 1,000 new COVID-19 cases||West Bengal recorded a fresh high of 1,088 cases on Thursday, taking the State’s total cases past the 25,000 mark to 25,911. As many as 27 more deaths recorded in the last 24 hours took the State’s fatality toll to 854. Of the total case tally, only 8,231 are active ones. A seven-day strict lockdown came into force in the 434 containment zones across the State at 5 p.m. on Thursday, with the police putting up barricades to restrict movement of vehicles. Police personnel were posted at the entry and exit points of the zones. Except the three districts of Jhargram, Coochbehar and Paschim Bardhaman, containment zones have been notified in every district. As the State went for a fresh lockdown, the Opposition parties lashed out at the Trinamool Congress government. “Neither Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee nor any of her Cabinet ministers has adhered to the lockdown guidelines. Three months have passed and everything has been opened. If the administration does not impose strict lockdown, then we may have to fear for the worst,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) leadership questioned the procedure for selecting these containment zones. “Will the Trinamool Congress decide on which areas there will be lockdown or the administration? The problem in the State was not so acute; it is turning severe because of the faulty policies,” CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-reports-over-1000-new-covid-19-cases/article32037778.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC objects to police affidavit in activist’s case||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said the police ha-ve to show “some restraint” with regard to the affidavit filed by them in response to a plea by Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said the allegations in the affidavit were “unwarranted” in view of the limited scope of the petition, which was to examine under what circumstances the police can issue press notes about a case. “We cannot allow this kind of affidavit on record unless someone takes responsibility,” the court said. ASG Aman Lekhi, appearing for the police, said the statements were made in response to Ms. Kalita’s allegations about a “witch-hunt” against her. He said the police will file another affidavit clarifying it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-objects-to-police-affidavit-in-activists-case/article32037585.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal blacks out Indian news channels||Nepal will not allow foreign TV channels that indulge in the character assassination of its leaders and will seek legal remedies against such news outlets, a senior Minister of the government of Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli said on Thursday. The announcement was accompanied by simultaneous blacking out of all Indian news channels, barring Doordarshan, across Nepal. “We do not want to interfere in affairs of the media. Not just foreign but even domestic TV channels will be regulated if they are found to be airing offensive content or are indulging in character assassination [of Nepalese citizens and leaders]. Nepal will also seek political and legal remedies against such channels,” said Minister of Communication and Information Technology Yubaraj Khatiwada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nepal-blacks-out-indian-news-channels/article32037590.ece
10 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Boston group to be roped in for investments||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to hire services of Boston Consulting Group (India) Pvt. Ltd., an MNC, for a year for bringing investments to the State. It was decided to pay a fee of Rs. 12 crore plus GST to the firm for its service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boston-group-to-be-roped-in-for-investments/article32037453.ece
10 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Eight Ministers made in charge of eight zones||As Bengaluru has seen a steep rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the recent weeks, Ministers will be put in charge of micromanaging the government’s efforts to control the pandemic in eight BBMP zones besides the deployment of eight IAS officers to handle the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-ministers-made-in-charge-of-eight-zones/article32037451.ece
10 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Action against hospitals denying treatment||The State government is making all efforts to contain the rapid surge of COVID-19 cases in the city, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said. “If there is denial of treatment in hospitals, action will be initiated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/action-against-hospitals-denying-treatment/article32037452.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases slump to 21,567 in Delhi||Delhi reported below 3,000 new COVID-19 cases for the 13th consecutive day on Thursday. Of the total 1,07,051 cases, 82,226 have recovered and 21,567 are active. The Delhi government has ordered all State-run dispensaries and polyclinics to conduct rapid antigen tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-covid-19-cases-slump-to-21567-in-delhi/article32037588.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Nizamuddin event: 60 Malaysians walk free||A Delhi court on Thursday allowed 60 Malaysians to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs. 7,000 each after they accepted mild charges, under the plea bargain process, related to various violations while attending an event at a religious centre in Nizamuddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nizamuddin-event-60-malaysians-walk-free/article32037589.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Free foodgrains will be given till August 31||The Narendra Modi government has extended the deadline for distribution of free foodgrains allocated to State governments under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission, which was aimed at migrant workers who didn’t have ration cards, till August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-foodgrains-will-be-given-till-august-31/article32037587.ece
10 July 2020||Kolkata,||Elephant found dead near Bengal’s Buxa Tiger Reserve||An elephant was found dead near a village adjoining the Buxa Tiger Reserve in West Bengal’s Alipurduar district on Thursday, a forest official said. The carcass of a “sub-adult” male elephant aged around four was found in a paddy field near Garo Busty village in Rajabhatkhawa. It could have either died due to electrocution or could have eaten any poisonous food or could have been struck by lightning as there was a thunderstorm in the area on Wednesday night, the official said. “We have sent the elephant’s carcass for post-mortem,” he said. With this, at least three elephants have died in various parts of Alipurduar district, including two near the Buxa Tiger Reserve, since mid-June, the official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elephant-found-dead-near-bengals-buxa-tiger-reserve/article32037777.ece
10 July 2020||Kolkata,||Five cattle smugglers arrested along Indo-Bangla border in West Bengal||The Border Security Force’s (BSF) south Bengal frontier has arrested five suspected cattle smugglers at the India-Bangladesh border area in Murshidabad district, a senior official of the paramilitary force said. The accused are residents of Kushtia district in Bangladesh. “Based on specific intelligence inputs on the intervening night of July 8 and 9, a special operation was carried out during which BSF troops succeeded in apprehending five cattle smugglers along with five bovines from Bousmari area,” the official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-cattle-smugglers-arrested-along-indo-bangla-border-in-west-bengal/article32037776.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Class XII board exams must, says Sengottaiyan||Students who missed the last Class XII board exam on March 24 must sit for it on July 27, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said. The government will allot centres for all the 34,842 students who were unable to write the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/july-27-plus-two-exam-must-says-sengottaiyan/article32037508.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Central team suggests focused death audit||The Central team, which is on a visit to the State capital to review the COVID-19 scenario in Tamil Nadu, has suggested that the State government have a focused death audit in districts and go for broader containment zones, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-team-suggests-focused-death-audit/article32037509.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 4,231 new cases, 65 fatalities||Tamil recorded 4,231 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its overall tally to 1,26,581. With 65 fatalities, the toll increased to 1,765. With 1,216 cases, Chennai’s tally rose to 73,728. The State’s recovery rate stood at 61% with 3,994 persons discharged after treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-4231-new-cases-65-fatalities/article32037510.ece
10 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||75 positive cases in a day in Dharwad district||Dharwad district continued to register the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases in the Mumbai Karnataka region. It recorded 75 cases in a single day on Thursday. The district also recorded seven deaths in three days. Meanwhile, Bagalkot recorded 36 cases followed by Uttara Kannada with 23, Haveri 18, Belagavi nine, Gadag six and Vijayapura with one. Uttara Kannada district recorded one death. In Central Karnataka, Davangere recorded 40 positive cases and one death, while Chidradurga recorded two cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/75-positive-cases-in-a-day-in-dharwad-district/article32037627.ece
10 July 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai Nearby 2||Maharashtra Minister of Technical and Higher Education Uday Samant on Thursday said he has informed the Centre that it would not be possible to conduct the final-year exams at universities by September-end, in view of the COVID-19 crisis in the State. He said he had written to the HRD ministry after it announced on Monday that the examinations would have to be conducted by September-end. If the University Grants Commission insists on conducting the examinations, then it should issue proper guidelines for the same, Mr. Samant said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby-2/article32037831.ece
10 July 2020||Mumbai,||9 new coronavirus cases take Dharavi’s tally to 2,347||Nine new COVID-19 cases were reported in Dharavi on Thursday, taking its tally to 2,347, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The BMC has stopped disclosing the number of deaths, if any, in the slum-dominated area for the past few days. A BMC official said Dharavi has only 291 active cases, while 1,815 people have recovered and discharged from COVID-19 facilities. Dharavi, once a COVID-19 hotspot, recorded less number of cases than Dadar and Mahim, which also fall under the G-north civic ward. Dadar and Mahim recorded 23 and 17 new COVID-19 cases, respectively, the civic official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9-new-coronavirus-cases-take-dharavis-tally-to-2347/article32037830.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India has lowest cases per million: govt.||“India has one of the lowest cases per million (538) and deaths per million (15) compared with the global average of 1,453 and 68.7, respectively,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday after chairing the 18th meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19. Within the country, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat contributed to around 90% of the active caseload and 49 districts accounted for 80% of active caseload currently. Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal accounted for 86% of total deaths, and 32 districts accounted for 80% deaths, he said. A Health Ministry release said that the GoM was told that at present, there were 3,914 facilities with 3,77,737 isolation beds (without ICU support), 39,820 ICU beds and 1,42,415 oxygen-supported beds along with 20,047 ventilators. In terms of healthcare logistics, cumulatively 213.55 lakh N95 masks, 120.94 lakh personal protective equipment kits and 612.57 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets had been distributed. “As we move forward, our focus shall be on the management of COVID-19 through strict containment measures and surveillance; utilising full testing capacity; focusing on the monitoring of co-morbid and elderly population; predicting emerging hotspots by leveraging digital tools such as Aarogya Setu; ensuring seamless patient admission processes; focussing on infrastructure preparedness [critical care beds, oxygen, ventilators and logistics],” Dr. Vardhan said. He said that “along with States/UTs, our aim is to reduce and keep the case fatality rate low by early identification and effective clinical management”. Surveillance efforts Sujeet K. Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control, presented a detailed report on surveillance efforts undertaken during the pandemic. He said the focus had been on strict containment strategy and surveillance through SARI/ILI cases, serological survey and increase in lab network to widen countrywide testing. “The major concern areas in the country were highlighted and the measures to be taken were listed including timely clinical management along with testing and surveillance in the high-risk population,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-has-lowest-cases-per-million-govt/article32037377.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Syllabi cut sensationalised, says Minister||Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday responded to criticism about the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) reducing the syllabus for students due to the COVID-19 pandemic, terming it “uninformed commentary” and an attempt to “portray a false narrative”. “There has been a lot of uninformed commentary on the exclusion of some topics from CBSE syllabus. The problem with these comments is that they resort to sensationalism by connecting topics selectively to portray a false narrative,” he said in a series of tweets. He said the CBSE had clarified that the subjects excluded were a one-time measure for exams due to the pandemic and that they had already been covered in the alternative academic calendar. The aim of the exercise, which involved recommendations from experts, was to reduce the stress on students by cutting the syllabus by 30%. In all subjects “While it is easy to misconstrue exclusion of three or four topics like nationalism, local government, federalism, etc. and build a concocted narrative, a wider perusal of different subjects will show that this exclusion is happening across subjects.” For example, he said, measures of dispersion and balance of payments deficit were removed from economics, heat transfer and convection and radiation were removed from the physics syllabus, properties of determinants were removed from mathematics and portions of mineral nutrition, digestion and absorption were removed from biology. “It can be no one’s argument that these topics have also been excluded by malice of some grand design which only partisan minds can decipher... Let us leave politics out of education and make our politics more educated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/syllabi-cut-sensationalised-says-minister/article32037397.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala’s local case spread may spiral, says CM||COVID-19 was seen as spreading fast across urban Kerala, resulting in multiple clusters and super spreader events. It had begun to show signs of disease transmission going out of control in the next few days. Sounding this dire warning, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday that if the number of daily new cases had crossed 300, it was highly likely that this could go up significantly. On Thursday, Kerala reported 339 new COVID-19 cases, showing no let up in the increasing trend. With 149 recoveries also reported, active cases in hospitals stood at 2,795. Of the 6,534 cases reported, 3,341 persons had recovered. After imported cases diagnosed in people coming into the State from abroad and other States constituted the major chunk of new cases, the trend seemed to be reversing to local ones. On Thursday, while 191 out of 339 new cases were imported, the number of those spread through local transmission was 148. This included four cases among health care workers, one BSF jawan in Thrissur, a Defence Security Corps jawan in Kannur and two personnel of Indo-Tibetan Border Police at Alappuza. Test numbers in the State stood at 12,592 in a day. Over 1.85 lakh people were under quarantine, of whom, 3,261 were isolated in hospitals Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 95 of the new cases, 92 of which had a local link. Of this, 88 were in Poonthura, where a super spreader event was driving transmission, leading to a triple lock down. Mr. Vijayan said that a similar situation seemed to be evolving in Aryanad, in the district’s suburbs. Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Palakkad had a similar trend. He said the current situation warranted stricter controls across the State on people movement, to stop super spreader incidents. Andhra Pradesh was witnessing rapid spread. As of Thursday morning, the State had 1,555 fresh cases, the biggest single-day spike. Also, 13 patients died of the virus taking the toll to 277. COVID-19 cases rose to 23,814, and recoveries at 12,154 were higher than active cases at 11,383. Also 1,053 patients recovered in a day. The new deaths were in Kurnool (3), Guntur (3), Anantapur (2), Prakasam (2), Krishna (1), West Godavari (1) and Chittoor (1). Of the total fresh cases, only 55 were imported ones, 53 being people from other States, and two foreign returnees. Among 1,500 local cases, nearly 1,000 were reported in just five districts. The remaining were from eight districts. Chittoor reported 236 new cases while Guntur had 228, Visakhapatnam 208, Srikakulam 206 and Krishna 127 cases. Chennai accounted for less than one-third of the 4,231 new COVID-10 cases in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. Total number of people discharged after treatment crossed 50,000 in the city, while a 25-day-old baby with a congenital abnormality was among 65 fatalities. After recording less than 4,000 cases for three consecutive days, Tamil Nadu saw a rise in new cases with 4,231 persons testing positive. This took its overall tally to 1,26,581.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keralas-local-case-spread-may-spiral-says-cm/article32037354.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP turns younger at its lower hierarchies||BJP president J.P. Nadda is yet to announce a new set of national-level office-bearers after he was elected president of the party, but the electoral process at the lower organisational levels has ensured that he would probably be working with one of the youngest organisational teams ever assembled in the party’s history. As district-level polls for the BJP’s organisational units were held through last year into this one, a very conscious push was made to ensure that district presidents in all States are less than 50 years of age and preferably not more than 45. As a result, say senior party sources, nearly all the more than 700 organisational districts of the BJP (as distinct from administrative districts of India) have presidents who are less than 50. U.P.’s distinction “Uttar Pradesh has 98 organisational districts, the average age of district presidents is between 40 and 45 years, with only two districts presidents above 45, one is 46 years of age, another is 52,” BJP State general secretary Vijay Pathak told The Hindu . He also said that this was a conscious attempt through the entire electoral exercise, coupled with trying to get mandal presidents (a unit below districts) who would be below 45. “Other instructions were, as much as possible to make sure that relatives of corporators or panchayat representatives aligned with the party were not made district presidents,” he said. In Bihar too, this rule was followed and in the 45 organisational districts of the state unit, the average age is 45, with not a single person above 50. In Karnataka, with 36 organisational districts, the average age varied between 39 and 55. A senior party leader in Delhi said this conscious attempt to lower the average age of leadership within the organisation was to “set the tone for the next 10 years of the party”. “You will see that in many States, for example in Madhya Pradesh, even State unit chiefs are people who are first-term MPs, etc. There is to be a generational change every few years, and it is better if it is welcomed and consciously implemented by the party itself,” the source said. National impact No word was forthcoming on whether Mr. Nadda’s new team of national office- bearers will reflect this attempt at a generational shift. “The list of office-bearers is ready, and even vacancies in the parliamentary board (four in all) due to Venkaiah ji (M. Venkaiah Naidu) becoming Vice-President, and the sad loss of Arun Jaitely ji , Sushma Swaraj ji and Ananth Kumar ji , will be filled in one go,” said the source. Given that the BJP went through an implosion transiting from the Vajpayee-Advani era to one of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, this conscious transitioning promises interesting days ahead for the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-turns-younger-at-its-lower-hierarchies/article32037379.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Migrants returning to cities to reclaim jobs’||Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta on Thursday told the Supreme Court that migrant workers were returning to cities to reclaim their old jobs as “lockdown is over”, “economy is opening up” and the situation is turning “very healthy”. Mr. Mehta, who was appearing for the Maharashtra government, was expressing his view on what the Bihar government called the “reverse migration” of migrant workers who had gone home to their villages during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, for Bihar, said trains from Patna were running full. “Reverse migration is happening. Now the workers are going back to their own jobs. Trains are full from Patna,” the Bihar government said. At this point, Mr. Mehta said, “What I feel about this is migrant workers who had gone back to their States are not getting jobs fit for their skills.” “Now, economy is opening up, lockdown is over. Very healthy [atmosphere], so they are coming back,” the Solicitor-General told a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan. During the hearing, the court pulled up Maharashtra for taking an “adversarial” approach in its affidavit. The Supreme Court, referring to Maharashtra’s affidavit, said it could not accept a general statement from the State that all migrants had been provided for. ‘Obligation of the State’ Justice Bhushan said it was the obligation of the State to identify migrant workers in need and those who still wanted to go home. The court asked the State to file a fresh and detailed affidavit. “Migrant labourers are forced to proceed to their native place after cessation of their employment. They are already suffering. They have to be dealt by the police and other authorities in a humane manner,” the court had observed in a June 9 order. The court had passed the order after suo motu taking cognisance of the migrant workers’ exodus. The Bench had squarely placed the onus on the Centre, the States and Union Territories to provide details of employment and benefits schemes to returned migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrants-returning-to-cities-to-reclaim-jobs/article32037384.ece
10 July 2020||Srinagar,||‘LeT planned BJP leader’s killing’||The killing of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and district president Wasim Bari and his two family members was a pre-planned attack by Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants, said Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir Vijay Kumar, in a press briefing on Thursday morning. “Two militants involved in the attack have been identified. They are Abid, a local, and a foreigner from Pakistan. It was a pre-planned attack of the LeT,” Mr. Kumar said. CCTV footage from a police station just opposite Wari’s house had captured the incident that took place in the Muslimabad area on Wednesday evening, he said. “Bari had gone to see his relatives. When he returned home [on Wednesday evening], his Special Police Officers (SPO) retired to their rest room. He had joined his father and brother at their shop when the militants attacked. If the two SPOs had been accompanying him, they [the SPOs] would have neutralised them [the militants],” IGP Kumar said. “One terrorist opened fire from a pistol on Bari and his brother and father from a close range, hitting their vitals. The other terrorist was maintaining a vigil nearby,” Mr. Kumar said. All three men were declared dead at a local hospital. “All those who have a security threat, whether a political worker or an elected representative like a sarpanch or panch, can approach the local Superintendent of Police for security cover,” Mr. Kumar stated. All 10 PSOs guarding the BJP leader were suspended. Regional political parties, including the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference and the Communist Party of India-Marxist, condemned the attack. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor G. C. Murmu said, “The barbaric act of killing innocent people is against humanity and the perpetrators of this cowardly act shall be brought to justice.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-planned-bjp-leaders-killing/article32037368.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Free grains will be given till Aug. 31||The Narendra Modi government has extended the deadline for distribution of free food grains under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission allocated to State governments, which was aimed at migrant workers who didn’t have ration cards, by a month, till August 31. Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Ramvilas Paswan said the scheme was launched on May 15 and the identification process of genuine beneficiaries took some time. “This scheme is for anyone who doesn’t have a ration card. The beneficiary may or may not be a migrant worker. It is up to the States to decide how they want to distribute it,” Mr. Paswan said. He said that now States could complete distribution of balance of allocated food grains and pulses. Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Package, 5 kg of free food grains per person and 1 kg of free whole gram per family has been distributed to migrant labourers, stranded and needy families, who are not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) or State scheme PDS cards. Scheme underutilised The scheme has been underutilised, as per the Ministry’s own statistics. Out of eight lakh tonnes allotted to the States, only 6.39 lakh tonnes has been picked up and out of this too, only 2,32,433 tonnes of food grains given to 2.24 crore beneficiaries in May and to 2.25 crore beneficiaries in June. Mr. Paswan said that around 33,620 tonnes of whole gram had been dispatched to the States and Union Territories. A total of 32,968 tonnes of whole gram had been lifted by various States and Union Territories, of which 10,645 tonnes had been distributed. 20 million tonnes Meanwhile, around 20 million tonnes of food grains have been earmarked for free distribution to Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Household (PHH) cardholders up to November in the country. Of this quantity, rice will account for about 11 million tonnes and wheat 9 million tonnes. Being carried out as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), the free distribution of food grains is meant to be given as additional entitlement to the beneficiaries at the rate of five kg per month for five months — July to November. Issuing a State-wise allocation order on Wednesday, the Department of Food and Public Distribution in the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution made it clear that the allocation would be in addition to the regular monthly allocation to the States and Union Territories under the NFSA.  Unlike in the north and Maharashtra where both wheat and rice have been allotted more or less in equal measure, the southern region has been given predominantly rice with minimum amount of wheat.   (With inputs from T. Ramakrishnan in Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-grains-will-be-given-till-aug-31/article32037395.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Country of origin tag a must: Paswan||Amid the clamour to ban China-made goods, the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs has sent out a reminder to all e-commerce portals to ensure that the “country of origin” of the products being sold by them should be mentioned as part of mandatory declarations. Make in India push “At a time when we are pushing for ‘Made in India’ products, it is equally necessary for our consumers to know exactly where the products that they are buying are coming from,” Consumer Affairs Minister Ramvilas Paswan said at an online press conference on Thursday. The Ministry’s reminder to e-commerce portals is part of a concerted effort by the government to have ‘country of origin’ declarations on these websites. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) on Wednesday held a second meeting on the matter after the initial consultation two weeks ago, attended by close to 30 e-commerce players. The Ministry in its reminder invoked the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011. These rules make it mandatory for all manufacturers to declare the package name and address of the manufacturer, common and generic name of commodity, net quantity, month and year of manufacturing, MRP and consumer care details. New provisions In addition to these, in 2017, new provisions were added for e-commerce websites such as Amazon, Flipkart and so on, making it compulsory for them to display these information along with “declaration of country of origin or manufacture or assembly” and a clear mention of expiry date. There are punitive provisions in the law. For the first offence, a penalty up to Rs. 25000 can be charged, for the second offence, the fine may extend to Rs. 50,000. Any subsequent offences can attract a jail term of one year. Though the law has been in place for the last three years, the Ministry has no details on how many times it has been invoked to penalise any of these portals. Secretary, Consumer Affairs, Leena Nandan, said that the Ministry was still collating the figures. When questioned about the timing of the reminder, she said that it was only to help the consumers make an informed choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/country-of-origin-tag-a-must-paswan/article32037398.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Paswan lauds PM for ‘pro-poor policies’||With speculation about the Congress’s overtures to the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ahead of the Bihar Assembly election, the party patriarch and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, crediting him for his “pro-poor policies”. Mr. Paswan refused to answer the questions on the LJP’s future in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) even as the tussle between his son and party president Chirag Paswan and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar is out in the open. “The country has no paucity of leaders or policy, what we are lacking is in leaders with the right intention. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shown once again that he has every intention to help the poor,” he said. On his birthday on July 5, Mr. Modi had wished him on Twitter calling him a “major asset” for his government. Recalling Mr. Modi’s words, Mr. Paswan said, “I am committed towards PM Modi. He is our leader.” He redirected all the questions related to rumours about the LJP warming to the Congress to his son Mr. Chirag Paswan, saying he no longer looks into party affairs. Mr. Chirag Paswan, after weeks of criticism of Mr. Nitish Kumar alleging mishandling of the migrant crisis, has gone mum. The LJP, sources say, is keeping an “open mind”. It is holding dialogue with both sides, the NDA and Mahagathbandhan , the grand alliance of Opposition parties, and keeping everyone guessing. “We have no problems with the BJP, our limited concern is Nitish ji . If and when we feel too suffocated in NDA due to Nitish Kumar we are ready to strike out on our own or join Mahagathbandhan ,” a senior LJP leader said. It has laid out its matrix of conditions and is waiting to see which side is ready to fulfil them. “The BJP has committed 42 seats to us, it could be in Bihar or outside. And as far as Mahagathbandhan is concerned, we can’t join them if RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav is projected as the face of the alliance,” the leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paswan-lauds-pm-for-pro-poor-policies/article32037375.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||ICMR plans new survey to estimate COVID-19 spread||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will begin a new survey to estimate the true prevalence of the COVID-19 infection, senior officials in the Health Ministry said on Thursday. The organisation is yet to make public the details of its first (April) survey in 60 districts, which found that 0.73% of the population may have been exposed to the virus. The survey that began on May 12 appeared to suggest, as The Hindu reported last month, that at least 7,00,000 people were exposed to the virus across 21 States even in early May. That number suggested that the true number of infections was 20 times higher than the 35,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported then in the entire country, suggesting that the actual COVID-19 count overall could be underestimated by a factor of at least 20. “The results of that survey are still being processed and peer-reviewed and as soon as we are ready it will be shared,” said Rajesh Bhushan, OSD, Health Ministry, at a press conference. “There is yet another survey being planned to estimate prevalence across the country as also, an exercise by the National Centres for Disease Control, to estimate spread in Delhi. Those results will be available sooner.” Director-General of ICMR Balram Bhargava only shared headline figures on the prevalence in the district but did not disclose details on the extent of the spread in containment zones as well as hotspots. The Hindu reported on Wednesday, quoting officials, that the Delhi survey appeared to be indicating that at least 15% of the population may have been exposed to the virus. An ICMR epidemiologist, on condition of anonymity, told The Hindu that no firm plans were yet drawn on the conduct of a new survey. For such a survey, the government must either decide if the same districts that came under surveillance in the earlier survey are to be reinvestigated or a new set of places (to estimate if the infection has travelled more widely) must be decided. “There was a preliminary discussion last week but nothing has been finalised. Regarding the first survey, a complete report has been submitted to the Director-General, ICMR, but I don’t know about it being submitted to a journal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-plans-new-survey-to-estimate-covid-19-spread/article32037382.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Yale to probe controversial study on sex workers||The Yale School of Public Health has agreed to investigate a controversial study which could result in “abuse of sex workers’ rights in India”. The move follows an outcry from sex workers’ collectives, activists, lawyers and decision makers who demanded complete retraction of the study, which recommended keeping red light areas shut after lockdown in five cities in the country to “reduce new COVID-19 cases by 72% and deaths by 63%”. “We are investigating best options now. Thank you for your sharing your concerns of potential harm so clearly. Either I or a representative of Yale University will be in contact as to our action plan,” the Dean of Yale School of Public Health, Sten H. Vermund, wrote in response to a statement endorsed by 140 public health experts, activists, lawyers, NGOs, and sex workers. ‘Lack of transparency’ “We strongly denounce this study for its lack of rigorous methodology and transparency, misleading assumptions about sex work, and egregious disregard for the rights of the urban poor in India. The recommendations of this study essentially invite the state to use its coercive powers — police raids and evictions — to victimise the most marginalised of slum dwellers in the name of public health,” read the statement sent to Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Yale School of Public Health and Yale Medical School on July 7 and elicited a response the same day. Among the signatories were J.V.R. Prasada Rao, former Health Secretary for the Government of India and former UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy on AIDS; Sujatha Rao, former Health Secretary for the Government of India; Swarup Sarkar, former director of WHO/SEARO and the Global Fund Against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; and Siddharth Dube, former senior adviser to the Executive Director of UNAIDS. Gender rights activists such as Vrinda Grover, Suneeta Dhar and Sangeeta Rege and collectives at the forefront of the struggle for sex workers’ rights signed the statement. The report was published online in May, but is not yet peer-reviewed. It was accompanied by a disclaimer online that such studies “should not be relied upon without context to guide clinical practice or health-related behaviour and should not be reported in news media as established information without consulting multiple experts in the field.” Yet, in a statement shared with journalists, the authors claimed that the findings were shared with the Government of India and various State governments “along with a recommendation to continue closure of red-light areas (RLAs) beyond full nation-wide reopening as it can reduce the number of cases by 72% in a period of 45 days and delay the peak of COVID-19 cases by 17 days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yale-to-probe-controversial-study-on-sex-workers/article32037387.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,||For this teen, knowledge will come with power||The long wait for educational classes on her television set is set to end for Khushbu. The 15-year-old migrant student from Pulikamali in Mulanthuruthy panchayat along the eastern suburbs of Kochi, could join her more privileged peers by Friday to catch up with educational programmes on TV. The television was received as a donation by the family from the panchayat to facilitate her remote education, but it was of no use as her rented house had no power connection. The teen has continued her studies, reading textbooks under candlelight in the night, and making the most of the day. Decks have now been cleared to electrify her house after the panchayat and the District Child Welfare Council came forward to bear the expenses after The Hindu reported on her plight on Thursday. “We got in touch with the panchayat and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) authorities after the newspaper report came to our notice. We have agreed to meet all the expenses, including for electrification of her house, to aid hassle-free education of both the children in the family,” said K.S. Arun Kumar, vice-president, Ernakulam District Child Welfare Council. Khushbu and her younger brother Abhay, a fifth standard student, were born and brought up in Kerala after their father Sudheer Kumar Sahu relocated here from his home State of Odisha 15 years ago. “The panchayat has agreed to contribute Rs. 3,000 and I am happy that the Child Welfare Council has agreed to bear the rest,” said Mr. Sahu, who was earlier thinking of taking a loan. To get the power link, a post has to be erected to support the electrical line and KSEB produced an estimate of Rs. 16,300 as connectivity charges. “At the time of donating the television, we weren’t aware that the house had no power connection. Though we approached the house owner, he wasn’t willing to bear the expenses since he was planning to demolish the building where the migrant family was staying. However, we told him that nothing can be done that hampered the children’s education,” said V.K. Venu, panchayat ward member. He said that the house would receive an electricity connection in all likelihood by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-this-teen-knowledge-will-come-with-power/article32037455.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||144 veterans write to PM, President||In a letter to the top leadership of the country, 144 veterans requested a fact-finding body to be immediately instituted regarding the “intrusions, incursions and encroachments” by China along the border up to Arunachal Pradesh in the East and the report be tabled in the Lok Sabha within a time-bound framework. On the violent clash at Galwan, the veterans said it could only have happened because of “failure at one or more levels” in the political, civil and military establishments, especially in continuous intelligence acquisition and dissemination, and urged the nation’s intelligence system be revamped. The “Statement on China” addressed to the President, the Prime Minister, the Defence Minister, the Chief of Defence Staff and the three Service Chiefs was signed by 144 veterans from the three Services, including former Navy Chief Admiral L. Ramdas, and was sent by email on July 2. The loss of 20 Jawans on June 15 is deeply disturbing and raises many questions, they said, also referring to the May 5 incident at Pangong Tso, where a Colonel, a Major and jawans were wounded by similar action by the Chinese. “While we accept that failures can happen in any system, in the current instance either our intelligence system was found wanting, or the intelligence which it obtained did not reach the field units in time. We therefore urge that our nation’s intelligence system be urgently revamped,” the veterans said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/144-veterans-write-to-pm-president/article32037355.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army personnel told to delete 89 apps by July 15||The 1.3 million-strong Indian Army has directed all its personnel to remove 89 apps, including Facebook and Instagram, from their mobile phones by July 15. The apps also include the 59 Chinese apps banned by the government recently. The order was issued to prevent leakage of sensitive information and also due to security considerations, an Army source said on Thursday. Past directives While the Army had in past issued several directives on the use of Facebook and also asked its personnel to limit the use of WhatApp for official work, the present directive is much broader covering a range of apps across domains such as messaging, content sharing, Web browsers, video hosting, gaming, e-commerce, dating, anti-virus, news and music and others. There have been several cases of personnel being virtually honey-trapped on social media platforms, leading to sharing of sensitive information. Responding to the Army ban, Truecaller said in a statement that it was disappointing and saddening to learn that Truecaller was among the list of 89 apps being banned by the Indian armed forces for their personnel. ‘Disappointing, unfair’ It called the inclusion in the list as “unfair and unjust.” “We would like to reiterate that Truecaller remains safe to use, both for our citizens and for our esteemed armed forces personnel. We see no reason for Truecaller to be on this list and will investigate the matter further,” a Truecaller spokesperson said. Truecaller provided a vital service to over 170 million people in India, identifying and blocking hundreds of millions of spam calls and SMS every single day, the spokesperson added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-personnel-told-to-delete-89-apps-by-july-15/article32037364.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to take call on Australia’s inclusion in Malabar exercises||India will take a decision on whether to include Australia in the Malabar exercises with Japan and the U.S. at a Defence Ministry meeting early next week, according to a defence source. The decision, if taken, could bring all Quad countries together as part of the annual war games. “The general consensus is that Australia should join. A discussion is going to happen in the Defence Ministry on this issue next week,” the defence source said on condition of anonymity. LAC stand-off As reported by The Hindu on June 3, after years of reluctance, India said it was open to Australia’s inclusion in the Malabar as an observer. The move comes in the midst of the ongoing stand-off with China on the border, the biggest crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in over five decades. Australia’s inclusion would be seen as a possible first step towards the militarisation of the Quad coalition, something Beijing has opposed in the past. Once the government takes a decision to include Australia, as per procedure, the other partner nations — Japan and the U.S. — have to be informed to secure their consent, after which a formal invitation would be extended to Australia. Japan and the U.S. have been keen on Canberra’s inclusion for and have been pushing India to consider it. The Malabar exercise, which has been delayed this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, should take place towards the end of 2020, the source said. The inclusion of Australia in the exercises would mark a major shift for India’s Indo-Pacific plans. Started in 1992 Malabar began as a bilateral naval exercise between India and the U.S. in 1992, and was expanded into a trilateral format with the inclusion of Japan in 2015. In April 2017, The Hindu was the first to report of Australia’s request for observer status in the trilateral exercise.  Since then, Australia has made repeated requests to join the exercises and in January 2018, former Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull had said talks on the Malabar exercises were “progressing well”. However, India did not include Australia in the exercises in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-take-call-on-australias-inclusion-in-malabar-exercises/article32037392.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi/Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA to investigate Kerala airport gold smuggling case||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given the go ahead to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to investigate the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case. The decision came a day after Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an “effective and coordinated” investigation by “all Central agencies concerned” regarding the seizure of gold by Customs officials on July 5. “The MHA permits the National Investigation Agency (@NIA_India) to investigate the Thiruvananthapuram Airport Gold smuggling case, as the organised smuggling operation may have serious implications for national security,” a tweet by the Home Ministry spokesperson said. The 30-kg gold concealed in imported plumbing material was seized by the Customs officials upon inspection of an air cargo consignment addressed to the Consular General of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). One of the suspects, Swapna Praba Suresh, has moved an anticipatory bail plea claiming she is innocent. She was an employee of the consulate until the government appointed her as a marketing liaison officer of the Space Park project under the IT Department’s Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited. In her plea, she mentioned that though she had resigned from the Consulate, she was still working as secretary on “request basis” in view of the COVID-19 situation. The Customs officials had named her as a “suspect and person of interest.” Earlier, the State government removed M. Sivasankar from the post of Secretary to Mr. Vijayan as he had come under the scanner after the Opposition attempted to associate him and, by extension, the CM’s Office with Ms. Suresh. ‘Ready to testify’ Meanwhile, investigators said a senior official at the consulate of the United Arab Emirates in Thiruvananthapuram had hinted that he might be willing to testify before a magistrate. He reportedly claimed the documents produced by one of the mission’s former employees to clear the air freight that contained 30 kg of contraband gold valued at Rs. 15 crore were forged. The UAE official has also doubted the authenticity of the signatures on the papers submitted by the former staff for Customs verification. He denied the consulate had sanctioned the import. The Customs probe has pivoted on some former employees of the consulate who periodically undertook chores for the mission on a “request basis”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-to-investigate-kerala-airport-gold-smuggling-case/article32037334.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Inter 2nd year supplementary examinations cancelled||The State government has declared that all students who have applied for Intermediate second year supplementary exams will be deemed pass due to the current pandemic. Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy said that all students, who have failed in the annual examinations held in March this year, will be considered ‘compartmental passed’ with the government deciding not to conduct the supplementary exams due to the prevailing COVID conditions in the State. However, there is no clarity on whether students who have applied for the first year supplementary will be declared passed or they have to write the backlogs along with next year annual exams, or the supplementary exams will be conducted for them when the situation improves. Earlier, the government decided to pass all Class X students without conducting the exams based on the internal assessment marks. After announcing the cancellation of 10th Class exams, the government was under pressure not to conduct the Intermediate supplementary as well from various groups, including parents and students’ unions. After assessing the feedback, the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) recommended to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao favouring the cancellation citing several reasons, including the risk to students appearing and the teachers to be involved in the conduct of exam and later valuation of scripts. In the annual exams this year, 4,11,631 second year students took the test and 2,83,462 students cleared all the papers, and the remaining 1,28,169 students have now been declared passed.  In the annual exams this year, 4,11,631 second year students took the test and 2,83,462 students cleared all the papers, and the remaining 1,28,169 students have now been declared passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inter-2nd-year-supplementary-examinations-cancelled/article32037660.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China diplomats to meet for next round of LAC talks||Indian and Chinese diplomats and defence officials are expected to meet for the next round of talks about the LAC stand-off and disengagement process on Friday, in the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC), sources confirmed. The WMCC, comprising senior officials of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), was established in 2012 and normally meets twice a year, but is now meeting for the second time in two weeks, an indicator of the seriousness of the LAC situation. “The diplomatic and military officials of both sides will continue their meetings to take forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation as agreed to by the Special Representatives. The next meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) is expected to take place soon,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, in a statement similar to the one issued by MFA spokesperson Zhao Lijian in Beijing, neither of which had confirmed the exact date. The 16th round of the WMCC will be led by MEA Joint Secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava and Director General of the Department of Boundary & Oceanic Affairs of the Chinese MFA WU Jianghao. Officials from the Ministries of Defence and Home Affairs, the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police will join along with their Chinese counterparts. With the disengagement process in the Galwan area, Hotspring and Gogra point under way, sources said the next round of Corps commander meetings is also expected to take place next week to discuss the next phase of disengagement and de-escalation at several points of the LAC where Chinese troops moved in over the past two months, including the Pangong Tso (lake) Finger areas. The two sides will also discuss a possible timetable for the demobilisation of troops gathered on both sides along the LAC. ‘Situation improving’ Mr. Zhao said the situation at the LAC was “stable and improving”, and proceeding along the lines of the disengagement process agreed to by military commanders on June 6, 22, and 30. “Following the consensus reached at the commander-level talks, Chinese and Indian border troops have taken effective measures to disengage at the frontline at the Galwan Valley and other areas. The situation along the border is stable and improving … Hope India will work together with us to take concrete action and implement the consensus reached and jointly work for de-escalation along the border,” Mr. Zhao said. The MEA, which also credited the conversation between Special Representatives National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on July 6 for the process, said the two sides had agreed on the need to “ensure at the earliest, complete disengagement”. ‘Inaccurate comments’ The MEA spokesperson reacted sharply to speculation that the plans for disengagement, including the creation of “buffer zones” along the LAC — which necessitate Indian troops will pull back from their positions — would place India at a disadvantage in the Galwan valley. “We have also noted that there have been some inaccurate and uninformed comments about the disengagement process and its implications,” said Mr. Srivastava, who pointed to several MEA statements that had rejected the Chinese claims on the Galwan valley area, and said neither side should take any unilateral action to alter the LAC.  (With inputs from Dinakar Peri and   Ananth Krishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-diplomats-to-meet-for-next-round-of-lac-talks/article32037361.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: eight Ministers put in charge of Bengaluru civic zones||As Bengaluru has seen a steep rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the recent weeks, Ministers will be put in charge of micromanaging the government’s efforts to control the pandemic in eight BBMP zones besides the deployment of eight IAS officers to handle the situation. The decision by the State Cabinet on Thursday follows a detailed deliberation of COVID-19 situation in Bengaluru and also in the State. The Chief Minister has decided to appoint a Minister as in-charge for each zone in Bengaluru for effective management and to control the pandemic, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons after the Cabinet meeting. Incidentally, the BBMP war room report shows that with the spike in cases, the city has overtaken Kolkata, which has 7,680 cases. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, seven Ministers — K. Sudhakar, R. Ashok, S. Suresh Kumar, V. Somanna, S.T. Somashehar, Byrathi Basvaraj, K. Gopaliah, and the Chief Minister’s political secretary S.R. Vishwanath, who represent different constituencies in the city, will be in charge of eight zones. While the Ministers will lead the efforts in each zone, the State government also deployed eight IAS officers to assist the Ministers. They are Tushar Girinath (East zone), Rajendra Kumar Kataria (West zone), Munish Moudgil (South zone), P. Manivannan (Bommanahalli), Naveen Raj Singh (Yelahanka), N. Manjula (Mahadevapura), P.C. Jaffer (Dasarahalli), and R. Vishal (Rajarajeshwarinagar). Zonal officers will help take fast decisions on checking the spread of the pandemic, an order issued here by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar said. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said Ministers will lead the effort in each zone and legislators will assist at the Assembly level and BBMP councillors will assist at the ward level. “A 15-member volunteer group will be formed in each of the ward. Persons with symptoms or requiring help can call the volunteers whose phone numbers will be widely shared in the ward,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-eight-ministers-put-in-charge-of-bengaluru-civic-zones/article32037341.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Protect people by listening to experts: HDK||Slamming the State government for spending time merely on meetings and firefighting differences between Ministers, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to adhere to expert suggestions in management of COVID-19 pandemic that has gone out of control. His comments come in the light of the State government announcing appointment of eight Ministers to each of the eight BBMP zones to coordinate the pandemic control exercise in the city. “Ministers are now acknowledging that there have been failures. The Chief Minister is also showing signs of helplessness over containing the pandemic. Nobody expected that he will show helplessness. We have to understand where we have gone wrong. The government must listen to experts to protect people,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said in a 11-minute video released to the media. He said that over the last three months, the government spent time on meetings. “The Chief Minister should tell us what has been the outcome of these meetings. Merely holding meetings will not help. Over the last three months, CM and ministers have been holding meetings. Now people have started feeling that it is only talking.” The former Chief Minister also clarified that he was not in favour of attacking the government on the alleged financial irregularities or shortcomings, but the Opposition has to offer cooperation during this crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protect-people-by-listening-to-experts-hdk/article32037462.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kaval extends its healing touch during lockdown too||Tasked with an activity during the lockdown, Mani (name changed) who had seen his mother make cakes wanted to cook one too. There was no oven at home, so he built a fire and made the cake in an ‘uruli’ filled with sand. Helping him all through was his family. Mani made the cake during the second phase of the lockdown as part of a cooking competition devised by the team behind Kaval, a project of the Women and Child Development Department for psychosocial rehabilitation of children in conflict with law. The 18-year-old boy was referred to Kaval after he was involved in a theft. Soon, there were two more cases against him. The cake-making exercise improved his relationship with parents, and they too began to support his interests, says Pavin Nath, coordinator of the Darshan Foundation that implements Kaval in Kollam. Creative engagement Working with children in conflict with law is challenging at the best of the times. It was made more difficult by the months of lockdown. The Kaval team was aware that the children would need to be engaged creatively if they were to see the lockdown through safely, says Kavitha P., project coordinator, Kaval. Enter Kaval Kalari, a programme to engage the children in activities depending on their interests, be it poetry, photography, making videos or posters, farming, or craft. To guide them, the NGO coordinators sent them videos of the activities, and the children too were to shoot videos of their efforts and send them back. Bid to strengthen bonds In an attempt to strengthen bonds, the direction was that each member of the child’s family should be involved in the task. Even in the first phase of the lockdown, the NGO coordinators made sure to keep in touch with the children and their families over the phone. Of the 1,600-odd children who are part of Kaval, the team reached out to over 1,000 who had access to mobile phones, says Sreenesh S. Anil, programme officer, Kaval. Focus was not only on the children though. Even the Kaval team, including District Child Protection Officers, Legal-cum-Probation Officers, and NGO staff, was provided support to beat the lockdown blues. The template was similar – activities to help them manage pandemic-induced stress and equip them to face challenges in the post-COVID-19 era, says Sreenesh. Proactive move Though the restrictions have eased and the Kaval team is resuming work slowly, the Kollam NGO is sending videos to these children on personal development, habits, communication skills, and life skills with focus on creative thinking. Lockdown or not, Kaval continues to be with the children as they journey back to life and society.  It is a programme to engage children in activities depending on their interests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kaval-extends-its-healing-touch-during-lockdown-too/article32037716.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||ED attaches assets in Yes Bank case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth over Rs. 2,200 crore in connection with the money laundering case against Rana Kapoor, the then promoter-director of Yes Bank and others. “The present market value of these assets, located in India and abroad, is more than Rs. 2,800 crore... The properties belong to Mr. Kapoor, Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and the entities controlled by them,” said an official. The assets linked to Mr. Kapoor are worth Rs. 792 crore on paper, with the market value of Rs. 1,400 crore. They include a residential building “Khursidabad” in Cumbala Hill, three duplex flats along Napean Sea Road, one flat at Nariman Point and eight flats at Worli in Mumbai. Properties related to the Wadhawans include 12 flats in Mumbai, one in New York and two more in London, besides two land parcels in Pune and Mulshi, one commercial property in Australia, five luxury vehicles and 344 bank accounts. The ED probe is based on two cases instituted by the Central Bureau of Investigation in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-in-yes-bank-case/article32037372.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Full play of IoT in design of new Telangana Secretariat||The proposed new Secretariat complex will see the full play of Internet of Things (IoT) going by the assertion of architects roped in for the prestigious project. The interiors as well as the exteriors of the new complex are being designed in a futuristic way with thermal sensitive and voice-controlled lighting. The lights would switch on automatically as one walks in and would be switched off as one walks out because of the thermal sensors. “We are looking beyond 20 years from now in finalising the designs for the interiors,” said architects Oscar Concessao and Ponni Concessao of the Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects that had been entrusted with the task of preparing the designs for the new Secretariat complex. The firm believes in sustainable principles of architecture and has therefore focused more on natural sources of ventilation to reduce the carbon footprint as much as possible. “We are looking at harnessing solar energy in active and passive ways,” Ms. Ponni told The Hindu . The architects designed several IT buildings and the firm was keen on utilising IoT technologies as much as possible in the building designs. Asked about the design for the new Secretariat complex, the architects said the dome and allied architectural features were inspired by temples dedicated to Lord Shiva and an example of Hindu Deccan Kakatiya architecture “expressing democracy in architecture”. The design philosophy was synthesis and fusion of diverse cultures and beliefs that were part and parcel of the State’s dynamic history. CM’s office The main entry would be located in the east and there would be a separate entry for the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister’s office would be on the sixth floor and it had been designed for Vaastu compliance with a separate secure entry and drop off for the Chief Minister. The remaining floors are planned for Chief Secretary, GAD, chambers for Ministers and various departments along with conference rooms. The lower floors would accommodate a 1,000-seater large auditorium, archives, large reception, waiting areas and police. The complex would be equipped with surveillances, intelligent building management systems, record rooms and other facilities and the organisation of function, sequences and space within the premises would be connected through corridors. Ms. Ponni said in addition to incorporating technological features, the firm was looking at cutting edge anti-bacterial, anti-viral and anti-microscopic building material. The thrust will be on avoiding the use of air-conditioners as much as possible so that the complex would be virus proof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/full-play-of-iot-in-design-of-new-telangana-secretariat/article32037345.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||NDMA to monitor water release to Karnataka||Observing that a ‘threatening disaster situation’ may arise in the State due to release of water from the dams in Maharashtra during monsoon, the Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to look into this aspect and issue necessary directions to both States through its National Executive Committee (NEC). The High Court also directed the Chief Secretary and other officers of Karnataka to be in touch with their counterparts in Maharashtra to exchange information on release of water and to take precautions till the NDMA examines the matter. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna issued the directions after noticing from the documents produced by the Central and State governments that they don’t throw light on the question whether there exists a mechanism for States to give immediate intimation to their neighbouring States on release of water from the dams. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by Mallikarjuna A., an agriculturist and social activist from Chelur village in Gubbi taluk of Tumakuru district, who had complained that the States are not bound by the law to intimate their neighbours on water release from dams resulting in damage to properties. Apart from citing earlier instances of floods in North Karnataka due to water released from Maharashtra, the petitioner expressed fear that the State may face a similar situation presently if water is being released from Maharashtra. The only law Earlier, the Union government counsel M.N. Kumar narrated various integrated mechanisms existing for release of water from dams across States and said that the only law available for the Centre to act in case of floods is the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005. A ‘threatening disaster situation’ may arise as a result of water release from dams in Maharashtra and with a view to take proper measure on such situation, the NEC can always take decision under Section 10(2)(h) of the DM Act to lay down guidelines and issue directions to the States and the authorities concerned on measures to be taken by them in response to any ‘threatening disaster situation or disaster’, the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ndma-to-monitor-water-release-to-karnataka/article32037339.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka for CBI probe into ‘protection’ for Dubey||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday called for a CBI probe into the alleged ‘grant of protection’ to gangster Vikas Dubey, and questioned the Uttar Pradesh government on the gangster’s escape to Madhya Pradesh if security had indeed been tightened across the State. In a tweet, Ms. Vadra accused the U.P. government of “complete failure”, and alleged that it was not alert in handling the Kanpur ambush case. “The Uttar Pradesh government has completely failed in acting with alacrity in the ghastly Kanpur massacre. Despite an alert, the gangster reaching Ujjain exposes the chinks in security and points to collusion,” Ms. Vadra said in a tweet in Hindi. Further, she alleged, the sequence of events exposed the chinks in security and hinted at collusion.“‘No action’ on a three-month-old letter and the name of Vikas not being included in the list of noted criminals indicate that the strings of this matter are linked to high-ups. The Uttar Pradesh government should conduct a CBI probe to ascertain all facts and bring out the links of protection to him,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-for-cbi-probe-into-protection-for-dubey/article32037359.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. ‘watching’ WHO alert on airborne spread of virus||“It would perhaps be not fair to compare India to other countries in terms of absolute numbers. India has 195.5 cases per million population which is amongst the lowest in the world,” said Mr. Bhushan. He added that India currently has a fatality rate of 2.75%. The Ministry added that the data of the age-wise COVID fatalities in India as on July 9 indicates that 25% population (above 45 years) has witnessed 85% deaths, while 10% population (above 60 years) has witnessed 53% deaths. Mr. Bhushan refused to put a date to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) previous claim of being able to release an indigenous vaccine by August 15. The official added that two Indian companies — Bharat Biotech and Cadila Healthcare — were developing vaccines and both vaccines have completed animal toxicity studies. “Now after approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the two vaccines have been permitted to go in for Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials. Trials will hopefully begin soon,” he said. ICMR scientist Nivedita Gupta also replying to the internal letter which instructed clinical trial sites chosen to conduct human trials of Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine, to make it available for public use by 15 August said the letter, signed by ICMR DG Balram Bhargava, was “only intended to expedite duly approved trials.” The Health Ministry, meanwhile, said it is reviewing the drug remdesivir for use among COVID patients after the drug indicated negative impact on the liver function. “A committee has been formed which is looking at the drugs and therapies under use and we will change the medical use protocol if needed,” said Mr. Bhushan. Dr. Gupta said India is seeing an increase in testing facilities. She said: “An average of more than 2.6 lakh samples being tested per day. We hope to see a further rise by the use of the antigen test. During the last 24 hours 2,67,061 samples have been tested. As on date, 1,07,40,832 samples have been tested. India currently has 1,132 labs comprising 805 in the government sector and 327 private labs.” Joint Secretary in the Home Ministry Punya Saila Srivastava, also present at the conference, noted that over 20,000 tests are being conducted in Delhi every day and that till July 8, 6,79,831 COVID19 tests had been conducted in Delhi, which means 35,780 tests per 10 lakh people. “Increasing the number of beds, use of rapid antigen testing, demarcating of containment zones, contact tracing have been used in Delhi to bring down the numbers,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-watching-who-alert-on-airborne-spread-of-virus/article32037331.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||India seeing green shoots of economic revival: PM||Mr. Modi’s reference to “green shoots” or small signs of revival comes a few days after the Ministry of Finance published its macroeconomic report for June 2020, which said activity had “picked up” in certain areas, even though the GDP growth estimates have plummeted further. “Early green shoots of economic revival have emerged in May and June with real activity indicators like electricity and fuel consumption, inter and intra-State movement of goods, retail financial transactions witnessing pick up,” said the report, showing that while there isn’t growth per se yet, the consumption in certain areas wasn’t falling as fast as it was earlier. Electricity consumption was down, -11% in June as opposed to -24% year on year in April 2020. E-way bill values, petroleum products consumption, and railway freight traffic were all also lower than last year but higher than last month, the report said. IMF estimates While confirming the IMF’s (International Monetary Fund) latest estimates of a sharp 6.4% contraction in growth rates, the Department of Economic Affairs, which authored the report, said that “in line with downward revision of global growth, India’s growth has been forecast at -4.5 % in 2020”. Mr. Modi said that India’s “talent force” and its “ability to reform and rejuvenate” would ensure that it would lead the global revival. Inviting the investors gathered for the virtual summit, he singled out agriculture, defence, space technology and the MSME sector for funds. Addressing international investor worries over the government’s announcement of building “Atmanirbhar Bharat [self-reliant India]”, which is seen as a possibly protectionist policy, he stated that “Atma Nirbhar Bharat is not about being self-contained or being closed to the world. It is about being self-sustaining and self-generating”. Speaking at another session at the conference, U.S. Ambassador Kenneth Juster said India should position itself as a counterpoint to China, in comments referring to the border stand-off and to India’s earlier decision not to join China’s Belt and Road Initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-seeing-green-shoots-of-economic-revival-pm/article32037349.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath Singh inaugurates 6 bridges in J&K||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday e-inaugurated six major bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation close to the International Border and the Line of Control in J&K. “The two bridges on the Tarnah Nallah in Kathua district and four bridges located on Akhnoor-Pallanwala road in Akhnoor have spans ranging from 30 to 300 metres and were constructed at a total cost of Rs. 43 crore,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. These bridges, constructed by Project Sampark of the BRO, would facilitate the movement of armed forces in this strategically important sector, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-singh-inaugurates-6-bridges-in-jk/article32037594.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 warriors threaten to boycott work||Demanding good quality protective gear and better incentives, frontline healthcare workers have threatened to boycott work in the State from Friday. Nearly 42,000 ASHAs, who began their Statewide protest on June 30 demanding a monthly honorarium of Rs. 12,000 and adequate personal protection equipment (PPE), have threatened to completely stop all services. During their week-long campaign, they submitted memoranda to the respective Deputy Commissioners and tahsildars as well as elected representatives. “Since January we have submitted at least 10 memoranda and appealed to the authorities repeatedly. However, there has been no positive response. Left with no other alternative, workers throughout the State are boycotting work from July 10,” said D. Nagalakshmi, State secretary of Karnataka Rajya Samyukta ASHA Karyakarteyara Sangha. Meanwhile, demanding enhanced salaries and matching grants to their fixed honorarium from the State government, as many 1,802 contract employees at the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS) have threatened to boycott work from July 20. “Although we have been working for over 18 years, our salaries are in the range of Rs. 13,000 to Rs. 16,200. We have not been provided adequate PPE, masks and gloves,” said Fayaz Ahmed, president of KSAPS Contract Workers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-warriors-threaten-to-boycott-work/article32037459.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Take Cong. leaders on board’||In a message to the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and other Congress leaders to offer their cooperation to the government, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy suggested to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to take Congress leaders on board on all committees and taskforces that could also bring transparency. Without referring the name of Mr. Siddaramaiah, he said: “Leader of the Opposition should also cooperate with the government. We can question the government on financial irregularities at a later stage.” The government should also take Congress leaders into confidence and “take their approval” in decisions made, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-cong-leaders-on-board/article32037463.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM CARES is separate from NDRF: govt||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Thursday defended in the Supreme Court the existence of PM CARES Fund to receive “voluntary donations”. The Ministry also outright rejected a plea to credit the amounts received by PM CARES for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic into the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The Ministry told a three-judge Bench that funds like PM CARES were “separate, different, distinct” from the NDRF. “Separate provisions” govern them. The government was responding to a writ petition filed by NGO Centre for PIL that said contributions to PM CARES should be transferred entirely to the NDRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cares-is-separate-from-ndrf-govt/article32037373.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Declare any affiliation to illegal groups’||The Nagaland government has asked its officials to declare if their family members are members of any “underground organisation”. The decision comes in the wake of a letter written by Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio on July 16. “Administrative heads of the department are directed to obtain information in the self-declaration form from all government departments regarding family members and relatives in underground organisations,” an order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/declare-any-affiliation-to-illegal-groups/article32037380.ece
10 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,||ACB finds lapses in functioning of DMHO||The Anti-Corruption Bureau has prima facie found several lapses in the functioning of Anantapur District Medical and Health Office and proposed to continue the verification process. One of the major lapses found by the ACB team during its raid on the DMHO’s office till Wednesday night was allowing of private nursing homes, clinics, diagnostic laboratories and hospitals to function without renewing their licence since 2017, Tirupati ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Alla Baksh said on Thursday. "We need to go to some hospitals and clinics to verify the records there and also look into the utilisation of National Health Mission funds received from the Centre in addition to the allegations of lapses in recruitment," he observed. The licence and renewal fee collected by the DMHO’s office from private hospitals and clinics amounted to Rs. 33 lakh since 2013. “As per rule, 50% of the collected amount was to be remitted to the Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare immediately, but that was not done,” he said. Enhanced fee during renewal was also not collected and it was It was also found that there was a delay in approval or rejection of ‘medical reimbursement’ claims that come to the DMHO if the amount crosses Rs. 50,000, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/acb-finds-lapses-in-functioning-of-dmho/article32037863.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal blacks out Indian news channels||Nepal will not allow foreign TV channels that indulge in the character assassination of its leaders and will seek legal remedies against such news outlets, a senior Minister of the government of Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli said on Thursday evening. The announcement was accompanied by simultaneous blacking out of all Indian news channels, barring Doordarshan, across Nepal. “We do not want to interfere in affairs of the media. Not just foreign but even domestic TV channels will be regulated if they are found to be airing offensive content or are indulging in character assassination [of Nepalese citizens and leaders] and are found to be disrespectful of Nepal’s sovereignty. Nepal will also seek political and legal remedies against such channels,” said Minister of Communication and Information Technology Yubaraj Khatiwada, in response to a question regarding certain Indian channels airing objectionable content on Prime Minister Oli and the Chinese Ambassador to Kathmandu Hou Yanqi. Apart from Mr. Khatiwada, several prominent Nepalese leaders also condemned Indian media outlets.  Though major Indian news channels have been stopped from being aired in Nepal, the final policy is yet to become clear as more official statements are expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-blacks-out-indian-news-channels/article32037357.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||India-UAE stalemate on flights ends||After a long stalemate that left many stranded, India and the UAE have agreed to allow each other’s airlines to bring passengers into their territory. Until now Vande Bharat flights operated by Air India Express were flying empty out of India while bringing back Indians from the UAE. The same was true for airlines such as Emirates and flydubai, which were not allowed to bring passengers into India, but could fly out UAE residents to destinations such as Dubai. “This arrangement will be in place for a period of 15 days from 12-26 July, 2020,” Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri tweeted. Following the announcement, Air India Express opened ticket sales for flights from India to UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-uae-stalemate-on-flights-ends/article32037356.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. notifies draft rules on wages Act||The Union Labour and Employment Ministry on Tuesday published the draft rules framed for the implementation of the Code on Wages Act, 2019, that guarantees minimum wages to all and defines how the wages will be calculated. The Ministry sought suggestions from the public for a period of 45 days. The Code on Wages was the first of the four codes proposed by the government as a part of its labour law reforms that was passed by Parliament in August 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-notifies-draft-rules-on-wages-act/article32037370.ece
10 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Campaign for release of Akhil Gogoi launched||A day after two of his jailed colleagues tested COVID-19 positive, supporters of Assam’s peasant leader and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activist Akhil Gogoi have launched an online campaign for his release from prison. Mr. Gogoi has been in jail since his arrest on December 12, 2019, for allegedly instigating violence during the anti-CAA protests that led to the death of at least six people. Three members of his group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti and its student wing were also held in sedition cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-for-release-of-akhil-gogoi-launched/article32037595.ece
10 July 2020||Srinagar,||Soldier, civilian injured in attack||A soldier and a civilian were injured in an attack on an Army vehicle in Pulwama on Thursday. An ambulance with the Quick Reaction Team was fired upon by terrorists in Awantipora around 6 p.m, said an Army spokesman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldier-civilian-injured-in-attack/article32037369.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Appointment of BMCRI professor as Bowring Medical College director raises eyebrows||The Medical Education Department’s decision to abruptly end the contract of K.S. Manjunath, dean-cum-director of Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, and replace him with an orthopaedic professor from Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) has raised several eyebrows. Dr. Manjunath, who was appointed as the dean and director of Bowring Medical College ever since the college was set up in 2017, was continued on an extension contract for three years after he retired in 2018. His term was supposed to end in November 2021. Sources said he had applied for six weeks leave on personal reasons from July 1. However, the Medical Education Department ended his contract abruptly and replaced him with Manoj Kumar, professor from the department of Orthopaedics in BMCRI. This has been opposed by several senior doctors from Bowring Medical College. Raising objection to Manoj Kumar’s appointment, three senior doctors from Bowring Medical College including Medical Superintendent G.N. Vijaylakshmi have written to Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. The letter signed by Srinivas Naidu, professor and head of the department of Physiology, and Meenakshi Parthasarthy, professor and head of the department of Anatomy, apart from Dr. Vijaylakshmi stated that the institute’s bylaws and Cadre and Recruitment (C and R) Rules do not permit anyone from outside the institute to be appointed to the top post. Appealing to the Minister to appoint one among the senior professors in Bowring Medical College as the dean-cum-director, the three doctors said: “As BMCRI would have shown Dr. Manoj Kumar as a faculty on rolls at its institute during inspections by the Medical Council of India, it is not possible to show him on the rolls of Bowring Medical Institute again.” However, Mr. Sudhakar said Dr. Manjunath had himself suggested the names of six professors — three from Bowring Medical College and two from BMCRI — who could be given charge of the post. In a tweet, the Minister posting the outgoing director’s leave letter said Dr. Manjunath was holding an in-charge post. “As he sought to go on long leave, we immediately appointed one of those suggested by him to ensure that the functioning of the institute, a designated COVID hospital, is not affected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/appointment-of-bmcri-professor-as-bowring-medical-college-director-raises-eyebrows/article32037342.ece
10 July 2020||Guwahati,||Meghalaya Governor bats for non-tribals||Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy has said he will not consider himself a Governor worth the name “if I cannot assure non-tribals of their rights”. His tweets on Thursday were in connection with the July 3 assault on five Bengali boys who were playing basketball in the Lawsohtun area of State capital Shillong. “I have discussed this matter at length with the CM [Conrad K. Sangma] who has assured me of appropriate action,” Mr. Roy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-governor-bats-for-non-tribals/article32037389.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Minister says permissions for film shoots at monuments to be expedited||Union Tourism and Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Thursday said the government would work to issue permissions for shooting at historical monuments within 15 to 20 days. At an online event organised by FICCI, Mr. Patel urged filmmakers to shoot at some of the less known monuments of the Archaeological Survey of India in addition to the iconic sites. He also appealed to them to explore the northeastern region as a filming destination, adding that the Centre would help with getting permissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-says-permissions-for-film-shoots-at-monuments-to-be-expedited/article32037390.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Sanitisers worth Rs. 20 cr. seized, 3 held||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) in Bhopal has seized branded alcohol-based hand sanitisers worth Rs. 20.40 crore and arrested three persons for allegedly evading tax through clandestine production and sale. “The sanitisers were being produced by SOM Distilleries Private Limited in Raisen. About 14 lakh litres were supplied without issuing invoice for payment of GST of about Rs. 8 crore,” said an official. Among those arrested the directors and owners of the SOM Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanitisers-worth-rs-20-cr-seized-3-held/article32037393.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai accounts for less than a third of fresh cases||Chennai accounted for less than a third of the 4,231 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. While the total number of persons discharged after treatment went past 50,000 in the city, a 25-day-old baby with a congenital anomaly was among the 65 fatalities reported across the State. After recording less than 4,000 cases for three consecutive days, Tamil Nadu saw an increase, with 4,231 persons testing positive. This took its overall tally to 1,26,581*. The infant, from Tiruvannamalai, was admitted to the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Chennai, on June 27. She underwent three surgeries for a congenital anomaly. “The baby had Hirschsprung’s disease (congenital megacolon). Usually, a surgery is done in two stages. We took the baby for surgery after sending a sample for COVID-19 testing. The first surgery was for ileostomy. The swab returned positive for COVID-19, and the baby’s post-operative care was provided in the COVID-19 ward,” a senior doctor said. Two more surgeries were performed. “But the baby had complications due to the anomaly and bacterial infection,” he said. The baby died on July 7 due to septicaemia, Hirschsprung’s disease, multiple laparotomies, COVID-19 and cardiac arrest, according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. A 39-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever for four days, sore throat and loss of smell. He died on the same day owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. A 59-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19 on June 28 and who was under home isolation, was declared brought dead at a private hospital on July 8. He had diabetes and systemic hypertension and was taken to the hospital owing to sudden unresponsiveness. Chennai continued to stay at the 1,200-mark for the third day running. With 1,216 fresh cases, the city’s overall count stood at 73,728. The State’s recovery rate stood at 61%, with 3,994 more persons discharged after treatment. Of these, 2,700 were discharged in Chennai. As of date, a total of 78,161 persons were discharged in the State, while 46,652 persons were under treatment. The State’s toll increased to 1,765. Of the 65 deaths, 23 were in Chennai and nine in Madurai. A total of 42,369 samples were tested on Thursday, the highest number to be tested on a single day. The total number of samples tested so far has gone up to 14,91,783. A total of 41,038 individuals were tested on a single day. New cases Over 70% of the fresh cases were from the rest of the State. Tiruvallur led the daily count with 364 cases. Virudhunagar and Madurai followed with 289 and 261 cases respectively. Kallakurichi witnessed a spike in cases, with 231 persons testing positive. There were 196 cases in Thoothukudi, 169 in Chengalpattu and 110 in Tirunelveli. Tiruchi reported 93 cases, while Theni had 90 cases. Kanyakumari reported 89 cases, Vellore, 87, Coimbatore, 85, Salem, 84, and Ranipet, 79. A total of 145 returnees, including 17 from Kuwait and 31 from Karnataka, tested positive in Tamil Nadu. Two more testing facilities — the District Headquarters Hospital, Perambalur, and GeneTeq Immuno-Molecular Lab Pvt Ltd, Salem — were approved for testing. With this, the State has 100 testing facilities — 53 in the government sector and 47 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-accounts-for-less-than-a-third-of-fresh-cases/article32037536.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Wait and watch Chennai’s COVID-19 pattern before declaring success’||The palpable celebration of the falling COVID-19 number in the city might just be a tad premature. While there has been some reduction over a few days, the effect of the lockdown in pushing the number down cannot be overlooked. Public health experts are calling for caution, to wait and watch if the number is going down further, before concluding that Chennai has turned the bend. A careful look at the statistics indicates the shadow the lockdown cast on the number of positive cases in the city. In terms of absolute number as well as positivity rate, any significant fall occurs only after July 4, 15 days after the complete lockdown was enforced. From July 4, the number drops to below 2,000, though the number of tests being done remains high, in the 10,000 bracket. Over the last three days, the number of cases has hovered around the 1,200-mark, resulting in a further drop in the positivity rate. On July 7, the positivity rate dropped to its lowest 11.7% from a high of 22% on June 23. The performance over six days is scarcely a true measure of an epidemic that has raged on for months. “We need to see if this performance is consistent,” says T. Jacob John, senior virologist, Christian Medical College, Vellore. “It could well be transient. We do need to wait for a while to see if this trend sustains. A lockdown has been in place, and it has a known effect — in terms of postponing the crisis. If the downtrend sustains, then, and only then might we conclude that we’re past the peak.” However, he hastens to add that any further lockdown is impractical. V. Ramasubramanian, senior consultant, infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals, is very frank. “It is very premature to talk about Chennai’s success at this point. The lockdown definitely played a role.” He further explains: “What we are seeing now as a plateau will be a repeat pattern over the next couple of months. We will have a wave, of ups and downs, over August and September. By the end of the year, Tamil Nadu might be able to heave a sigh of relief. And perhaps, the next year, there will be a second wave, but not so intense.” Dr. John stresses the importance of mask-wearing as it will make social interactions reasonably possible, while maintaining physical distance. Behaviour change is the only key to the future, he says. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan says it might just be too early, and there is no room for complacency. “While there has been a reduction due to tracing through fever camps, aggressive testing, tracing and isolating and treating and micro-plan, house-to-house visit, NGO work, and co-operation from public, it is too early to be satisfied or comment as we need to keep continuing to work with the same intensity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wait-and-watch-chennais-covid-19-pattern-before-declaring-success/article32037539.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shops flouting norms will be shut for 14 days||The Greater Chennai Corporation will seal commercial establishments for 14 days if they are found to be not enforcing norms on physical distancing and wearing of masks. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Thursday held a meeting with representatives from eateries and online agencies to control the spread of COVID-19 in the city. At the meeting, officials stressed the need to adhere to safety norms. “At least one lakh commercial establishments in the city attract crowds, increasing the risk of COVID-19 spread. The commercial buildings, including banks and PDS outlets, will be locked and sealed for 14 days for any violations pertaining to physical distancing. The establishments will be locked and sealed if any customers are found not wearing masks on the premises,” said Mr. Prakash. Each of the commercial establishments has been directed to ensure physical distancing of their staff members and place hand sanitisers at the entrance. According to estimates, at least 6,000 staff of online agencies that deliver commodities at the doorsteps of residents have been asked to follow norms pertaining to physical distancing, wearing of masks and sanitation. Representatives of online agencies and hotels requested the civic body to reduce the fine amount for violation of norms. “We will rationalise the fine amount,” said Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy. On Thursday, representatives of at least 10,000 commercial establishments, including salons, hotels, restaurants and online agencies participated in the meeting in Ripon Buildings and requested the Corporation to reduce the fine amount. They agreed to stringent measures by the civic body. Most of the representatives agreed to the locking and sealing of shops that violated norms. Each shop would be permitted to have a maximum of five persons in the building at a time. On Friday, Corporation officials will meet representatives of banks and PDS outlets to promote physical distancing norms. Banks will be sealed if any COVID-19 positive cases are traced to the premises, officials said. Following directions from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday, the Corporation has decided to increase the number of tests from 10,000 to 13,000 every day. According to estimates, more than 15,000 commercial establishments have been contributing to crowding in various locations. The city has registered 80% compliance with respect to wearing of masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-flouting-norms-will-be-shut-for-14-days/article32037515.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to verify original extent of Narayanapuram Lake||The Southern Zone Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a joint committee to verify the revenue records of the Narayanapuram Lake at Pallikaranai to ascertain its original extent, find out if there are any unauthorised encroachments, and the action taken on such encroachments. The committee has been directed to test the quality of water in the lake and if contaminated, find out its source and suggest steps to restore the lake to its original position. The Bench, comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, asked the committee to look at a long-term and a short-term solution to protect the lake from encroachments by establishing biodiversity parks or tree plantations around it and construct a compound wall or other such measures. The directions came on a report taken up suo motu by the NGT that said the lake initially spanned 120 acres and was earlier used for providing drinking water and acted as a rainwater harvesting system. With encroachments over a period of time, the extent of the lake shrunk to 45.05 acres. The report said that owing to lack of maintenance and negligence by the State government and the Highways Department, the extent of the lake had been reduced with the construction of the Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam radial road. “The committee is also directed to mention as to whether there was any scheme launched by the government or the local authorities for maintaining this waterbody and if so, its stage of implementation and to ascertain the existence of the inflow and outflow canals and drains, which act as a stormwater drain to carry excess rainwater into the lake,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-verify-original-extent-of-narayanapuram-lake/article32037513.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tribunal orders NLCIL to deposit Rs. 5 cr for giving interim compensation||The National Green Tribunal has ordered NLC India Ltd (NLCIL) to deposit Rs. 5 crore with the District Magistrate, Cuddalore, within two weeks to meet claims for compensation as an ad-hoc arrangement. The case relates to the explosion of a boiler in Unit-V of the thermal power station on July 1, in which 13 employees lost their lives. The Principal Bench of the NGT also constituted an independent committee, comprising officials of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), the District Magistrate, Cuddalore, and experts from NEERI and IIT-Madras to visit the site and submit an independent report on the sequence of events, causes of failure of the unit, persons and authorities responsible, compliance of norms, extent of damage to life, public health and environment and steps to be taken for compensation of victims. Restoration plan The Bench said the committee may prepare a restoration plan and quantify the compensation to be paid. It also directed the Chief Secretary, Tamil Nadu, to take appropriate action against persons responsible for failure of statutory regulatory framework. The TNPCB was issued directions to ensure that the unit did not commence operations till all safety precautions are met. “The industrial unit is liable to pay interim compensation on the principle of Absolute Liability. Counsel for the industrial unit has stated that in respect of each death compensation of Rs. 30 lakh is contemplated. We are of the view that the amount may be paid as interim compensation pending final assessment,” the Bench said. The Bench said those injured also had to be compensated. Ordering the company to deposit Rs. 5 crore with the District Magistrate, the Bench said that if any amount had already been paid towards compensation, it could be adjusted upon showing proof. The matter has been posted for further consideration on November 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribunal-orders-nlcil-to-deposit-rs-5-cr-for-giving-interim-compensation/article32037525.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case surge does not spare health care workers in districts||The increase in novel coronavirus infections has not spared health care providers and workers in many districts. Several doctors, staff nurses and workers have tested positive in the past few weeks in some of the districts where the cases are surging. Doctors in many districts said there was an increase in the number of health care providers/workers testing positive. In fact, the majority of those who have tested positive worked in non-COVID-19 wards, a cross-section of government doctors said. Several members of the workforce of government hospitals in Chennai tested positive in the past few months. K. Senthil, State president, Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA), said that in Madurai, very few health care workers who had served in COVID-19 wards had tested positive. “It was those who worked in non-COVID-19 areas, such as outpatient departments, who were infected. In the last two months, 45 doctors, 15 staff nurses and 25 other health care providers tested positive in Madurai. Of these, around 50% cases were in the last 10 days,” he said. Doctors should be kept in reserve, and the full workforce should not be utilised at any given point of time. The majority of doctors who work in the outpatient departments wear N95 masks, caps and gloves, and use face shields if they perform procedures. “There is no restriction on patient attenders. Though the overall OPD census has reduced, there is still overcrowding owing to the absence of norms. This is putting health care providers and patients at risk,” Dr. Senthil said. In Tiruchi, four doctors and 7-10 staff nurses, besides hospital workers, tested positive in the past two weeks, a doctor said. “The quarantine period after COVID-19 duty was initially two weeks. It was reduced to seven days. Now, it has further been reduced to five days. This is of no use for health care providers or to the hospital,” he said. He added that a post-graduate student tested positive and no doctor knew about it. “Only if such information is shared officially, those who came in contact can come forward for screening,” he said. In Vellore, several staff members of a government COVID-19 facility and a private one tested positive in the last few weeks. “Hospitals are hotspots, but there are no norms in place. The TNGDA has already represented to the government that certain norms are essential... in non-COVID-19 and emergency wards. These include restrictions on attenders, not allowing those who do not wear masks and a ‘pass’ system,” Dr. Senthil said.  In the last two months, 45 doctors and 15 staff nurses have tested positive in Madurai K. Senthil TNGDA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-surge-does-not-spare-health-care-workers-in-districts/article32037537.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBSE schools working on learning plans||With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) releasing a revised syllabus for the 2020-21 academic year for Classes 9 to 12, teachers who have been conducting online classes are busy analysing the 30% reduction in lessons and working out a revised academic plan for the year. The wait, however, continues for State Board schools in Tamil Nadu as there is still no clarity on the reduced syllabus. In Physics, there has been a significant reduction in the syllabus for practicals and lab experiments. “Senior students are required to work on a project but it has been done away with, ” said M.K. Girija, principal, Shree Niketan Patasala. Reducing stress In its circular, the CBSE said the rationalisation of the syllabus was done to reduce the exam stress of students. The topics which feature under the deleted portions list find a place in the NCERT’s alternative academic calendar. “While our focus will be on the rationalised curriculum, we are also planning on making time to teach the concepts which have been omitted in Chemistry towards the end of the year for students of Class 12,” said Gomathy Rajan, Chemistry teacher, Sir Sivaswami Kalalaya Senior Secondary School. For subjects like Accountancy, Mathematics and Physics, teachers remain cautious. “There has been no major reduction in the Accountancy syllabus for students of Class 12 and there are small segments in chapters which have been done away with for Class 11,” said Priyanka Ghosh, principal, Vikas Mantra Public School. Asha Nathan, principal, Chennai Public School, Anna Nagar, said: “For higher secondary Mathematics, there are a few basic topics which have been omitted and since we want students to learn them, we will be referring to the alternative academic calendar.”  There has been no major reduction in the Accountancy syllabus for Class 12 Priyanka Ghosh Principal, Vikas Mantra Public School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-schools-working-on-learning-plans/article32037511.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tyre manufacturers condole death of P. Vijayaraghavan||The Automotive Tyre Manufacturers Association (ATMA) has condoled the death of P. Vijayaraghavan, Director, TVS Srichakra Ltd. and a key member of its managing committee. Mr. Vijayaraghavan suffered a cardiac arrest early on Wednesday in Chennai. “On behalf of ATMA, I extend my heartfelt condolences on the sudden passing away of Mr. P. Vijayaraghavan,” Chairman K.M. Mammen said in the condolence message to Ms. Radha Vijayaraghavan. As a long-standing professional, Mr. Vijayaraghavan made a unique contribution to several causes espoused by the tyre industry, Mr. Mammen recalled. Seasoned advice “His erudite and seasoned advice always stood ATMA in good stead. As a mark of a true leader, Mr. Vijayaraghavan voluntarily took up responsibilities on behalf of ATMA on several occasions. As one of the longest serving managing committee members, he guided and played an active role in several path-breaking initiatives. He was always willing to share his deep understanding of the two-wheeler industry with all,” he said. At a personal level, ATMA committee members always found Mr. Vijayaraghavan warm, friendly, spirited and bringing cheer to all others. His simple and straightforward approach endeared him to one and all. He would be remembered for a long time, Mr. Mammen said. Having joined Sundaram Industries in 1969 at the age of 21, Mr. Vijayaraghavan served the TVS Group for over five decades. He played a pre-eminent role in the growth of TVS Srichakra since its founding, where he continued to be actively involved till his passing, as a Director on the Board, said the company in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tyre-manufacturers-condole-death-of-p-vijayaraghavan/article32037518.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central govt. team pitches for focused death audits in districts||The Central team that is on a visit to the State capital to review the COVID-19 scenario in Tamil Nadu has suggested that the State government have focused death audits in districts and go for broader containment zones, among other things. The Central team, led by IAS officer Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary in the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, joined Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam in reviewing the COVID-19 situation in 15 districts, through videoconferencing from the Secretariat, on Thursday. The team, accompanied by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, inspected various places starting from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Rajendra Ratnoo, Government of India’s monitoring officer for Tamil Nadu, was part of the team. Later, they visited a COVID-19 care centre in Pulianthope, a fever clinic and a containment zone near Pattalam, a screening centre in Guindy and the newly-developed COVID-19 facility at the National Institute of Ageing on the premises of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Guindy. The team also visited a fever clinic in Choolai. Later, they visited the control room at the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The team also comprised representatives from the National Centre for Disease Control and the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research. Besides suggestions on going for broader containment zones and effective contact tracing, the team suggested that focused death audits be held in districts with high fatality rates, a senior officer said. Another officer said the team stressed on early detection of cases and mortality analysis, among other things. DGP J.K. Tripathy, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and other senior officials were present for the joint review meeting. The team will continue the review till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-govt-team-pitches-for-focused-death-audits-in-districts/article32037534.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Help is now just a phone call away at RGGGH||Months into the COVID-19 pandemic, delay in getting medical care continues to be a problem in the city. To do away with such delays, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has launched a one-stop solution, just a phone call away. A pre-arrival intimation to the COVID-19 outpatient department (OPD) in Tower-3 is now possible at RGGGH. A zero-delay ward, too, has been readied. RGGGH came up with the initiative to improve coordination with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to manage incoming patients and prepare beds for them without delay. Persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 and those with suspected symptoms of the infection can call the COVID-19 OPD, at 7825884974, and inform them before visiting the hospital, said E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH. The number earmarked for the COVID-19 OPD has been circulated among all sanitary inspectors of GCC. They have been told to call the number and inform the referrals of COVID-19 patients to RGGGH. The calls will be handled by staff nurses and volunteers of the ‘May I Help You’ desk. “This was launched two days ago, primarily to avoid delays in catering to COVID-19 patients. There will be no overcrowding at the OPD. We can identify the availability of beds in various wards and prepare beds with oxygen lines if incoming patients are in need of oxygen support,” Dr. Theranirajan said. Alerting the hospital in advance will enable them to prepare ahead, he added. Doctors said that earlier, there were complaints of patients having to wait for hours at the OPD, and of there being delays in shifting them to the wards. “We have now created the zero-delay ward at the OPD, with 10 beds, and another 10 beds are being readied. This will help us do away with delays in treatment and transit of patients,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-is-now-just-a-phone-call-away-at-rgggh/article32037532.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin alleges irregularity in drinking water scheme||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin on Thursday condemned the State government’s decision to call for tender for works under the Jal Shakti Mission, instead of handing over the works to local bodies. Central fund In a statement here, Mr. Stalin said the Centre had allotted Rs. 2,264.74 crore in June for the mission to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024. “The fund should be sent to village panchayats. But the Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani has decided to follow tender proceedings with a view to collecting commission and it will defeat the purpose of Panchayati Raj,” Mr. Stalin said. He alleged that Tamil Nadu Water Supplies and Drainage Board director Maheswaran had already held a conference and issued directions for completing some works before March 31, 2021. Hasty guidelines “Why should he issue such hasty guidelines for collection?” he asked. He also warned officials not to play into the hands of Mr. Velumani and invite legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-alleges-irregularity-in-drinking-water-scheme/article32037527.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New species of marine invertebrate discovered||A scientist from the Centre for Climate Change Studies at the Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology and two of his students have identified a new species of marine invertebrate. The researchers’ work has been published inZootaxa, a peer-reviewed journal based in New Zealand. S. Prakash, scientist, said that his M. Tech. students M.S. Vignesh and Ruchi P. Jain had been collecting seaweed along the coast of Tamil Nadu for the past two years. “The worm,Tetrastemma freyae, is associated with sediments and is predatory as it has a role in maintaining the food chain. It feeds on dead and decaying material and helps to recycle nutrients in coastal and deep water sediments. The worm uses its proboscis just as a butterfly does to collect nectar,” he said. The researchers got in touch with Alexei V. Chernyshev at the A.V. Zhirmunsky National Scientific Center of Marine Biology, Vladivostok, an expert in the field to understand the morphology of the species. “He told us that another person in Smithsonian Institute was working on a similar specimen identified in Hawaii,” Mr. Prakash explained. To the surprise of the researchers, the species identified by Jon L. Norenburg of the Department of Invertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History in Smithsonian Institution, had similar morphological characters. The researchers then sequenced the DNA of the organism.  The work has been published in Zootaxa, a peer-reviewed journal, published out of New Zealand||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-researchers-discover-new-species-of-marine-invertebrate/article32037522.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thunderstorms likely at many places in State from July 13, says IMD||More places in the State may witness thunderstorms as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast an increase in rainfall activity from July 13. For the next two days, a few places in interior and coastal districts may experience light to moderate rainfall. Officials said that convective activity had largely influenced light to moderate rain over the State. Many districts received rainfall during the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. The weather station in Madurai south received 8 cm, the day’s highest amount of rainfall. Thunderstorm activity is likely to pick up from Sunday. The sky would be generally cloudy over Chennai for the next two days. One or two places in the city have chances of thundershowers during evening or night hours. The same weather trend may continue for a few more days. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the southwest monsoon trough is expected to move towards the foothills of the Himalayas after July 12. This may induce more rainfall activity in the southern peninsular region.  The State has, so far, recorded an average of 8.1 cm rainfall, which is 13% more than its average for the season since June 1. However, some districts, including Chennai, Cuddalore and Dharmapuri, are facing a deficit in rainfall. But it may be compensated in the coming days, officials noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thunderstorms-likely-at-many-places-in-state-from-july-13-says-imd/article32037524.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. retracts its order on EWS certificates||The State government on Thursday reversed its decision of not allowing income and asset certificates to be issued to candidates of economically weaker section (EWS) in general category. No bar on tahsildars Hereafter, there will be no bar on tahsildars to issue such certificates but the document should state specifically that it is meant only for seeking admission to Central educational institutions or employment in Central government, according to a circular issued by Principal Secretary and Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy to District Collectors. The latest development marks restoration of the original decision of the State government in May 2019, asking Collectors to have the certificates issued to persons belonging to the EWS for the purpose of education and employment in the Central government, says a senior official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-retracts-its-order-on-ews-certificates/article32037517.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hand over Tablighi members to consulates: MLA||Manidhaneya Jananayaga Katchi leader and Nagapattinam MLA M. Thamimun Ansari has urged the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister to hand over to the respective consulates the Tablighi Jamaat members who have been granted bail. In his representation, Mr. Ansari said such foreign nationals were handed over to the consulates by Maharashtra. They had been made to stay in Hajj houses, government mosques and hostels by the Karnataka, Telangana and the Delhi governments. “...The Tamil Nadu government has made those who have got bail to stay in juvenile homes, which is not in line with the Central government’s guidelines,” he said. A total of 129 persons, including 12 women from Bangladesh, Brunei, Ethiopia, France, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand, had got bail and were in Tamil Nadu, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hand-over-tablighi-members-to-consulates-mla/article32037540.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC poser to govt. on free rations scheme||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to explain why dry rations provided under the Prime Minister’s Gharib Kalyan Yojana had been restricted only to ration cardholders in the State as claimed by a litigant before the court. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani issued the direction after reopening a habeas corpus petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam with respect to provision of basic facilities to migrant labourers affected due to the lockdown. Now, though the Centre had decided to provide 5 kg of foodgrains per person under the PM’s Gharib Kalyan Yojana, the State had restricted the benefit to only ration cardholders, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-poser-to-govt-on-free-rations-scheme/article32037530.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BIS Chennai gets new chief||M.V.S.D. Prasada Rao has assumed charge as Deputy Director-General, Bureau of Indian Standards, Southern Regional Office, Chennai. He has worked in various capacities in Delhi, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. He had previously worked as Deputy Director General (Management Systems Certification and Hallmarking), New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bis-chennai-gets-new-chief/article32037521.ece
10 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOC Athipet LPG plant to reopen shortly||The Indian Oil Corporation’s (IOCL) liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) bottling plant at Athipet near here, which was closed, is likely to resume operations shortly. The plant was shut after five employees and 31 contract employees tested positive for COVID-19. Sources said the plant had been fumigated as per the directions of the Health department. The plant, which is functioning at half of its capacity of 45,000 cylinders a day, was bottling 25,000 a day before being closed temporarily. “We are ensuring supplies by sourcing cylinders from our Salem and Tirunelveli bottling plants,” said an official, who added that the plant would commence production on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ioc-athipet-lpg-plant-to-reopen-shortly/article32037516.ece
10 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. organises fever surveillance camps||The Coimbatore Corporation has started conducting fever surveillance camps to screen the public for COVID-19 symptoms from Thursday. Officials said camps were organised at 37 locations to cover all the 100 wards within the Corporation limits. While 32 camps were organised by various urban primary health centres (UPHCs), five were organised by the Corporation in containment zones. Those willing to get themselves screened for COVID-19 symptoms could visit these camps from 10 a.m., the officials said. All the camps were equipped with thermal scanners and pulse oximeters. Swab samples were lifted for those persons whose body temperature was high or their oxygen level in blood low. All those visiting the camps would be given kabasura kudineer (herbal concoction considered to boost immunity) and multi-vitamin tablets. Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath inspected the camps on Thursday. The camps would be organised in 32 different locations by the respective UPHCs on Friday. For details regarding COVID-19, the public shall contact the Corporation at 1077, 0422-2302323 and 97505 54321.  Erode Staff Reporter adds  With COVID-19 positive cases increasing in the Corporation limits, special medical camps to screen residents with symptoms of fever and lifting of swab samples from them began on Thursday. Of the total cases in the district, 142 were reported in the Corporation limits. Fifty cases were reported in Rajajipuram and Periyar Nagar alone. On Thursday, seven camps were held at slum areas. Swab samples were collected from persons who complained of fever and tiredness. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu camps would be conducted in slum areas and in residential areas located near the containment zones as a proactive measure to check for symptoms in people. Around 300 residents were screened on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-organises-fever-surveillance-camps/article32037551.ece
10 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Divine intervention to promote disease prevention||Last month, over 300 people at Kammalapatti, Arthanaripalayam, and Kullegoundanur villages near Pollachi received masks, sanitisers, and awareness pamphlets on precautions to be taken to prevent COVID-19. Talking to them and creating the awareness was Mariamman, the protecting Goddess. In an effort to spread information on the measures to prevent the disease among the public in rural areas, a small team conducted a campaign in the these villages for four days. Sangeetha, a theatre artist from Coimbatore, dressed as Mariamman, the deity, met the residents of the villages and distributed nearly 400 masks and 100 sanitisers. Rathish Subramaniam, creative director from Bengaluru, conceptualised the campaign and Shiva of Tellywise ,Chennai, produced the awareness video. The initiative is supported and promoted by Dheepam Lamp Oil of Kaleesuwari Refinery. Explaining the activity, Mr. Subramaniam said it was taken up during the lockdown period after getting the required approvals. The Goddess urges the people to maintain physical distance, use masks, and hand sanitisers. She also draws a parallel to the traditional practices followed such as using turmeric mixed water for bathing and eating only home cooked food during special prayers. So, the public will understand easily that the precautions to be taken for COVID-19 are not something new to them, he says. The initiative received encouraging response. The four-day on-ground activity was filmed and put together as a two-minute video and was uploaded online on July 7 to educate more people. There are plans to screen the video among industrial workers in this region. For Kaleesuwari Refinery, which makes Dheepam Lamp Oil, the video and the activity reiterates the message that some of the precautionary steps are already being practised. The objective is to create awareness among rural audience as most of the awareness efforts are targeted only at people in urban areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/divine-intervention-to-promote-disease-prevention/article32037549.ece
10 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three die of COVID-19 in Coimbatore||Three persons from Coimbatore district died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Thursday. With this, the number of persons died of COVID-19 in the district increased to nine. A 42-year-old man from Varadarajapuram was admitted to the hospital on July 2. His condition deteriorated on Thursday morning and he died by noon. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, according to the Health Department. The two other deceased were identified as a 58-year-old man from Kalangal near Sulur and a 72-year-old woman from Ganapathy. Both were admitted to the hospital on July 1 and they died late on Thursday. On Thursday, three COVID-19 patients from other districts also died at the Hospital. The deceased were identified as an 80-year-old man from Pallapatti in Karur, an 85-year-old man from Lakshmi Nagar in Tiruppur and a 55-year-old man from Udumalpet near Tiruppur. The 85-year-old man was initially admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore. He was shifted to the ESI Hospital around 11 p.m. on Wednesday and he died around 1.50 a.m. on Thursday. In Dharmapuri, a 46-year-old man from Hosur died at the Dharmapuri government medical college hospital on Wednesday. He was admitted with fever and cold on Tuesday. Deputy Director of Health Gemini said the patient was admitted to a private hospital for three days before being referred by the Hosur government hospital to here. He was in ICU for two days with hypertension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-die-of-covid-19-in-coimbatore/article32037552.ece
10 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collection of swab samples of domestic passengers at airport stopped||The Health Department has stopped collection of swab samples of domestic passengers arriving at Coimbatore International Airport from Tuesday. Results pending Apart from stopping collection of swab samples of domestic air passengers, results of 20,000 swab samples of domestic air passengers that the Department had collected earlier were pending as of Thursday. “The Health Department stopped collection of swab samples from domestic air passengers alone. Swab samples of passengers on repatriation flights are still collected,” said an airport official. The Department was collecting swab samples of passengers from May 25 when domestic air services were resumed. Since then, the domestic air passengers used to account for about 50 % of COVID-19 cases that were categorised as ‘imported’ in the district. The Department had also mandated institutional quarantine for a day for domestic passengers till the result of swab test returned and seven days of compulsory paid quarantine for international passengers irrespective of the test result. Airport officials said flights were being operated from Coimbatore to Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi. As their swab samples were not collected, the passengers were advised to remain in home quarantine. Overloading of samples An official from the Department said the testing of samples of domestic passengers was stopped due to overloading of samples that were sent to the government approved laboratories here. “Domestic passengers were mandated to remain in institutional quarantine till the results came. The results used to come out within a day when domestic flight services resumed on May 25. Now, the laboratories are not able to return the results due to overloading of samples. Several domestic passengers protested that they were not able to stay more than a day in institutional quarantine following which the sample collection was stopped,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collection-of-swab-samples-of-domestic-passengers-at-airport-stopped/article32037554.ece
10 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Officials to inspect industries||District Collector K. Rajamani has directed officials from the labour welfare, industrial safety, and revenue departments and local bodies to inspect factories and ensure that COVID-19 precautions are followed. A release from the Collector said that since north Indian workers and labourers from other districts were returning from their home towns, they should be tested for COVID-19. If the precautions were not taken, and if there was a spread of the disease among workers, the respective industries would not be permitted to operate. Industries in Pollachi, Sulur, Sarkar Samakulam, Kurichi and Malumichampatti were bringing workers back, many of whom were from other States. It was reported that employees with symptoms were not tested for COVID-19. This had also created fear among the public in these areas. “This is not good for the industries and the district,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-to-inspect-industries/article32037573.ece
10 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to monthly maintenance work at the Irugur sub-station on July 10, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Irugur, Ondipudur, Odderpalayam, S.I.H.S. Colony, Pallapalayam (One Region), Kannampalayam (One Region), Chinniyampalayam, Venkitapuram, Thottipalayam and Goldwins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32037550.ece
10 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Burial of COVID-19 patient opposed||Opposing the burial of a COVID-19 patient, residents at Vendipalayam in the Corporation limits staged protest and were later pacified by the police on Thursday. The patient, a 33-year-old man of Vinayagar Kovil Street in Moolapalayam, tested positive and was admitted to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai on July 5, but died on Wednesday night. The body was packed and as per his family’s wish, the body was taken to the burial ground at Vendipalayam. Volunteers from the Social Democratic Party of India and Popular Front of India, wearing protective gear, carried the body from the ambulance to the graveyard. As there were large tombstones in the graveyard, they could not carry the body inside. Hence, they took it over the compound wall. Noticing this, the residents gathered there and staged a road roko opposing the burial. It is said that stones were hurled at the volunteers who alerted the police. Inspectors from the police stations of Modakurichi, Erode South and Erode Taluk, along with the police team arrived at the spot and held talks with the residents. In the meantime, the volunteers buried the body and left the graveyard. Later, the police pacified the residents and the protest was withdrawn after an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burial-of-covid-19-patient-opposed/article32037546.ece
10 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||July 27 exam must to clear Plus Two: Minister||Class XII State Board students, who missed the last exam on March 24, must sit for it on July 27, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Thursday. The government would allot examination centres for all 34,842 students who were unable to write the exam. Speaking to journalists at Kolapalur in Gobichettipalayam, he said that only 718 students had expressed their willingness to write the exam on July 27. “But this is not a Class 10 exam to declare ‘all pass’. Only those Plus Two students who write their exam can pass,” he said. Mr. Sengottaiyan said no online classes would be conducted for government school students, but lessons would be telecast through television channels. The schedule would be known when the Chief Minister inaugurates the classes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/july-27-examination-must-to-clear-plus-two-says-minister/article32037542.ece
10 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Resolve wage issue of contract workers: AITUC||Urging the district administration to resolve the wage issue of 201 contract workers at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has proposed to observe an indefinite fast from July 13. S. Chinnasamy, State secretary, AITUC, said that since the hospital was notified to treat COVID-19 patients, conservancy workers and security guards were appointed on contract basis in April and May. He said that over 50 workers were already working at the hospital on the promise of minimum wage of Rs. 490 a day. But, the private company that appointed them is paying a minimum wage of Rs. 423 a day. “Against the law, 29% of the wage is deducted towards PF (24% deduction), ESI (4%) and Insurance (1%)”, he said and added that Rs. 122 is deducted from the wages and the worker is paid only Rs. 301 a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resolve-wage-issue-of-contract-workers-aituc/article32037564.ece
10 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 test report mandatory for e-pass||With inter-district travel remaining suspended to prevent spread of COVID-19, the district administration has made COVID-19 test report showing negative results mandatory while obtaining e-pass to enter the district for marriage and for work. Collector C. Kathiravan told media persons that e-passes were issued for medical emergencies, marriages and for funerals. He said invitation and the test report should be enclosed for applying e-pass for marriages while doctor’s certificate was needed for medical emergencies. Mr. Kathiravan said that 21,710 persons were home quarantined at 64 locations in the district while 43,178 swab samples were lifted and tested so far. He said 2,451 beds were available at both the government and private hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-test-report-mandatory-for-e-pass/article32037547.ece
10 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Commits suicide||A 60-year-old textile merchant allegedly committed suicide at his godown at Karungalpalayam here on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Sanjay of K.A.S. Nagar. Inquiries revealed that Sanjay was depressed due to poor business in the past five months. Those with a suicidal tendency can contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commits-suicide/article32037565.ece
10 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Video of children being forcibly sent to reception home emerges||A disturbing video of two petrified, wailing children forcibly separated from their mother by the district Child Welfare Committee (CWC) with the help of the uniformed policemen and sent away to a reception home in the time of COVID-19 has emerged a day after the incident. The mother and the children were facing “official action” after the local media featured the two children selling dry ginger tea to help out their struggling, widowed mother, while their schools remained shut due to the pandemic. On Tuesday, Rehmat Banu’s 13-year-old third-born girl and her youngest seven-year-old son had caught media attention, while they were selling tea on a small cycle mounted with a tea drum. Ms. Banu had cropped her girl’s hair to a boy-cut, and dressed her up in a loose fitting full sleeved shirt, and trousers before sending them out with well-prepared home made dry ginger tea. The girl was dressed as a boy to ward off unsolicited male gaze, which made the family’s struggle, particularly poignant. The two children, entering classes 8 and 2 respectively were helping out their mother during COVID-19 times Ms. Banu’s struggle began years ago, when her husband died in an accident, while she was pregnant with her son. The media coverage, instead of fetching help for the family, led to the breaking up of the family, with the CWC forcibly moving the children to a reception home, 80 km away at Thoppur in Dharmapuri. Ms. Banu was summoned to the district Child Welfare Committee office on Wednesday. By then, some people arrived at her home in a vehicle and asked them to get into it. “I said, I have a two-wheeler and I’ll bring my children. They refused. They behaved like my children and I were criminals. All my children did was sell tea to help me out when their school was closed,” says Ms. Banu. At the CWC, they asked, why did I bring them to the streets. “Where can I leave my children behind, when everyday I read news about child rape by a neighbour, or a grandfather,” asks Ms. Banu. She was given a written sheet that claimed she was willingly sending her children to a home. “After reading through, I refused to sign, but was forced. They took my children to talk n private. My little son was heard wailing and I knew he was hit. That’s when I ran out of the CWC office and sat on a dharna asking them to let me see my children.” There is a CCTV camera in the CWC office. It should be examined, she says. The news report was seen by a judge of the Madras High Court and the same was passed to a local judge to take action, an official source said. The children were hence being moved to a home. Asked why the other option of getting a written undertaking from the mother that she would not send out her children was not explored, considering, even children in stopped child marriages were left behind with their families, the official said, this was only a “temporary arrangement” pending a detailed inquiry.  The action has been slammed as ‘disproportionate” and an “overreach” by activists. “It is disproportionate to what the situation warranted. What does ‘care and protection of the child’ imply without understanding the context. This smacks of economic and class discrimination,” says Vidya Reddy of Tulir, that works with children of abuse. Geetha Ramaseshan, High Court advocate says, the authorities had missed the nuance in the struggle of a single woman, trying to take care of her children independently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-of-children-being-forcibly-sent-to-reception-home-emerges/article32037566.ece
10 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Submit status report, HC tells CB-CID||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the CB-CID to submit in a sealed cover the status report on the investigation carried out so far in the Sattankulam custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that the CBI or the CB-CID should take immediate and necessary steps to file a petition within 15 days to get the custody of the accused for inquiry. They directed the CBI to use the materials collected by the CB-CID and asked the media not to misinterpret court proceedings and indulge in media trial as it may affect the prosecution and the accused. During the course of the hearing, Assistant Solicitor General V. Kathirvelu informed the court that a seven-member CBI team will reach Madurai on July 10 and a request was placed before the Chief Secretary to provide the required facilities.. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian told the court that 10 people, Sridhar, Balakrishnan, Raghuganesh, Murugan, Chelladurai, Samidurai, Thomas Francis, Veyilumuthu, Pauldurai and Muthuraj were arrested in connection with the case. He submitted that the statement under Section 164 of the CrPC were recorded from witnesses. The investigating agency was making preparation to file a petition for custody, he informed the court. He submitted that a compensation of Rs. 20 lakh was given to the family of traders and a proposal to provide a government job to a family member of the victims was under consideration. The court suo motu impleaded CB-CID and CBI as respondents in the case. It directed that required facilities be provided to the CBI for the investigation and adjourned the hearing till July 28. Meanwhile, two separate petitions were filed before the High Court. The petition filed by K.S. Arjunan of CPI(M) sought a direction for a probe into the deaths by a special investigation team. The court ordered notice to the State. The petition filed by advocate L. Vasuki, who sought a direction to the State to ensure that the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the landmark Lalita Kumari case were followed, was closed with a liberty to file an intervening petition in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submit-status-report-hc-tells-cb-cid/article32037802.ece
10 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bio-repellent keeps wild boars at bay||For the past 10 years, farmers in Usilampatti and Peraiyur taluks have been facing trouble in protecting their crops from wild boars. The farmers, with the help of the district administration, are trying out a bio-repellent on a trial basis to prevent the entry of wild boars and bears into farmlands. Usilampatti Revenue Divisional Officer K.V. Rajkumar said, a week back, they sprayed the bio-repellent diluted with water on half-an-acre of farmland at Vellamalaipatti. “There is no sign of animal intrusion ever since, though it can be seen in adjacent fields,” he said. Buoyed by this, the bio-repellent was sprayed on five more acres of farmland in the village on Thursday using a drone. “We have expanded our trials to see its efficiency. The formulation is such that the smell of it is said to drive away the wild boars,” he said. Farmers of Madurai district Wet and Dry Land Farmers’ Association had petitioned the RDO seeking solution regarding this issue which is prevalent in 13 villages of Usilampatti block and 19 villages of Peraiyur block. Mr. Rajkumar said, based on the request of farmers, the district administration had contacted the Chief Executive Officer of Agri Business Consortium of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in, Coimbatore. “He suggested trying out this bio-repellent. This formulation has also been approved by the forest departments in parts of Kerala and by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra of Ariyalur. We have to wait and see how it works out in the villages of Usilampatti,” he added. “As these villages lie on the foothills of Western Ghats, wild boars raid the farmlands at night and destroy the crops. This has demotivated many farmers to continue with agriculture. It has deeply impacted small and marginal farmers,” said P. Manikandan, president of the farmers’ association. The issue has also changed the crop pattern in these villages, said the RDO. “Until a decade back, many farmers raised tapioca, which fetches them good profits. But, since the crop gets easily attacked by the wild animals, many have shifted to cultivate jasmine and green vegetables,” he said. Fencing was also not an affordable option for many farmers, says O. Soundarapandian, a volunteer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bio-repellent-keeps-wild-boars-at-bay/article32037814.ece
10 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Why death rate is more in Madurai district than in Chennai, asks MP||Su. Venkatesan, MP, has asked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to clarify as to why Madurai district was reporting double the number COVID-19 deaths compared to Chennai. In a statement, he said when Chennai had 3,000 patients, it reported 24 deaths. However, with a similar number of infected patients, Madurai had recorded 51 deaths. When Chennai registered 42 deaths as the number of positive cases rose to 5,000, Madurai reported 86 deaths with the same number of infections. "Why is the the same disease causing 200% deaths in Madurai? We cannot take the fatality rate in Madurai as just caused by COVID-19,” the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP said adding “the higher death rate in Madurai could be due to shortcomings and carelessness of the district administration.”  Ambulances diverted He found fault with the State government for having diverted ambulances from southern districts to Chennai, through oral instructions, when the COVID-19 infection was peaking in the State capital. Forty ambulances from Madurai and neighbouring districts, along with 200 employees, were taken to Chennai. There was nothing wrong in the move as it was to meet the emergency requirements of Chennai. However, even after the number of cases in Madurai and other districts witnessed a sudden surge in the last two weeks, the ambulances and the employees have not returned to the southern districts, the MP said. Dearth of ambulances had put the people of southern districts to untold sufferings as patients had to wait for hours to be picked up. Ambulances called in the late evenings arrived only in the mornings.An ambulance from as far as Elumalai is sent to pick up a patient in Sakkimangalam. Besides, the very ambulance that dropped a COVID-19 positive patient in the hospital, picked up anothert recovered from the infection without disinfection of the vehicle. The State government should send all the ambulances back to the southern districts immediately, he said. Stating that the number of testings in Madurai were not increased to its proportionate need, he said if 3,000 tests were done every day, the rate of infection could be checked. The Chief Minister should find out whether the problem was in tracing the infected or in taking the patients to hospitals or in providing proper treatment to them and set everything right to reduce the number of deaths in Madurai, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-death-rate-is-more-in-madurai-district-than-in-chennai-asks-mp/article32037821.ece
10 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||The right way to calm a special child||Since the intensified lockdown began in Madurai, child psychologist Rani Chakravarthy has been flooded with calls. Hundreds of parents of special children have been ringing her to find out ways to calm their children. “Special children are used to having set schedules and patterns. They don’t like sitting in one place for long. The inability to go out of house is bound to frustrate them and cause anxiety. So, many of them scream and yell. This is a common complaint,” she says. To engage them, parents must play the role of therapists, special educators and physiotherapists. Giving them mobile phones or switching on the television will not contribute to their growth, she says and suggests methods to engage the children so that their movement and speech therapy are not disrupted. “We call this home environment training. The idea is to teach young children every day activities and engage them in household chores. Children can wash vegetables, identify colours, learn to comb their hair, pick out stones from grains and even learn to put on their clothes. As special children take longer to do the chore, one must be patient,” Ms. Chakravarthy says. These activities will ignite their cognitive skills and also give confidence to their parents. “Now that everyone is at home, they can get to know each other better. Parents can see a visible change in the attitude of the child if they play with them. An evening game of flying kites or painting faces can lift their mood,” she says. Master physiotherapist Y. Hajira, who runs a clinic, says parents must take a special interest in caring for their children and ensure that their muscles do not grow stiff. “For those with cerebral palsy, regular physiotherapy is needed. Parents can help children climb up and down a flight of stairs for strengthening their legs. Playing with balls or sorting out vegetables will help in finger gripping techniques,” she adds. Parents are usually present in all physiotherapy sessions. They would have observed some simple exercises that they can follow at home. The entire family must be involved in care giving and engaging special children so that it removes the burden on a single caregiver. Getting fresh air either on the terrace or outside the home in the evening will help, she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-right-way-to-calm-a-special-child/article32037812.ece
10 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: High Court directs CB-CID to submit status report||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the CB-CID to submit in a sealed cover the status report on the investigation carried out so far in the Sattankulam custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that the CBI or the CB-CID should take immediate and necessary steps to file a petition within 15 days to get the custody of the accused for inquiry. The court directed the CBI to use the materials collected by the CB-CID in the case and also appealed to the media not to misinterpret court proceedings or indulge in media trial, as it may affect the prosecution and the accused. During the course of the hearing, Assistant Solicitor General V. Kathirvelu informed the court that a seven-member CBI team will be arriving in Madurai on July 10 and a request was placed before the Chief Secretary to provide the required facilities. Additional Advocate General (AAG) K. Chellapandian told the court that 10 policemen (Sridhar, Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesh, Murugan, Chelladurai, Samidurai, Thomas Francis, Veyilmuthu, Pauldurai and Muthuraj) were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths case. Further, the AAG submitted that the statement under Section 164 of the CrPC were recorded from the witnesses in the case. The investigating agency was also making preparation to file a petition for custody, he informed the court. The AAG submitted that a compensation of Rs. 20 lakh was given to the family of the traders and a proposal to provide a government job to the family members of the victims was under consideration. Taking note of the submissions, the court suo motu impleaded CB-CID and CBI as respondents in the case. The court directed that required facilities be provided to the CBI for the investigation and adjourned the hearing till July 28. Meanwhile, two separate petitions were filed before the High Court in connection with the case. The petition filed by K.S. Arjunan of CPI(M) sought a direction for a probe into the deaths by a special investigation team. The court ordered notice to the State in the petition. Another petition filed by advocate L. Vasuki seeking a direction to the State to ensure that the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the landmark Lalita Kumari case were followed, was closed with a liberty to file an intervening petition in the case. Bail petition The Principal Sessions Court here on Thursday adjourned to July 13 the hearing on the bail petition filed by Sridhar, the suspended Sattankulam Inspector of Police, who has been arrested in the twin custodial deaths case along with two sub-inspectors, a special sub-inspector, a head-constable and five policemen. Though the other accused in this case — Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj — were also expected to file their bail petitions, Sridhar had opted for early relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-hc-directs-cb-cid-to-submit-status-report/article32037529.ece
10 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Three 16th Century sati stones found||Three stones with sculptures, belonging to the 16th century, were found at Chatrapatti village of Peraiyur taluk in Madurai by D. Muneeswaran, Head of the Department of History (Postgraduate) of Saraswathi Narayanan College. All the three stones depicted the ancient practice of sati, said Mr. Muneeswaran, who found these stones near a tank. He said sati was practised in Madurai during the Nayak rule. “According to the practice, women had to immolate themselves after the death of their husbands. They were sometimes forced to commit sati,” he said. Sati stones usually had sculptures of husbands and wives next to each other. Among the three stones found now, the first sati stone had sculptures of a Nayak period chieftain and his wife. The second sati stone had sculptures of two women and a man. “In both these sati stones, women had a lemon in their right hand and a mirror in their left hand,” he said. The third stone had a sculpture of a man with a crown and two women on either side of him. “This stone was found in a very damaged condition,” he said, adding none of the stones had any inscriptions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-16th-century-sati-stones-found/article32037828.ece
10 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Milk tanker jumps off bridge, one killed||Driver of a milk tanker was killed after the speeding vehicle jumped off Ellis Nagar road overbridge near western entry of Madurai railway junction on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as C. Muniyandi, 40, of Peraiyur. The van was coming from Mahaboobpalayam and the driver was negotiating the sharp right curve on the ROB when the accident occurred. He lost control of the vehicle and it jumped off the bridge and fell on its side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-tanker-jumps-off-bridge-one-killed/article32037816.ece
10 July 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Kiran Bedi tests negative||Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi tested negative for COVID-19 on Thursday. The Health Department conducted RT-PCR tests on Wednesday, after a staff member working at Raj Nivas tested positive for the virus. “The Health Department has informed us that the COVID-19 test results of the Lt. Governor have returned negative. Raj Nivas will adhere to the protocol of keeping the staff, who were primary contacts, in home quarantine,” Officer on Special Duty G. Theva Neethi Dhas told The Hindu . The test results of a few Raj Nivas staff members were yet to be declared, he added. Meanwhile, a data entry operator on contract at Raj Nivas tested positive. Since Wednesday, the Raj Nivas has been closed for 48 hours after an office assistant was confirmed with COVID-19. According to a Raj Nivas official, both the patients have been admitted to the IGMCRI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kiran-bedi-tests-negative/article32037520.ece
10 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Railway Division establishes business development unit||To explore the possibility of attracting additional freight traffic to railways, Salem Railway Division has established a business development unit (BDU) recently. A press release from the division said that the divisional-level unit would focus on doubling the freight carried by railways by 2024. M. Harikumar, Senior Divisional Operations Manager, would be the convener of the unit. E. Harikrishnan, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, S. Uma Maheswari, Senior Divisional Finance Manager, and S. Mukundan, Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer, would function as its members. “The committee will have frequent interactions with the trade and industry to understand the existing pattern of goods transportation and will look for new business opportunities”, the release said and added that the unit would also serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalisation of any new traffic proposals. The release said that freight traffic of Salem Division is back on the track of recovery, post the nation-wide lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-railway-division-establishes-business-development-unit/article32037562.ece
10 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring stepped up in Yercaud||Officials of various departments have stepped up checks in Yercaud by monitoring persons entering and leaving the hill station to prevent the spread of COVID-19. As tourist activity has been completely stopped in the hill station, outsiders are not allowed for tourism purposes. However, vehicles from other places enter here to supply vegetables. Many go to Salem city for jobs and other purposes. As part of the preventive measures, swab samples are being collected from persons at the entrance to Yercaud town on the Ghat road. Their address and other particulars are collected. J.Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that check-posts had been set up and swab samples were collected from persons travelling from other places to Yercaud. Samples were also collected regularly at the three primary health centres in the hill station. Health officials said the only containment zone in Yercaud was removed recently and all four COVID-19 patients had recovered. The officials were planning to conduct random testing among various sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-stepped-up-in-yercaud/article32037559.ece
10 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Private bank fined||A private bank in Salem was fined by officials from Salem Corporation on Thursday for violating COVID-19 safety protocols.  The Hindu on Thursday published a photograph of customers waiting outside the bank violating physical distancing norms raising concerns of COVID-19 spread. Acting on the report, the officials imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000 for violating the safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-bank-fined/article32037561.ece
10 July 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Stray bear triggers panic||One more bear that invaded the Kadayam Range of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve triggered panic among farmers. According to Range Officer Nellainayagam, a stray bear that entered the ranch of Rajamani of Peththaanpillaikudiyiruppu near Gadana Dam on Tuesday night, killed 16 chickens even as the owner was sleeping in an adjacent building, his house. The bear feasted on coconuts in the grove. It strayed into the farm on Wednesday night killing 24 chickens. Forest personnel of Kadayam Range inspected the spot and fitted surveillance cameras in the farm to monitor the movement of the wild animal. “We’ve initiated the procedure to give compensation to the loss the farmer has suffered,” Mr. Nellainayagam said. Meanwhile, a stray bear entered the farm of Antony, also from Peththaanpillaikudiyiruppu, on Thursday and he escaped miraculously from being attacked by the wild animal even as it was digging a pit near the hut where Mr. Antony was sleeping. “We’ve taken all out efforts to monitor the movement of the stray bear. Farmers who used to stay in their farms in the night should create small fire to ward off the invading wild animals,” Mr. Nellainayagam suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-bear-triggers-panic/article32037803.ece
10 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Girl drowns||A 10-year-old girl of Thiruchennampoondi drowned in the Coleroon on Thursday. The victim, Malini, went to the river along with her friends to take bath. As she entered the riverbed, she apparently slipped into a pit, allegedly caused due to sand mining, and her leg got stuck. Friends and passers-by came to the rescue of the girl on hearing the cry from the children. Although the girl was pulled out, she was declared brought dead at the primary health centre at Koviladi, according to V. Jeevakumar, social activist and district vice-president, Agriculture Labour Union, Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-drowns/article32037859.ece
10 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||1,000 beds to be created in Thoothukudi district||With more and more COVID-19 positive cases in this town, the district administration is trying to increase the number of beds for treatment from 600 to 1,000. After inspecting creation of beds to treat COVID-19 positive patients at Swiss Mission Hospital, known as ‘American Hospital,’ Collector Sandeep Nanduri told reporters here on Thursday that due medical care was being given to patients undergoing treatment in the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, with 600 beds in the treatment ward. While patients with mild symptoms were being admitted in taluk headquarters hospital, asymptomatic cases were kept in isolation camps and ‘COVID Care entres,’ created in various colleges. Only patients with severe symptoms were being admitted to the TKMCH, where excellent facilities were in place to extend the right treatment round the clock. As more cases were reported, the number of beds would shortly be increased from 600 to 1,000 and even more, for which private hospitals had been roped in, he said. He inspected ongoing anti-COVID -19 operations at Nandagopalapuram in the town and also at Eral and door-to-door test for the viral infection after these areas had sizeable number of patients. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan accompanied the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1000-beds-to-be-created-in-thoothukudi-district/article32037805.ece
10 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID questions Revathi, constables||While preparing documents and other evidence pertaining to the twin custodial deaths to be handed over to the CBI on Friday, the CB-CID, which is investigating the case, grilled head constable Revathi and constables Maharajan, Jayasekar and Beulah on Thursday. Ms. Revathi, who gave her statement on Wednesday night, appeared before the CB-CID officials on Thursday evening again for interrogation that started around 5 p.m. The investigators also grilled Maharajan, who allegedly verbally abused Judicial Magistrate – I of Kovilpatti, M.S. Bharathidasan, appointed by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court to probe the twin judicial custody deaths, when he was recording statements of policemen. Even as Maharajan was being interrogated, separate teams questioned constables Jayasekar and Beulah. The interrogation went on even after 8 p.m. Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, K. Shankar, said the investigators had so far interrogated 20 persons and the exercise would continue till the final status report (to be submitted before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court) was prepared. Since the CBI is likely to take over the case formally on Friday, the CB-CID officers are keeping ready the evidence and information they had collected so far to be handed over to the new probing agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-questions-revathi-constables/article32037543.ece
10 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector’s bail plea adjourned||The Principal Sessions Court here on Thursday adjourned to July 13 the hearing on the bail petition filed by Sridhar, the suspended Inspector of Police of Sattankulam, who has been arrested in connection with the twin custodial deaths case along with two sub-inspectors, a special sub-inspector, a head-constable and five policemen. Though other accused in this case – Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj – were expected to file their bail petitions, Sridhar opted for early relief. The CBI is likely to formally take over the case on Friday as Investigating Officer and Additional Superintendent of Police Vijay Kumar Shukla is expected to arrive here tomorrow. So, the CBI will start the investigation afresh after going through documents and evidence to be handed over by the CB-CID. The last minute arrest of five more policemen by the CB-CID has taken many by surprise. The detainees – Special Sub-Inspector of Police Pauldurai, constables Chelladurai, Saamadurai, Veyilumuthu and Francis Thomas – have been booked under Sections 302, 201, 342 read with 107 of Indian Penal Code. Chief Judicial Magistrate Hema, late Wednesday night, remanded all of them till July 23. When the arrested policemen were taken to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital around 10.30 p.m. for the mandatory health screening usually done before detainees are remanded in judicial custody, an enraged Pauldurai started shouting at the policemen escorting him and at journalists. “I’m no way connected to this case. I’ve been falsely implicated,” he shouted before Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi Rural, Ponnarasu, and others calmed him down. Since Pauldurai anf Francis Thomas have co-morbidities, they were admitted in the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, now housing 650-odd COVID -19 patients, while others were taken to the Thoothukudi District Jail at Paeroorani off Palayamkottai highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspectors-bail-plea-adjourned/article32037806.ece
10 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector’s bail plea adjourned||The Principal Sessions Court here on Thursday adjourned till July 13 the hearing on the bail petition filed by Sridhar, the suspended Sattankulam Inspector of Police, who has been arrested in the twin custodial deaths case along with two sub-inspectors, a special sub-inspector, a head-constable and five policemen. Though the other accused in this case — Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj — were also expected to file their bail petitions, Sridhar had opted for early relief. The CBI, which has been assigned the case, is likely to formally take over on Friday (July 10), the day the Investigating Officer and Additional Superintendent of Police Vijay Kumar Shukla is expected to arrive here. The CBI will start the investigation afresh after going through the documents and evidence to be handed over by CB-CID, which has been handling the case so far. Before formally handing over the case to the CBI, the ‘eleventh hour’ arrest of five more policemen by the CB-CID has taken many by surprise. Special Sub-Inspector of Police Pauldurai, constables Chelladurai, Saamadurai, Veyilumuthu and Francis Thomas have also been booked under Sections 302, 201, 342 read with 107 of the Indian Penal Code (abetment of the crime) besides facing Section 302 (punishment for murder). Chief Judicial Magistrate Hema, on Wednesday, remanded them till July 23. When the arrested policemen were taken to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital (TKMCH) around 10.30 p.m. for the mandatory health screening, usually done before the detainees are remanded in judicial custody, an enraged Pauldurai started shouting at the policemen escorting him and the waiting journalists. “I’m in no way connected to this case. I’ve been falsely implicated. My career has been destroyed by a few police officers and journalists,” he yelled hysterically, before Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi Rural, Ponnarasu and others calmed him down. Since Pauldurai and Francis Thomas had co-morbidity, they were admitted to Thoothukudi GH, now housing 650-odd COVID-19 patients, while the others were taken to Thoothukudi District Jail at Paeroorani. After remanding the policemen, Ms. Hema visited TKMCH to take a look at Pauldurai and Francis Thomas, who were also reportedly suffering from heart ailments. She had a few words with the duo to ascertain their health condition. “Since the norms do not allow transit of remand prisoners to far away places in the night, the three policemen were taken to Thoothukudi District Jail at Paeroorani before being transported on Thursday morning to the Madurai Central Prison where other the five detenues of this case have already been lodged. “After being discharged from TKMCH, Pauldurai and Francis Thomas will also be taken to the Madurai Central Prison,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspectors-bail-plea-adjourned/article32037858.ece
10 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Densely populated lanes hotbeds of COVID-19 cases||Crowded market places and densely populated residential areas surrounding them are emerging as COVID-19 hotspots in the city. As per the analysis of health officials, most lanes, by-lanes and thickly populated residential as well as business areas located on the eastern side of West Boulevard Road (WB Road) have become hotspots for the virus. They point out that the streets located along the sides of Big Bazaar Street, residential localities around Gandhi Market, Varaganeri and Palakarai are also vulnerable. In addition to it, congested residential colonies along Uyyakondan canal from the district court to Palakarai have also been identified as potential hotspots. Nadu Gujili Street, Big Chetti Street, Jaffershah Street, Chinna Kammala Street, Peria Kammala Street, Sowrashtra Street, White Betal Street, Kalla Street, Pulikara Street, Sandhukadai Street, Sunnambukara Street and Kiledhar Street were among those identified as vulnerable spots. Besides, some parts of Woraiyur and Thillai Nagar have also been added to the list. These areas have a large number of small to medium retail and wholesale business houses and are frequented by thousands of customers everyday. Most houses here common walls. Out of the 1,077 cases reported in the district up to Wednesday, 569 were from Tiruchi city. “We have observed that thickly populated business and residential streets are susceptible to the quick spread of the virus. It is with a view to control the virus that we have formed 65 special teams in Tiruchi,” says Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that policemen have also been included in the team and it has been decided to lift at least 1,000 swab samples from vulnerable spots. While admitting that the situation was tricky, a senior health officer said people should avoid visiting thickly populated places as far as possible. If people ensured social distancing norms, the situation could be brought under control within three weeks, the official hoped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/densely-populated-lanes-hotbeds-of-covid-19-cases/article32037855.ece
10 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||250 test positive in central region||The central region saw the biggest single-day spike with a total of 250 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday besides recording three deaths - two in Tiruchi district and one in Pudukottai. In Tiruchi, two men aged 54 and 58, one hailing from Thennur and another from Kattuputhur died of comorbid conditions including diabetes and hypertension. The patients had tested positive on July 7. They died of respiratory failure on Thursday, official sources said. A 65-year-old man hailing from Pudukottai also died of comorbid conditions. He was admitted to the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital on July 6. On Wednesday, he died of COVID-19 related complications. Of the 250 fresh positive cases, 93 tested positive in Tiruchi, 46 in Pudukottai, 40 in Tiruvarur, 32 in Thanjavur, 25 in Nagapattinam, five each in Perambalur and Ariyalur and four in Karur. Most of the new cases were from Tiruverumbur, Woraiyur and Puthur within the city and from Musiri and Manapparai outside city limits. Meanwhile, a total of 45 patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged on Thursday. Fifty-six were also discharged from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai. A one-year-old girl and a seven-year-old girl were among those who tested positive in Pudukottai district. The patients, including 19 women have been admitted to the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. Two men aged 24 and 26, and hailing from Gandarvakottai tested positive in Thanjavur. Thirty-two patients tested positive in Thanjavur and 40 in Tiruvarur. Of the 32 in Thanjavur, seven patients were local contacts, while one returned from Bengaluru, one from Tiruvarur, a few from Madurai. One patient had come from Saudi Arabia. In Nagapattinam, of the 46 patients who tested positive, two returned from Chennai, 15 were local contacts. Three men who had been working in Iran and returned to Nagapattinam also tested positive. Among the five who tested positive in Perambalur was a three-year-old girl whose father tested positive earlier. Three others returned from other districts to their home town and tested positive. The four have been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. A 52-year-old man who returned from Dubai also tested positive. Five patients also tested positive in Ariyalur. Of the five, one returned from Vishakapatnam, one from Coimbatore, one from Tiruchi and one from Ariyalur district. In Karur, four patients have tested positive including a 60-year-old woman, and three men aged 59, 41 and 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/250-test-positive-in-central-region/article32037847.ece
10 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Students in Kyrgyzstan seek govt. help to return home||Over 650 medical students from Tamil Nadu, stranded in Kyrgyzstan, have appealed to the Indian Embassy in Bishkek to help them return home. The students, pursuing medicine at various universities there, said that they were asked to remain in their hostels in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and were facing issues with respect to their health, lodging and food over the last few months. M. Giridharan, a first-year MBBS student hailing from Villupuram, said that the students had submitted petitions and e-mails to the Indian Embassy in Bishkek, seeking repatriation flights to be arranged to Tiruchi or Chennai. “After months of struggle, the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission included two flights to Tamil Nadu,” he said. A total of 324 students have reached Tamil Nadu between July 2 and 4. However, many students from central and southern Tamil Nadu, including Tiruchi, Madurai and Ramanathapuram, are still stranded, he told The Hindu . The students circulated a spreadsheet among their contacts and found that there were as many as 641 Tamil students at various universities across cities in Kyrgyzstan. “COVID-19 cases are gradually increasing here and we are in a lockdown. We have been asked to remain in our hostel rooms, but food supplies and lodging facilities have taken a hit,” said Mr. Giridharan. No response While students from other States are being evacuated, the Tamil Nadu government is yet to respond to the pleas, Mr. Giridharan said. “We are not able to go out and purchase what we require on a daily basis. COVID-19 cases are increasing and there are no good medical facilities,” he said. T. Manikandan, a second-year MBBS student at Jalal-Abad State University, said that while they were trying to return home, their parents were worried sick. “We continue to tell them that we will be back soon, but even we are clueless,” he said. Some universities, like Mr. Manikandan’s, have begun online classes. “We can attend these classes from home as well, so we request the government to arrange flights to Tiruchi, if services to Chennai are not possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-in-kyrgyzstan-seek-govt-help-to-return-home/article32037531.ece
10 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Do not close establishment if employees test positive: traders||The Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangakalin Peramaippu has taken exception to big commercial establishments being asked to temporarily close down for 15 days even if one of their employees tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “Business establishments have resumed operations after relaxations were announced by the government only about a month back.Is it justified to ask business houses, with workforce of 200 to 300, to close again just because one or two employees test positive for the virus?” wondered Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary of the Peramaippu. Stating that repeated closure of businesses will not be practical, Mr. Govindarajalu wondered what would happen if another employee tested positive when a business establishment reopens after being closed for 15 days. In such cases the establishments should be allowed to function after fumigating their premises and asking people who had been in close contact with the positive persons to remain in home quarantine, he said in a representation addressed to Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami. Mr. Govindarajalu was also critical of health authorities putting up notices at the households of employees asking them to remain in home quarantine. Such actions trigger panic in the entire neighbourhood, Mr.Govindarajalu observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-close-establishment-if-employees-test-positive-traders/article32037853.ece
10 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest||A group of residents of Thillai Nagar staged a protest outside the GVN Institute of Oncology demanding the authorities to revoke the permission given to the hospital to function as a COVID-19 treatment centre. Around 300 residents gathered outside the hospital, situated in Thillai Nagar 2nd Cross, and demanded the authorities to reconsider the govt.’s decision. The hospital was situated in a locality where many residents were over the age of 60 vulnerable to the infection, the letter read. The residential area was also densely populated which would put the residents at risk, they claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-protest/article32037848.ece
10 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for threatening Village Health Nurse||A special police team on Thursday arrested a man on the charge of abusing and threatening a village health nurse of V. Thuraiyur near Samayapuram recently. Shanmugam came with his pregnant wife, Bharathi, to the health centre at V. Thuraiyur for registration when the Village Health Nurse, Santhosa Mary, asked them to test for COVID-19. The couple went to Tiruchi Government Hospital where the test was conducted. The pregnant woman tested positive. The nurse conveyed the test report to the couple and arranged to send the woman to the hospital by an ambulance. However, the pregnant woman left for hospital on her own and Shanmugam abused the nurse over the phone and threatened her. A case was registered against Shanmugam on Wednesday. A special team arrested Shanmugam at Pasupathipalayam in Karur district where he had been hiding. He was later sent for judicial remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-threatening-village-health-nurse/article32037860.ece
10 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gold biscuits seized||In a first case of seizure of smuggled gold during lockdown period at the international airport here, officials of the Customs Air Intelligence Unit confiscated eight gold biscuits from two passengers who had arrived from Sharjah by an evacuation flight operated by the Air India Express on Wednesday evening. The gold biscuits seized from Thiagarajan and Venkatesh, both hailing from Tiruvarur district, weighed about 920 grams and was valued at Rs. 45 lakh. The biscuits were found concealed in punching machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-biscuits-seized/article32037851.ece
10 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two more railway employees test positive||Two more railway employees have tested positive and were admitted to hospitals for treatment. A technician at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop, who was under home quarantine after he returned to Tiruchi from Kolkata by flight, tested positive on Wednesday. Another technician from Thanjavur who works at the electrical trip shed in Tiruchi tested positive on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-railway-employees-test-positive/article32037850.ece
10 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Constable tests positive for COVID-19||A constable attached to the Manapparai police station tested positive for COVID-19, prompting the authorities to lift swab samples from other police personnel who were on duty along with him. The constable was on leave since July 4 after he felt feverish. He had given swab samples for testing at the Government Hospital, Manapparai, and was declared positive on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32037849.ece
10 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Some more burial urns found at Adichanallur||Archaeologists involved in excavation of ancient burial sites of Adichanallur have found a few more burial urns while one of them has been closed. While the sixth phase of excavation began at Adichanallur near here, known as the ‘Cradle of ancient Tamil civilization,’ on May 25, a maiden excavation at another archaeologically important site at Sivakalai near Eral was started simultaneously by the Department of Archaeology. Though Minister for Tamil Development K. Pandiarajan had announced that excavation in the archaeological sites at Adichanallur and Sivakalai, both in Thoothukudi district, would commence on March 15, the exercise got delayed due to the lockdown caused by COVID-19 pandemic. While excavation is done at Sivakalai near Eral for the first time after repeated demands made by academics from various departments and Tamil scholars following recovery of articles used by ancient Tamils, the sixth phase of digging resumed at Adichanallur in May last after the exercise was carried out earlier in 1876, 1902, 1905, 2004 and 2005 during British regime and by the Archaeological Survey of India. As the sixth phase of the excavation commenced amidst a lot of expectations, a team of officials of Department of Archaeology, led by Deputy Director Sivanandam launched the work in areas close to Sivakalai. Led by its Excavation Director M. Prabhakaran, a team of experts are doing excavation at Sivakalai while the work was being executed at Adichanallur by J. Bhaskaran, Excavation Director. After the excavators resumed the excavation at Adichanallur and Sivakalai on May 25, more than 35 burial urns have been retrieved in these places. While some of the burial urns were found to be partially damaged, others were retrieved intact. As the excavators started moving towards the colony from the existing spot in Adichanallur, which is said to be the burial ground of the ancient population, they stumbled upon 3 more burial urns in a same pit, each measuring about 4 feet tall, near Pandiaraja Temple on Thursday. While one of the urns remains closed, the excavators believe that it would contain human skeletons, which would be sent for dating and associated analyses. “While the top portion of the burial urn with stand is black in colour, the lower portion is red. Small pots had been placed around these urns, which could be a custom followed by the ancient Tamils. We’ve planned to send the entire set of burial urns for analysis, which will throw more light on the ancient civilization and bring out more interesting information” the excavators said. Officials said the work that would go up to September this year, i.e., before the onset of north-east monsoon, is expected to give vital information about ancient civilization in this region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-more-burial-urns-found-at-adichanallur/article32037809.ece
10 July 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Translocated elephant dies in Mudumalai||A 32-year-old tusker, that was captured in Hosur and made its way into the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), after being released in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), died suddenly in the Segur forest range in MTR on Thursday. The elephant, which was blamed for the deaths of three people in Hosur, was captured in June and translocated to STR amid opposition from locals. The animal was radio-collared and released, but managed to move between the contiguous habitats of the tiger reserves. Forest officials said that teams from both reserves were tracking the animal to ensure that it stays away from human habitations. They added that the elephant had not raided any crops since its release and was believed to have been acclimatising well to its new surroundings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/translocated-elephant-dies-in-mudumalai/article32037572.ece
10 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||University notification on duty criticised||Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore on Thursday urged the Union Minister for Human Resources, Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank,’ to make Anna University withdraw its notification instructing its staff and faculties to work as usual during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a memorandum sent to the Minister, he said that Chennai has emerged as a hotspot with 70% of Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 infection reporting from the State capital. The State government has accommodated a huge number of COVID-19 patients on Anna University premises. Stating that several university staff had been infected with the virus, the MP said the State government has announced extension of lockdown till July 31 for all educational institutions. Under these circumstances, the Anna University had forced all staff and faculties to attend office as usual. “It would be disastrous for their health and make them vulnerable to the infection,” he said. He wanted the Union Minister’s intervention in the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-notification-on-duty-criticised/article32037811.ece
10 July 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Biggest single-day spurt in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district on Thursday recorded its highest 24-hour spike of 289 COVID-19 cases which took its tally to 1,595. In the last three days, the district has got over 600 new cases. The number of active cases stands at 941 and death toll at 10. Chambers of commerce in different towns decided to close down their establishments by 3 p.m. to prevent spread of the virus. In Rajapalayam, shops were shut by 2 p.m. Similarly, major fireworks units remained closed after the fireworks manufacturers’ association announced closure till July 19. Madurai reported 262 fresh cases and nine deaths – district’s overall toll is 95 – on Thursday, and its tally rose to 5,299, with 4,001 active cases. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi recorded 196 new cases, which took its tally to 1,754 with 795 active cases. The total number of cases in Tirunelveli rose to 1,409 with the addition of 110 cases. The district now has 665 active cases. Kanniyakumari reported 93 new cases with which its total case count rose to 965 with 592 active cases. Tenkasi that added 29 new cases – 28 of them indigenous – marked a tally of 589 with 289 active cases. Mahendragiri centre After five of its employees tested positive, the Indian Space Research Institute’s Liquid Propulsion Research Complex at Mahendragiri was closed on Thursday. “The complex will remain closed till July 14,” sources said. Theni Theni district saw its tally go up by 90 on Thursday with 46 men, 39 women and five children testing positive. Theni town reported 28 of the fresh cases, Cumbum 16 cases and Andipatti 7 cases. Meanwhile, 40 people were discharged from hospital. Dindigul Dindigul recorded three fresh cases – from Natham, Vedasandur and Nilakottai – which took the tally to 742. Twenty-four people were discharged. Ramanathapuram A total of 62 people tested positive in Ramanathapuram, taking the case count to 1,544. A revenue official from Paramakudi tested positive, prompting disinfection and closure of the office. A total of 78 patients, including Paramakudi MLA Sathan Prabakar, were discharged. Sivaganga Sivaganga reported 64 new cases, taking its total count to 675. The cases were reported from Karaikudi, Sivaganga Town, Illayanakudi, Manamadurai and Tiruppuvanam. Sixty-one people were discharged on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biggest-single-day-spurt-in-virudhunagar/article32037819.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore’s tally crosses 1,000 mark with 48 new cases||Coimbatore district crossed the 1,000 mark in terms of number of cases with 48 persons from various clusters, including Selvapuram, testing positive on Thursday. As many as 1,026 persons had tested positive for the disease in the district as of Thursday. Of the 48, nine were reported from a firm at Kurichi which the Health Department categorised as imported cases. Other cases were reported from Sundarapuram, P.N. Palayam, Redfields, Varadarajapuram, Sowripalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Sukrawarpet, Gandhipark, Vinayagapuram, LIC Colony at Kurichi, Chinniyampalayam, Kavundampalayam, R.S. Puram, Telengupalayam, Vadavalli, Kondayampalayam, Sugunapuram, G.N.Mills, S.S. Kulam and Puliyakulam. On Thursday, a Kerala-based jewellery showroom on 100 Feet Road was closed for fumigation after two of its employees tested positive. City Health Officer S. Raja said arrangements were made to test swab samples of all the employees and customers who visited the showroom. The showroom was not sealed as there was no negligence found from its side, he added. In Salem, 92 positive cases were reported on Thursday of which 83 were indigenous including 49 in the Corporation limits. Six had travelled from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, two had returned from Qatar and one from Karur, health officials said. Namakkal saw an increase in cases with 17 persons testing positive. Of them, 13 were workers of a fabric company in Karur. Two persons travelled to Tiruvanamalai and Madurai, and one to Karnataka. A sanitary worker of the Salem Government Medical College had also contracted the disease. Dharmapuri district recorded 55 cases in a single day, of which 12 were indigenous, seven were contacts of infected persons and others returnees from other states. In Erode district, 17 new cases were reported on Thursday, taking the total number to 313. Officials said five cases each were reported in the Corporation limits, Sathyamangalam and Bhavani Sagar while one case each was reported in Modakurichi and Nambiyur. Currently, 219 persons were under treatment. The Nilgiris district saw 13 cases on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases in the district stands at 172. The district administration said 123 people were being treated at the ESI hospital in Coimbatore, the Coonoor GH and the government headquarters hospital in Udhagamandalam. Forty-nine persons had recovered. Six new cases were in Tiruppur district, taking the overall tally to 265. Four of them were from the Corporation limits, Health Department sources said. A 53-year-old woman from Moomoorthi Nagar, an 80-year-old man from Kangeyam Road, a 57-year-old man from TSR Layout and a 35-year-old man from Universal Road tested positive. The other two cases were a 50-year-old woman from Itchipatti in Palladam Block and a 21-year-old woman from Pappavalasu in Vellakoil Block. A total of 678 swab samples were lifted on Thursday as part of contact tracing in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatores-tally-crosses-1000-mark-with-48-new-cases/article32037557.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribal students in the Nilgiris face prospect of missing classes||Tribal students from remote hamlets in the Nilgiris face the prospect of missing out on classes as they do not have access to technology that will be used to teach them in the coming months. School teachers and headmasters from private schools across the Nilgiris where tribal students are currently studying said that there was great concern about the impact the pandemic will have on the education of tribal students. “Tribal students need special attention in school, due to the structural problems they face in getting an education, as many are from impoverished families. With the government announcing that classes will be broadcast on television for government school students, and some private schools insisting on using smart phone technology to reach students at home, those who are most at risk of being left out of the system are tribal students,” said a school headmaster of a government school in the Nilgiris. Priya, a resident of Chinnala Kombai near Pilloor Mattam, a hamlet which is only accessible by walking over 6 km through a reserve forest, said that students in Chinnala Kombai, Sadayan Kombai and Anaipallam attend the government school in Anaipallam. She added that no one in any of the three villages owns a smart phone or television sets. “We are worried that the children in our villages will have to miss the entire academic year,” she said. Tribal children in remote hamlets, especially in Kil Kotagiri, Thengumarahada and parts of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve live in especially inaccessible areas, said officials from the school education department in the Nilgiris. Another teacher at a government school attended by tribal students said that children from Adivasi villages required special individual attention. A. Nasarudeen, Chief Education Officer, Nilgiris district, acknowledges the difficulties the School Education Department faces in reaching Adivasi settlements and students. “It is true that many families do not have access to smart phones, laptops or even basic internet, so we are still trying to figure out what can be done to reach these students,” said Mr. Nasarudeen, adding that the department was awaiting further instructions from the government to address these concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-students-in-the-nilgiris-face-prospect-of-missing-classes/article32037571.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers condemn PIL against Mettur water scheme||Members of Cauvery Uparaneer Nadavaidikai Kuzhu condemned a public interest litigation filed in Madurai Bench of Madras High Court and stated that the Mettur surplus water scheme would not affect the interests of Delta farmers. In a release, the organisation stated that the Mettur surplus water scheme has been long-standing demand of farmers in the region and only surplus water released through the Ellis Saddle surplus gates is being utilised for the Mettur surplus water scheme. According to a release, only less than a tmc of water is being utilised for the Mettur surplus water scheme and delta farmers would not be affected in any manner due to this project. The farmers also stated that the implementation of this scheme would also improve job opportunities in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-condemn-pil-against-mettur-water-scheme/article32037569.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Doctors to be recruited||The administration is attempting to increase the number of medical officers, nurses and paramedical staff after increasing the number of beds in hospitals and COVID care centres following manifold increase in the number of patients testing positive for coronavirus in this district since June 1. It invited applications from qualified persons to temporary posts of medical officers, nurses and paramedical workers on Wednesday. “We do not have any specific number of posts for recruitment. We are getting ready to have adequate number of manpower in health department as per government instructions. The temporary doctors and nurses could be used by other districts, if required,” Collector R. Kannan said. Virudhunagar district reported the first positive case in Rajapalayam on March 28. The number of cases increased in single or in double digits till May 15 when the number of cases was around 46. But following influx of people from places like Chennai in June, the number saw big jump every day. From 124 positive cases as on June 1, it grew by more than four times and stood at 493 by the end of June. In the last eight days, the number has increased by another 800 and the total stood at 1,298 as on July 8. Besides, 10 patients died in the last 20 days. “Swab tests are conducted at 21 places in the district. But it is not enough considering the number of people turning up for the test. In many places, people have to come again the next day to give their samples,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary K. Arjunan. The number of testing centres needs to be increased. Results of tests are declared after five or six days. “Those who give samples should either be home quarantined or quarantined at government facilities to prevent spread of the infection,” he said. The administration should look into complaints over quality of food served to patients at hospitals. The Collector said contacts of positive people were kept in institutional quarantine till their results were out. There was delay in announcing results due to limited testing facility and increased number of samples taken. “Now, we have got three RT-PCR equipment at the Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital and we can test around 950 samples a day. Once the backlog of cases is cleared, results would be known the next day after taking samples,” he said. Similarly, as beds in government hospitals started filling up faster in the last 10 days, the administration is arranging two COVID-19 care centres. “One with 250 beds is ready at Sivakasi. We will add 250 beds at Sivakasi and another 250 beds at Krishnankoil will be ready very soon.” All asymptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms would be admitted at COVID-19 care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-to-be-recruited/article32037810.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Report on encroachment sought||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State to file a status report in the petition filed by a woman from Tiruchi district who sought a direction to the State government to restrain anyone from carrying out construction or cultivation activities on a waterbody in Muthalaipatti in Karur district. The court was hearing the petition filed by V. Annalakshmi, the daughter of A. Veeramalai. Last year, Veeramalai and his son Nallathambi were hacked to death by a group of men after they had opposed the encroachments on the waterbody in their village. The High Court Bench had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident and passed a slew of directions for the removal of encroachments and police protection to the family. The petitioner, Annalakshmi, who resides in Tiruchi district, said the removal of encroachments was being opposed by some individuals. The district administration must restrain them from carrying out any construction or cultivation activities. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian informed the court that a case was pending before the Supreme Court challenging the removal of a temple structure that was constructed on the waterbody. Other encroachments were removed, he said. The hearing was adjourned till August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-on-encroachment-sought/article32037822.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Group Commander visits NCC cadets at check-posts||Over a week after cadets from the National Cadet Corps (NCC) from Coimbatore district were voluntarily posted at the check-posts to assist the district administration under ‘Exercise NCC Yogdan’, Coimbatore NCC Group Commander Col. L.C.S. Naidu visited three check-posts in the district to inspect the cadets on Monday. He visited the check-posts at Sulur, Karumathampatti and Annur on Monday, said Lt. Col. Girish Parthan, Officer Commanding, 2 Tamil Nadu Battery of Coimbatore NCC Group. Col. Naidu offered gifts to the cadets and commended their work, said Lt. Col. Parthan, who is also the NCC nodal officer for COVID-19 relief activities in Coimbatore district. Each check-post had an ‘action team’ comprising Associate NCC Officers, Permanent Instructional staff and cadets from Senior Division and Senior Wing. Each team has a strength of about 10 members. “On seeing the activities of the NCC cadets, there is a plan to induct them in the city also,” Lt. Col. Parthan said. The plan is yet to be finalised, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/group-commander-visits-ncc-cadets-at-check-posts/article32037563.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose laying of road using interlocking bricks||Local villagers from five hamlets around Kotagiri town have opposed plans of the local panchayat to lay a section of road using interlocking bricks. The residents of the five settlements, including the RKC Line, Campline, Murugan Colony, Akkal and Kottakal, have opposed plans by the local body to use interlocking bricks for a section of road leading to their houses, claiming that such a road would lead to increased chances of accidents. B. Ravichandran, a local resident, said that the section where the bricks are to be used is on a slope, and that during rains, the bricks could get extremely slippery and become a hazard for motorcyclists. “In order to stop this road from being constructed using the interlocking bricks, we launched a signature campaign among local residents, and the petition has been dispatched to the District Collector, the Coonoor MLA and the Nilgiris Lok Sabha MP,” said Mr. Ravichandran.  When contacted, an official from the Kotagiri town panchayat said that the interlocking bricks were being considered as normal asphalt roads were more prone to being washed away during spells of heavy rain. “However, we have received the petition submitted by the local residents, and we will take a decision on whether we can instead lay cement/concrete road along the stretch in question,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-oppose-laying-of-road-using-interlocking-bricks/article32037568.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 9     Persons tested +ve so far: 1,026 Indigenous cases: 994 Imported cases: 32 Active cases: 702 Death: 9 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)    Home quarantined: 3,159 Positive: 265 Discharged: 156 Active cases: 109 Death: 4 (Yet to be declared in media bulletin)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32037553.ece
10 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Water levels rising in Krishna tributaries following heavy rain||Heavy rain in South Maharashtra and some parts of Belagavi district led to a rise in water levels in the Krishna and its tributaries, including Doodh Ganga and Ved Ganga, in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. Officials estimate that around 65,000 cusecs of water was released from Maharashtra in the last 24 hours. They say that there is no need to relocate low-lying villages till water release reaches one lakh cusecs. However, two NDRF teams and five SDRF teams are camping in the riparian villages to handle any emergency. As many as eight bridges in the districts were under water following water release and also heavy rain. Residents of Karadaga, Bhoj, Kunnor, Sidnal, Akkol, Mallikwad, Dattawad, Barawad and Yadur and Kallol and Manjari suffered as the bridge-cum-barrages connecting these villages were submerged. They were forced to use longer and circuitous routes to reach their villages. The Markandeya began overflowing due to rainfall in Belagavi and Khanapur taluks. Road connection between Belagavi and Kangrali was cut off due to flooding in the river. Villagers were forced to use the Bujurg-Kangrali Road to reach Pashchapur and Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-levels-rising-in-krishna-tributaries-following-heavy-rain/article32037631.ece
10 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Jatra banned in Belagavi||Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan has issued orders prohibiting the five-day annual car festival of Mangai Devi in Belagavi old city. The jatra was supposed to start on July 14. As many as 138 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city. The city has 37 containment zones. This is a high risk situation and large gatherings cannot be allowed in public interest and safety and the jatra cannot be allowed, Dr. Thiyagarajan who has magisterial powers said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jatra-banned-in-belagavi/article32037632.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Boston Consulting Group to be roped in to attract investments||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to hire services of Boston Consulting Group (India) Pvt. Ltd., an MNC, for a year for bringing investments to the State. It was decided to pay a fee of Rs. 12 crore plus GST to the firm for its service. The firm will act as a knowledge partner to the government and work out strategies for attracting investments, both global and domestic, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons after the Cabinet meeting. Recently, the government amended a couple of laws related to land and industry for ensuring ease of doing business. Meanwhile, the Cabinet deferred the approval for the new industrial policy (2020–25).  e-governance To take e-governance to the next level, a decision was taken to continue the services of EAT India Services Ltd. for development and implementation of e-procurement 2.0 on PPP model for another seven years. The approved cost of the project was Rs. 184.37 crore. The Cabinet decided to provide interest-free loan of Rs. 2,500 crore for five electricity supply companies for payment of outstanding power purchase dues to the generating companies. Loans of Rs. 500 crore would be given to Bescom, Rs. 400 crore to Hescom, Rs. 1,000 crore to Gescom, and Rs. 600 crore loan to Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC). Mr. Madhuswamy said administration and management of two government companies — Mysore Electrical Industries and KAVIKA — would be shifted from the Commerce and Industries Department to the Energy Department for purchase of equipment by the Energy Department. The Cabinet approved the development of an airport in Vijayapura at a cost of Rs. 220 crore. A sum of Rs. 95 crore would be released in the first phase for ground levelling and construction works. The new airport would be ready in two years. It would be used for operating small ATR aircraft, PWD Minister Govind M. Karjol said. Following amendments to the AMPC Act, it was decided to reduce cess levied at APMC yards from 1.5% to 1%. The changes in the Act have enabled farmers to sell commodities outside the APMC yards also, Mr. Madhuswamy said. The Chief Minister has been authorised to fill the vacancy of a member in the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC). Member Lakshmi Narasaiah would retire on July 13, the Law Minister said. It was decided to amend the Section 9 of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act for mandating the Lokayukta and the Upa Lokayuktas to complete preliminary investigation within three to six months and filing chargesheet in six months. A sum of Rs. 12.8 crore and Rs. 44.8 crore would be released for the Shimoga Institute of Medical Sciences, Shivamogga, and Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Raichur, respectively, for undertaking development works. The State government would develop infrastructure at IIIT, Raichur, in the next four years, Mr. Madhuswamy said.  Cabinet defers approval for new industrial policy (2020–25) It approves development of an airport in Vijayapura at a cost of Rs. 220 crore Nod for interest-free loan of Rs. 2,500 crore for five electricity supply companies Cess levied at APMC yards to be reduced from 1.5% to 1%  Rs. 44.8 crore to be released for Indian Institute of Information Technology, Raichur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boston-consulting-group-to-be-roped-in-to-attract-investments/article32037490.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical students and interns asked to report for COVID-19 duty on short notice||Final year MBBS students in private colleges and those pursuing internship claim they have been asked to report to fever clinics or COVID Care Centres on short notice. Many alleged that they have been asked to make own arrangements for accommodation, pay for their treatment if tested positive for COVID-19, and for tests if they go to a private laboratory. An MBBS student at private medical college in Bengaluru said he got a message on Thursday morning asking him to report to their teaching hospital in two hours. “We were later told that we will have to go to the Department of Medical Education on Friday morning where we will be posted for COVID-19 duty. We have not been given any instructions,” the student said. Many of these students in private hospitals, who are pursuing MBBS and are undertaking their compulsory one-year internship, are not paid, but others are paid in the range of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 25,000 per month. This disparity has also rankled students. “We are not against being posted for COVID-19 duty, but we are urging the authorities concerned to ensure better planning and coordination. We also want the government to pay stipend if we are placed in public health facilities,” said a student. They alleged that college managements were unwilling to listen to their grievances and threatening to cut their attendance or initiate disciplinary action if they did not comply. An intern who works at a private medical college hospital in South Bengaluru said: “Four of the interns tested positive and three were hospitalised. They had to pay for their own treatment. In fact, we have been told that the college will bear the cost of one COVID-19 test and if we have to undergo another one, we have to pay for it.” Worried about the safety of their families, students have moved out of their homes and are staying in hostels or shared accommodations. “We are also spending money on sanitisers and masks for our personal use,” said a student.  Monthly honorarium  Sources in the Medical Education Department pointed out that the government was planning to pay a monthly honorarium for students who were not receiving stipends. “We have submitted a proposal to the government and want to pay students from private medical colleges a fixed monthly sum if they are posted on COVID-19 duty,” said a senior official in the department. Several colleges had warned students of the possibility of being roped in. Earlier this week, the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences had sent a circular to all its affiliated colleges that all their interns, postgraduate students, staff in all departments and streams will have to be ready to report for COVID-19 duty on short notice. “Every day the number of patients and beds is increasing. It is like reporting for war. Students will have to be ready to report as and when the need arises,” an official in the department stated. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that if colleges do not pay interns stipend, we will write to the Medical Council of India to initiate action against them. “Regarding other grievances that the students have raised, if they send us specific complaints, we will attend to it immediately,” he said adding that final year MBBS students and interns will be placed in COVID Care Centres and fever clinics.  If colleges do not pay interns stipend, we will write to the Medical Council of India to initiate action against them.K. SudhakarMedical Education Minister   Every day, the number of patients and beds is increasing. It is like reporting for war. Students will have to be ready to report as and when the need arises.Medical Education Department official   We were told that we will have to go and report to the Department of Medical Education on Friday morning and we will be posted for COVID-19 duty. We have not been briefed or given any instructions.MBBS student at private medical college||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-students-and-interns-asked-to-report-for-covid-19-duty-on-short-notice/article32037486.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unrest in the rank and file among frontline workers of civic body||It’s not just Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) who have decided to boycott work on Friday. Pourakarmikas, who are at risk owing to sorting through used masks and gloves, too are planning to stage a protest. Their demands? Insurance cover and protective gear. This comes after link workers, who have been deployed on myriad COVID-19 duties, protested on Thursday. The pourakarmikas are going to stage a decentralised protest at the various mustering centres for half-an-hour from 11 a.m., but will not be staying away from work, said Maithreyi Krishnan from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha. The Sangha has been repeatedly writing to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) about the great risk to thousands of pourakarmikas. “Initially, they were given a mask and gloves. They were also given sanitisers; but nothing after that. They are collecting waste from containment zones with nearly no safety gear or equipment. Auto drivers and helpers don’t even have gloves or masks,” said Ms. Krishnan. She also alleged that vehicles were not being sanitised regularly. The Sangha has demanded complete protection for all the pourakarmikas, medical check-up, and coverage under the Rs. 50 lakh insurance scheme. They have requested the BBMP to identify vulnerable pourakarmikas and give them paid leave. Changing rooms, drinking water and toilets are some of the other demands. Meanwhile, several link workers staged a protest at the BBMP head office on Thursday demanding immediate disbursal of their pending salary and safety equipment. The protest was staged under the aegis of the BBMP Health Link Workers’ Association, affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress. N. Shivanna, honorary president of the association, told The Hindu that the link workers had not received their salary since January. There are 290 link workers in 198 wards, who are assisting with COVID-19 activities. “However, no safety equipment is provided to them. We have demanded minimum wages. Currently, they get just around Rs. 7,000 per month,” he said. What link workers do Link workers were earlier deployed in primary health centres and corporation hospitals in the city. Later, they were deployed to create awareness on segregation of waste at source and other related activities. Following the spread of the pandemic, they were deployed to conduct surveys, identify pregnant women and lactating mothers, and stamp those under home quarantine. “They are undertaking all these activities at great personal risk. Yet, they have been forced to protest demanding payment of salary,” said Mr. Shivanna. Representatives met BBMP Special Commissioner (Health and SWM) D. Randeep, who assured that the pending salary will be released immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unrest-in-the-rank-and-file-among-frontline-workers-of-civic-body/article32037469.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Positive cases breach 30,000 mark||Five days after clocking 20,000 COVID-19 infections, Karnataka breached the 30,000 mark on Thursday and touched 31,105, as the State reported 2,228 new cases and 17 fatalities. The death toll stands at 486. This is apart from four deaths of infected persons owing to non-COVID reasons. The death toll which stood at 246 on June 30 almost doubled in the last nine days. Karnataka’s case fatality rate (CFR) now stands at 1.49% while in Bengaluru Urban it is 1.28%. Among the new cases, 1,373 are from Bengaluru Urban, which did not report any death in the last 24 hours. While seven of the deaths are from Dharwad, two each are from Mysuru, Kalaburagi, and Hassan. One death each has been reported from Raichur, Uttara Kannada, Tumakuru, and Davangere. In Bengaluru Urban With Thursday’s numbers, the total tally of positive cases in Bengaluru Urban touched 13,882. The total number of discharges in the State stood at 12,833, with 957 more people, including 606 from Bengaluru Urban, walking out of hospitals on Thursday. Of the 17,782 active cases, while 457 patients are being treated in the ICUs of various designated hospitals, the condition of the rest is stable. The number of positive cases in the State has been on a steady rise since mid-June. Nearly 50% of the total 31,105 positive cases in the State have been reported till June. During this period, the State saw 195 deaths, which is 40% of the total 486 deaths. As many as 177 of the total deaths are from Bengaluru alone. Steady rise The State recorded the first 1,000 cases on May 15, which is two months and six days after the first case was reported on March 9. Thereafter, the cases doubled to 2,000 on May 24. And, in a month’s time, the cases crossed 10,000 on June 24. Subsequently, in six days, another 10,000 cases were reported, taking the total number to 21,549 on July 4. Now, in a span of five days since then the cases have breached 30,000 mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/positive-cases-breach-30000-mark/article32037495.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Councillor’s nephew hacked to death in front of sisters||A 32-year-old real estate businessman was hacked to death in front of his two sisters on Kanakapura Road late Wednesday night. The deceased, Vinod Kumar, is the nephew of councillor Somashekhar from the ruling BJP representing Anjnapura ward in the BBMP Council. Vinod Kumar, a resident of Konanakunte Cross, had visited his elder sister at her house in Tataguni on Wednesday evening and was returning home. Both, his elder and younger sisters, were with him in the car when the incident took place. A gang of around eight bike borne assailants surrounded the car, leaving him no room to escape. According to the police, the assailants pulled Vinod out of the car, and hacked him to death, unmindful of the pleas by his two sisters. The gang fled from the scene leaving the profusely bleeding businessman on the road. His sisters, who were unharmed, rushed him to the nearest hospital, but he was declared brought dead. The Kaggalipura Police have registered a case and launched a probe into the murder. “The sisters are key witnesses in the case. We are yet to question them and record their statements as they were in a state of shock and were busy with the last rites of the deceased on Thursday,” said a senior police official. A team is analysing the footage from CCTVs in the vicinity for any leads on the assailants. “An initial probe has revealed that Vinod Kumar was involved in several land deals, earning himself many enemies. We suspect these land deals may hold the key as to who may have been behind his murder and are reviewing them,” police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/councillors-nephew-hacked-to-death-in-front-of-sisters/article32037475.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Of 2,241 beds in private sector, 1,478 are occupied||Of the total 1,377 beds set aside for COVID-19 patients in government medical colleges and hospitals in Bengaluru, 1,250 beds are occupied as on Thursday. Of the total 2,241 beds in 11 private medical colleges and eight private hospitals, 1,478 are occupied. This means a total of 763 beds in the private sector and 127 beds in government hospitals are now available for patients in the city, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Thursday. Sharing the bed occupancy details as on July 9, the Minister said private hospitals were yet to allot 2,750 beds of the total 3,000 as agreed upon in Wednesday’s meeting. He said, “Of the 819 beds in three government medical colleges, 749 have been occupied and of the 558 beds in 16 government hospitals, 501 have been occupied. Similarly, of the 1,991 beds in the 11 private medical colleges, 1,263 are filled and of the 250 beds in eight private hospitals, 215 are filled.” Likewise, in government-run COVID Care Centres (CCCs), of the total 5,144 available beds, 4,137 are occupied, the Minister said. Admitting that contact tracing in Bengaluru had taken a back seat, Dr. Sudhakar attributed it to fatigue in those involved in the process as they had been working for weeks without a break. Also, with the surge in numbers, it had become difficult to keep the same momentum that was in the initial days. “But, we will step up contact tracing in the coming days and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has taken certain stringent measures in this regard,” the Minister said. COVID care centres Meanwhile, the Health Department on Thursday issued an circular permitting private medical establishments, which are registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act to establish and manage COVID Care Centres for COVID-19 patients (followed by triaging by the hospital) in collaboration with hotels/staying facilities. “Separate registration or permission for such hotels will not be required but such an arrangement should be duly informed to the District Health and Family Welfare/Chief Health Officer-BBMP officer concerned through a letter/e-mail. This arrangement shall be the joint responsibility of private medical establishment and hotels,” the circular stated. These CCCs in the private sector are specially identified hotels/staying facilities where “asymptomatic/mild symptomatic COVID positive persons” can be kept under optimum medical observation and care till their recovery. Such an arrangement will improve availability of beds in hospitals for those who are moderately or severely affected by COVID-19, the circular stated. Stipulating the rates for private CCCs, the Health Department has said the hospitals should not charge more than Rs. 8,000 per day in economy/budget category. While Rs. 10,000 per day has been fixed for three-star CCCs, Rs. 12,000 has been fixed for five-star facilities.  We will step up contact tracing in Bengaluru the coming days and the Chief Minister has taken certain stringent measures in this regard. K. Sudhakar,Medical Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/of-2241-beds-in-private-sector-1478-are-occupied/article32037492.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Action will be taken against those denying treatment, warns Yediyurappa||The State government is making all efforts to contain the rapid surge of COVID-19 cases in the city, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) here on Thursday, he said around 2,200 staff, including doctors, nurses, support staff, housekeeping staff, marshals and police, will be deputed. For every 100 patients, there will be one doctor, two nurses, one support staff, one housekeeping staff, and two marshals. Only asymptomatic patients will be admitted to the CCC, while those with symptoms will be admitted to designated hospitals. “At the CCC, patients will be provided with good quality food. The centres are well-equipped to meet their needs. Safety kits for the staff, emergency treatment facilities, including an intensive care unit, electro cardio gram, oxygen support, first aid and pharmacy facilities are also provided,” he said. Control room will be set up to monitor patients round the clock. Waste from the centre will be treated as biomedical waste and disposed systematically. Laundry facility to wash blankets and bedsheets will also be provided. The centre will also tie-up with nearby hospitals. Taking note of the surge in cases since Unlock 1.0, he said a centralised bed allocation system and helpline was in place. “If there is a delay in arrival of ambulance as soon as the reports confirm the disease or if there is denial of treatment in hospitals, action will be initiated against the concerned,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa urged the MLAs to prioritise checking the spread of the pandemic in their respective constituencies. “The government’s priority is to save lives by providing timely treatment to those infected. Citizens from the city must resist travelling to their villages to prevent spread of the virus in the rural areas,” he said. Meanwhile, according to information made available, there are five CCCs – Medsol Hospital, Government Ayurvedic College, Haj Bhavan, Sri Sri Ravishankar Ayurveda Hospital, GKVK Agriculture Hostel – with 2,088 bed capacity that are operational in the city. Apart from this, seven other facilities with a bed capacity of 12,098 are being readied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-will-be-taken-against-those-denying-treatment-warns-yediyurappa/article32037483.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Hope govt. will reconsider its policy on Shramik trains’||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday said it hopes that the State government will reconsider its policy to stop requesting for Shramik special trains for migrant workers and bearing their train fares in view of increase in COVID-19 cases. The court also asked the government to provide details on status of migrant workers, who stayed back in the city despite registering on the Seva Sindhu portal to return to their home States. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order while hearing through videoconferencing the PIL petitions related to issues that have risen due to COVID-19 restrictions. The Bench took note of the submissions made on behalf of the All India Central Council of Trade Unions that many migrant workers still wanted to go back. The advocate for AICTU also said that no action was taken by the government on the lists, submitted between June 25 and July 7, of migrant workers wanting to return. It was contended on behalf of the government that a large number of migrant workers stayed back as works on projects commenced and many are returning from their home States to rejoin employment. Provide data Following these submissions, the Bench directed the government to provide data on number of migrant workers who have returned to the State and availability of employment to them as well as those who stayed back despite registering themselves to avail the facility of special trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hope-govt-will-reconsider-its-policy-on-shramik-trains/article32037503.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Body of man found in playground||Residents of Basaveshwara Nagar started panicking on Thursday morning after finding a body in a playground. Shopkeepers near Ambedkar playground initially thought the man was sleeping on a bench and tried to wake him up. As word spread, it triggered fears that he may have contracted COVID-19. The police reached the spot and a call was placed for an ambulance. However, in the backdrop of a rise in the number of cases, an ambulance arrived over six hours later. By then, the police had identified the deceased as Paramesh, 38. “He was a chronic alcoholic who worked in a private factory. He had walked out of his home two years ago and had since then been living alone,” said the police. As the news spread, his brothers claimed the body. It was shifted to Victoria hospital for an autopsy and a COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-of-man-found-in-playground/article32037476.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Question mark over location of liquor outlet||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the State government to conduct a survey to find out whether a liquor boutique, housed in a building on Mahatma Gandhi Road-Kasturba Road junction, is situated within 100 metres of a church and the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) in violation of excise laws. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by city-based advocate A.V. Amaranathan. The petitioner had questioned permission granted for Tonique, a liquor outlet, saying the law prohibits liquor outlets within 100 metres of educational institutions, places of worship and religion, offices of the State and Central governments. Though the petitioner claimed that the liquor outlet is situated very close to Bal Bhavan in Cubbon Park and a statue of Mahatma Gandhi, the bench noted that no records had been produced to show that housing a liquor shop near a statue and Bal Bhavan is prohibited under the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/question-mark-over-location-of-liquor-outlet/article32037473.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police chief visits Kalasipalyam station||In a confidence-building measure, Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao visited Kalasipalyam Police Station when it reopened on Thursday after being sealed for a few days. It was one the first police stations to be affected by the pandemic with 24 personnel testing positive for COVID-19. “Eight have been discharged and are under home quarantine. The rest are under treatment,” Mr. Rao said. The Commissioner said he would visit all police stations that will reopen. “Work must go on. To date, 39 Hoysalas have been impacted as personnel using these vehicles contracted the infection. But Hoysalas are critical infrastructure. We have not retired even a single vehicle. All of them are thoroughly sanitised and are back on the road with new personnel,” Mr. Rao added. Deputy Commissioners of Police have been holding video calls with all COVID-19 affected personnel from their zones every evening to boost morale. As many as 396 police personnel in Bengaluru have tested positive, of which 190 have been discharged. The virus has claimed the lives of five police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-chief-visits-kalasipalyam-station/article32037474.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC proposes one-year leave without pay for ‘willing’ employees||The cash-strapped Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is contemplating sending “willing” officials and employees on one-year leave without pay. KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi C. Kalasad has sought the opinion of his counterparts in BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC on this matter. As the parent organisation, KSRTC frames rules for employees of the road transport corporations. The letter addressed to the MDs stated that the corporations are facing financial difficulties as they are not in a position to operate bus services with full capacity. Draft policy The terms and conditions of the draft policy brought out by the KSRTC states that “one-year special leave” applies for permanent employees of the corporations. Those who opt for leave are eligible to get promotions as per their service records after they report back for duty. However, they cannot seek financial help from the corporations during the duration of leave. Employees can resign from their jobs while being on leave without pay. The move has drawn criticism from the KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation. H.V. Ananthasubba Rao, president of the federation, has demanded that the proposal be withdrawn. The federation maintains that though the KSRTC claims that only willing employees can avail themselves of leave without pay, he cited the possibility of officials forcing employees at the depot level to do so, he said in a release. In a press release, KSRTC MD said that they were only seeking opinions on the proposal. No order has been issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-proposes-one-year-leave-without-pay-for-willing-employees/article32037498.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contract doctors to get ‘service weightage’||Weightage of marks will be considered during the selection process with respect to contract doctors hired by the Health and Family Welfare Department, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. He said 2.5 marks for six months’ service and maximum marks of up to 30 would be given for each doctor. Age relaxation has been extended from 21 to 26, including for AYUSH doctors, the Minister said after a Cabinet meeting here on Thursday. A total of 507 contract doctors have been demanding regularisation of their services. The doctors had come down to Bengaluru on Wednesday to submit their individual resignations en masse .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contract-doctors-to-get-service-weightage/article32037499.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bank ex-CEO death: Police file case against 11||The police have registered a case against 11 people named by M. Vasudeva Maiya, former CEO of Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank who committed suicide recently. Maiya named them as being responsible for his death. “They include debtors of the bank whose loans have turned Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) and other office-bearers of the bank’s management,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-ex-ceo-death-police-file-case-against-11/article32037481.ece
10 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Taluk, district hospitals to get Rs. 207 cr. for infrastructure||The Cabinet on Thursday decided to release Rs. 207.98 crore to the Health and Family Welfare Department for purchase of beds, high-flow oxygen devices, and other civil and electricity-related works in taluk and district COVID-19 hospitals. Briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said these measures would enable hospitals to conduct COVID-19 tests and provide results as quickly as possible. The Cabinet also ratified grant of Rs. 81.99 crore to the department for purchase of equipment in other hospitals, he said. It was also decided to bring an Ordinance to increase amount under the Contingency Fund from Rs. 80 crore to Rs. 500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taluk-district-hospitals-to-get-rs-207-cr-for-infrastructure/article32037488.ece
10 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Webinar||Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), Bangalore, jointly with R.R. College of Pharmacy, Bangalore, will be organising a free public international webinar on ‘How to face a job interview (in online and offline mode)’ on Friday at 4 p.m. According to a release, this webinar will be useful to all job aspirants. For registration, click the link.https://event.webinarjam.com/ register/174/gm0ngh87||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar/article32037467.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Why was director sent on leave during pandemic?’||A new political flashpoint is likely to emerge between the BJP government and the Opposition Congress in the State as the latter has questioned the government’s intention to send Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital director K.S. Manjunath on leave for six weeks during COVID-19. The Congress has been alleging misappropriation of funds amounting to Rs. 2,000 crore in the purchase of medical equipment for COVID-19 by the State government. On Thursday, KPCC working president Ehswar Khandre put out a series of tweets. “Why is the director changed in a hurry? Whose interest is behind this? Why is Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar silent when all developments had taken place under his nose? The people of the State are asking these questions, reply,” he tweeted. Earlier, both Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Mr. Sudhakar rejected the Congress charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-was-director-sent-on-leave-during-pandemic/article32037487.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Out of control in some districts: CM||Was it a slip of the tongue or a grim reality blurted out? On Thursday, answering to a query, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa acknowledged that there has been some slip-ups in control of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to presspersons here, he acknowledged that COVID-19 is going out of control in some districts. He, however, said the district administration and the police were bringing in stringent efforts to contain it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/out-of-control-in-some-districts-cm/article32037484.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC seeks KMC response||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) to inform the court whether complaints had been received against medical practitioners for not treating non-COVID-19 patients, and if action had been initiated. The court directed the State and KMC to submit measures taken into the grievances against medical practitioners on their failure to treat the patients. A Division Bench issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by Tumakuru-based advocate Ramesh L. Naik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-seeks-kmc-response/article32037500.ece
10 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. collecting data of staff aged below 50||Following the need for more government staff to fight COVID-19 as cases spike in Bengaluru, the government has sought information of officials aged below 50 in each department. In a circular issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Thursday, details have been sought of Group A, B and C officials in Bengaluru city, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. Pregnant and lactating women and the physically challengedhave been exempted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-collecting-data-of-staff-aged-below-50/article32037505.ece
10 July 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Night traffic banned on Charmadi Ghat||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam on Thursday issued an order prohibiting the movement of vehicles on the Charmadi Ghat stretch of National Highway 73 between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. with immediate effect. The officer took this decision in the wake of incessant rain in the area. Last year, landslips had occurred on the stretch obstructing the movement of vehicles for long hours during the rainy season. Mr. Gautam said that the order would apply to all vehicles except ambulances. In his preliminary note to the order, the officer said that during the night time it would be difficult to drive on the stretch in heavy rain and fog. It would also be difficult for the police to manage traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/night-traffic-banned-on-charmadi-ghat/article32037634.ece
10 July 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Sringeri MLA tests positive||Sringeri MLA T.D. Raje Gowda tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. He has been admitted to a designated hospital for treatment. He is the third legislator from the district to get infected. MLCs M.K. Pranesh and S.L. Bhoje Gowda are undergoing treatment. Mr. Raje Gowda said on his Facebook account on Thursday that he tested positive for the infection and he had been admitted to a designated hospital. In his message, he appealed to people of his constituency not to worry about his health assuring them of him coming back recovered soon. Meanwhile, six people tested positive in the district on Thursday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases increased to 129.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sringeri-mla-tests-positive/article32037633.ece
10 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ensuring a decent farewell||A team of volunteers representing the Popular Front of India (PFI) have taken up the responsibility of conducting the final rites of those who die of COVID-19 infection in Hassan. With the cooperation of the district administration, the activists have so far laid four bodies to rest in Hassan city. While family members of the dead stand at a distance at the burial ground, these youths — six people in each team — complete the formalities. All this began after the PFI volunteers approached District Health Officer K.H. Sathish Kumar with the proposal to join hands with the administration to provide a decent farewell to the dead. The district administration was impressed by their gesture. Deputy Commissioner (DC) R. Girish also encouraged them and promised all support. “Initially, we had thought of paying for the PPE (personal protection equipment) kits from the organisation. But, the DC said they would provide them on behalf of the district administration. Along with the dead body they give six PPE kits, which are burnt soon after the rituals are over at the burial ground itself,” said Kazeem Ahmed, district council member of the PFI. So far they have conducted the final rites of Muslim people who died of the infection. They, however, are ready to offer their services to all, irrespective of the religion. “Today, a Hindu woman died of the infection. We volunteered to extend our services. The family members said they had made some arrangements with the help of the local administration. We have told the district administration we are ready to help all,” Mr. Ahmed said. R. Krishnamurthy, Commissioner of the Hassan CMC, said, “The CMC staff members also assist them in the final rites.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensuring-a-decent-farewell/article32037497.ece
10 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two more deaths||Two more people died of COVID-19 infection, taking the toll to 15 in Hassan district. A 75-year-old man, a native of Hassan taluk, died on Wednesday evening. He was admitted to hospital on July 6 and died of the infection two days later. The patient was under dialysis and had other health complications. A 76-year-old woman, who had been diabetic for about 10 years, also died of COVID-19, said District Health Officer K.H. Sathish Kumar. Meanwhile, the total number of confirmed cases went up to 615, with 21 new cases reported on Thursday. Among them, four were reported in Alur, one each in Belur and Arsikere, six each in Hassan and Channarayapatna taluks and three cases were reported in Holenarasipur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-deaths/article32037646.ece
10 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Send approvals for Hubballi exhibition centre’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has issued directions to the officials of the Department of Commerce and Industries to give the requisite administrative approval to the works pertaining to Dharwad District Permanent Multi-purpose Exhibition Centre in Hubballi. Mr. Shettar gave this direction while chairing a meeting at Khanija Bhavan in Bengaluru on Thursday, with Secretary of Commerce and Industries (MSME and Mines) M. Maheshwar Rao, Director of MSME Ziaullah Khan and office-bearers of Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI). According to a release here on Thursday, after the discussion on the issue, Mr. Shettar said that a few administrative approvals pertaining to the exhibition centre’s work were pending before the department. “Due to want of administrative approval, the works have remained suspended for the last four months,” he said. “Immediately send the required administrative approvals and communicate it to the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Dharwad,” he told the officials. The Minister also asked the officials to take steps to facilitate allotment of identified land for Karnataka Material Testing and Research Centre in Hubballi on lease for 99 years. The delegation brought to the notice of the Minister that although several rounds of discussions had taken place on the issue of allotting land to the government-aided institution, the State government had not issued No Objection Certificate (NOC) so far. A KCCI delegation comprising president Mahendra Ladhad, vice-presidents Vinay Javali and Siddeshwar Kammar, managing director of Karnataka State Small Industries Development Corporation Mahesh Shirur, president of Karnataka Material Testing and Research Centre T. Nagaraj Diwate, general secretary Mallesh Jadar and Chief Executive Officer Narendra Kulkarni were present, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/send-approvals-for-hubballi-exhibition-centre/article32037643.ece
10 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Green gram exceeds kharif target as Kalaburagi registers 59 % sowing||Continuous rainfall since June has helped farmers opt for brisk sowing during this kharif season. The monsoon has been satisfactory with Kalaburagi district recording 168 mm rainfall as against a normal average of 122 mm from June 1 to July 5. As much as 59 % of the targeted area for kharif crops, both in rain-fed and irrigated areas, has already been covered in the district. According to the Department of Agriculture, farmers have completed sowing in more than 4,43,823 hectares of farmland against a fixed target of 7,55,130 hectares for the season. Among foodgrains, pulses dominated the scenario with farmers completing sowing in 3.64 lakh hectares (60 %) of land against a target of 6.12 lakh hectares. Sowing of black gram has been taken up in 27,686 hectares against a targeted area of 29,800 hectares (93 %) and green gram has been taken up in 50,482 hectares against a targeted area of 49,100 hectares (103 %). This figure of short-duration crops is likely to go up as farmers in some taluks in the district are still busy sowing. Cereals have been sown in 4,385 hectares (25 %) as against a targeted area of 17,280 hectares, sowing of pulses has been taken up in 3,64,533 hectares (60 %) against a targeted area of 6,12,250 hectares and oilseeds have been sown in 8,408 hectares (21 %) as against a targeted area of 39,400 hectares. The district has so far successfully achieved 50 % cotton sowing against a total target of 56,200 hectares. Chincholi taluk has seen sowing completed in 75 % of the targeted area under kharif cultivation, followed by Chitapur taluk with 70 %, Sedam 68 % , Aland taluk 61% and Afzalpur taluk with 57 %. The lowest sowing of 30 % was recorded in Jewargi taluk. Meanwhile, sources in the Agriculture Department said that monsoon across the district this time was favourable which has helped farmers take up timely sowing operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-gram-exceeds-kharif-target-as-kalaburagi-registers-59-sowing/article32037636.ece
10 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sedam MLA admitted to private hospital for COVID-19||MLA from Sedam in Kalaburagi district Rajkumar Patil Telkur has tested for COVID-19. Sources close to the BJP leader confirmed it. They said that the MLA was admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru. As per information provided by sources, Mr. Telkur’s personal assistant who was travelling with Mr. Telkur to Bengaluru two days ago showed COVID-19 symptoms midway and was sent back to Kalaburagi. He later tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a designated hospital in the city. This prompted Mr. Telkur and his family members to undergo COVID-19 test. The sources added that Mr. Telkur did not have any symptoms of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sedam-mla-admitted-to-private-hospital-for-covid-19/article32037637.ece
10 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two deaths in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district on Thursday reported two deaths and 85 new cases of coronavirus, taking the toll to 32 and the total number of such cases to 1,901. A 50-year-old woman (P-26,670) and a 53-year-old man (P-30,965) suffering from a severe acute respiratory infection, who tested positive for COVID-19, died at a hospital here on Wednesday. Of the total 1,901 positive cases in Kalaburagi, 1,392 people have recovered. There are 477 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-deaths-in-kalaburagi/article32037638.ece
10 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain forecast||India Meteorological Department has warned that Coastal Karnataka is likely to get heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorm for five days from Friday. A bulletin issued by the department here on Thursday said: “Heavy to very heavy rain likely to occur at isolated places in all the districts of coastal Karnataka on Friday, and rainfall shall exceed 115 mm. Thunderstorm with lightning likely to occur at isolated places.” It also said that heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places in the coastal belt from July 11 to July 14 and the rainfall shall exceed 65 mm during these days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-forecast/article32037645.ece
10 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||32 new positive cases||As many as 16 each new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Raichur and Yadgir districts on Thursday. In Raichur, the total number of positive cases went up to 631 and of these, 442 have been discharged. There are 183 active cases. In Yadgir, with the 16 new cases, the total number of positive case went up to 1,043. Of these, 872 have been discharged and there are 170 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32-new-positive-cases/article32037639.ece
10 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Headmaster suspended||A headmaster of a government higher primary school at Tumkur village in Wadagera taluk of Yadgir district was suspended after a video surfaced showing him consuming alcohol in a classroom, according to Deputy Director of Public Instructions Srinivas Reddy. The headmaster, Devindrappa, was suspended on the charge of “indecent behaviour”, Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Reddy, who passed the order after the video went viral, said that the incident happened on July 2 but came to light on Wednesday. “Immediately after seeing the video, I spoke to higher officials of the department and placed him under suspension,” he said. Further inquiry has been ordered, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/headmaster-suspended/article32037642.ece
10 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Police station sealed||After a police constable tested positive, Shorapur police station was sealed on Thursday, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane has said. Primary contacts of the police constable have been put in institutional quarantine and secondary contacts have been asked to be in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-station-sealed/article32037641.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Number of passengers boarding buses comes down as positive cases go up||Poor ridership owing to increasing positive cases of COVID-19 has forced the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to further reduce the number of bus services in a span of one week. After lockdown restrictions were eased, BMTC had gradually taken the number of buses on the road to 4,000 per day. But with a surge in cases, the number has been reduced to under 3,500 buses. People are wary of taking unnecessary risks: the number commuters in city buses has dropped from 11 lakh to 8 lakh per day. A BMTC official said, “After COVID-19 cases started increasing in Bengaluru, fewer people are stepping out of their homes. For over a week, we have been seeing a drop in the ridership. This has also hit revenue, which is now down to Rs. 80 lakh.” The poor ridership has also forced the Corporation to completely withdraw AC bus services within city limits. Only 24 Vayu Vajra AC buses to and from Kempegowda International Airport are currently operating. A similar trend is playing out in KSRTC, which has reduced bus services across the State from nearly 3,700 per day to 2,500. “Inter-district services from Bengaluru have been impacted. The number of people travelling from the city to other districts has dropped even more following an increase in the number cases in the districts,” said an official. The number of people travelling in KSRTC buses dropped from 2.8 lakh per day to 2 lakh. Revenue has dropped from Rs. 2.5 crore per day to Rs. 1.75 crore. The Corporation had planned to introduce at least 60 AC buses, but is operating only 10 on the Bengaluru-Mangaluru, Bengaluru-Kundapur and some other routes. “We are running one AC bus on an inter-State route from Bengaluru to Vijayawada,” the official added. Due to poor footfall, shopkeepers and those running hotels at major bus stands have closed their establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/number-of-passengers-boarding-buses-comes-down-as-positive-cases-go-up/article32037480.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC: BBMP breached containment zone SOP||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the State government to strictly enforce the protocol of Containment Zones (CZs) using its machinery as the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) disclosed to the court that CZs are not completely sealed down and people can move in and out of the around 3,181 such zones across the city. If what the BBMP has stated is true, and public are allowed to move in and out of CZs, then the court will have to treat it seriously as the actions of the BBMP amount to a serious breach of the protocol and the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the court observed. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order while hearing through video conferencing the PIL petitions related to issues arisen due to COVID-19 restrictions. Earlier, the BBMP counsel said that it has not identified the needy people requiring food in CZs as people residing in these zones can move in and out of the zones for jobs and to purchase ration as restrictions are not stringent. The counsel also contended that the BBMP could not identify 900 families in a few CZs requiring food as per the details provided by a non-governmental organisation. The bench said that the actions of the BBMP are contrary to the SOP issued by the State government on April 17 as well as the order passed by the civic Commissioner on managing CZs. The bench also said that the BBMP has failed to comply with its earlier direction to provide food to the 900 families. The April 17 circular and SOP state that a containment zone should be completely sealed with no movement of people outside their houses even for basic necessities. The bench also directed the State government to ensure supply of food for needy persons in the CZs besides health services to those residing in all the CZs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-bbmp-breached-containment-zone-sop/article32037471.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals agree to treat COVID-19 patients from today||If patients come directly to them, then the cost should be borne by patients, he said. He said that private hospital staff would be given training at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) on the mode of treatment and protocol to be followed in the case of COVID-19-related deaths. Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat B.C. Sateesh asked private hospital managements to join hands with the government in the fight against coronavirus and said that based on symptoms, patients would be sent to COVID-19 hospitals and COVID Care Centres. Medical Superintendent of KIMS Arun Kumar told the meeting that treatment for patients from other districts would be given at KIMS only if there were no beds available in their districts. “Only patients with letter from the designated hospital or the district hospital facing shortage of beds will be admitted at KIMS,” he said. “A communication in this connection will be sent to medical colleges and authorities of neighbouring districts,” he said. Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissioner R. Dileep, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Yashwanth Madeenkar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-agree-to-treat-covid-19-patients-from-today/article32037644.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Temporary appointment of 1,700 medical professionals||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will be roping in 1,700 medical professionals on a temporary basis for a period of six months. These medical professionals, including 300 doctors, 600 nurses and 200 support staff, will be deputed at the COVID-19 Care Centres. The State government issued an order on Wednesday stating that the Finance Department has given its go-ahead to the civic body to temporarily appoint these medical professionals. This will cost the BBMP Rs. 21.42 crore. Three shifts The order states that all these personnel will work in three shifts. There will be one doctor for every 100 patients. Similarly, there will be one nurse for every 50 patients and two support staff for every 100 patients. That apart, there will be three Group D employees for every 100 patients. The BBMP will provide 600 Group D employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temporary-appointment-of-1700-medical-professionals/article32037466.ece
10 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||22 persons test positive in Alappuzha||Sparking fears of local transmission of COVID-19 in the district, 22 more persons tested positive for the disease on Thursday. Among the fresh cases, 10 persons contracted the disease through contact. Ten are foreign returnees and two came from other States. Those who contracted the disease through contact include six relatives of a pregnant woman from Pallithode who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on July 4. Of the six, two are children, said an official. A 46-year-old man native of Bharanikavu is a relative of a fish vendor from Kuruthikkad who tested positive last week. Another is a 55-year-old fish vendor at Kayamkulam market. A 49-year-old man from Pulinkunnu is an employee of a seafood company at Ezhupunna. A young man from Pattanakkad, an employee at Chellanam harbour, also contracted the disease through contact. Of the cases from foreign countries, four came from the UAE. Three young men, two of them hailing from Purakkad and another from Mararikulam, reached the district on June 26. A young man from Purakkad came on June 24. Two patients hailing from Mannar and Pallipad had come from Oman on June 19 and June 28 respectively. A 53-year-old man from Thrikkunnapuzha and a 47-year-old man from Purakkad came from Saudi Arabia on June 17 and July 1 respectively. Two young men from Kumarapuram and Purakkad had come from Qatar and Bahrain on June 25 and June 26 respectively. Two who came from other States are Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel at the Nooranad unit. Meanwhile, seven people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases in the district stands at 236. Ban on fishing activities Following a spike in COVID-19 cases in coastal areas, District Collector A. Alexander issued an order banning fishing and sale of fish along the coast in the district. Officials said that the ban would remain in place till July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/22-persons-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32037843.ece
10 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||New irrigation project||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the Muvattupuzha Valley Irrigation Project (MVIP) through a videoconference on Friday. The project envisaged for Idukki, Ernakulam and parts of Kottayam districts will use the tail water from the Moolamattom power house of the Idukki reservoir. The project was launched in 1983 and later some areas of Kottayam district were also included by constructing a 323-km water canal. With the inclusion of two lift irrigation schemes, the project will help in irrigating 18,173 hectares of land in the three districts. The total cost of the project, including Central funds, was Rs. 1,082 crore. The project will help supply irrigation and drinking water to the Assembly constituencies of Thodupuzha, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Piravom, Kaduthuruthi, Ettumanur and Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-irrigation-project/article32037758.ece
10 July 2020||Idukki,KERALA||4 kin among 20 patients in Idukki||Twenty persons, including a health worker at a community health centre, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Idukki on Thursday. Others included eight persons who returned from the Gulf and 11 who came from other States. A four-member family — 70-year-old man, his wife, 20-year-old son, and 17-year-old daughter — from Munnar are among the patients. They had returned from Sankarankovil in Tamil Nadu. A couple from Vazhathope who had returned from Jaipur also tested positive. There were eight recoveries in the district on Thursday. A total of 69 people are at isolation wards in hospitals. While 50 are in the Taluk Hospital, Idukki, 14 are at the Taluk Hospital, Thodupuzha. Five persons from the district are in hospitals in other districts. There are 633 people in home quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-kin-among-20-patients-in-idukki/article32037836.ece
10 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Use water judiciously, says Chief Minister||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday made an appeal for using water judiciously and for its reuse in agriculture after it is used in households. Mr. Vijayan was speaking after inaugurating the work on the drinking water project at Eruvatti village in Pinarayi panchayat. The event was held online at Panthakkappara Sree Narayana Library. Without realising the importance of conserving such a precious resource as drinking water, some were using it for other purposes. There should be an effort to change such conduct, he said. Mr. Vijayan said that it had been the long-term wish of the people of Eruvatti village to have a drinking water scheme. The project was expected to be completed in nine months, he said, adding that it was expected to meet the demand for water in the village until 2050. The problem of drinking water shortage in the area would be fully addressed once the project was completed and at least 3,000 households would have access to the service. K. Krishnankutty, Minister for Water Resources, who presided over the function, said 8.8 lakh households had been provided with drinking water connections in the past four years in the State. The Eruvatti project was being implemented at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. The event was attended by T.K Jose, Additional Chief Secretary of the Water Resources Department; S.Venkatespathi, Managing Director, Kerala Water Authority; G. Sreekumar, Technical Member; P. Balan, Chief Minister’s constituency representative; government officials, people’s representatives, and political party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/use-water-judiciously-says-chief-minister/article32037725.ece
10 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam sees drop in local transmission cases||Amid the all-round gloom triggered by COVID-19 pandemic, the district had a minor relief on Thursday when the number of infections through local contact was more than halved to four compared to nine the previous day while the persons cured for the day also outnumbered those infected. While 12 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday, 15 persons were cured. Among those who got infected through local contact were a 31-year-old woman from Edathala, a 16-year-old boy from Thrikkakara, a 31-year-old woman from Choornikkara and a 40-year-old man who runs a tea shop in Ernakulam market. All of them had come into contact with either their relatives or acquaintances who were tested positive since July 4. Among those who tested positive were a 40-year-old male from Vaduthala who arrived from Qatar, a 37-year-old woman from Chendamangalam who had come from Maharashtra, a merchant navy official hailing from Uttar Pradesh who arrived from Bengaluru, a 29-year-old resident of Tamil Nadu who arrived from Bengaluru, a 35-year-old resident of Maharashtra who came from Mumbai, a 23-year-old man from Haryana who came from Delhi, and a 34-year-old man of Edappally who arrived from Kuwait. Another person who was tested positive in Thrissur is also under treatment in the district. A new set of 681 persons were put in quarantine, taking the total number of quarantined persons in the district to 13,586 – 11,707 in home quarantine, 1,363 in paid quarantine facilities and 516 in COVID care centres – while 474 persons were released from quarantine. Thirty-five persons were newly admitted in hospitals, taking the number of isolations in hospitals to 290 while 28 were discharged. The district now accounts for 213 active cases. Out of the 281 test results received on Thursday, all except 12 were returned negative. Around 1,626 samples were sent for examination from the district, including the ones from private hospitals and labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-sees-drop-in-local-transmission-cases/article32037737.ece
10 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||No community spread: Minister||There was no community spread of COVID-19 in Kochi city, said Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Thursday. This was for the second consecutive day that the Minister made such a categorical statement in view of continuing speculations over a possible triple lockdown in the city. Addressing a press conference here, the Minister said that there was no need for anxiety about the rise in number of people infected through local contact since the originating points of infection were being tracked down. With the declaration of three more wards in Aluva Municipality – 8 and 21 — and ward 14 of Thripunithura Municipality as containment zones, the total number of containment zones across the district has risen beyond 60, including 33 within the city police limits. The second ward in Nayaramabalam panchayat will be removed from the list of containment zones. However, people should continue to remain on alert, he said. He said that necessary measures had been taken for the efficient functioning of Ernakulam General Hospital. More facilities had been made at Government Medical College, Kalamassery, for the examination of people suspected of contracting the disease. Teacher infected A higher secondary teacher who had attended an evaluation camp at a city school has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The teacher had attended the higher secondary evaluation camp held at SRV High School from June 8. “She was relieved from the camp on June 23. We were informed by the health authorities that she was tested positive and 15-odd teachers who had been with her in the same room during the camp have been asked to go into quarantine,” said school authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-community-spread-minister/article32037735.ece
10 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Containment zones under scanner||Active surveillance has been launched in the containment zones in Aluva Municipality, and Chellanam and Mulavukad panchayats where most number of infections were reported through contact. The special teams deployed in the zones will collect over 200 samples from Aluva and Chellanam regions on Friday. The Health Department plans comprehensive door-to-door sample collection with the help of Kudumbashree and Accredited Social Health Activist members in Chellanam. The decisions were taken at a videoconference chaired by District Collector S. Suhas on Thursday to take stock of the situation. Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar and Health Department officials attended the meeting. The Health Department with the help of the police has tracked down workers of all contract carriages engaged to transport migrant workers back home. The symptomatic among them will be tested. The operational time of shops dealing in essential items in containment zones was rescheduled to between 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. Discussions will be held with super markets operators over home delivery of essentials. Two more markets in the district – fish markets in Fort Kochi and Kalamukku – were also closed down as a precautionary measure, taking the total number of closed markets to six. Markets in Aluva, Ernakulam, Chambakkara and Varapuzha already remain closed. Two more wards in Aluva Municipality – 8 and 21 – were declared as containment zones on Thursday. “Both the wards had a hospital each that treated COVID-19 patients. That coupled with the contiguity factor for enabling effective monitoring by the police was why they were declared containment zones,” said Anwar Sadat, Aluva MLA.  The operational time of shops dealing in essential items in containment zones was rescheduled to between 8 a.m. and 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/containment-zones-under-scanner/article32037741.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police guidelines for containment zones||The Ernakulam rural police have drawn up a new set of guidelines for containment zones within its limits. Those found violating these guidelines will be slapped with charges under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC. All transportation services through containment zones remain suspended except transit through the National Highway subjected to the condition that no one will be permitted to stop anywhere while transiting through the containment zones. Banks within containment zones will be allowed to operate only critical functions using minimal staff strength though no customers will be allowed. However, ATMs will be allowed. Offices of the State/Union Territories and their autonomous bodies, corporations, shall remain closed. Municipal bodies shall operate only essential services such as sanitation and water supply with the minimum number of staff. Those arriving from airports and railway stations will be allowed into containment zones only for home or institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-guidelines-for-containment-zones/article32037738.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks candidates’ list||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the High Court Registrar General to forward in six weeks the additional list of candidates from the merit list dated February 20, 2020 prepared for the posts of munsiff/magistrates to the government for approval and appointment. The court passed the directive while allowing a writ petition filed by Swetha Sasikumar of Kottayam and others. According to them, several vacancies of munsiff/magistrate had arisen following promotions to the post of sub-judges in May 2020. The petitioners contended that the vacancies which had arisen for one year from May 7, 2020 shall be filled from the present rank list. According to them, the notification issued on May 7 limiting the appointments to only 32 vacancies was contrary to the Special Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-candidates-list/article32037760.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold smuggling: accused in Customs custody||P.S. Sarith, the accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, was handed over to the custody of Customs officials for investigation till July 15. The trial court, which is considering the case, released the accused to the custody of the Customs officials after considering a request from the agency. Details of the others involved in the case and those who are at large need to be collected from the accused. The help of forensic and cyber experts need to be sought for recovering evidences that were destroyed by the accused, the agency submitted before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-smuggling-accused-in-customs-custody/article32037763.ece
10 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||OP wing for people with symptoms to start functioning at PVS Hospital||An outpatient wing will start operating at PVS Hospital shortly for people with COVID-19-like symptoms. A decision to this effect was taken in a discussion held over videoconference by Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar and hospital authorities on Thursday. The move was aimed at controlling the rush at Ernakulam General Hospital in the wake of the decision to retain Government Medical College, Kalamasserry, as COVID Care Centre. At present, the specialised treatments previously offered by the Government Medical College are being provided through the General Hospital where cardiology and the general medicine wings had to be closed earlier this week after a patient was found infected with the pandemic. The new decision is on account of the surge in patients and space constraints at the General Hospital. The soon-to-be opened outpatient wing at PVS Hospital will be made accessible to those with serious pandemic symptoms. Those with minor symptoms can avail of the service of tele-medicine. Those who turn positive will be shifted to the Government Medical College and those who test negative but in need of specialised treatment will be moved to the General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/op-wing-for-people-with-symptoms-to-start-functioning-at-pvs-hospital/article32037733.ece
10 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||T.K. Ramakrishnan memorial gets CRZ nod||Two years after declining permission for the controversial T.K. Ramakrishnan Convention Centre near Ernakulam Boat Jetty, the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) has reversed its earlier decision and cleared the project. The project, mooted by the Ernakulam district leadership of the CPI(M), is to construct a convention centre and assembly hall in memory of Ramakrishnan, former Minister for Excise and Cultural Affairs, in the city by spending around Rs. 1 crore. The four-storey structure is to come up in a holding of nearly 13 cents. The KCZMA, in March 2018, had denied permission for the project. However, CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan submitted a fresh application for CRZ clearance this year, which was considered at the 107th meeting of the KCZMA held on February 26. While considering the fresh application, the KCZMA found out that an authorised road existed between the High Tide Line (HTL) of the nearby tidal-influenced waterbody and the proposed construction site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tk-ramakrishnan-memorial-gets-crz-nod/article32037742.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||I just followed Consulate’s instructions, says Swapna||Swapna Prabha Suresh, a suspect in a case relating to gold smuggling through the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, on Thursday said she was only discharging her official duty as executive secretary to the Consulate General’s office of the United Arab Emirate on “request basis” by checking with Customs officials about the delay in clearing a cargo that had reached the cargo complex of the airport. In an anticipatory bail petition filed before the Kerala High Court, Ms. Suresh pointed out that she had resigned from the post of executive secretary and joined as a contract staff in PricewaterhouseCoopers which is dealing with the Space Park project under the State IT Department. However, she continued to work on “request basis” in view of the COVID-19 situation. She alleged that Rashid Khamis Al Sheimelli, who is the present Acting Charge of the Consulate General of the UAE, had directed her to check with the Customs officials regarding the delay of his consignment that had reached in the cargo complex on June 30 and July 1. Therefore, she had called the Assistant Commissioner of Customs and verified the status of the diplomatic cargo. ‘No involvement’ In fact, she had no connection or involvement in the smuggling of the gold. She was falsely implicated in the case. Besides, the investigation officer had nothing to elicit from her. Therefore, there was no need for custodial interrogation of the petitioner. Moreover, she had no criminal antecedents, according to the bail petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/i-just-followed-consulates-instructions-says-swapna/article32037759.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Five held on charge of stealing railway property||The Railway Protection Force has arrested five persons on the charge of stealing railway property worth Rs. 2 lakh. The arrested were identified as Razak, 48, of Thammanam; Dhanesh, 46, of North Paravur; Nazar K.K., 48, of Thammanam; Salam T.K., 33, of Thammanam; and Jamal, 42, of Thammanam. Another accused Hassanaar, 40, of Thammanam, is absconding. The first four accused allegedly stole railway CST-9 plates used for fixing the railway track from the railway yard at Kathrikadavu and the fifth and the sixth accused who run a scrap shop near Kalamassery allegedly sold them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-held-on-charge-of-stealing-railway-property/article32037739.ece
10 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Online session on cybercrime||The Women Cell of St. Teresa’s College in Ernakulam organised an online training session on ‘Cybercrime, Online Safety and Redressal’, under Facebook’s ‘We Think Digital’ programme in collaboration with National Commission for Women and Cyber Peace Foundation. The training saw participation by over 3,000 women students from all over Kerala. G. Poonguzhali, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kochi, was the guest speaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-session-on-cybercrime/article32037743.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lab tests to be ramped up in Kozhikode||A district-level medical expert committee on COVID-19 has proposed to ramp up the number of lab tests in Kozhikode to diagnose the infection, even as eight more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. The decision to increase lab tests was taken at a meeting chaired by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree on Thursday. It was also decided to conduct more antigen tests whose results could be released fast. A release said among the newly infected patients, there is a 52-year-old from Kallayi who had been in contact with the relative of a woman from the area who tested positive for the virus on June 30. This person’s body fluid samples were collected on July 3 and is right now at the first-line treatment centre at the Lakshadweep Guest House. Five others were earlier diagnosed with the infection through contact with the woman. Also, there are a 39-year-old man from Kallayi and a 33-year-old man from Koduvally who were tested positive for the virus during the rapid antibody test conducted at the airport. They had returned from Kuwait and Riyadh respectively on July 4. Both were under surveillance at a COVID care centre at Feroke. Now, they have been shifted to the first-line treatment centre. The other patients are from Maniyoor, Ramanattukara, Eramala, Moodadi and Nadapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lab-tests-to-be-ramped-up-in-kozhikode/article32037720.ece
10 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Free treat for 45 jumbos in Kollam||Forest Minister K. Raju inaugurated the free ration distribution for elephants at Government Veterinary Hospital, Puthankulam, here on Thursday. Forty-three elephants and two calves in the district will be given rice, wheat, ragi, chickpea, horse gram, turmeric and jaggery for 40 days as part the project jointly launched by the Forest and Animal Husbandry Departments. The food will be distributed at the hospitals in Chathannur, Panaveli, Sakthikulangara, Ezhukone, Kottamkara, Paravur, Puthankulam, Chirakara, Kuzhimathikadu, Kottarakara, Panmana, Mayyanad and Kollam. Fruits and sweets The Minister fed jaggery and pineapple to two elephants, Ananthapadmanabhan and Manikandan, at the event. G.S. Jayalal, MLA, presided over the function. Poothakulam grama panchayat president M.K. Sreekumar, Animal Husbandry Department Director C. Madhu and Assistant Directors S. Shinekumar and B. Ajith Kumar were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-treat-for-45-jumbos-in-kollam/article32037845.ece
10 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||10 infected in Kollam||Ten persons from the district, including a civil police officer, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Among the patients, four persons came from abroad while one returned from Hyderabad. Those who tested positive on the day are from Sasthamcotta, Karunagappally, Eroor, Kottankara, Eravipuram, Oachira and Thazhava. A 48-year-old and a 27-year-old Sasthamcotta residents are the wife and son of a fish vendor who tested positive on July 6. Two others, a 33-year-old woman and her 9-year-old daughter, are also from Sasthamcotta and are his relatives and primary contacts. The civil police officer from Karunagappally was working at Ponnani and his sample was taken after one his colleagues tested positive. The 50-year-old Eroor resident came from Hyderabad, arriving in Kollam on June 23. The Kottankara resident had arrived from Riyadh and the Thazhava resident had arrived from Sharjah on July 6 and June 25 respectively. Two others, an Oachira resident and an Eravipuram resident, came from Saudi Arabia. The district reported nine recoveries on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-infected-in-kollam/article32037846.ece
10 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Plaint redressal goes online||G. Jaidev, District Police Chief (DPC) of Kottayam, has begun reaching out to the complainants through videoconferencing with a view to minimising the risk of disease transmission during personal interactions. Under the new system, the officer will receive complaints over videoconferencing sessions, give directions to officers, and forward petitions to the sections concerned. Officials said the office of the DPC would verify the petitions received by Mr. Jaidev on a daily basis. Depending on the gravity of issues, the complainants would be put across to the senior officer through videoconferencing so that they could directly interact with him without actually going to his office. According to them, Mr. Jaidev used to meet anywhere between 25 and 30 complainants on a daily basis and in the changed scenario, meeting them all in person was not a practical option. The arrangement would be in place till the situation improves. “Post the lockdown, there has been a considerable fall in the number of people approaching the DPC directly. However, there are still some who travel from far away places only to have a face-to-face interaction with the officer at his chamber even after submitting a detailed petition,” said an official. Schedule meeting People who look to interact online with the DPC would have to submit their complaints at his email ID (spktym.pol @kerala.gov.in). After verifying the complaint, the department will get back to the petitioner and schedule the online meeting accordingly. Mr. Jaidev said the initiative was launched primarily in view of the restrictions on public transport. “While the usual avenue of meeting at my chamber still exists, the use of technology will enhance public access to the office during this period of restricted travel. Considering that this can help reach a much larger audience, we are dovetailing this to the routine complaint redressal system,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plaint-redressal-goes-online/article32037838.ece
10 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Seven cases in Kottayam||Seven people, including four persons who came from abroad, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 127. Two of the patients came from other States while one contracted the virus through local contact. The patients are from Melukavu, Madapalli, Thiruvarp, Tazhathangadi, Kaduthuruthy and Thrikkodikanam. A 72-year-old man from Parathodu contracted the disease through contact. He was admitted to a private hospital in Kanjirappally with viral pneumonia and was later referred to the General Hospital and then to the Government Medical College Hospital here. Eight persons recovered from the disease. Antigen testing drive Considering the spurt in COVID-19 cases through local contact, the authorities here have launched an antigen testing drive in the district. According to officials, tests were done on 50 persons, including pregnant women and children, from two wards of Chirakkadavu grama panchayat on Thursday. None of them tested positive. A similar drive will be taken up in Pallikkathodu grama panchayat. Meanwhile, the District Disaster Management Authority has come up with a slew of measures to combat the spread of the viral infection. In markets The local bodies are required to make sure that traders and loaders in markets under their jurisdictions do not come into close contact with truck crew from other States. Special restrictions will be in place in fish markets. The authorities have identified several institutions across the district for opening primary care centres. Directions had been issued for setting up separate care centres for patients suffering from mental illness, said District Collector M. Anjana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-cases-in-kottayam/article32037839.ece
10 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Congress warns of intensified protest against Pinarayi||Congress leader and Vadakara MP, K. Muraleedharan, has sought the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and asked him to face a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the seizure of 30 kg of gold from a diplomatic consignment at the Trivandrum International Airport. At a news conference here on Thursday, he said that Mr. Vijayan should follow the example of his father, K. Karunakaran, who had stepped down when allegations were raised against him in the Rajan case after the Emergency in 1977 and the ISRO espionage case of 1994. Mr. Muraleedharan said that the people who had been baying for the blood of his father were now silent in the gold smuggling case. That Mr. Vijayan feigning ignorance about the underhand dealings going on in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) revealed that he was unfit for the post. The same lobby involving M. Sivasankar, who was removed from the post of Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister was behind the gold smuggling and also sabotaging the case of Muhammed Basheer, a journalist who was killed in a road accident in Thiruvananthapuram. He said that the Chief Minister should have suspended the IAS officer instead of relieving him of his posts and sending him on leave. The Congress party would be forced to defy the COVID-19 curbs and take to the streets if a CBI probe was not ordered in the case, Mr. Muraleedharan said. BJP steps up protest The Bharatiya Janata Party in Palakkad intensified its protest against Mr. Vijayan by staging a march to the district collectorate on Thursday. The protesters demanded that the Chief Minister resign. Police barricades stopped the protesters in front of the Civil Station. The protesters threw COVID-19 caution to the wind by huddling together and lowering their masks even as Palakkad continued to be one of the most vulnerable districts for potential local transmission of SARS-CoV-2. YC stages march In Malappuram, Youth Congress activists took out a march to Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan’s house at Perinthalmanna on Thursday morning, accusing him of having connections with the culprits in the gold scandal and demanding that he step down from the post. The marchers scuffled with the police who prevented them well ahead of Mr. Sreeramakrishnan’s house. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary V.A. Kareem inaugurated the march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-warns-of-intensified-protest-against-pinarayi/article32037719.ece
10 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Consensus candidate’ for post of Calicut varsity VC||Academic M.V. Narayanan is learnt to have emerged as the government’s nominee for the post of the Vice Chancellor of Calicut University. Governor Arif Mohamed Khan, who is also the Chancellor, however, is keeping his cards close to his chest, even though the search committee had forwarded its list of short-listed candidates in mid-May. According to sources, the government had earlier favoured K.M. Seethi, then Professor, School of International Relations and Politics, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam for the post. However, Mr. Seethi retired in May last week after turning 60, which is also the upper age limit for the post of VC as per university rules. If the government insists on his appointment, arguing that he was below 60 when he applied for the post, it is likely to be challenged in court. The sources pointed out that the government had been advised to avoid a legal tangle, and that is how Mr. Narayanan came into the picture. He was second in the list of names proposed by M. Jagadesh Kumar, Vice Chancellor, Jawaharlal Nehru University, another member of the search panel. The first was C.A. Jayaprakash, Principal Scientist, Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram, and Suresh Mathew, Professor, School of Chemical Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, was the third. He is believed to be a “consensus” candidate. Mr. Narayanan, Professor, Department of English, Calicut University, had been at the Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, as part of a project till recently. He has now rejoined the university. Mr. Narayanan is a Left fellow-traveller, having done his research in performing arts of Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consensus-candidate-for-post-of-calicut-varsity-vc/article32037721.ece
10 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP seeks resignation of Chief Minister, Speaker||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has reiterated his demand for the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan for their alleged links with Swapna Suresh, the prime suspect in a gold smuggling case. Addressing a news conference here on Thursday, he said the Chief Minister writing to a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for an effective and coordinated investigation into the gold smuggling racket was only to hoodwink the public. He wondered why the Cabinet was reluctant to order a CBI probe into the involvement of the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) in the case. The alleged involvement of the CMO was included in the probe in the solar scam case during the Oommen Chandy rule. Mr. Surendran alleged that a section of the police officers were not cooperating with the Customs Department in the case. It was a failure that the Police Department was unable to trace the prime suspect. ‘Conspiracy’ The CPI(M) State secretariat said in a statement here that the conspiracy to divert the case and help the guilty to escape was serious. The party accused the Congress, the BJP and a section of the media of attempting to create a smokescreen on the issue. It could be assumed that there are political and economic motives behind such moves. Moves are afoot to put the government and the LDF in the dock raising an issue in which they have no stakes, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-seeks-resignation-of-chief-minister-speaker/article32037757.ece
10 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Plea to Governor over award of marks||T. Mohammedali, Senate member, Calicut University, has sought Governor Arif Mohamed Khan’s intervention in the controversy related to the alleged illegal award of marks to a former Students’ Federation of India (SFI) leader. In a letter to Mr. Khan, he alleged that Dayaana K., the former SFI leader, had been given 21 marks nearly 11 years after she had completed a postgraduate course from the Department of Women’s Studies. He alleged that though similar efforts were made in 2010, it was stopped by the then head of the department, Registrar, and the Vice-Chancellor. The issue was taken up again in 2018 after the head of the department vacated her office in 2017, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-governor-over-award-of-marks/article32037732.ece
10 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IMA awards||M. Muraleedharan, V.G. Pradeep Kumar, and Ajith Bhaskar from Kerala have been selected for a national award for doctors instituted by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). It is in recognition of their services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-awards/article32037746.ece
10 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Online mock test for NEET aspirants||Registration has started for a model exam for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) to be conducted by the students’ union of the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, on July 22. Online test Titled “Ncore”, the online mock test is being conducted in association with IMPRINTS, a charity organisation being run by the union and the paediatrics department of the medical college. The question papers are prepared by students from the medical college who scored high ranks in previous years. The last date for registration for the mock test is July 19. Visitwww.imprintscmc.co.infor details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-mock-test-for-neet-aspirants/article32037717.ece
10 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 count crosses 100 in Malappuram and Palakkad districts||Fifty-five persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Thursday. As many as 23 were found to have been infected through local contact. Twenty-one persons tested positive during an intensive screening in Ponnani taluk, where a triple lockdown is in place. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said 30 of the new cases had returned from abroad and two from other States.  The number of infected persons under treatment in the district rose to 431 on Thursday. In Palakkad Fifty persons, including an 11-year-old girl, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday. Seven of the new cases are migrant labourers.  A 43-year-old woman from Mezhathur contracted the disease apparently from her husband who had returned from Kuwait and had tested positive.  In Thrissur As many as 27 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Thursday. Seven persons got the infection through contact, and three of them are health workers.   The District Collector declared Ward 8 of Nadathara panchayat as a containment zone on Thursday. Divisions 7,10, 11, 15, 17, 19, 25, and 26 of the Kunnamkulam Municipality will continue as containment zones. In Kasaragod The number of COVID-19 patients continues to spike in Kasaragod district, as 11 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. District Medical Officer A. V Ramdas said among those tested positive, eight are from abroad, while three came from other States.  In Kannur Eight more persons tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur district on Thursday. While two of them arrived from abroad, five were from other States. Those who arrived from abroad include natives of Munderi and Thalassery. While those who came from other States include residents of Peravoor, Irrity, and two from Panoor.  In Wayanad Seven more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday. Meanwhile, the District Collector on Thursday declared 11 wards of two grama panchayats and four divisions of two municipalities in the district as containment zones. Wards 6, 7, 8, and 9 of Mullankolly grama panchayat, wards 3, 4, 11, 12, and 13 of Thondernad grama panchayat, divisions 19, 22, and 24 of Sulthan Bathery, and division 10 of the Kalpetta Municipality were declared as containment zones.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Thrissur, Kasaragod, Kannur, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-count-crosses-100-in-malappuram-and-palakkad-districts/article32037730.ece
10 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A teacher chooses a runner-up to tell a success story||A picture from a cross-country race that was held in Spain in December 2012 is making little children of a primary school in the district reassert that honesty is the mother of human virtues. Sumitha K., a teacher to the fourth standard students of Krishna A.L.P. School, Alanallur, has opened a floodgate of positive emotions in them by showing them a picture of an athlete whose act of honesty continues to inspire the world seven years and a pandemic later. A creative lot What surprised the education watchers in the State was the spontaneity and creativity in the response from the children when Ms. Sumitha asked them to evaluate and comment about the picture during an online class. Her students responded differently, enjoying the freedom they had. When G. Arthana dramatised the occasion and made it into a conversation, C.S. Aparna wrote a letter to the Spanish runner in the picture. Some wrote essays. And her 30-odd-strong class had learnt one of the biggest lessons of their life: that no victory is more valuable than being honest. The incident Spanish runner Ivan Fernandez Anaya is a hero to the children. In the December 2012 race held at Spain’s Burlada, Kenya’s champion Abel Kiprop Mutai was in the lead and certain of winning the event. But mistakenly thinking that he had crossed the finish line, Mutai pulled up nearly 10 metres before the finish. The Spanish runner, instead of grabbing the opportunity to win the gold, caught up with Mutai and guided him into the first place. Anaya preferred honesty to victory, and became a world hero. “He is our hero,” the class chorused. Ms. Sumitha’s out-of-syllabus lesson won praise from across the State as senior education consultant T.P. Kaladharan presented it on his Malayalam blog named Choonduviral. Fine example “It is a fine example to show that children should not be confined to textbooks, which have limitations. Ms. Sumitha kindled the creativity of her students by giving them such a wonderful topic from outside the text. And she also won their respect by respecting their freedoms. Such teachers should be encouraged,” Dr. Kaladharan told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-teacher-chooses-a-runner-up-to-tell-a-success-story/article32037753.ece
10 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Child marriage: girl’s mother, groom booked||In a case of child marriage, the police booked the groom and the relatives of the 15-year-old bride, including her mother, at Ponnamkode, near Mannarkkad, on Thursday. The girl told the District Child Protection officers that it was the financial constraints of the family that led to her early marriage on January 2 this year and the groom, who was in Sharjah, had opposed to her studying. Child care centre The girl was produced before the Child Welfare Committee, which shifted her to a child care centre. The police registered a case against the 28-year-old husband, and the girl’s mother and her sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-marriage-girls-mother-groom-booked/article32037754.ece
10 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta HQ remains off limits||The district headquarters remained cut-off from the rest of the district on Thursday with the State Disaster Management Authority declaring the municipal limits of Pathanamthitta as containment zone on Wednesday evening. The decision came in the wake of a student leader, politician, and two fish vendors in the municipality testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. The source of infection of six persons, three of them health workers, is unknown. Shifted to MCH Meanwhile, a 42-year-old fish merchant at Kumbazha market who tested positive on July 1 was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, on Thursday. There were reports that he had attended some marriage functions and funerals in and around Pathanamthitta. Being a politician and a cooperative bank employee, his contact list was vast. Another 48-year-old fish vendor who too tested positive hailed from Kumbazha. Health surveillance teams have identified 17 contacts of the Muslim Students Federation leader. The teams visited 840 houses in the municipality on Thursday to identify his contacts. The 33 municipal wards will be containment zone for the next seven days. Public transport came to a halt. The police tightened restrictions following reports of tension after local people protested against an attempt of some fish vendors to sell fish at Kumbazha and Pathanamthitta markets in the morning. Shops selling essential commodities were permitted to open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-hq-remains-off-limits/article32037840.ece
10 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||7 cases in Pathanamthitta||A volunteer at a COVID Care Centre was among the seven persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. The source of infection of the 50-year-old man is unknown. There are 182 active cases in the district. A total of 207 people are in isolation wards at hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32037841.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe pivots to former staff of UAE consulate||The Customs Department case relating to the smuggling of gold through diplomatic channels appeared poised to take a turn on Thursday. Investigators said a senior official at the consulate of the United Arab Emirates here had hinted that he might be willing to testify before a magistrate. He reportedly claimed the documents produced by one of the mission’s former employees to clear the air freight that contained 30 kg of contraband gold valued at Rs. 15 crore were forged. The UAE official has also doubted the authenticity of the signatures on the papers submitted by the former staff for Customs verification. He denied the consulate had sanctioned the import. The Customs probe has pivoted on some former employees of the consulate who periodically undertook chores for the mission on a “request basis”. Several shipments The respondents had cleared several shipments addressed to the diplomatic mission since January. The examination of one such consignment in the presence of UAE officials at the air cargo complex here on July 3 had revealed 30 kg of gold concealed in imported piping. The discovery had triggered a major investigation that spanned international borders. The current phase of the inquiry seemed focussed more on a “woman respondent” in the case. The former consulate employee, who projected the image of a mover and shaker in high circles, had come under a cloud of suspicion after she contacted a Customs official to lobby for the expeditious clearance of the shipment containing the contraband. Later, she allegedly endeavoured to return the suspect cargo to its port of origin. In her anticipatory bail plea in the High Court, the woman claimed that she had acted with the full authority of the UAE consulate and was innocent of the charge of gold smuggling. National security The Customs has also shared the details of the case with Central agencies, given its national security implications. The optics of the woman interacting with top government officials and her controversial posting in a subsidiary of the IT Department had, arguably, not augured well for the government’s public image. It had led to the displacement of M. Sivasankar as Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and head of the IT Department. Meanwhile, the Customs department denied media reports that Mr. Sivasankar was “a person of interest” in the smuggling case inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-pivots-to-former-staff-of-uae-consulate/article32037762.ece
10 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coastal areas turn a powder keg as cases swell in capital city||The coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram continued to witness alarming levels of SARS-CoV-2 local transmission as the district scaled new peaks in COVID-19 by reporting 95 cases, of which 92 resulted from contact transmission. Worryingly, the Poonthura region alone, which comprises the Poonthura ward and adjacent areas, accounted for 88 cases. Highlighting the dire situation during his customary briefing on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan pointed out that the cluster that necessitated triple lockdown in the entire city was the result of a fish merchant in the region contracting the disease after travelling to Kanyakumari. While 21 people are learnt to have contracted the infection from the person, the cluster has grown close to 200. While 77 Poonthura natives, including several children, some aged less than 5 years, are among the infected, a few others from nearby places, including Vallakadavu, Manacaud and Valiyathura, have also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The patients include fish vendors and auto drivers who frequent other parts of the city. A 45-year-old Panavoor-native civil police officer attached to the Pettah police station has also tested positive. Involved in the Janamaithri community policing scheme, the officer is known to have come in close proximity with an Armed Reserve Camp officer who tested positive last week. As many as 12 officers in the station are in quarantine. A 31-year-old Pattom native, who is known to have visited the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, which has remained shut since July 3, has also been diagnosed with the disease. Three employees, including a housekeeping staff member and a canteen worker, of KIMS Hospital and a year-and-a-half-old daughter of one of them also tested positive for the disease. A 63-year-old cancer patient, hailing from Pattom, has also contracted the infection. His is one of the six cases in which the source of infection is unknown. Imported cases The three imported cases include a 32-year-old Nandiyode native who came from Muscat on June 24, a 21-year-old Pallanam native who came from Qatar on July 2, and a 30-year-old East Fort native who came from Dubai on June 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-areas-turn-a-powder-keg-as-cases-swell-in-capital-city/article32037796.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Community spread close by: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday warned the government would reverse the phased easing of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions if people threw caution to the wind and returned to the pre-pandemic way of life. The State was on the brink of a community spread. The infection could rage like wildfire if uncontrolled. The citizenry should slowly edge back from the precipice of a catastrophic descend to social disaster. Mr. Vijayan grimly asked the public to prepare for harsh measures if the caseload spiked. The police would enforce physical distancing strictures proactively. The triple lockdown was highly restrictive. The government would restrict the clampdown to localities where there was a rise in new cases. No more warnings The time for counselling and warning had expired. The disease was at a manageable level now. However, the pandemic could spiral out of control any time and overwhelm the State machinery. The government had imposed triple lockdown in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits after new case clusters emerged at Poonthura. Several families lived cooped up in small dwellings with spartan facilities. Hence, the authorities would isolate vulnerable sections of the citizenry, senior citizens, pregnant women, children, and those with chronic health conditions, in their homes by temporarily resettling healthy inhabitants in nearby camps. Mr. Vijayan imposed a strict ban on fishing operations. The coastal police would patrol sea routes to prevent boat traffic between Kerala and Tamil Nadu coast. He said a single fish hawker, who travelled between the neighbouring States, had emerged as a “super spreader” in the district. People in containment zones should confine themselves indoors. They should venture out only for essentials. People could rely on the police for any assistance during an emergency. Mehta’s driver positive Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta’s driver tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. The 40-year-old driver, who hails from Vengode, near Vattappara, whose source of infection is unknown, is known to have last gone for work in the Secretariat on July 4 after which he never came into proximity with Dr. Mehta, sources said. Those on his list of secondary contacts include Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and State Police Chief Loknath Behera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-spread-close-by-cm/article32037749.ece
10 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poonthura and nearby clusters under lock and key||Tighter lockdown restrictions came into effect in the city’s coastal areas on Thursday with the Poonthura region, which has turned a COVID-19 superspreader, coming under stringent regulations. The region, comprising Poonthura, Mankiyavilakam and Puthenpally wards, has reported an alarming positivity rate with close to 200 cases, mostly due to local transmission, being identified among over 600 people. In view of the disturbing situation, the district administration has declared the region a critical containment zone. The adjacent wards—Vallakadavu, Beemapally East, Beemapally, Valiyathura and Muttathara—has been designated as buffer zone of the critical wards. These areas were barricaded to prevent movement to and from the region and thus thwart the possibility of a community spread, Inspector General and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Besides having deployed commandos, the government has stationed 500 police personnel including senior police officers in the region. The public have been directed to remain strictly at home, except to seek essential healthcare, medicines, food supplies, and ration. Patrol intensified The Coast Guard and Coastal Police have intensified patrol along the coast to enforce the prevailing ban on fishing activities in the district. The Health Department has been undertaking aggressive testing to identify and isolate infected persons along the coastal belt. As part of efforts to alleviate the woes of the coastal community, free ration of 5kg will be distributed to all families in the critical containment zone. To prevent crowding, they have been allotted specific days to avail themselves of free rations from their nearest ration outlets on the basis of the last digits of their ration card numbers. The Corporation has commenced disinfection of public places, houses, and other buildings in the region. Some relaxation in curbs The district administration has further relaxed the ongoing triple lockdown restrictions by extending the working time of milk booths, vegetable stalls, and grocery shops by an hour. While such outlets can be made open for public from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. as earlier, traders will be permitted to replenish their stock from distributors from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. While banks and other financial establishments in the Corporation limits and in containment zones in other parts of the district can function until 1 p.m., those in the critical containment zones and buffer zones will remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poonthura-and-nearby-clusters-under-lock-and-key/article32037793.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown keeps Janakeeya restaurants’ hands full||The Kudumbashree district mission has distributed 3,480 food packets in the three days since its Janakeeya restaurants began rustling up food for home delivery in the wake of the ongoing triple lockdown in the city. The mission’s three Janakeeya restaurants at Overbridge, Vallakkadavu, and Nettayam, and five Kudumbashree catering units supplied 1,000 food packets on Tuesday, 1,200 on Wednesday, and 1,280 on Thursday. Orders for a day could be placed from the previous day till 8 a.m. on that day.The packed food is then delivered to the zonal office of the Corporation closest to the areas from where the orders have been placed. The delivery of food has been entrusted to city Corporation staff or Sannadham volunteers. Kudumbashree district mission officials say many food packets are picked up from the three Janakeeya restaurants, and any shortfall in food placed is made up by the five Kudumbashree units. Meal packets picked up from the hotel cost Rs. 20, but in case of home delivery, these are priced at Rs. 25. The Kudumbashree is ready to start seven more Janakeeya restaurants once the city Corporation, which extended its support for the food distribution, makes the space available. The plan is to start one Janakeeya restaurant for 10 wards. If the lockdown gets extended, the restaurants will need to be started, an official says. Those eligible for food include those above 65 years of age and living alone; differently abled people living alone; and people living in hotels, lodges, or institutions without canteen facility. For bookings, call 9061917457, 8921663642, 9400939914, 9020078480; and 7012389098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-keeps-janakeeya-restaurants-hands-full/article32037789.ece
10 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Track work in full swing amid lockdown||Suspension of train services following the pandemic-induced lockdown since March end has turned out to be a blessing in disguise for Railways. The utility has been taking up renewal of rails and sleepers, deep screening of ballast and replacement of bridges pending for years in the State. Railways have been able to carry out these works during daytime without undertaking line blocks as only Shramik Specials, Jan Shatabdi, Mangala express and Netravathi express are conducting services. Long-distance mail and express train services are yet to be restored. Track renewals are usually taken up at night when the traffic is less. In the three months of April, May and June, Railways renewed 21 km of rails, 4 km of sleepers and done 4 km of deep screening using the ballast cleaning machine, enhancing the safety of the railway network. Rail renewals have been carried out in the Kollam-Shoranur corridor while the renewal of sleeper has been done in the Kollam-Ernakulam and Shoranur-Ernakualm corridors. For rail renewals, Railways are using 60 kg rails. Four 65-m rails are welded at the steel plant in Bhilai and transported to the site. Instead of the 40 to 50 weldings needed for a km, only four are needed now as 260-m-long rail is made available. This reduces field work and fissures and ensures quality and riding comfort. Span replacement Along with this, Railways have found time to replace three of the six spans of the Chalakudy steel bridge. Three steel spans of the Chengannur bridge have also been replaced with concrete spans. The placement of the girders of the rail overbridge (ROB) on the Villakur-Kanyakumari Bypass has also been executed. The girders of the second ROB near Alappuzha station have been completed to pave the way for the much-delayed commissioning of the Alappuzha NH 66 Bypass. Ahead of target “We are ahead of the target given by Railways. Good conditions of rails and ballast are the key factors for maintaining punctuality. The improvement in track condition will be reflected in the punctuality of mail, express and passenger trains,” a railway official said.  Track renewals are usually taken up at night when the traffic is less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/track-work-in-full-swing-amid-lockdown/article32037745.ece
10 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strike by auto, taxi workers today||The about 25 lakh autorickshaw, taxi, and light motor vehicle workers in the State will go on a six-hour strike from 6 a.m. on Friday in support of their demands, including fare hike or fuel at subsidised rate. The Joint Action Committee of workers has excluded containment zones from the strike. In other places, the agitation will be in front of Central government offices adhering to COVID protocol. K.S. Sunil Kumar, general convener of the action committee comprising the INTUC, CITU, AITUC, STU, HMS, KTUC, UTUC, TUCI and JTUC, said ambulances and vehicles would be arranged at protest venues for the public during the strike. In a statement on Thursday, union leaders said petrol and diesel should be brought under Goods and Services Tax to reduce the burden on motorists. Increased 21 times The Centre should withdraw the right given to oil majors to increase the price of fuel that had gone up 21 times during the lockdown period. The committee said the price of petrol had gone up by Rs. 12 and that of diesel by Rs. 13, and insurance premium by 13%. While the price of crude oil was coming down in the international market, the price of petrol and diesel was going up in the country, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strike-by-auto-taxi-workers-today/article32037747.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes till threat recedes||Online classes will continue till August or even Onam going by the current COVID-19 situation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating the distribution of food kits by the General Education Department for students from pre-primary to Class VIII for March, April, and May, here on Thursday. The Chief Minister said the government had made it clear at the outset that the online classes were a temporary mechanism to engage students in academics. They were not a substitute for regular classes. Children had to learn and play, and online classes could not recreate the classroom or school environment. However, if the COVID-19 situation did not improve, the online classes would have to continue. The moment things improved allowing for resumption of regular classes, schools would be reopened without any delay, he said. Mr. Vijayan said necessary facilities for online classes had been made available by the government with the support of the public, institutions, and others. However, if at all any student was still without any facility for online education, they should bring it to the attention of the General Education Department through their school, and it would be addressed immediately. Mid-day meals The Chief Minister said the government had decided to distribute the food kits as students were not able to get the nutritious mid-day meals when they had to stay put at homes. The kits, comprising rice and nine types of provisions, would be distributed to 26.26 lakh students in government and aided schools. This food security allowance for 39 days did not include that for the 15 days schools remained closed in March and the holidays in April and May. An amount of Rs. 81.37 crore, including the Union government component, has been spent on the food kit distribution. The kits were being distributed through parents as school were yet to reopen. The kits for June and July too would be distributed in a similar manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-till-threat-recedes/article32037751.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Keep children away from school fee issues: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that in case a student’s fee is pending, the school should inform the parents with proof rather than ask the child in front of the class to remit it, thereby causing him/her mental distress. They should not discriminate against a child in the name of the fee either. The commission, in the order issued recently, asked the Director of General Education (DGE) and the CBSE Regional Officer here to issue circulars to all schools in the State to follow its directions strictly. Complaint The commission was acting on a complaint from a boy’s parent that he was not able to pay the school fee on time. One day, he was made to get off the transport to school. The boy who was upset was unable to appear for the examinations, the complaint said, seeking the commission’s intervention in the matter. The Principal of the school, in his report, said the school needed to collect the fee stipulated by law to function. While the child’s fee was due, the school did not compel him or misbehave with him. Nor was the boy forced the alight from the bus. The Principal contended that the child boarded the bus from different stops as per the convenience of his mother, and the bus left because they did not reach the stop on time. Also, the child did not appear for the examinations owing to familial reasons. However, the complainant submitted a statement denying the Principal’s explanation. The commission then asked the District Child Protection Officer to investigate the Principal’s actions and inform the police of any lapses found. The commission also sought a report on the action taken from the DGE, CBSE Regional Officer, and the DCPO within 40 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keep-children-away-from-school-fee-issues-panel/article32037788.ece
10 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State mulls reverse quarantine||With COVID-19 disease transmission reaching a critical stage in the State, it is important that reverse quarantine is strengthened to protect the elderly, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at his daily press briefing here on Thursday. The elderly should be kept safe in houses and people should avoid visiting them till the State regained control over the epidemic situation, he said. With 85% or more of the diseased having been asymptomatic, one would never know if healthy people were carrying an infection home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-mulls-reverse-quarantine/article32037748.ece
10 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plea for free ration for coastal people||The National Fishworkers Forum has urged the State to ensure a steady supply of free essential ration supplies for all coastal residents in the district for a month. The Latin Catholic Church has also urged the government to ensure free ration for the fisherfolk of the district until the withdrawal of the prevailing restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-for-free-ration-for-coastal-people/article32037791.ece
10 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1 lakh million units from Idukki project||The Idukki hydroelectric project has generated 1 lakh million units since its inception, according to a release issued by the Kerala State Electricity Board on Thursday. The project, inaugurated by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on February 12, 1976, has an installed capacity of 780 MW. The project was completed in two phases at a cost of Rs. 220 crore. The water stored in an arch dam is being used for generating power. It also provides water for the drinking water sources in central Travancore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1-lakh-million-units-from-idukki-project/article32037750.ece
10 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Main accused in youth’s murder arrested||The police arrested Pratheesh, 27, in connection with the alleged murder of a youth at Avanur on Thursday. Sijo Chirayath, 28, of Varadiyam, accused in a double murder case last year, was allegedly hacked to death at Avanur on July 6 by a gang. 10 persons involved Though he was rushed to the Medical College Hospital here, his life could not be saved. The armed gang came in two cars. Around 10 persons were involved in the alleged murder. Sijo was the second accused in the murder of Shyam, 24, and Christro, 25, at Avanur on April 24, 2019. Pratheesh, who was arrested on Thursday, was a friend of Shyam. He reportedly told the police that he had committed the crime to avenge the murder of his friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/main-accused-in-youths-murder-arrested/article32037731.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Double whammy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/double-whammy/article32037799.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Patterns get complicated||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patterns-get-complicated/article32037756.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Long arm of law||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/long-arm-of-law/article32037723.ece
10 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ashram head dead||Prabodhananda, who set up an ashram at Chinnapolamada village near Tadipatri in Anantapur district, died of a heart attack in Hyderabad on Thursday. He propagated ‘Traitra Sidhantam.’ The mortal remains were brought back at noon and the last rites were performed in the evening in deference to his wishes, said Prabhodananda’s eldest son Yogananda Chowdary. He is survived by wife and four sons. The succession announcement would be made by a committee in due course, said Mr. Yogananda. He appealed to devotees not to come to the ashram in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Tadipatri Rural Circle Inspector Devendra Kumar made a similar appeal to the devotees. Prabodhananda had a large following of devotees, but his remarks against all religions kicked up controversies. In September 2018, his followers were involved in a clash with the followers of former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy during the Ganesh idol immersion procession. Police had to be deployed in strength for one week to bring the situation under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godman-prabodhananda-dies-of-heart-attack/article32037337.ece
10 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infected woman flees GGH, walks for five days to reach home||A COVID-19 positive woman hailing from N. Hanumapuram in Kanekal mandal of Anantapur district, who escaped from the Government General Hospital (GGH) on July 5, got fainted at Uravakonda RTC bus station on Thursday morning. The woman reportedly told the police that she had been walking all the way home for the last five days. However, the reasons behind her fleeing from the GGH are yet to be ascertained. The woman has been identified as Razia (50). Suffering from tuberculosis, she was admitted to the GGH on June 27 and tested positive for coronavirus on July 1. According to Uravakonda SI K. Dharani Babu, some people informed the police about the woman at 10.45 a.m. and she was shifted to a hospital by 11 a.m. The police shifted her to Uravakonda Government Hospital and then to Anantaour GGH in an ‘108’ service ambulance for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infected-woman-flees-ggh-walks-for-five-days-to-reach-home/article32037866.ece
10 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed, one injured in accident||Three persons died on the spot and another was injured when the driver of a car lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a median on National Highway No. 44 at Gollapalli, 20 km from Anantapur city, on Thursday. The accident occurred when a family was travelling from Akuledu in Anantapur district to Bengaluru, the police said. The deceased have been identified as Chinnamma, 65, her son Amarnath, 40, and brother-in-law Raju, 28. The driver, Maruthi , who was seriously injured, was to a hospital in Anantapur. High speed The police said that the car was travelling at such a great speed that after hitting a culvert wall on the median, it broke into two and the front portion with two seats and engine travelled for 100 metres upside down and fell on the other carriageway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-one-injured-in-accident/article32037701.ece
10 July 2020||AVANIGADDA (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Oppose Karnataka govt. move to increase height of Almatti dam’||Former Deputy Speaker and former chairman of Krishna Delta Parirakshna Samithi (KDPS) Mandali Buddha Prasad on Thursday appealed political parties to come together in Andhra Pradesh, launching a protest against the Karnataka government’s proposal to increase the height of Almatti dam from the existing 519 metres to 524 metres on river Krishna. Proposal to Centre In a letter addressed to the political parties in the State, Mr. Prasad said: “The agriculture and irrigation in the Krishna river’s tail-end States of Andhra Pradesh and the Telangana, will suffer if the dam height is increased to store the additional 130 to 160 tmcft during the monsoon. If that happens, the two States will go dry in the coming years. A protest against this move is the need of the hour to be launched on a war-footing.” Recently, the Karnataka government sent a proposal to the Centre, seeking issue of a notification to proceed with the increase of the dam height, preparing to spend a whopping Rs. 61,000 crore for it. Political parties in Andhra Pradesh should realise the availability of water for irrigation for the kharif in the coming years if Almatti dam height is increased. The Telugu-speaking States will have to cry for water for irrigation, said Mr. Prasad. The then State government, led by Chief Minister N. Kiran Kumar Reddy, went to Supreme Court against the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal order that allowed Karnataka to increase the Almatti dam height to 524 metres. Mr. Prasad and KDPS chairman Akkineni Bhavani Prasad have intensified efforts to kick-start the oppose the increase of the dam height.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppose-karnataka-govt-move-to-increase-height-of-almatti-dam/article32037881.ece
10 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor tally crosses 2,600-mark||The COVID-19 positive cases in Chittoor district crossed the 2,600-mark with 236 fresh cases reported during the last 24 hours, including a casualty, taking the toll to 17. In the last one week, the daily average of cases stood at 250, according to officials. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah told The Hindu that the increase in cases remained steady in Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations, followed by the municipalities of Srikalahasti, Puttur, Nagari, Palamaner, Punganur and Madanapalle. Compared to the urban areas, the incidence of the Coronavirus was considerably under control in the rural belt, the official said. Testing Dr. Penchalaiah said the health officials on COVID-19 duty had been told to increase the number of tests, apart from coordinating with the gram volunteers and public in identifying the presence of any person with a recent travel history to Chennai. “We have close to 4,000 beds available at the COVID hospitals in Chittoor and Tirupati. The COVID hospital at Kuppam, with a good number of beds, is yet to receive patients. The recovery rate is highly satisfactory at more than 50% so far,” Dr. Penchalaiah said. Monitoring The DMHO said the task force was monitoring the situation round-the-clock. “Special focus is laid on elderly persons, children and pregnant women coming for testing. It is a welcome sign that close to 80% of the people are wearing masks in public places, while a wave of awareness has emerged with regard to social distancing factor,” he said. Meanwhile, the municipalities of Nagari and Puttur have been kept under surveillance in view of their proximity to the Tamil Nadu border . A task force official observed that a majority of the cases in Chittoor district emerging since June were showing travel history to Chennai, and being their kin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-tally-crosses-2600-mark/article32037868.ece
10 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic forces idol makers from Rajasthan to redraw plans||The outskirts of several towns in Chittoor district become a beehive of activity in July every year. The areas get dotted with hundreds of shacks that serve as the workshops of idol-makers from Rajasthan who get busy shaping Vinayaka idols of various size, hues and colors. However, the buzz appears to be missing this time. Thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic. The areas look desolate, barring a few dozens of sheds. Even as the idol makers are working on mounds of mud, a sense of uncertainty is quite palpable from their eyes. The frames of huge idols of the height of 6 ft to 10 ft are almost missing and three-foot high toy-like idols have taken their place. About 25 families from Rajasthan and western Madhya Pradesh have arrived in Chittoor, Punganur, Palamaner, Madanapalle, Puttur and Nagari town two decades ago. From February till August, the busy season lasts as the idol makers procure raw material such as Plaster of Paris, limestone powder, both eco-friendly and inorganic paints. The orders starts coming from Ganesh panadal organisers, and by July, the business would be in full swing. Lockdown curbs “We, a team of 15 people, make 300 to 400 big idols annually. This year, we have not received a single order since March. March is when we swing into action, but the lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic sank our hopes. No transportation is available to procure raw material, and none is ready to provide the stocks. With no financial support, we are left in the lurch,” says Ramesh (30) from Rajasthan, who has set up a shed on Puttur-Karveti Nagaram road. The idol makers are struggling to make their ends meet. “With growing uncertainty about the business this year, we have our fingers crossed. We have no clue how to run our families,” says a young worker at the shed. A rough estimate suggests that the idol makers do a business of Rs. 4 crore annually only from the idols of heights of 6 ft to 10 ft, excluding the small idols meant for households. All expenditure and wages gone, the idol-makers earn profits, which is suffice to send money and festival gifts to their families, in addition to the annual maintenance.  Sajju Prakash (40) from Gwalior, who operates an idol-making unit near Madanapalle, says that he has been in the business for the last 25 years and has travelled many States. “This pandemic has delivered a blow on our livelihood. We don’t know any other trade. Uncertainty looms large with the restrictions on religious gathering and organising community festivals,” he says. However, the idol makers are banking on the orders for small idols from individual households. “Even if the pandemic continues, households would never miss the festival. Now, we are looking forward to those orders for our survival,” adds Mr. Sajju Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-forces-idol-makers-from-rajasthan-to-redraw-plans/article32037894.ece
10 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Largest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases in Guntur||A massive spike in COVID-19 cases in the district prompted the district administration to declare more containment zones. The district recorded 327 positive cases on Thursday, the largest single-day spike so far, including 185 in Guntur city. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar announced 14 more containment zones comprising many residential areas in the city like Brodiepet, Lakshmipuram, Srinagar Colony and many localities on Amaravathi Road. Businessmen infected A section of business community is the worst affected with 40 cases recorded in two lanes of Brodiepet and the entire area has been barricaded on all four sides. The wholesale and retail associations have announced that shops would be kept open till 12 noon from Friday on alternate days. Surveillance teams The Collector, who convened a meeting of the core committee with Joint Collectors and DMHO, said that surveillance teams would be pressed into service to identify all symptomatic patients. Data gleaned by passive surveillance would be used to trace all possible suspects and option would be given to those who seek home quarantine. Mangalagiri tops list Cases were recorded in all mandals, with Mangalagiri topping the list with 20 cases. “Efforts should be to trace, test and treat all possible suspects. Now, we have data flowing in continually from many sources and effort should be made to use the data effectively. So far, we have done well in containment but now we have to focus on medical management of the disease,” said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/largest-single-day-spike-of-covid-19-cases-in-guntur/article32037411.ece
10 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mudragada writes to CM on Kapu quota||Kapu reservation campaigner Mudragada Padmanabham has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to fulfil the long- standing desire of the community by taking forward the process of providing reservation to the community. In a letter to Mr. Jagan, Mr. Padmanabham reminded Mr. Jagan that a huge chunk of the Kapu community had voted in favour of the YSRCP in the 2019 elections. Meanwhile, Chief Executive Officer of Aurobindo Pharmacy Sairam.S has appreciated the decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to revive the emergency medical services ‘108’ and ‘104’ in the state. Aurobindo Pharmacy has been in the field of emergency healthcare since 2015, Mr. Sairam said, adding, it was laudable that the Chief Minister had thought of allocating a budget for reviving the ‘108’ service which now provides jobs to 3,538 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mudragada-writes-to-jagan-on-kapu-reservation/article32037412.ece
10 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Markfed’s entry brings in buoyancy to tobacco market||The tobacco growers, who have been groping in the dark with traders shying away from buying their produce in the wake of COVID-induced economic downturn till now, are a happier lot now as buoyancy is returning to the market owing to the intervention of the Markfed. There were no takers for medium and low grade varieties of tobacco before the Marfed’s entry into the market. Now, the traders are offering a better price for the F3, F4, F5 and F8 grades. The traders are now offering Rs. 150 to Rs. 160 for a kg of medium grade F3 variety to farmers, which is Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 per kg more than the earlier price, said an elated group of farmers at the Ongole II auction platform. “The rejection rate used to be 25% to 30% hitherto. Now, the traders are offering more than the prices fixed by the Markfed for the low grade varieties such as F4, F5 and F8,” they said. Tobacco trade picked up pace after the Markfed gave a bank guarantee of Rs. 120 crore for making purchases from all tobacco platforms in the Southern Black Soil (SBS) and Southern Light Soil (SLS) regions. Sources in the Tobacco Board said that 50% of the arrivals had been lifted by the Markfed at D.C. Palli. After taking stock of the situation, Markfed Commissioner P.M. Pradyumna assured the farmers that rejections would be a thing of the past. “The Marfed will purchase all the produce brought to auction platforms by farmers irrespective of the quantity.,” Mr. Pradyumna added. “I am glad that the Marked has lifted 14 lakh bales of produce so far, offering better prices. I thank Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the decision of a bold market intervention,” said former MP and Virginia Tobacco Farmers Welfare Association Honorary president Y. Sivaji. Meanwhile, farmers led by former Tobacco Board member P. Bhadri Reddy pressed for announcement of a minimum guaranteed price for various grades of tobacco at the time of fixation of crop size so that the farmers could decide whether or not to cultivate the crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/markfeds-entry-brings-in-buoyancy-to-tobacco-market/article32037896.ece
10 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic continues to rattle southern districts||The COVID-19 continues to rattle the south coastal Andhra Pradesh as two more persons have died of the virus in Prakasam district while 167 more—110 in Prakasam district and 57 in Nellore district— have been tested positive in the last 24 hours. The toll went up to five in Prakasam district with the death of a 63-year-old man from Darsi and 72-year-old woman from Ongole. As many as 34 fresh cases were reported from Ongole alone. A five-year-old boy from Ongole and a 3-year-old girl from Markapur were among the COVID-19 positive patients. Meanwhile, 69 patients including 62 in Prakasam and seven in Nellore district were discharged from hospitals. With the spread of the virus to more areas in Prakasam district, the health authorities implemented containment action plan in 195 clusters, including 26 very active clusters and 77 active clusters.Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar rushed to Tallur mandal and supervised the screening of patients with comorbidity condition after a spate of fresh cases was reported from East Gangavaram. The new cases came in from among other localities Inimerla, Regichetlapalli, Bondalivariveedi, Yerrareddypalem, Pedapothavaram, Gundlapalem, Epurupalem, Santharavuru, Naidupalli, Pothalapadu, Kodigudlapadu, Mangamoor, Kothapeta, Yerrajerla, Thimasamduram, Bestavaripeta, J.B.K.Puram, Singaraykonda. Nellore town accounted for 35 of the 57 new cases reported from the district. Kavali reported five fresh cases followed by Tada with three cases; Sullurpeta, Podalakuru and Indukurpeta with two cases each; and Nellore Rural, T.P.Gudur, Venkatagiri, Sangam, Venkatachalam and Kovur one case each. New quarantine centre Meanwhile, Sarvepalli MLA Kakani Govardhan Reddy, along with Nellore Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu and Gudur MLA V.Varaprasad inaugurated a quarantine facility at Krishnapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-continues-to-rattle-southern-districts/article32037871.ece
10 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam YSRCP leaders see red in merger proposal||The proposal to increase the number of districts in the State to 25 with the Lok Sabha constituency as the unit has filled YSRCP leaders of Srikakulam district with disquiet. They fear the party will suffer politically if it becomes a reality. The new arrangement will see the Etcherla and Rajam Assembly constituencies becoming part of Vizianagaram district as both of them are currently under the jurisdiction of the Vizianagaram Lok Sabha seat. Likewise, the Palakonda Assembly segment, which falls under the Araku parliamentary constituency, will become part of Araku district. Pockets of prosperity After the reorganisation, Srikakulam district will be left with seven Assembly segments — Srikakulam, Amadalavalasa, Patapatnam, Narasannapeta, Tekkali, Palasa and Icchapuram. Only the Etcherla and Rajam segments are relatively prosperous with the development of many industries, including pharma, chemical, jute and sugar. Over 50 major industries, including Aurobindo Pharma and Reddy’s Laboratories, in the Pydibhimavaram industrial zone are part of the Etcherla constitutency. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency in Sithampet, which is under the Palakonda Assembly segment, will also become part of Vizianagaram district in future. Although several organisations have been agitating over the issue, the ruling party leaders have maintained silence as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has himself floated the idea. Bowing to pressure mounting various sections, Assembly Speaker and Amadalavalasa MLA Thammineni Seetharam and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao discussed the issue with Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy when the latter visited the district the other day. The YSRCP won eight Assembly seats in the district. The ruling party leaders fear that the Telugu Desam Party will try to exploit the issue by highlighting the alleged injustice being meted out to the district. They are reportedly planning to meet Mr. Jagan to explain the ground situation to him. Former Vice-Chancellor of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University Hanumanthu Lajapathi Rai, Srikakulam Abhivriddi Vedika convener Nalli Dharma Rao and Srikakulam Backward Classes Association president P. Chandrapati Rao have urged the government not to merge Etcherla and Rajam constituencies with Vizianagaram district. “Many residential areas of Srikakulam town also come under the Etcherla Assembly segment. People of Srikakulam will also face many difficulties in future since all offices, including the Collectorate, will be in Vizianagaram. Many socio-economic problems would also arise. We request the Chief Minister to look into the issue and withdraw the proposal,” Dr. Lajapathi Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikakulam-ysrcp-leaders-see-red-in-merger-proposal/article32037897.ece
10 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala removed from containment zone||Minutes after declaring Tirumala as a containment area the district authorities beat a quick retreat and excluded it from the list of COVID-19 containment zones allegedly buckling under pressure from various quarters. The name of the sacred town was found in the (routine) list of containment areas in the district released by the authorities on Thursday. A section of electronic media picked up the news and repeatedly flashed it on the channels leading to a kind of commotion in the district. Questions started cropping up on the continuation of darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple. Informed sources said that the TTD authorities took a serious exception “at the lapse” and took the issue to the notice of senior officials. Collector N. Bharat Gupta immediately clarified that it was owing to the oversight of the staff and directed the officials to issue a revised list removing the name of the town. About 39 personnel belonging to the APSP barrack tested positive for coronavirus and instead of marking 200 metres from the barrack as a containment zone, in accordance with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, the entire town was erroneously named in the list, he said. The pilgrims need not have any doubt and could carry ahead with their pilgrimage as the TTD was strictly implementing the preventive measures like physical distancing and sporting of masks during the darshan of the deity he said. Meanwhile, the annual ‘Avatharotsavam’ of Sri Sundararaja Swamy was off to a simple start at Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple at Tiruchanur on Thursday. With the restrictions imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the event is conducted ‘in private’, without allowing devotees to witness the rituals. On the inaugural day of the three-day festival, ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam’ (celestial bath) rituals were performed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-removed-from-containment-zone/article32037706.ece
10 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lifting of lockdown blamed for rise in cases||Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) officials at a meeting conducted to find out the reasons for rampant spread of COVID-19 infection in Tirupati on Thursday squarely blamed the influx of visitors into the temple city after the relaxation of the lockdown norms. Municipal Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Ananthapuram Range) Kanthi Rana Tata and Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy, who took part in the review meeting, observed that the sudden flow of passengers to Tirupati after the lockdown norms were relaxed made things go out of control. Tirumala devotees The spurt in the positive cases was attributed not only to the Tirumala-bound devotees who are thronging the hill town after the Lord Venkateswara temple was thrown open for darshan, but also the air passengers to Tirupati who reached here from across the nation. However, they appreciated the frontline warriors, be it the medical professionals, police or the sanitary workers, for keeping the situation under control during the first four months of the lockdown. Officials of the municipal and health departments who participated in the meeting explained why and where the situation appeared to have gone out of control. Mr. Gireesha spoke on the need to enhance testing rate and also focus on contact tracing to contain the virus spread to a great extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lifting-of-lockdown-blamed-for-rise-in-cases/article32037874.ece
10 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Avatharotsavam’ begins at Tiruchanur temple||The annual ‘Avatharotsavam’ of Sri Sundararaja Swamy was off to a simple start at Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple at Tiruchanur on Thursday. With the restrictions imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the event is conducted ‘in private’, without allowing devotees to witness the rituals.  ‘Unjal Seva’ On the inaugural day of the three-day festival, ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam’ (celestial bath) rituals were performed to the deities of Sri Sundararaja and His consorts, at Krishna Mukha Mandapam on the temple premises. The deities were later placed on a swing as part of the ‘Unjal Seva’. Temple Deputy Executive Officer Jhansi Rani, Assistant Executive Officer Subramaniam and other officials and priests took part in the rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/avatharotsavam-begins-at-tiruchanur-temple/article32037899.ece
10 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held, stolen goods seized||The Renigunta Railway Police arrested Edhaya Raja and Subaramani Mani , hailing from Sitanjeri in Tiruvallur district of Tamil Nadu, at the Santha gate area of railway station and recovered goods. TV, fridge, washing machine, home theatre worth Rs. 1.50 lakh and Rs. 18.5 lakh in cash was recovered from them. The property pertains to a theft case registered in October 2019 at the station, said Deputy Railway Superintendent of Police S.M. Ramesh Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-stolen-goods-seized/article32037872.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,555 new cases, 13 deaths in one day||The spread of Novel Coronavirus has been rapid in the State going by the increasing number of fresh cases daily. During the past 24 hours as of Thursday morning, the State witnessed 1,555 fresh cases, the biggest single-day spike reported so far. As many as 13 patients died of the virus in the past day taking the death toll to 277. The COVID cases tally has gone up to 23,814, and the number of recoveries at 12,154 continues to be over the number of active cases at 11,383. The recovery rate is at 51%, and in the past day 1,053 patients recovered. The new deaths occurred in Kurnool (3 deaths), Guntur (3), Anantapur (2), Prakasam (2), Krishna (1), West Godavari (1) and Chittoor (1). Of the total fresh cases, only 55 are imported cases of which 53 belong to people from other States, and two were foreign returnees. Among the 1,500 local cases, nearly 1,000 cases were reported in just five districts while the remaining were reported from eight districts. Chittoor reported 236 new local cases while Guntur reported 228 cases, Visakhapatnam reported 208 cases, Srikakulam reported 206 cases and Krishna reported 127 cases. The remaining new cases were reported from Kadapa (114), Prakasam (96), Anantapur (91), Kurnool (73), East Godavari (47), Nellore (31), Vizianagaram (26) and West Godavari (17). Of all the positive cases reported so far in State, 21,071 are of locals and 2,319 are of people from other States and 424 are foreign returnees. Kurnool, Guntur, Anantapur, Krishna, East Godavari and Chittoor have been the most affected and each of them witnessed at least 2,000 positive cases so far. These districts account for 68% of the total local cases while the remaining 32% cases are shared by seven districts. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (2,795), Guntur (2,663), Anantapur (2,659), Krishna (2,095), East GOdavari (2,062), Chittoor (2,001), Kadapa (1,554), West Godavari (1,383), Visakhapatnam (1,191), Nellore (904), Prakasam (865), Srikakulam (566) and Vizianagaram (333). Testing In the past day, only 16,882 samples were tested and so far 10.94 lakh samples were tested. Positivity rate of the tests is at 2.18% and the mortality rate is at 1.16%. The tests per million ratio stands at 20,498.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1555-new-cases-13-deaths-in-one-day/article32037877.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM sets ‘Nadu-Nedu’ agenda for officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday said construction of drought mitigation projects in Rayalaseema region should begin on October 1 and high priority be given to the ‘Nadu-Nedu’ scheme in the education and health sectors. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also wanted importance given to harnessing the flood waters from Polavaram and completion of the Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi project. Medical colleges Taking stock of the mobilisation of funds for ‘Nadu-Nedu,’ water grid and irrigation and infrastructure projects at a high-level meeting at his camp office, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to expedite works under Nadu-Nedu in schools and colleges and in hospitals to solve the problems created by the dearth of proper amenities. Emphasis needed to be laid on the establishment of 16 new medical colleges, a super-speciality hospital, a hospital for mental care and a cancer care centre. These projects require about Rs. 6,700 crore, the Chief Minister said.  Funds requirement Officials told the CM that the irrigation projects were estimated to cost Rs. 98,000 crore, of which Rs. 72,000 crore was required for the new ones. The officials of the Roads and Buildings Department said that 70% of works on road connectivity projects were completed at a cost of Rs. 4,456 crore with funding by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Nadu-Nedu was taken up in over 15,000 schools in the first phase at a cost of Rs. 3,600 crore, of which a sum of Rs. 920 crore was released. Ministers Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and Audimulapu Suresh , Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and other top officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-sets-nadu-nedu-agenda-for-officials/article32037890.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP outbursts hint at trouble brewing within its ranks: BJP||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s comments against the BJP were aimed at diverting the people’s attention from the trouble brewing within his party, BJP State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said on Thursday. Addressing the media through a video-conference, Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the YSRCP should remember that it was a regional party, and that the BJP had seen many such parties come and go over the years. He suggested to the YSRCP leaders to introspect if they really had the strength to take on the BJP. Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy also said that a few YSRCP leaders were desperately trying to secure an appointment with the Prime Minister and waiting for an opportunity to meet top BJP leaders as part of implementation of their personal agenda. He said people were aware of the failures of the YSRCP government, and the BJP was fighting on their behalf. The YSRCP should behave as a responsible party, having won a decisive electoral mandate, and note that the BJP would not keep quiet if it failed to keep its promises and reneged on its commitment to deliver good governance, the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-outbursts-hint-at-trouble-brewing-within-its-ranks-bjp/article32037892.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bigger role awaits parents in academic activities of children||The parents of children, who are in primary and upper primary schools, must gear up to play a bigger role in the academic activities of their wards till a conducive situation for re-opening of schools arises. The Department of School Education has asked teachers to guide parents about the activities related to their syllabus to be conducted at home with their children using mobile phones, SMSes, radio, TV and various other social media platforms. The teachers too will remain in touch with students and parents to ensure progress in their learning process. The department has already developed a bridge course material for 10 weeks for primary children, which has been distributed to them. Headmasters and teachers have been told to develop similar material for the students of classes VI to X under the guidance of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). The department instructed the Regional Joint Directors and the District Education Officers to ensure effective implementation of the Alternative Academic Calendar developed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for primary, upper primary and secondary students. This initiative of the NCERT paves the way for all students to receive school education systematically at home with the help of their teachers through available technological and social media tools till the schools reopen. New calendar The NCERT has released a four-week alternative calendar in April and now, it has released an eight-week alternative calendar for primary stage with guidelines for teachers on use of technology to make teaching fun and interesting. Schools warned Meanwhile, School Education Commissioner Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu warned private unaided schools against conducting online classes and examinations even before the academic calendar for the fresh year was announced by the government. He said there were several complaints of an abnormal hike in the school/tuition fee by the private school managements. He said the academic calendar for 2020-21 was under preparation taking into consideration the tentative working days and the reduction of the syllabus, without affecting the learning outcome. The school managements should desist from such activities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-bigger-role-awaits-parents-in-academic-activities-of-children/article32037413.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kharif sowing in full swing in State||With the State receiving good rainfall in the last few days, sowing operations for kharif season are in full swing in the delta and upland areas. Farmers are busy sowing paddy, maize and other crops. In many mandals, farmers have tilled the land and kept it ready for sowing, and are waiting for water from the irrigation canals. In some villages, farmers are using paddy transplanters, according to the officials. Transplantation In the upland mandals, the farmers have taken up sowing, and transplantation has been completed in a few areas. Seed beds are ready for taking up transplantation in a few villages. The farmers cultivate paddy, millets, maize, red gram, green gram and other pulses, and groundnut, chilli, sugarcane, tobacco, oil seeds and other crops in the State. Speaking to The Hindu , Special Commissioner (agriculture) H. Arun Kumar said that the total sowing area was 39.59 lakh hectares. The farmers had taken up sowing in many districts, he added. “With the timely onset of monsoon, many districts have received good rain by July first week, and consequently farm activity is in full swing in the villages. Both the agriculturists and the labourers are busy in the fields,” Mr. Arun Kumar said.  Water released Paddy sowing was good in Krishna, West Godavari, East Godavari and in North Andhra districts. Officials released water into the canals in many areas, he said. “Paddy is being cultivated in 15.9 lakh hectares, maize in 1.18 lakh hectares, pulses in 4.28 lakh hectares, groundnut in 7.35 lakh hectares, chilli in 1.4 lakh hectares and sugarcane in 1.09 lakh hectares. About 15% of sowing has been completed so far,” Mr. Arun Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kharif-sowing-in-full-swing-in-state/article32037417.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varla sees legal hurdles for Smriti Vanam project||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has insulted the Dalits by remotely laying the foundation stone for the 125-foot-tall statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at Swaraj Maidan here, TDP Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah has alleged. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Ramaiah said it would take just a few minutes for the Chief Minister to reach the venue, but he preferred to lay the stone remotely and not spend even a single minute at the Smriti Vanam. “This shows that the Chief Minister has no real intention to develop the Smriti Vanam at the PWD Grounds, as the land is under court’s seizure. The court had seized it following a case filed by the Pulichintala contractors for non-payment of bills towards completed works,” Mr. Ramaiah alleged. He further said the government promised to develop the project in 20 acres, but in reality only 13 acres was available as the remaining extent had structures such as Krishna Polytechnic, rythu bazaar, irrigation and electricity offices, and judges quarters. “It is evident that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has hurriedly announced the project only to appease the Dalits,” he said. ‘Project in Amaravati’ Had Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy been sincere, he would have allocated more funds to complete the Ambedkar Smriti Vanam project in Amaravati, for which Rs. 30 crore had already been spent as against Rs. 97 crore allocated by the TDP government, he said. “Dalits too are educated and politically awake. The Chief Minister is under the false impression that he can trick and use them as a vote-bank,” he said, and added that the government should publish a White Paper on how it would reclaim the 20 acres land at the PWD Grounds and resolve the legal hurdles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varla-sees-legal-hurdles-for-smriti-vanam-project/article32037887.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna district tally crosses 2,000-mark||The incidence of positive COVID-19 cases is on the rise in the district, and on Thursday the tally crossed the 2,000 mark. Highest spike During the past 24 hours, a total of 127 fresh COVID cases, the highest single day spike so far, were recorded. One more COVID-19 patient succumbed to the disease and the death toll climbed to 73. The mortality rate in the district is at 3.48%, which is still the highest among all districts in the State. Situation improves On the brighter side, the district is also among the few districts with recovery rate of above 60%. With 725 active cases and 1,297 recovered cases as of Thursday, the recovery rate is at 62%. Since July 1, the district reported 628 cases and an average of 70 cases per day for nine days. During the same period, over 680 patients have recovered and were discharged from the hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-district-tally-crosses-2000-mark/article32037408.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer’s death: Naidu points accusing finger at police||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that policemen have violated human rights by “physically assaulting and verbally abusing” Venkataiah, a Dalit farmer from Venkannapelem in Nellore district. In a series of tweets on Thursday, Mr. Naidu alleged that Venkataiah had consumed poison owing to harassment of the police and revenue officials despite the High Court order prohibiting the government from taking over his land in Survey No. 131. The policemen watched even as the farmer took poison and ended his life, he alleged. It was learnt that the constables had verbally abused and physically assaulted the farmer while he was working in his land, Mr. Naidu said. “Feeling humiliated, he consumed the pesticide that was to be used for the crop,” he said. It was pathetic to know about officials taking revenge on a hapless man who went to court against them, he said. “They not only worked against the directives of the High Court but also violated human rights. Worse still was the policemen turning mute spectators instead of rushing the farmer to hospital. We will make sure that erring officials are punished. Such acts must be condemned by civil society,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-death-naidu-points-accusing-finger-at-police/article32037885.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. targeting BC leaders, alleges TDP||The TDP has alleged that the YSRCP government is targeting the backward classes (BCs), the Dalits and the minorities, which is evident from the 348 cases foisted against them in the 13 months of its rule so far. Addressing the media here on Thursday, TDP MLC Bachula Arjunudu said the government was targeting these sections in a systematic manner so that they would lose their self-confidence. The YSRCP bore a grudge against these sections as they had expressed their dissent against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s “oppressive rule.” Alleging that BC leaders were specifically being targeted, Mr. Arjunudu said that even senior leaders such as Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and Ch. Ayyanna Pathrudu were not spared. Mr. Patrudu was booked under the Nirbhaya Act for demanding that a photograph be put in its place in the municipal office, he alleged. “Former Minister K. Ravindra, a popular BC leader, has now been implicated in a murder cases and put in jail. This is nothing but political vendetta,” Mr. Arjunudu said. Referring to the manner in which TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu had been arrested, he said the party leader could finally be admitted in a private hospital after the intervention of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-targeting-bc-leaders-alleges-tdp/article32037882.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sunil Deodhar’s counter||BJP Andhra Pradesh affairs in-charge Sunil Deodhar in a tweet on Thursday said his party was capable of changing all colours, including yellow, into saffron, hinting that it had the strength to gain an upper hand over its rivals. Responding to YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s comments on the BJP, Mr. Deodhar said the YSRCP should better protect its own colour, which was being faded by Narsapuram MP Ramakrishna Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sunil-deodhars-counter/article32037884.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Keep word on pension hike’||The CPI(M) has demanded that the government increase the amount paid towards social security pension by Rs. 250 per month as per schedule announced in the YSRCP manifesto. Party leader Ch. Babu Rao distributed eggs to the aged and physically challenged on Thursday. Later, he told reporters that the promise made by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy remained on paper. The hike should have been effected from July, he said. Also, rice distribution to Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) card-holders was stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-word-on-pension-hike/article32037883.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Takes over as APSDRI Special Commissioner||Sadhu Narasimha Reddy, Special Secretary (Finance), took charge as Special Commissioner, A.P. State Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (APSDRI), here on Thursday. Later, he met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office. A 2006 batch Indian Revenue Service officer, Mr. Narasimha Reddy was appointed as the Special Commissioner of APSDRI on July 3. He holds full additional charge as the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes. The APSDRI is a newly - created organisation under the control of the Finance Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/takes-over-as-apsdri-special-commissioner/article32037888.ece
10 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Khaini packets worth Rs. 18 lakh seized||Task Force sleuths arrested six persons and seized khaini worth Rs. 18 lakh besides Rs. 9.97 lakh cash. According to a release, the police teams who were checking vehicles on the highway near YSR Colony found a truck carrying the banned products and the persons responsible were arrested. The accused including the trader I. Ravi Kumar of Odisha, mediator G. Satish of East Godavari, truck owner U. Krishna of Visakhapatnam, truck driver P. Bagarappadu and truck cleaner G. Kiran of Vizianagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/khaini-packets-worth-rs-18-lakh-seized/article32037409.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 140 new cases in 1 day||The district reported 144 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 1,807. The new cases mark the district’s biggest single-day spike so far. Visakhapatnam city reported two more deaths, taking the total death toll in the district to 15. At the same time, 112 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged after testing negative on Thursday. This is the third day in a row that over 100 persons have been discharged in the district. Officials said 357 COVID-19 patients have been discharged in the last three days after they tested negative. The total number of active cases in the district now stands at 913, while the number of persons who were discharged rose to 879 on Thursday. New clusters Three staffers from the Virology lab at King George Hospital (KGH) tested positive for COVID-19 and many of their primary contacts including other staffers have been sent to quarantine. This would have an impact on testing at KGH, it is learnt. According to Special Officer for COVID-19, Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V Sudhakar, with RGK Colony (Marikavalasa), Flora Delight (Revalapalem), Anthony Nagar, Sivapuram (Narsipatnam), Thallavasala, Chinnarajupeta, Adarsh Nagar, Srikanth Nagar, Simhagiri Colony, Atchutapuram, Sirijam areas will be the new clusters. As of Thursday, there are 97 very active clusters, 169 active clusters and 78 dormant clusters in the district. Thirty-nine clusters have been denotified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-140-new-cases-in-1-day/article32037912.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19, illness force Maoists to lie low||There was no major Maoist activity, but for a surrender, in the last six months in the Visakhapatnam Agency area. The situation was similar even in the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region. Except for sighting of a few Maoist cadres in some of the interior parts of the AOB, there has not been a single exchange of fire since January, which is considered to be unusual by many of the police officers engaged in the anti-Maoist operation. Besides the fear of COVID-19, serious illness to some of the top cadres have an impact on the left wing extremists and made them to lie low, say sources. Unlike other diseases, the awareness on COVID-19 has spread far and wide in the Agency area and tribals have become very cautious. Besides enforcing voluntary lockdown, they are not allowing outsiders, including Maoists, into their villages. The Maoists, who used to depend upon the villagers for logistic support and food supply, now move to the Odisha side, which probably is one of the reasons for spurt in naxal activity in that State. It is also learnt that top leaders such as Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan are taken ill and not active. Sources say that most of the top leaders, including RK, are now based in the Gumma region of Odisha, as they consider it to be safer than the Andhra side. It may be recalled that RK was hit by a bullet on the leg while escaping during the Ramaguda exchange of fire in 2016 in which over 30 Maoists, including top leaders such as Bakuri Venkata Ramana and RK's son Sivaji alias Munna, were killed. Health problems The sources further say that many of the women cadres are suffering from chronic gynaecology problems and many want to leave the outfit, as treatment is becoming very difficult due to stepped up surveillance. Other senior leaders such as Chalapathi and Gajarla Ravi alias Uday have not been sighted for quite some time and it is believed that they might have moved to Chhattisgarh where there is a leadership crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-fears-illness-woes-force-maoist-cadre-to-lie-low/article32037348.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manufacturing, smuggling of ID arrack on the rise||There has been a rampant increase in the number of ID arrack smuggling cases in Visakhapatnam district. With a phased prohibition on liquor and a steep rise in prices of IMFL brands, a majority of tipplers are turning towards ID arrack, resulting in an increase in gangs manufacturing the illicit product. According to officials, boozers used to get a decent quantity of liquor for Rs. 70 earlier. However, now one has to spend at least Rs. 180 now for the same quantity. Moreover, a number of shops have been closed. Unable to afford the hike in prices, many are opting for the illegally brewed arrack. “The gangs sell arrack in small packets, and prices begin from Rs. 20. This is what is attracting the boozers. During the lockdown, when liquor outlets were closed, these gangs sold ID liquor at a starting price of Rs. 500,” said a senior police officer. A number of gangs have been manufacturing ID arrack for decades in interior parts of the Agency. Till a year ago, patronage was low. But since the last few months, the gangs have spread their operations with city residents too becoming their customers. “Preparing ID arrack is not rocket science. With availability of jaggery, gangs have been doing it easily,” an official said. Demand and supply The manufacturing units have been receiving bulk orders for arrack for various purposes. On June 25, officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) seized 1,200 sachets of ID arrack from a person in Mungagapaka. Most of them have their units based in the AOB region from where it is supplied to rural areas and also to some parts of the city. Sources said that in order to evade police surveillance, the gangs have been supplying the arrack in water containers or soft drink bottles. Cracking the whip According to a senior police officer working with the SEB, the number of gangs manufacturing the ID arrack has increased, as the demand is high. But simultaneously, enforcement has also increased keeping in view the consequences of liquor prohibition. “After the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) came into force, hundreds of ID arrack manufacturing units have been raided. In the first month of its formation, the SEB has seized nearly 6,000 litres of ID arrack and destroyed 84,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash,” he said. According to Assistant Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Singh, strict vigil has been been laid on offenders and stringent action is being taken against those caught brewing and supplying ID arrack. Not just cracking the cases, as a holistic approach, we are also conducting awareness camps and community policing in various areas and explaining the locals about the gravity of the situation. Alternate career options are being explained, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/manufacturing-smuggling-of-id-arrack-on-the-rise/article32037909.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kidnapped’ realtor freed as plan goes awry||A group of miscreants kidnapped two persons in the city on Sunday morning, only to release them the next day as their plan went awry, according to a police complaint lodged here. The kidnapped persons lodged a police complaint here on Wednesday. ACP J. Kulasekhar gave details of the case to the media. “Jami Suresh Kumar, a realtor in the city, and his friend S.L.N. Raju were on a morning walk in Dwarakanagar when five persons, armed with sharp-edged weapons and guns, allegedly forced them into a car. The duo was taken to a house in Parawada where they were assaulted. The captors then allegedly demanded a ransom of Rs. 5 crore from the duo,” Mr. Kulasekhar said. Mr. Suresh reportedly told the kidnappers that he could pay only Rs. 70 lakh, and asked the kidnappers to take him to his house near Allipuram so that he could pay them. The kidnappers reportedly agreed with Mr. Suresh’s proposal, but decided to keep Mr. Raju hostage. The kidnappers then escorted Mr. Suresh to his house and waited outside. However, on seeing the bruises on his face and body, Mr. Suresh’s wife raised an alarm. His 23-year-old son then went out and confronted the miscreants, threatening to call the police. The kidnappers then reportedly fled the spot, and also alerted their accomplices who were holding Mr. Raju captive to abandon the kidnap plot and flee. “We have booked a case and an investigation is on,” Mr. Kulasekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kidnapped-realtor-freed-as-plan-goes-awry/article32037914.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food poisoning victims out of danger||All the 70-odd people of Magatapalem village, who turned ill after consuming the meat of a dead animal, are recovering and are out of danger. The tribals turned ill, including five of them seriously, after consuming contaminated food at Magatapalem village of Gaduturu panchayat in G. Madugula mandal in the Agency area of the district on Wednesday night. Those who turned seriously ill were shifted to the Paderu district hospital, while the remaining were being treated at the local PHC. “The victims belong to the PVTG tribe. Last night, they consumed the meat of a dead animal at a feast and later developed abdominal pain, vomiting and loose motions. I spoke to the medical officers and all of them are out of danger,” Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi, who visited the hospital on Thursday morning, told The Hindu on the phone. Medical camp Meanwhile, ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar visited the Paderu hospital and enquired about the health of the victims. He advised people against eating meat of dead animals, particularly during rainy season. He directed medical officers to ensure proper care of the patients. Mr. Venkateswara Rao said all patients would be discharged on Friday. A three-day medical camp would also be organised at the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/food-poisoning-victims-out-of-danger/article32037458.ece
10 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reduced response time is our goal: APF chief||The total number of ‘108’ ambulances in the State, which was only 336 till June, rose to 748, while 676 new mobile medical units (104 service) were added to further decrease response time, Aurobinda Pharma Foundation COO Swaroop M.S.R. said. Aurobindo Pharma Foundation (APF) signed an agreement with the State Government recently to provide ambulance services. Mr. Swaroop said that as against the availability of one ambulance for five to six mandals in the past, there would now be one ambulance for each mandal. He said that 2,500 new employees have been added taking the total to 6,500. The response time has been reduced to 15, 20 and 25 minutes in the urban, rural and tribal areas respectively. “Response time in urban areas would vary depending on traffic density. Efforts are being made to reduce it further. The 104 MMU service would be stationed in remote rural areas, where there are no hospitals, Seven types of lab tests would be done and health record of the patients would be maintained. I want to revive the golden period of EMRI 104 and 104 services, which had rendered yeoman service during 2005-07,” Mr. Swaroop said. Of the 412 new ambulances, 282 were Basic Life Support (BLS) vehicles, while 104 were equipped with Advanced Life Support (ALS) systems and 26 with incubators and ventilators to provide neonatal services. Zonal manager Lokesh and district manager K. Srinivas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reduced-response-time-is-our-goal-apf-chief/article32037903.ece
10 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Main virology lab closed as staffers test positive||The main virology lab at the King George Hospital (KGH) was closed after two staff members tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. “The lab was closed for sanitisation but we have another RTPCR machine at Microbiology Department (NACO), where the COVID-19 tests are being conducted,” Dr. G. Arjuna, Superintendent, KGH said. It is learnt that the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) is also equipped to conduct tests for confirmation of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/main-virology-lab-closed-as-staffers-test-positive/article32037905.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for KGBV admissions||Applications are invited for admissions into Class VI at 34 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) schools in the district for the 2020-21 academic session. School dropouts, physically challenged children, orphans, semi-orphans, SC/ST, OBC, and girls from BPL families and minority communities can apply. Applications have to be submitted online on the website apkgbv.apcfss.in between July 10 and 23. The names of the selected candidates will be displayed on the notice boards of the schools and will also be placed on the website https://ssa.ap.gov.in/ssa/ Selected candidates will be informed through SMS, according to B. Mallikarjun Reddy, Additional Project Coordinator, integrated education, Visakhapatnam. More details can be obtained on the mobile numbers: 9492247388 or 9949261050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-kgbv-admissions/article32037906.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VCCI flags GST notices||VCCI president G. Veeramohan and secretary Ravi Godey met Naresh Penumaka, Chief Commissioner of Central Tax and Customs, here on Thursday and submitted a representation, highlighting that business houses were getting notices from the department for payment of interest on delayed payment of GST.  They requested that the date for filing GST returns be extended and late fee for filing be waived off. The VCCI also requested the Chief Commissioner to consider waiver of interest as it will be a burden on traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vcci-flags-gst-notices/article32037913.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online classes at Yoga Village from July 13||The Department of Yoga & Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University is conducting online general yoga classes for yoga enthusiasts and for weight reduction for public from July 13 for one month. The general yoga class will be from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and yoga for weight reduction will be held from 7.15 a.m. to 8.15 a.m. Candidates may contact P. Pratap (weight reduction) on 9985752215 and L. Krishna Kumari (General Yoga) on 7989478081 for fee details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-classes-at-yoga-village-from-july-13/article32037908.ece
10 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Merchant association to shut shop by 2 p.m. daily||The Kancharapalem Area Merchants Association has decided to close down all shops by 2 p.m. from Friday in the wake of an increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the locality. The decision is along the lines of a voluntary lockdown being observed by tribals living in Araku and Paderu for the last one week. Speaking to The Hindu , association member Shyam Sundar Prajapati said that all shopkeepers would abide by the decision. “The number of cases has been on the rise in the area and we will like to play our part to contain the spread of the virus by restricting our business hours and staying indoors,” he said. It is learnt that some more merchant associations in other areas of the city are also planning to adopt a similar move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/merchant-association-to-shut-shop-by-2-pm-daily/article32037910.ece
10 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation stone laid for seed refining centre||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu on Thursday reiterated that the State Government is committed to the development of north Andhra. The Minister laid the foundation stone for a seed refining centre and godown at Gandhavaram village of Chodavaram mandal in the district on Thursday in presence of Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and District Collector V. Vinay Chand. The 4,000 MT capacity seed refining centre would be set up on a five-acre site at an estimated cost of Rs. 4.70 crore. The centre would be able to supply the necessary seeds for Visakhapatnam district. ‘Priority to irrigation’ Mr. Kannababu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was according top priority to the provision of irrigation facilities to Visakhapatnam district. The Rythu Bharosa Kendras would provide all services required by farmers, the Agriculture Minister said at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foundation-stone-laid-for-seed-refining-centre/article32037907.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB official, SI arrested, 557 liquor bottles seized||Police on Thursday busted a liquor smuggling racket in which an Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Circle Inspector and a law and order sub-inspector, were allegedly involved and seized 557 liquor bottles from them. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik told a press conference here that the Chintalapudi police during a raid at the Lingagudem border check-post caught the SI — M. Ajay Kumar — attached to the COVID Control Room of the Collectorate, and seized 451 bottles. Based on his confession, police arrested Bantumilli Prohibition and Excise CI (allotted to SEB) P. Hanusree, and seized 106 more liquor bottles, allegedly being smuggled from Telangana. Police seized a car in which the liquor was being smuggled and its driver N. Kamal Santosh. Another vehicle, which was escorting the car, sped away. Both the CI and the SI were arrested and cases registered against them under the A. P. Excise ( Amendment) Act, the SP said, adding that they would be produced in court. Mr. Naik said the case was being investigated from all angles to identify the other members in the racket, since how long they were smuggling the Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL), from where they were procuring the stocks in bulk and other details.  Another raid In a related development, the Tadikalapudi police seized 268 liquor bottles being smuggled from Telangana on two bikes during vehicle checks at Kalla Cheruvu village. Two persons were arrested and cases booked against them, West Godavari SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Kareemulla Sheriff said. Jangareddygudem Deputy SP M. Snehita, trainee DSP Harshita Chandra, CI Nageswara Rao Naik and Chintalapudi SI Ch. Swamy were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-official-si-arrested-557-liquor-bottles-seized/article32037336.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walk in the park||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walk-in-the-park/article32037916.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Throwing caution to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/throwing-caution-to-the-wind/article32037902.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adding colour!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adding-colour/article32037419.ece
10 July 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,TELANGANA||Palamuru SHG women eye Guinness Record||After the preparation of over 1.03 crore seed balls in a ‘record’ time of nine days by 69,200 women of the self-help groups (SHGs), the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) of Mahabubnagar has set its sight on Guinness World Record as the authorities launched the broadcasting of these seed balls on Thursday. As part of the sixth phase of Haritha Haram programme, the Mahabubnagar district authorities have taken to broadcasting the seed balls in different methods including dropping them through drones and bombing (throwing) physically on the barren hillocks, government lands and forest areas with the plan to complete it in 10 days. Minister for Excise V. Srinivas Goud launched the seed balls’ broadcasting on the Veerannapeta hillocks in Mahabubnagar using a couple of drones. Trial run of dropping of the seed balls through drones was conducted a few days back with the help of a Hyderabad-based agency. On Thursday, two drones were used for seed ball dropping, while another one was used for filming the exercise. Nomination given The officials of DRDA have uploaded the nomination on seed balls preparation on the Guinness World Records website and it is expected to take about six weeks’ time for a technical team of the agency to analyse and authenticate it. About 69,200 women of the 5,880 SHGs in 284 villages have taken up the challenge given by the district administration to prepare one crore seed balls in 10 days, but they have completed the task in nine days itself, District Project Manager A. Nagamallika said. “Whenever there is a huge task, the district administration looks only towards the SHGs. In April, the SHG women were given the task of preparing face masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in large numbers with just a couple of days training and they have come out with flying colours providing masks and PPE kits,” Ms. Nagamallika said, explaining the mettle of the SHG women. According to the DRDA official who was in-charge of the seed ball preparation exercise, the SHG women prepared over 20.65 lakh neem, 19.92 lakh tamarind, 17.21 lakh custard apple, 9.22 lakh banyan, 8.95 lakh juvvi (ficus virens), 8.85 lakh raavi (sacred fig), 8.23 lakh babool (acacia arabica), 7.82 lakh medi (cluster fig) and 2.4 lakh other varieties of seed balls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/palamuru-shg-women-eye-guinness-record/article32037685.ece
10 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||COVID crisis dries up cash flow to pilgrim centre||The coronavirus pandemic has curtailed the revenue for the major Gram Panchayat of Parnashala, the famous pilgrimage centre in Dummugudem mandal, casting a shadow on a slew of proposed development works in seven tribal villages in Telangana’s tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency. Located on the banks of the Godavari, about 33 km away from the famous temple town of Bhadrachalam, Parnashala has a special place on the tourism map of Telangana owing to its sculptural wealth abutting the local temple dedicated to Lord Rama. The historic site has an impressive range of sculptures depicting some significant episodes of the epic Ramayana particularly Lord Rama’s life in exile at the hermitage in the then Dandakaranya forest region, according to local temple sources. The local temple remained closed for more than 45 days on account of the coronavirus lockdown till June 7. It was reopened for darshan along with the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on June 8 following the relaxation of the lockdown norms. Since then, the two temples in Bhadrachalam and Parnashala have been witnessing a relatively low turnout of devotees due to the pandemic scare. The Gram Panchayat has called for auctions twice in the last fortnight for handing over the operation of the popular boat ride services in the Godavari and also the vehicle parking lot at the temple. But the auctions could not be held as no one turned up on both occasions forcing the officials to postpone them, sources added. The GP has utilised the additional funds accrued through auction of the boating operations and vehicle parking lot for construction of CC roads and other development works in Parnashala and other villages under the GP limits in the last financial year, said Parnashala sarpanch Varalakshmi. “A decision on the next date of auction will be taken in the next general body meeting of the GP, hopefully soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-crisis-dries-up-cash-flow-to-pilgrim-centre/article32037670.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Surge continues, 1,410 test positive for COVID in Telangana||The surge in COVID cases continued in the State with another 1,410 testing positive on Thursday taking the total cases to 30,946 so far. With seven more COVID-19 deaths reported during the day, the number of fatalities has also gone up to 331. As has been the trend, the GHMC area continues to be hotbed of coronavirus cases with 918 positive cases reported on Thursday. Rangareddy (125), Sangareddy (79), Medchal-Malkajgiri (67), Warangal Urban (34), Karimnagar (32), Bhadradri-Kothagudem (23), Nalgonda (21), Nizamabad (18), Medak (17), Khammam (12) and Suryapet (10) also reported considerable number of positive cases during the day. In 16 other districts, the positive cases reported during the day were in single-digit. A bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare stated that a total of 5,954 samples were tested on Thursday taking the total to 1,40,755 so far and 4,544 samples tested negative. With 913 positive persons discharged/declared recovered after treatment during the day, the number of total discharged cases has gone up to 18,192. A total of 12,423 including the 1,410 tested positive on Thursday are active cases. According to the bulletin, government hospitals have established a capacity of 17,081 COVID beds as on Thursday, including 11,928 isolations beds, 3,537 beds with oxygen facility and 1,616 ICU beds. The occupancy of beds is only 9% (1,552) and 91% (15,529) are available. In Gandhi Hospital, number of in-patients is 772 including 126 in ICU, 319 on oxygen/CPAP (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure therapy) and 327 in wards against a total of 1,890 beds capacity. Asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients are admitted to Nature Cure Hospital, Govt. Nizamia Hospital, Govt. Ayurveda Hospital and Govt. Homeopathy Hospital. The Health Department has also established a helpline (180059912345) for telemedicine. However, it was found to be non-functional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surge-continues-1410-test-positive-for-covid-in-telangana/article32037656.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC puts brakes on NIMZ public hearing today||The Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to put on hold the public hearing to be held today (Friday) in Sangareddy on the proposed establishment of National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ). Delivering the order in a writ petition challenging the convening of the public hearing, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the hearing, however, can be held in the future. But the State government should comply with the Centre’s guidelines on holding such public meetings. Advocate General B.S. Prasad assured the bench that the State government was taking all precautions to ensure the participants of the meeting would not contract COVID-19. However, the bench said the “hearing cannot be allowed as it would clearly violate the Centre’s guidelines which were accepted by the State government”. Moreover, the Central government had not given any exceptions to these rules despite the State government’s claim that “it had made sufficient preparations”. The Centre’s guidelines prohibited not only social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions “but also other large congregations,” the order said. The only exceptions were permitting up to 50 persons at a marriage and 20 persons for a funeral or last rites. Barring this, there were no relaxations even to a State function. Meanwhile, the State government issued G.O. MS No. 93 on June 30 stating that it would follow the Centre’s guidelines over extension of lockdown in containment zones till July 31. The reopening of different activities would be done in a calibrated manner, the GO said. The petitioner’s counsel Arjun Kumar contended that the proposed project affects 70 villages and at least 1,000 villagers are likely to attend the public hearing. He said that with the State under the grip of COVID-19, many affected persons were unlikely to participate in the hearing. In that case, the hearing becomes more of an illusionary one and less of a substantive one. Coronavirus was also spreading in Sangareddy. The number of COVID-19 positive persons went up from three on Monday to eight by Wednesday. In the backdrop of this sharp increase, it was not desirable to hold the public hearing, the counsel argued. The government had time till February 2021 to complete the process of hearing and appraisal. “The government should not be in a crashing hurry to hold the public meeting when the State is in the grip of COVID-19,” he contended. The AG said the government was providing 3,000 bottles of sanitisers, 3,000 masks and 40 infra-red thermometers, 2,000 gloves and pedestal sanitisers for the meeting participants. He told the bench that completion of the project was of prime importance to the State government as it would generate direct and indirect employment to 2.44 lakh persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-puts-brakes-on-nimz-public-hearing-today/article32037689.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central, State training institutes biding time to start functioning||The Central government has permitted Central and State government training institutes to function from July 15 to set Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) after a long lay off due to coronavirus but most of them are not keen to grab the opportunity right away. Take for instance, Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute, the largest among the twenty odd State government institutes, has expressed that it was happy to continue its ongoing online classes not wanting to risk the presence of trainees on its campus. Director General of the institute B.P. Acharya said they have no plan to start the courses physically “unless necessary” because the order of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions was clear “as far as possible training programmes should be conducted in digital/online/virtual mode”. Mr. Acharya also said the institute had successfully conducted the foundation course for 175 trainee civil servants and recruits of Military Engineering Service (MES) online recently without hitch. Over 1,000 functionaries of Tribal Welfare Department of the State were also trained in virtual mode in seven batches. He added that the institute was rated as the best national training institute for online training due to first mover advantage and many are seeking its advice on how to proceed, the latest one being National Institute of Disaster Management. Among the training institutes in the State which were necessarily to reopen functioning duly following SOPs of the Centres were police training academies since their training programmes had physical component which could not be dispensed. The National Police Academy, the National Industrial Security Academy which trained personnel for Central Industrial Security Force, the State Police Academy and the police training centres at Amberpet here and districts were among them. The SOPs issued by Centre for reopening the institutes have virtually left nothing at risk for trainees as they had come with too many conditions. One of them said where it was necessary to conduct training in physical mode, the duration of the training programme should be reviewed carefully to make it more compact by separating the training curriculum into digital and physical mode. Separate hostel rooms should be allotted to each trainee to extent possible. Meal timings may be staggered with adequate intervals. Movement of trainees within the campus must be restricted. They should stay in their allotted rooms and avoid common areas as lounges. There should be sufficient time gaps between consecutive sessions. Lengthy classroom sessions should be avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-state-training-institutes-biding-time-to-start-functioning/article32037703.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records over 10,000 cases in six days||The surge in COVID-19 cases in Telangana is indicated by 10,484 cases recorded in the past six days (July 4-9). A total of 30,946 cases were detected till Thursday. When compared to other States, Telangana is in sixth position. The first case was detected on March 2. While it took 115 days (March 2-June 24) to record 10,000 cases, it took only nine days to cross the 20,000 mark (June 25-July 3). And it took just six days to cross the 30,000 cases which indicates the rapid spike in cases. This points fingers at the wide prevalence of COVID-19 in the State. Sharp spike in cases were recorded after the number of tests to detect coronavirus were increased by the State government from June 15. Even a rough glance on the number of tests performed and cases detected during the above mentioned period makes it clear that more tests are leading to detection of more cases. Of the total 1,40,755 tests performed till Thursday, 67,318 tests were performed in 115 days (March 2-June 24) leading to detection of the first 10,000 cases. However, 36,800 tests were performed in the next nine days (June 25-July 3) leading to detection of the next 10,000 cases, and 36,637 tests were conducted in the past six days (July 4-9). The cumulative Test Positivity Rate in the State is 21.98% There is every possibility of rapid increase in the number of cases as the State Health department is ramping up the number of tests. Of the total 30,946 cases, 12,423 are active cases, 18,192 were discharged and 331 patients died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-over-10000-cases-in-six-days/article32037658.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More land for CSIR-CCMB research centre||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB)’s long-awaited dream of having its own dedicated innovation centre to expand its research activities is on the verge of coming true with the government issuing orders delineating about 48 acres of land in Bommaipalli village of Bhongir mandal a few days ago. More than a decade ago, the then government had assured to allocate more than 100 acres for setting up a Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) Innovation Centre. The land right opposite the upcoming All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Bibinagar, when it was Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) campus, was sought but before the allotment happened it got into litigation when a private party claimed ownership. It is not yet known if the fresh land allotment is nearby or if the earlier claim of about 40 acres being allotted to the premier lab is still valid. The request for exemption from application of the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, however, was accepted by the government in the orders issued last week with the Collector of Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district directed to take necessary action. CCMB main campus is beside CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) where it started as a biochemistry division before becoming an independent lab in 1987. It has been in the forefront of combating COVID-19 with testing capability, validating kits, genome sequencing etc. Its first annexe is Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species (LaCONES) at Attapur and established in 2000 to study and develop advanced molecular biology tools for wildlife conservation. It also houses the National Genetic Resource Bank Facility to collect and store genetic material from deceased animals in zoos. A second annexe, Medical Biotechnology Complex, was established at Uppal in 2015 where about 20 start-ups are engaged in different sectors of life sciences. It has the Common Research and Technology Development Hub (CRTDH), Atal Incubation Centre-CCMB (AIC-CCMB) and the Meity Startup Hub. Whether all these will be integrated into a single campus when the entire land is allocated is not clear for now. "We are working on the project slated to come up on 120 acres. We are having discussions with the government and will be able to give a better picture in a couple of weeks," said CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra, when contacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-land-for-csir-ccmb-research-centre/article32037672.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||JVV flays ICMR take on COVID vaccine||The Jana Vignana Vedika (JVV) Telangana State Committee on Thursday criticised the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for reportedly writing on July 2 to Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) and 12 hospitals in connection with launching a COVID-19 vaccine for public use by August 15, which corresponds to Independence Day. ‘Grandstand or science’ “A desire to grandstand and please the political masters seems to have overtaken science and ethics within ICMR. All India People’s Science Network deplores the emerging trend in India of short-circuiting established protocols for trials of COVID vaccines and treatment drugs,” an excerpt of the letter signed by JVV general secretary R. Varaprasad reads. Animal trials underway The letter reiterated that BBIL has developed a BBV152 COVID vaccine candidate and got approvals for Phase I and II trials on June 29 from Central Drugs and Standard Control Organisation as “part of the fast-tracking of the process even while pre-clinical animal trials are still underway”. “According to the submission of BBIL with the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI), also under ICMR, the enrolment for Phase 1 was to begin from July 13 and the duration of the trial covering all the three stages was to be 15 months. Twelve hospitals with widely varying track-record and experience in vaccine trials have been selected for the purpose by ICMR in an entirely arbitrary and non-transparent manner,” the letter claimed. With this as the backdrop, the Jana Vignana Vedika (JVV) has demanded that due process of scientific trials for all coronavirus candidate vaccines be followed in a transparent manner, and corporate greed and false national pride be discouraged. People before profit The body also demanded globally coordinated efforts, putting people before profits, to make the drugs or vaccine and said that those who have developed BBV152 COVID vaccine candidate, their efforts should not be wasted due to ‘political pressures’ and all due processes be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jvv-flays-icmr-take-on-covid-vaccine/article32037668.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR seeks reports on future development of roads||Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao has asked GHMC engineering wing officials to micro-plan future development of city roads and their maintenance. He directed the officials to divide the city into four zones, and prepare reports about the existing roads in each zone, roads to be constructed or widened in accordance with future needs. Addressing a review meeting on the ongoing SRDP works in the city, Mr.Rama Rao felt that there was a need to take up road widening and construction of new roads as per Master Plan. He asked the officials to include plans for development of junctions, bus bays, toilets, and other facilities in the reports, which should be ready within a month. He asked GHMC commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar to ensure that every 100 feet road in the city had median, and greenery on the median. The Minister reviewed the ongoing works for grid roads, radial roads, missing link roads and slip roads in the city. Officials informed him that the 23 link roads taken up in the first phase were likely to be completed by the month-end. GHMC engineering officials informed Mr. Rama Rao that the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme by which the road maintenance had been handed over to private agencies for five years, yielded good results. During the last month, despite 50% excessive rainfall, complaints with regard to road damage had been minimal, they said. Road re-carpeting works was almost completed as stipulated under the CRMP for the current year, and henceforth, attention would be shifted to footpaths, medians and sanitation management, they said. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar attended the meeting apart from the engineering wing officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-seeks-reports-on-future-development-of-roads/article32037675.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Exams delayed, engg. students worry losing placements||Engineering students of State universities after securing placements in IT companies are now unsure of their joining even as their peers in deemed universities enjoy that privilege. With continuous postponement of final year exams, they are unsure of their result even as the deadlines of joining in several companies they were placed are already over. On the other hand, engineering students in deemed universities completed their examinations online and are ready to join the companies. “Several of our classmates are worried over the delay in conducting the exams as the company deadlines for joining have either expired or nearing,” says Vaishnavi from Chaitanya Bharati Institute of Technology (CBIT). “The government should do something fast so that students selected in the campus placement drive don’t lose out,” she says expressing the concerns of hundreds of such students in JNTU-H and Osmania University. Final year students get job offers in the fifth semester itself but join after completing the exams, which are usually over by May-end with results declared in June. However, with the pandemic, universities have postponed exams several times and the issue has also landed up in the courts now. It is not the problem of just JNTU-H or Osmania University but of all the government universities in the country as exams have been postponed due to the pandemic. However, private universities and deemed universities conducted their exams online. A representative of Gitam, a deemed-to-be-university, said that online exams were conducted and even certificates have been issued to students joining companies or going abroad for higher studies. “Government should explore online exams method so that thousands of students who are placed in companies join without any hassles. Why should they lose out when deemed universities’ students have the advantage of online exams,” asks the placement officer of a reputed college NLN Reddy. If the government decides to follow the UGC guidelines, exams will be conducted only in September and students will graduate in October. Will the IT companies give some flexibility to students is a question? Some students, who have been recruited and unwilling to share their companies’ names, said a few IT firms have adjusted the joining dates but several companies are yet to reveal their plans. “The delay will complicate things for us as we fear companies may choose to recruit others,” said a student from a private engineering college recruited in an MNC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/exams-delayed-engg-students-worry-losing-placements/article32037662.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police impose traffic curbs around old Secretariat||With the State government demolishing the old Secretariat building at a brisk pace, the Hyderabad Traffic police on Thursday announced restrictions and diversions around the building. Traffic coming from Karbala Maidan towards upper Tank Bund will be diverted at Sailing Club towards Kawadiguda, Lower Tank Bund and Ambedkar statue. Vehicles coming from VV statue towards Khairatabad flyover and Necklace Road Rotary will be diverted at VV statue towards Shadan and Nirankari Bhavan-left turn. Motorists coming from Liberty Junction will be allowed towards Ambedkar statue and then Upper Tank Bund (one way). People intending to go to Secunderabad via Upper Tank Bund should go via Liberty Junction, Ambedkar statue and onwards, while vehicles coming from Rajeev Gandhi statue and Khairatabad are not allowed towards Mint Compound and will be diverted at Khairatabad Bada Ganesh towards Rajdoot lane. Traffic is not allowed towards Necklace road and will be diverted at Nallagutta crossroads towards Minster road and Ranigunj vice versa. Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said motorists going to BRK Bhavan and Telugu Talli Junction via Kalanjali-Adarsh Nagar will be diverted at Old PCR towards Basheerbagh and Lakdikapul. Vehicles going towards Telugu Talli Junction will not be allowed from Ravindra Bharathi-Old PS Saifabad-Iqbal Minar and Ambedkar statue. Moreover, the Khairatabad and Telugu Talli flyover will remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-impose-traffic-curbs-around-old-secretariat/article32037680.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stop Karnataka from raising Alamatti height: Cong.||Expressing concern over Karnataka government increasing the Almatti dam height, Congress leaders have asked the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take up the issue seriously. In a letter to the Chief Minister, M. Kodanda Reddy, vice-chairman of All India Kisan Congress and Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, AICC secretary said Karnataka decided to increase the height of Alamatti dam from 519.6 metres to 524.2 metres. That will allow the neighbouring State to use 303 TMC of water from the present 173 TMC. They reminded that several projects on Krishna river like Jurala, Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar will get filled only during floods and Telangana has witnessed floods only once in the last six years. In case Alamatti’s height is increased it will allow Karnataka to store an additional 130 TMCs of flood water which will subsequently pose a risk to Nettempadu, Kalwakurthy, Palamoor Rangareddy, Dindi, SLBC, AMRP projects of Telangana that are based on surplus water and a major source of irrigation to 27.4 lakh acres of south Telangana erstwhile districts of Mahabubnagar, Ranga Reddy, Nalgonda, they said. They also reminded that representatives of TRS party, G. Vinod Kumar and Late Vidya Sagar Rao attended the all- party meeting held on December 10, 2013 under the leadership of the then Chief Minister of AP, N. Kiran Kumar Reddy, that opposed Brijesh Kumar tribunal’s verdict to increase the height of Alamatti dam. “We could also stop getting the Brijesh Kumar tribunal’s verdict from getting notified by fighting collectively amidst all odds. It is time we keep our political interests aside and fight together, with a collective conviction, in the interest of our state,” they said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-karnataka-from-raising-alamatti-height-cong/article32037693.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prospects of timely release of water to ayacut in TS brighten||The prospects of timely release of water to the ayacut under several major irrigation projects in the Krishna and Godavari basins in the State have increased with the projects in the upstream of the major river courses getting sizeable flood, particularly in Krishna and its tributaries in Karnataka. With the instructions from the government, the irrigation authorities are planning to give water to about 40 lakh acres under major projects in the State this season. Last year, release of flood from Jurala to Srisailam commenced towards the end of July and from Srisailam to Nagarjunasagar in the first fortnight of August. On Thursday evening, the flood into Almatti stood at about 69,000 cusecs with the Central Water Commission (CWC) forecasting further increase in the inflows by Friday morning. Water release from Almatti to Narayanpur dam, also in Karnataka, has already commenced through power generation. e inflows into the two major reservoirs in Karnataka, on which the fortunes of Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar depend to a large extent, have already received about 66 tmc ft of water this water year, since June 1. As on Thursday evening, the flood cushion in the two reservoirs stands at 55 tmc ft against their capacity of 167 tmc ft. According to the irrigation engineers, Jurala project, the gateway of Krishna water into Telugu States, has been getting some inflows for about a week now and the reservoir has already recorded inflows amounting to nearly 4 tmc ft. The authorities have already started releasing water to canals for filling tanks since the storage has reached about 7.8 tmc ft against its capacity of 9.66 tmc ft. Similarly, Srisailam has received about 3 tmc ft and Nagarjunasagar 4 tmc ft of water with the rains in the local catchment areas so far. Flood from Handri into Srisailam reservoir was recorded at over 14,000 cusecs at 7 pm on Thursday. Flood into several projects and barrages based on Krishna’s tributaries such as Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Tungabhadra and others in Karnataka is also considerable. According to CWC officials, Hidkal dam across Ghatprabha in Belgaum district was getting inflow of nearly 18,000 cusecs, Singatalur barrage across Tungabhadra was getting inflows of about 23,000 cusecs and the inter-State Tungabhadra project in Ballari district was getting about 25,000 cusecs of inflows on Thursday. he Godavari basin, the inflows in Sriramsagar in spite of lifting of the Babli barrage gates were only at about 1,500 cusecs and Kaddam project in Nirmal district and Yellampally barrage in Peddapalli district were getting only nominal inflows. However, carry over storage of water in Sriramsagar and other projects has enabled the engineers to release water to some canal systems already. Inflows into Medigadda barrage from Pranahita too are considerable at around 50,000 cusecs although the pumping back of water in to the upstream barrages of Godavari river – Annaram, Sundilla and Yellampally – is yet to be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prospects-of-timely-release-of-water-to-ayacut-in-ts-brighten/article32037700.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Demand for COVID facility at RTC Hospital||With the death of balladeer Mohammed Nisar, a Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) employee, on Wednesday and with the number of COVID-19 cases on the upswing in the State, trade unions demanded that the TSRTC Hospital at Tarnaka should have a separate wing to exclusively treat employees who have tested positive. K. Raji Reddy from the RTC Employees’ Union said that Mr. Nisar was his colleague for more than two decades, and that there are several employees who have tested positive, and died. “He was COVID-19 positive. If the government has a doubt, let them test. We saw another death, that of Bharathi, a controller from the Gachibowli depot. Further, there are at least 24 workers who have tested positive,” he said, adding that there are five from both depots in Musheerabad, six at the head office in Bus Bhavan, one from Kushaiguda, two from Kukatpally, one each from Kacheguda, Bandlaguda, Dilsukhnagar, Hanamkonda, Mancherial and Miyapur-2, and two from HCU depots. Another RTC union leader O. Sudha said that there are four at the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station. “When workers have a separate hospital, why should there not be a dedicated COVID wing or at least an isolation centre. What is stopping them from having a COVID wing at our hospital? he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-for-covid-facility-at-rtc-hospital/article32037671.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stone to be laid for elevated corridor||Foundation stone will be laid for the much-awaited elevated corridor and flyover on the road between VST and Indira Park on July 11. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan shared the news through a statement on Thursday, in which he informed that the foundation would be laid by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao. Both structures would be part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) planned by the State government for signal-free commute, and are being constructed with a total project outlay of Rs. 426 crore. The four-lane bidirectional elevated corridor will be a steel bridge of 2.62 km between Indira Park and VST, to be constructed in the first phase of the project, with an expenditure of Rs. 350 crore. The second structure will be a flyover to be built in the next phase between Ramnagar and Baghlingampally with an expenditure of Rs. 76 crore. The three-lane flyover will be 850 metres long. Both structures are aimed to be completed within 24 months, and once they are launched, will provide hassle-free ride for thousands of daily commuters, the statement from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation said. The steel bridge will also reduce the cascade effect of traffic issues towards Hindi Maha Vidyalaya and Osmania University, and circumvent the signals at Indira Park crossroads, Ashok Nagar Crossroads, RTC Colony Crossroads, and Baghlingampally junction, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stone-to-be-laid-for-elevated-corridor/article32037673.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cell for lakes, parks||The Directorate of Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management under GHMC has launched a ‘Parks, Lakes & Layout Open Spaces Protection Cell’ also known as Assets Protection Cell to enable citizens to post complaints on encroachment of parks, lakes, and open spaces of the layouts in GHMC limits. Citizens wishing to report an encroachment may call the toll-free number 1800-599-0099 to register their complaint. Every complaint is assigned a unique complaint number which is then assigned to the Assistant Enforcement Officer under the Directorate. The AEO will call the complainant for details and start the enquiry. Whistle blowers will have the choice of anonymity if they wish, a statement said. Demolished The GHMC Town Planning wing of Serilingampally Zone pulled down 42 slabs of seven illegal constructions in Gurukul Trust lands as part of the ongoing demolition drive here on Thursday. On Wednesday, the teams had pulled down 32 slabs of four buildings, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cell-for-lakes-parks/article32037676.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inspector, ASI in ACB net||Shabad inspector B Shankaraiah and assistant sub-inspector K Rajender were arrested by Anti Corruption Bureau officials for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 1.20 lakh from a complainant for showing official favour. The duo demanded the bribe from V. Vijay Mohan Reddy, a farmer from Solipet village in Shabad mandal of Rangareddy district, to provide police protection and implement court orders. Mr. Reddy approached ACB officials, following which a case was registered and the inspector and assistant-sub-inspector (ASI) were caught red-handed around 11. a.m. in the police station. Further searches at Shankaraiah’s house unearthed Rs. 16.4 lakh and property documents. Searches were on, an official said, adding that the accused had performed their duty improperly and dishonestly to obtain undue advantage. The duo were produced before the Special Judge For ACB cases, Hyderabad. In 2019, Shankaraiah, who was posted as inspector, Dundigal police station, was suspended on corruption charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inspector-asi-in-acb-net/article32037678.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for health emergency in Telangana||The Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (TBJP) on Thursday demanded a ‘health emergency’ to be declared in the State in view of the exponential rise of COVID-19 cases as well as mortalities, even as hapless citizens have been running around hospitals seeking treatment. Party president B. Sanjay told a virtual press conference that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has “vanished” from the scene whereas CMs of other states have been personally taking charge of the situation and taking prompt decisions to provide succour to people. “Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has shown the way by interacting with frontline health workers and COVID patients at NIMS and Gandhi Hospital. She has also interacted with private hospital managements seeking affordable treatment and better coordination but similar alacrity is missing from this government,” he charged. He said that his party did not wish to ‘politicise’ the fight against coronavirus but the government has not been paying heed to directions issued by the High Court, Centre’s advisory, suggestions of the Opposition parties or even the media. “Has a single package been announced to provide help to the people affected by the pandemic? What is the hurry to demolish Secretariat buildings at this time? The same cost could be used for public health,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-for-health-emergency-in-telangana/article32037659.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable found dead||A 27-year-old constable attached to the Medipally police station was found dead at his house here on Thursday. Naga Sai Chandu, a resident of Viharika Colony, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan, police said He resorted to the extreme step around 2 p.m. as he was unable to bear the pressure from his family to marry his paternal aunt’s daughter, police said. Since June 27, Sai Chandu had been on leave and was supposed to report on Saturday. He hailed from Wazeedu mandal in Mulugu district and used to live alone in a room here. The incident came to light when the owner of the house found him hanging and alerted police.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: : +914066202000 or 6666 1117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-found-dead/article32037682.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC declines to pass order promoting UG, PG students||Telangana High Court on Thursday declined to pass an order to the State to promote degree and post-graduate students to final year based on marks in internal assessment exams. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing two PIL pleas, directed the State government to file a counter affidavit in three weeks. During the previous hearing on June 30, the government informed the HC that all Common Entrance Tests were postponed. The bench, however, did not pass any specific direction on UG and PG exams on that day. The petitioner’s counsel C. Damoder Reddy appealed to the bench to promote students based on their internal assessment marks. The AG told the court that the government had decided to hold examinations as per UGC norms following standard practices. Differing with the petitioner’s counsel, the bench observed that courts cannot compel the State government to take a policy decision on examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-declines-to-pass-order-promoting-ug-pg-students/article32037686.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mosques, temple razed despite assurance: Shabbir||Former Minister and Congress leader Mohammed Ali Shabbir alleged that two mosques and a temple in the Secretariat complex were demolished along with the buildings that are being razed for the construction of a new Secretariat. In a statement here, he condemned the demolition of places of worship and accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of hurting the religious sentiments of all sections. He said the demolition was also a breach of trust by the TRS government. “When we raised this issue in the past, an assurance was given by some ministers that the two mosques and a temple would remain untouched even if the present structures are demolished. However, the Chief Minister reportedly directed the authorities to raze all structures, including two mosques and a temple,” he claimed. He reminded that he wrote an open letter to the Chief Minister on June 27, 2019 requesting him to protect the two historic mosques and temple located in Secretariat premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mosques-temple-razed-despite-assurance-shabbir/article32037692.ece
10 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notices over anticipatory bail||Justice G. Sri Devi of Telangana High Court on Thursday issued notice to Enforcement Directorate officials in a writ petition filed by TV9 news channel former CEO Ravi Prakash seeking anticipatory bail. Mr. Prakash’s counsel said that already he had secured a stay order in some criminal cases registered against him in connection with similar matter. The matter was posted to July 16 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-over-anticipatory-bail/article32037687.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Prostitution racket busted, three women rescued||The Madhapur police of Cyberabad rescued three women from a prostitution racket after a raid at a hotel and arrested a customer on Wednesday night. On a tip-off, the police raided a hotel at 100 feet road and arrested customer Kishore. “Organiser Surender Reddy and the hotel owner are absconding. A case is registered and the women were sent to a rescue home,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prostitution-racket-busted-three-women-rescued/article32037681.ece
10 July 2020||R. AvadhaniSANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers celebrate court ruling||The High Court staying the proposed public hearing on National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) that was scheduled for Friday brought a sense of relief to the farmers of several villages falling under NIMZ, near Zaheerabad. Though the relief is temporary — for the public hearing has only been put off due to coronavirus scare — the farmers celebrated the verdict by exchanging sweets. Four farmers from Mamidgi – M. Raji Reddy, G. Mallikarjun, R Sangappa and K. Veera Reddy – had approached High Court seeking postponement of the public hearing. The establishment of NIMZ, spread over 12,600 acres in Jarasangam and Nyalakal mandals under Zaheerabad revenue division was proposed by the then UPA government in 2014 before formation of Telangana State and formal approvals were accorded. After formation of Telangana, the State government moved fast and acquired about 3,000 acres of land under G.O. 123, which was stuck down by the High Court recently. After the announcement of NIMZ, the land rates in the surrounding areas sky rocketed and many farmers are reluctant to sell their lands. They have made their intentions clear and are stating that they can sell their lands only under Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act- 2013). Their contention is that the compensation being offered by the government is low. The government has been offering an amount of Rs. 7 lakh per acre whereas the market rate is much higher and varies from village to village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-celebrate-court-ruling/article32037695.ece
10 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IIT-H, NVIDIA to establish joint AI research centre||The Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IITH) is collaborating with NVIDIA, a multinational technology company, to establish India’s first ‘NVIDIA AI Technology Centre’ (NVAITC) to accelerate research on Artificial Intelligence and its commercial adoption. An event was held on Thursday to mark the commencement of operations of this centre. IITH already houses two NVIDIA DGX-1TM systems and an NVIDIA DGX-2TM system dedicated to research being undertaken at the institute. The NVAITC will accelerate research for the 220 faculty at IITH, which is already among India’s foremost research institutions. Highlighting the benefits of this state-of-the-art facility, Prof. B.S. Murty, Director, IIT Hyderabad, said: “As an IIT with a strong fundamental and technological research focus, the IITH is very happy to join NVIDIA’s NVAITC programme. This combination of NVIDIA’s leading-edge technology for AI Compute and some of the finest minds in the country from IITH will bring synergy to help find solutions to uniquely Indian challenges, be it enhancing crop yield or safer cities. This will build on the strong AI capabilities IITH has built, including the country’s first B.Tech in AI programme.” This collaboration will focus on advancing AI research in the areas of agriculture and Smart Cities besides Language Understanding. The projects that would be taken up include increasing crop yield using AI algorithms and applying AI-based solutions to support safer transportation systems and better ways of managing traffic, among others. Mr. Vishal Dhupar, Managing Director for NVIDIA South Asia, said, “NVIDIA is powering the AI revolution across research facilities everywhere. Our collaboration with IITH will accelerate AI research and help create innovative solutions to real-world challenges.” The State government recently announced 2020 as the ‘Year of AI’. NVIDIA is already a partner of the government in this endeavour. A Tech Session was held on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iit-h-nvidia-to-establish-joint-ai-research-centre/article32037704.ece
10 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Man kills wife, ends life||A man stabbed his wife to death and later committed suicide. The incident took place at the district headquarters town late on Wednesday night. According to police, B Shankar, 38, of Bommareddygudem, was living in Narayanareddy Colony in Sangareddy along with his wife Sravanthi, 32. In 2011, he killed his relative, B. Ashok, and was undergoing life term at Charlapally Central Jail, and was also lodged in the district jail. hankar was a good painter and drew some paintings in the jail. He was recently released from the jail on parole on June 26, and it was to an end on July 10. After having some issue with his wife, he stabbed her to death and committed suicide by hanging. The bodies were found in the morning and shifted to government hospital for postmortem. Sangareddy police registered a case and are investigating.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-wife-ends-life/article32037705.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Colours of mask||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/colours-of-mask/article32037664.ece
10 July 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Rs. 8 cr. allocated for SARTHI||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday announced a financial aid of Rs. 8 crore to Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (SARTHI), dispelling rumours of its closure. Mr. Pawar, who is also the Finance and Planning Minister, announced that SARTHI — established for research, policy advocacy, and training for socio-economic and education development of Marathas — will come out with a 2020-30 vision for the community. He said SARTHI and Annasaheb Patil Arthik Magas Vikas Mahamandal, both working for the betterment of the Maratha community, will now be under the Planning Department. Mr. Pawar held a meeting on Thursday to review the crisis within SARTHI, which has come under criticism for misappropriation of funds under the previous government. The meeting was attended by Rajya Sabha MP Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje and leaders from the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rs-8-cr-allocated-for-sarthi/article32037621.ece
10 July 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to create stress fund for SRA projects||The Maharashtra government will be setting up a stress relief fund of around Rs. 700 crore to Rs. 1,000 crore, in a bid to support developers undertaking Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) projects in the city. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has approved the fund’s creation, State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said in a press conference on Thursday. “The proposal might be taken up in the next Cabinet meeting. The State government’s contribution will be around Rs. 700 crore to Rs. 1,000 crore, while the State Bank of India’s contribution will be bigger.” Slew of relaxations Mr. Awhad also announced relaxations in the slum redevelopment policy to ensure faster availability of houses for slum dwellers. Along with reduction in premium and deferral of payments, the timeline for approvals has been reduced at all stages to pave the way for a slum-free Mumbai. Mr. Awhad said the new premium structure would also ensure the clubbing of stalled SRA projects in city zones. The revised timeline of approvals at various stages, including the letter of intent, would result in more than 50% time savings, compared with the previous structure followed by the SRA. “The State’s decision to push SRA development has been taken after considering the city’s readiness to tackle pandemics like COVID-19 in the future. Mumbai has witnessed an alarming rise in cases across slums. A proper housing environment will be the key to safeguard lives and prevent any community spread of such diseases going forward,” he said. The SRA has also capped the rental structure during the rehabilitation phase to Rs. 1.2 lakh and Rs. 96,000 per annum in the city and suburbs zones, respectively. Taking cognisance of stay orders by authorities on rehabilitation projects, the Minister said no authority except courts would be allowed to impose a stay on ongoing SRA projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-to-create-stress-fund-for-sra-projects/article32037622.ece
10 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally crosses 2.30 lakh; toll rises to 9,667||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 6,875 new COVID-19 cases, its second-highest single-day surge yet, pushing its case tally to 2,30,599. The State also reported 219 more deaths, taking its toll to 9,667. With 1,268 new cases, Mumbai’s case load has touched 89,124, of which 23,785 are active ones. The city also reported 68 more fatalities, taking its total death toll to 5,132. State health officials said 4,067 patients had been discharged on Thursday, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,27,259. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said there were 93,652 active cases in the State. “While the State’s recovery rate stands at 55.19%, its case fatality rate is 4.19%,” he said. Pune district reported over 1,000 new cases, pushing its total case tally to 33,394. The district also recorded 27 fatalities to take its death toll to 989. While State health officials said there were 17,226 active cases in the district, Pune district authorities said the figure was only 12,168. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Thane reported 655 new cases, taking its case tally to 20,739. Thane reported 28 deaths, pushing its toll to 655. Spike in Kalyan-Dombivli In its highest single-day spike yet, Kalyan-Dombivli reported 743 new cases, taking its total case tally to 12,498. Kalyan-Dombivli also recorded 18 fatalities, making its death toll rise to 179. Bhivandi-Nizampur recorded nine deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 149. Navi Mumbai added 251 fresh cases, taking its case load to 9,889. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded sharp spikes of 209 and 222 cases respectively, pushing their total case tallies to 5,361 and 6,903. 7 deaths in Jalgaon Nashik district recorded 216 fresh cases, taking its case load to 6,233, of which 2,534 are active. Seven more deaths in Jalgaon, a hotspot in north Maharashtra, saw the district’s death toll rise to 319. Aurangabad, a hotspot in the Marathwada region, reported 216 new cases, pushing its total case tally to 7,413, of which 3,691 are active cases. Dr. Awate said, “Till date, of a total of 12,22,487 laboratory samples, 2,30,599 (18.86%) have tested positive. Nearly 31,000 samples were tested across the State on Thursday.” He said 6,49,263 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 48,191 are in institutional quarantine.  While the State’s recovery rate stands at 55.19%, its case fatality rate is 4.19% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-tally-crosses-230-lakh-toll-rises-to-9667/article32037625.ece
10 July 2020||Pune,||Pune civic administration wary of reopening hotels||Notwithstanding the Maharashtra government’s recent directive on reopening hotels and lodges at 33% of their capacity, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is wary of going ahead in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the city. With over 1,000 new cases being reported on Thursday, authorities are considering stricter measures to curb movement in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and adjoining rural areas. Apart from the around 110 micro-containment zones in Pune city, the district administration has designated 20 containment zones in the semi-urban areas of the district. Only sale of essentials like milk and vegetables has been permitted in these areas, according to the authorities. Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram has said that any village reporting more than five COVID-19 cases would be sealed. Meanwhile, Pune district reported a staggering 1,014 new cases till Thursday evening, pushing the total case to 33,607. As many as 20,485 people have been discharged so far, and there are 12,168 active cases in the district, said Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar. With 10 more fatalities being recorded on Thursday, Pune’s death toll has risen to 954. “Of the active cases, 9,356 have been reported from Pune city and 2,115 from Pimpri-Chinchwad,” Dr. Mhaisekar said. Pune district recorded its highest single-day spike of more than 1,600 cases on Wednesday, of which Pune city accounted for around 1,200 cases. As many as 530 patients in the district are in a critical condition. Meanwhile, the death toll in Solapur district has climbed to 317, with eight more fatalities being reported on Thursday. “The total death toll in Pune division — which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts — has now reached 1,363,” Dr. Mhaisekar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pune-civic-administration-wary-of-reopening-hotels/article32037624.ece
10 July 2020||Pune,||‘MVA allies at loggerheads instead of battling pandemic’||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies — the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress — are bickering among themselves instead of combating the COVID-19 pandemic in Maharashtra. The BJP leader was on a tour of Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra to review the COVID-19 situation. Mr. Fadnavis said, “This is not the time for petty politics. Instead of focusing on ridding the State of the scourge of the novel coronavirus, these three parties are fighting among themselves. All this at a time when people are not getting adequate beds and testing is not up to the mark.” On a critical editorial in the Saamana , he said: “The Saamana is no longer the mouthpiece of the Sena that it was during the times of its founder Balasaheb Thackeray. It has mutated into the mouthpiece of the Congress and the NCP, whose politics the Saamana had once vigorously opposed.” Mr. Fadnavis said the BJP would not react to barbs hurled at him or the party in the Saamana . “Moreover, how many people read it? But I suppose it provides grist for journalists who keep dissecting the meaning of its editorials all day long. All this is irrelevant and utterly unimportant for us at a time when the country and the State are reeling under COVID-19,” he said. He denied there was any politics behind his tour. “We are only interested in hearing the problems of the public and we will go to them, regardless of what the Congress or the NCP thinks. Their leaders are sitting at home… they may not be interested in the welfare of the people, but we are,” he said. ‘Alarming situation’ Mr. Fadnavis said the COVID-19 situation in Jalgaon was alarming and urged authorities to take firm steps to curb the surge in cases and deaths. The district has been witnessing an average of 150 cases a day for the past fortnight. Jalgaon’s tally has crossed 5,000 and its death toll has risen to 312. “The plight of non-COVID-19 patients is equally dire. It is imperative to increase testing in Jalgaon, which is way below the stipulated guidelines of the Indian Council for Medical Research,” Mr. Fadnavis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-allies-at-loggerheads-instead-of-battling-pandemic/article32037623.ece
10 July 2020||Geneva,||WHO sets up panel to probe its virus response||The World Health Organization, which faced fierce U.S. criticism over its handling of the coronavirus crisis, launched an independent panel on Thursday to review its response to the pandemic. The Independent panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response will be headed by former New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark and former Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. “Through you, the world will understand the truth of what happened and also the solutions to build our future better as one humanity,” World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at the UN agency’s headquarters in Geneva. At their annual assembly in May, WHO member states agreed to an independent probe into the UN agency’s coronavirus response, following repeated U.S. attacks. U.S. President Donald Trump had accused the WHO of botching its handling of the pandemic and of being a “puppet of China”. The resolution, tabled by the European Union, called for an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation”. It said the investigation should probe “the actions of WHO and their time-lines pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic”. U.S. withdrawal The United States on Tuesday formally started its withdrawal from the WHO, making good on Trump’s threats to deprive the UN body of its top donor over its management of the pandemic. Public health advocates and Mr. Trump’s political opponents voiced outrage at the move. Mr. Tedros hit out at divisions in the international community and warned of severe consequences if this were not rectified. “Make no mistake: the greatest threat we face now is not the virus itself — rather, its the the lack of leadership and solidarity at the global and national levels,” he said. “We cannot defeat this pandemic as a divided world. The virus thrives on division but is thwarted when we unite.” The novel coronavirus has killed at least 5,49,701 people since the outbreak emerged in China last December, according to an AFP tally on Thursday. Over 12 million cases At least 12,066,880 cases of COVID-19 have been registered in 196 countries and territories. Of these, at least 6,431,400 are now considered recovered. “How is it difficult for humans to unite to fight a common enemy that’s  killing people indiscriminately? Mr. Tedros said. “Together is the solution, unless we want to give the advantage the enemy, to the virus that has taken the world hostage -- and this has to stop.” The WHO’s response to the 2014 Ebola crisis was widely criticised. The pandemic killed some 11,000 people mostly in the West African countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Mr. Tedros said it was time for honest reflection, and stressed it was important to remain vigilant. “We’re in the midst of this battle. The battle of our lives, and we have to do better, not just now but for the future. Because these threats will never stop and, in all likelihood, they will get worse,” he said. The panel will stage one mission briefing per month to give updates, while it will present an interim report to the next World Health Assembly gathering in November. Nobel Peace Prize winner Ms. Sirleaf said: “I look forward to doing all we can to respond to these challenges that have prevented us from being united in moving forward, not only to address the effects of COVID-19 but to ensure a better health system for all nations of the world.” Clark added: “This assignment could only be described as exceptionally challenging.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-sets-up-panel-to-probe-its-virus-response/article32037330.ece
10 July 2020||Washington,||Reopen schools or face funding cuts: Trump||President Donald Trump pressured the government’s top public health experts on Wednesday to water down recommendations for how the nation’s schools can reopen safely this fall and threatened to cut federal funding for districts that defied his demand to resume classes. Once again rejecting the advice of the specialists who work for him, he dismissed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s “very tough & expensive guidelines,” which he said asked schools “to do very impractical things.” Within hours, the White House announced that the agency would issue new recommendations in the days to come. The President’s criticisms, in a barrage of Twitter threats, inflamed a difficult debate that has challenged educators and parents across the country as they seek ways to safely resume teaching American children by September. Even as the coronavirus is spreading faster than ever in the U.S., Mr. Trump expressed no concern about the health implications of reopening in person and no support for compromise plans that many districts are considering. Tough stand His all-or-nothing stance left him at odds with the nation’s two largest school districts. Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York City announced shortly after Mr. Trump’s tweets that schools would not fully reopen in September, with students attending classes in person only one to three days a week to accommodate social distancing. The chief public health officer in Los Angeles County told school officials on Tuesday to be prepared to continue learning entirely from home given the surge of infections in California. But Mr. Trump’s attack on the CDC underscored his growing impatience with public health experts he considers obstacles to his ambitions of reopening the country after months of lockdown. As he significantly trails Joe Biden, his presumptive Democratic challenger, in most polls, the President has brushed off warnings and pushed States to reopen businesses in hopes of reviving the crippled economy before the election on November 3, a goal that would be hamstrung if parents had to remain at home with their children this fall. “I disagree with @CDCgov,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Wednesday, a day after hosting a series of events to pressure schools to reopen fully. “While they want them open, they are asking schools to do very impractical things. I will be meeting with them!!!” During a task force briefing on Wednesday, Vice-President Mike Pence announced that the CDC would issue new recommendations, saying the guidelines should not be a reason for schools to stay closed. “We just don’t want the guidance to be too tough,” he said, promising “five different documents that will be giving more clarity on the guidance going forward.”NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/reopen-schools-or-face-funding-cuts-trump/article32037326.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Who gets a vaccine first?||Federal health officials are already trying to decide who will get the first doses of any effective coronavirus vaccines, which could be on the market this winter but could require many additional months to become widely available to Americans. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and an advisory committee of outside health experts in April began working on a ranking system for what may be an extended rollout in the U.S. According to a preliminary plan, any approved vaccines would be offered to vital medical and national security officials first, and then to other essential workers and those considered at high risk — the elderly instead of children, people with underlying conditions instead of the relatively healthy. Officials are considering what has become a contentious option: putting Black and Latino people, who have disproportionately fallen victim to COVID-19, ahead of others. Racial justice In private meetings, the issue has provoked calls for racial justice. But some medical experts are not convinced there is a scientific basis for such an option, foresee court challenges or worry that such a move would erode public trust in vaccines at a time when immunisation is seen as crucial to ending the pandemic. “Giving it to one race initially and not another race, I’m not sure how that would be perceived by the public, how that would affect how vaccines are viewed as a trusted public health measure,” said Claire Hannan, executive director of the Association of Immunisation Managers. While there is a standard protocol for introducing vaccines — the CDC typically makes recommendations. The White House has pressed the agency at times to revise or hold off on proposals it found objectionable.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-gets-a-vaccine-first/article32037327.ece
10 July 2020||Beijing,||China offers glimpse into lab rumoured to have leaked virus||Chinese state media has offered a rare glimpse of the lab at the heart of coronavirus conspiracy theories, as it seeks to push back against claims the facility was the source of the global pandemic. President Donald Trump and other U.S. figures have repeatedly suggested the virus could have leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, or even been deliberately produced there. No closer access Footage broadcast by state-run CCTV is believed to be the first from within the institute’s P4 lab — for highly-dangerous Class 4 pathogens — since its inauguration in 2017. However, it offered no new information on the lab’s workings. It included only a few brief shots of actual laboratory areas, taken through thick glass windows. The report said safety protocols prevented closer access. The piece focussed instead on rebutting leak suspicions. “There have been no accidents of pathogen leaks or human infections” from the lab, said Yuan Zhiming, director of the Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory. “Because of the fear and feeling of helplessness and also the lack of information, many people would naturally link an area’s outbreak to its nearest lab. As they learn more about the situation and the lab, rumours will gradually dissipate.” The United States and Australia had called for an investigation into the origins of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-offers-glimpse-into-lab-rumoured-to-have-leaked-virus/article32037320.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden proposes $700 bn ‘Buy American’ campaign||Launching an economic pitch expected to anchor his fall presidential campaign, Democratic candidate Joe Biden is proposing sweeping new uses of the federal government’s regulatory and spending power to bolster U.S. manufacturing and technology firms. Mr. Biden calls for a $400 billion, four-year increase in government purchasing of U.S.-based goods and services in addition to $300 billion in new research and development in U.S. technology concerns. Among other policies expected to be announced on Thursday, he proposes tightening current “Buy American” laws that are intended to benefit U.S. firms but can be easily circumvented by government agencies. An outline released by Mr. Biden’s campaign also touts his long-standing promises to strengthen workers’ collective bargaining rights and repeal Republican-backed tax breaks for U.S. corporations that move jobs overseas. “This will be the largest mobilisation of public investments in procurement, infrastructure and (research and development) since World War II,” senior adviser Jake Sullivan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-proposes-700-bn-buy-american-campaign/article32037318.ece
10 July 2020||SEOUL,||Missing Seoul Mayor found dead, say police||Missing Seoul Mayor Park Won-soon — long seen as a potential South Korean presidential candidate — has been found dead. Mr. Park was facing allegations of sexual misconduct. His daughter reported him missing on Thursday. Police said that he had left his house after saying what sounded like “last words”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/missing-seoul-mayor-found-dead-say-police/article32037324.ece
10 July 2020||Dhaka,||‘Rohingya refugees can’t leave island’||Hundreds of Rohingya refugees on a flood-prone island in the Bay of Bengal will not be allowed to leave unless they agree to return home, Bangladesh authorities said on Thursday. The 306 Muslim Rohingya from Myanmar were put on Bhashan Char island in April after being taken off two boats trying to traffic them to Malaysia. Their plight has been taken up by the United Nations, which wants them moved to more established refugee camps on the mainland. “They will stay at Bhasan Char until they are repatriated to Myanmar,” Mohammed Khorshed Alam Khan, administrator for the district covering the island, said. He said the refugees are well taken care of and have better facilities than in the overcrowded camps in Cox's Bazar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rohingya-refugees-cant-leave-island/article32037317.ece
10 July 2020||WASHINGTON,||Pentagon role during unrest under scanner||The Pentagon’s top leaders are going before Congress for the first time in months to face a long list of controversies, including their differences with President Donald Trump over the handling of protests near the White House last month during unrest triggered by the killing of George Floyd in police hands. Defense Secretary Mark Esper and General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will be testifying before the House on Thursday. Mr. Trump’s push for an aggressive response to the civil unrest led to an extraordinary clash with Mr. Esper and Gen. Milley, who on June 1 accompanied the President when he walked from the White House to St. John’s Church on Lafayette Square. That day, a National Guard helicopter was flown at extremely low altitude to help disperse protesters, prompting a Pentagon investigation into whether that was a proper use of military resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pentagon-role-during-unrest-under-scanner/article32037323.ece
10 July 2020||Washington,||Court rulings keep Trump's financial records private for now||The U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that a New York prosecutor can obtain President Donald Trump’s financial records, including his tax returns, banking and other documents, but prevented — at least for now — Democratic-led House of Representatives committees from getting similar documents.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/court-rulings-keep-trumps-financial-records-private-for-now/article32037322.ece
10 July 2020||London,||London, July 9, 2020 (AFP) -||Four men were arrested on Thursday in London and central England on suspicion of preparing terrorist acts, British police said. Armed officers arrested three men aged 17, 27 and 31 at two addresses in east London, while unarmed colleagues detained a fourth 32-year-old man in the county of Leicestershire.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-july-9-2020-afp/article32037328.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Owning up to criminalisation in politics||A February 2020 Supreme Court judgment on criminalisation in politics may have far-reaching consequences for Indian democracy. It will first be implemented in the coming Bihar elections in October 2020. The Court has asked the political parties to state “the reasons for such selection, as also as to why other individuals without criminal antecedents could not be selected as candidates.” If a political party fails to comply, it would be “… in contempt of this Court’s orders/directions.” In other words, the political party and its leadership would for the first time have to publicly own up to criminalisation of politics. They had been denying it all these years. Earlier orders state that (a) each candidate shall submit a sworn affidavit giving financial details and criminal cases; (b) each candidate shall inform the political party in writing of criminal cases against him or her; and (c) the party shall put up on its website and on social media as well as publish in newspapers the names and details of such candidates. Why did the Court pass such an order? The judgment notes that “In 2004, 24% of the Members of Parliament had criminal cases pending against them; in 2009, that went up to 30%; in 2014 to 34%; and in 2019 as many as 43% of MPs had criminal cases pending against them.” India is the only democratic country with a free press where we find a problem of this dimension. An ever-present crisis We are in the midst of more immediate crises — the COVID-19 outbreak, the economic recession due to the lockdown, the migrant workers crisis, small businesses shutting down in many sectors, massive unemployment, a highly stressed banking and financial sector, and now the conflict with China. Added to this is an ever-present silent crisis: the steady deterioration in politics over decades, with the decline accelerating in the past 16 years. As politics dominates the bureaucracy, and reins in business, civil society and the media, we need governance that is free of the “criminal” virus. Capability is not sufficient. The intent to do public service is also required. The British were capable, but we still did not want them. Today, it is not about any party, it is about the political system. The result has been that we get bad governance, and survey after survey show that people around the country are unhappy with the quality of governance. Given limited choices, they vote as best as they can. But no matter how many parties are changed, governance does not really improve, a few exceptions apart. Using money power to buy MLAs and MPs sometimes makes a mockery of election outcomes. Meanwhile, electoral bonds bring secrecy back into political funding. Several laws and court judgments have not helped much, as the data show. One reason is lack of enforcement of laws and judgments. It is also not clear what penalty would be imposed if the recent orders are not followed. Would the law enforcement agencies act vigorously to ensure that the guilty are prosecuted? Would any top political leader responsible for not complying be found guilty? Would an election be set aside? Without such action, will there be change? Being vigilant Therefore in the coming Bihar elections we need to be far more vigilant. This includes monitoring the affidavits of candidates, working with the Election Commission to ensure that information is promptly available on their websites, and widely circulating this information to voters using all the social media tools available. It also includes monitoring compliance with the Supreme Court judgment to see if details of tainted candidates are promptly put up on their websites, and on their social media handles, along with proper reasons for giving them ticket. The Court has said that “winnability” cannot be cited as a reason. Voters also need to be vigilant about misuse of money, gifts and other inducements during elections. Till we realise that people who bribe us for votes cannot be trusted, change will be very slow. Fortunately, an ever-growing number of voters and organisations are joining in this work of cleansing politics. Meanwhile, the waters will be muddied with fake news, trolling, and fanciful claims. This may drown out the little that citizens can do. Yet there is hope. Ensuring prosecution with public pressure may help. If one political leader is hauled up for giving ticket to large numbers of tainted candidates, something positive may happen. A root cause diagnosis shows that political party leaders are squarely responsible for this state of affairs as they field such candidates. Mahatma Gandhi taught us that to solve a problem, we have to confront the real issue. The Court order is to be welcomed. But we are still unable to ban people with serious criminal charges from contesting elections. While there are various arguments for and against such a move, the Court has dismissed several petitions calling for a ban due to legal and technical constraints. Meanwhile, the political system is unwilling to change the law or the system. Politics for now has been captured by those who want power for its own sake. In conclusion, we may not see dramatic changes in the quality of candidates. Campaigns may continue to be more and more personal and even abusive. We may not see a big change in money power, or in buying of MLAs post-elections in the case of a hung Assembly. But all these steps are required, however insignificant they may seem. All the dozen and more Supreme Court judgments on electoral reforms since 2002 are in fact responses to citizen initiatives. Not one initiative has come from the political system. The strategy so far has been to methodically try and break down the solid wall of corruption. When the dam will be breached and the pure waters of a new India flow over the land cannot be predicted. Trilochan Sastry is Founder-Chairman, Association for Democratic Reforms, and Professor, IIM Bangalore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/owning-up-to-criminalisation-in-politics/article32037306.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Is Internet freedom being sacrificed for national security?||The government’s decision to block 59 Chinese apps has once again spotlighted the vulnerability of Internet freedom at a time of national security. Sriram Srinivasan moderates a discussion with Arghya Sengupta and Raman Chima to explore the delicate balance between freedom of expression and national security. Edited excerpts:  The Centre’s move to block 59 Chinese apps has brought to the fore the inherently tricky ‘national security versus digital rights’ question. How do you view this?  Arghya Sengupta (AS):It is important first to clarify whose rights we are talking about. If it is the right of (these) Chinese companies, then of course, these rights have been affected. If it is the rights of Indian individuals who use platforms like TikTok either to run their business or to just become popular, I don’t think there is a rights violation there. I can do the same thing by moving to another platform. Section 69A [of the Information Technology Act], which has been used, is not a new power that the government is commandeering during a time of national security emergency. It must be a genuine national security risk, and the necessity of blocking the app must be very clearly made out by the government. And that is the way we try and resolve this question of where do we draw the line between this trade-off between national security, which is important, and rights, which are equally important. Raman Chima (RC):It is important to remember that in a constitutional democracy like ours, but also one that is a signatory to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights as well as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, there is a certain basic understanding that regulation of the Internet or Internet-based services by governments has to respect basic human rights standards. For a government to block service or to block any access to content or take other coercive steps that may intrude upon people’s fundamental rights and freedoms, it has to follow what in international law is often called the three-part test. That requires action that is very clear; that could not have been done by a less intrusive means; and that follows standards of necessity and proportionality. In India, it is very clear that our fundamental right to free speech and expression applies to online content (too). Our own Supreme Court has said that. The challenge in this particular situation is that the blocking of an entire service and app by the Indian government is a remarkable and a rather extraordinary step. And one would therefore go and ask (whether there were) less intrusive means that could have been followed. And if you do believe, for example, there are other concerns relating to security, which is one of the grounds allowed under Indian law, as well as other larger concerns on data and cybersecurity, which the Indian government does not right now have any legal basis to take clear action on because it itself has not enacted law on that subject, they have to make that information available. It troubles me that that information is not there. And perhaps, in this case, what has happened is that concerns around national security or other geopolitical concerns have intervened to result in censorship administrative action... And that test of whether this is a proportionate restriction perhaps may not have been met. More specifically, the use of Section 69A of the Information Technology Act has been criticised in some quarters, with one of the criticisms being that it isn’t designed for data protection compliance. And it is also argued that it is set for more specific violations rather than broad general violations, as you mentioned.  RC:The fact is that Section 69A has a limited set of defined grounds under which the government can take action. Those are often wide grounds, including security of the state that, as we know, over the last few years, the Union Government as well as several State governments have unfortunately taken very wide views of, but data protection isn’t one of them. And also, if you look at other actions taken by other regulators, what they initiate is action under a data protection framework where they investigate the entity, see whether other mechanisms could be followed (orders, fines etc). And instead, we have jumped here to the topmost level, and more importantly, even under our existing legal framework regarding blocking of content, there are two mechanisms — there is the normal process by which a government department complains to the Central government officer and a committee reviews it, and an emergency process by which orders are issued and then a subsequent review is taken. They have done an emergency blocking order, and then said these platforms should perhaps come to them and make a case as to why they should be unblocked and these interim orders could be overridden. And more importantly, ultimately, Section 69A is a censorship power, a controversial one that is not well designed to protect people’s rights. AS:There is a wider point that Raman makes that I agree with, which is the fact that 69A is perhaps not fit for the purpose. But I think that the larger point is that the banning of the apps, as we all kind of have guessed, has become a proxy for a larger geopolitical battle. And I think that whenever we discuss the question of how the apps were banned, and the processes that were followed, while those are relevant questions, and we must ask them, but I think this is a larger question that needs to be asked in terms of both Internet freedom in India as well as in China. How do you both see the system going from here to becoming a fairer system?  RC:The first step in that path is something that the government itself could do. Currently, when the Government of India issues blocking orders under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, it asserts secrecy and confidentiality in those orders. This is, in fact, not something required by Parliament. The government should immediately stop asserting that privilege, so that the public indeed knows what is being blocked and for what reason. I would also argue that that is now a constitutional requirement. The Supreme Court in the issue of Internet shutdowns in the Anuradha Bhasin judgment said very clearly that any order blocking people’s rights to liberty, especially in relation to the Internet, requires to be published. It can also undertake broader reforms, as well as a review of Section 69A itself. As somebody who has worked in the technology sector in both industry as well as now nonprofit and human rights roles, I can tell you that the blocking list in India is actually a shockingly long one, perhaps tens of thousands of websites that have been blocked over a period since the late 1990s. That is not a position India wants to be in. India never wants to be compared to China, or other totalitarian despotic regimes. The reality today is that on cybersecurity, we don’t have a clear strategy in architecture. The Indian government has tried to do its best over the last few months to consult on a new national cybersecurity strategy, so it is clear as to who is in charge, what legal powers they may have, although again, legal powers are a subject determined by Parliament, as well as who responds, where does the buck stop? That, unfortunately, is not clear right now. China is intimately involved in the global technology supply chain. That is not a fact that is going away. And, therefore, if we are saying that due to legitimate border or other conflict concerns, as well as perhaps other national strategy, we wish to contain or restrict that in a manner that protects human rights but also in a manner that is effective, we need an open conversation on what that process is. That is not happening right now. AS:There has been a mindset within the government, particularly on issues relating to national security, that agencies can work best when they work outside the law. But if you look at the U.S., national security agencies obviously can work well within the four corners of the law, while at the same time ensuring that they are no less and perhaps in some senses even more empowered as far as their surveillance functions are concerned. So I think overall, there needs to be a change in mindset for national security agencies. They must all be brought under a legal framework where we understand what everybody’s powers are. We just have to know the extent of their powers. And if they have overstepped their bounds, then there must be consequences as there are consequences for everyone else. If we are going to look at it in terms of Section 69A, we can discuss it, but the point is that the Supreme Court in the Shreya Singhal case did indeed uphold Section 69A while striking down Section 66A. So the point is that we need to think about a larger change of mindset. We have seen one part of the ecosystem, where some homegrown Indian companies are probably rejoicing at the decision, but there are broader long-term consequences... AS:The fact of the matter is that the banning of the Chinese apps is an incident of a larger dispute. And if that dispute resolves itself, this will resolve itself too. At the end of the day, there is a reason why those apps are so popular right? It is because they work. And the reason why Chinese products are in the global supply chain is because they are producing a certain quality at a certain price. What Indian tech companies should essentially be looking at is in trying to improve their products, so that they can compete globally. Currently, we are nowhere close. We have to ask ourselves collectively as to whether we can preside over these years of technological hardship where products from China and other countries which are cheaper will not be available because of hopes of a brighter tomorrow. Number two, if they [the officials] have come to the conclusion that this is a price that we are willing to pay for longer term gains, then in that case, we have to set in motion certain sets of policies to ensure that Indian industry is appropriately incentivised. RC:By making it a little bit unfortunately too clear that this is due to geopolitical reasons, India [becomes] vulnerable from a trade law perspective. It allows China to claim the moral high ground in trade talks. That is just a fact. On larger issues of our software development and supply chain, we also need to have an honest conversation about what is working, what is not working. Today, Indian apps servicing a global market could be forced to comply with government orders issued in India that apply to residents elsewhere. So we do need to have an honest conversation around privacy and data that recognises that we are part of a global interlinked Internet. That is not yet happening.  All national security agencies must be brought under a broad legal framework so that we understand what their powers are Arghya Sengupta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-internet-freedom-being-sacrificed-for-national-security/article32037315.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The problem of being over-reliant on one revenue stream||The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s regulations regarding student visas have thrown U.S.-based international students into turmoil. The regulation adds a new dimension to the pandemic-riddled academic year by denying entry to students enrolled in fully online programmes and requiring existing students to either switch to campuses with at least one in-person course or risk deportation. As disruptive an impact as this may have for students, there is another potentially larger impact that warrants inspection: the impact on university finances. Withdrawal of public funds The past several decades have seen an ever-increasing relative withdrawal of public funds from universities globally, even as demand for higher education access has grown. The perception of college as a means to higher income, combined with the emphasis on competition-driven efficiency, has meant a global trend of replacing college grants with loans and tuition fees, or other private forms of funding. Proponents of this process have also argued that this helps increase the autonomy of universities. This phenomenon has been particularly pronounced in the U.S. — tuition costs have been steadily rising and a greater share of the cost of education is placed on students and their families with some supplementation by federal, state or private loans. Unlike domestic students, international students (with a few exceptions) are not eligible for federal college loans and rely on payment either out of pocket or from private loans. There is also less domestic pressure to reduce tuition rates or provide concessions for them, and the risk of advocacy from the students themselves is somewhat less given their precarious visa status. In a normal year, the pool of international college applicants for a given school is much larger than the number of positions available, so a rise in tuition cost will still likely see all these seats filled. Finally, the college route has proven highly popular for those seeking to eventually immigrate. The ultimate outcome of these factors is that international students can in general be relied on to pay much more than their domestic counterparts, making them attractive for universities looking to boost their revenue streams. Indeed, the U.S. Department of Commerce estimated that international students contributed about $44.7 billion in 2018 to the U.S. economy (including tuition, housing, and other private consumption). COVID-19 has already wrecked any financial planning revolving around international students. The shuttering of campuses and restricted international travel have made the fall semester a less attractive prospect for both returning and new students uninterested in paying the full price for a curtailed college experience. The ICE regulations add several further wrinkles. By adding additional visa-related questions over and above everything else, universities find themselves in an even more uncertain position. Committing to an online-only model risks reducing international student intake even further. Conversely, having in-person classes to secure revenue streams puts students at risk and could anyway lead to potentially costly shutdowns mid-semester. There will also likely be increased friction between university administrations and campus unions. Limited solutions There are also limitations for university administrations seeking to find solutions beyond tuition revenue. Additional public funds seem exceedingly unlikely, and existing relief via the CARES Act (Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act) has fallen short. Private research grants are another potential source, but these funds are themselves likely to be diminished due to the pandemic. Some universities possess endowments, i.e. large sums of money that are invested and then used as an income source, but these are also unlikely to be of much help — the fluctuating markets have severely impacted most endowments’ investment incomes, and the underlying capital cannot easily be touched due to both university policy and potential restrictions that donors have attached to their usage. In short, universities with already limited fiscal space will now find themselves even further squeezed by the ICE regulations affecting an important revenue source. Larger colleges have already begun to push back — the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University have filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the ICE. There are discussions being held in other schools about using loopholes to offer in-person courses without requiring students to actually turn up to campus. In the event that these efforts fail, however, the economic pressures will be large particularly for smaller schools with less clout. They will essentially join the myriad other businesses struggling to choose between economic viability and public health. Ironically, the very conditions proposed as increasing university autonomy have conversely placed them in a situation with limited options. Going forward, there is a need for U.S. universities to reflect on the vulnerabilities created by a system over-reliant on any one revenue stream, and in the long term reconsider the legitimacy of the steady privatisation of higher education. In the meantime, the fall semester remains as murky and ambiguous as ever. Karthik Manickam is a Research Scholar at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning at Jawaharlal Nehru University working on Higher Education Financing and the Privatisation of Universities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-problem-of-being-over-reliant-on-one-revenue-stream/article32037300.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||None gains||On July 6, when the number of novel coronavirus cases and deaths in the U.S. reached over 2.8 million and nearly 0.13 million, respectively, the U.S. officially notified the United Nations of its intention to withdraw membership from the World Health Organization. This comes after President Donald Trump announced on May 29 his decision to halt funding and pull out of the global health body. After accusing WHO of being “China-centric” on multiple occasions, this unfortunate development is one more attempt by Mr. Trump to deflect blame for gross mismanagement of the crisis. In a May 18 letter, he officially demanded that the WHO make “major substantive improvements” in 30 days while charging that the global body lacked “independence” from China, was slow to respond to the threat, and had “repeatedly made inaccurate or misleading claims” about the virus. Since the decision has apparently been taken without the approval of Congress, and as the withdrawal will become effective only on July 6 next year, there is a possibility that Congress or courts might reverse the withdrawal. Already, Democratic challenger Joe Biden has promised to revoke it if elected President. There is much at stake and unsurprisingly Congress is already under pressure from academia and medical associations to reject the withdrawal. The capricious decision to withdraw from WHO will have dire consequences for global public health. The departure of the U.S. will be a significant blow to the WHO in terms of loss of technical expertise and, according to Mr. Trump, an annual funding of about $450 million. The pandemic has clearly brought to the fore several shortcomings and weaknesses in the global health body. For instance, the 2005 revision of the International Health Regulations made it mandatory for countries to notify the WHO of all events that may constitute an international public health emergency and to “respond to requests for verification of information regarding such events”. Yet, the WHO has limited power to ensure compliance by member States, including limitations in independently verifying member states’ official reports. If the U.S. was majorly involved in the 2005 IHR revision, it will now have no role to play in strengthening the WHO. It will lose a seat at the table to determine the virus strain to be used for developing influenza vaccines (flu killed over 34,000 people in the U.S. in 2018-19), and have no access to new influenza virus samples for research. With no more U.S. scientists embedded in the WHO in key roles, including outbreak response teams like the one that visited Wuhan, it will lose out on health intelligence that will compromise the country’s response to international disease outbreaks. In the end, none gains from a further weakened WHO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/none-gains/article32037297.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Visa politics||The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump seems bent on pursuing controversial immigration policy measures following the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, visa issuance to students enrolled in universities or programmes that are conducted entirely online for the fall 2020 semester will be stopped; such students will not be permitted to enter the U.S. The federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency also advised that active students currently in the U.S. enrolled in programmes that would be administered in online mode are required to leave the country or transfer to a university with in-person instruction to remain in lawful status. If not, ICE cautioned, they risk the initiation of removal proceedings or similar immigration consequences. Palpable ripples of anger across the U.S. education system took the form of lawsuits, led by Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to block the ICE directive. This is the latest twist in an ongoing immigration policy crackdown by the Trump administration, which includes a halt in the issuance of visas for skilled workers, or H-1B and their dependents, visas for intra-company transfers, or L-1 and their dependents, and several other visa categories as well as a halt in green card processing, all until the end of the calendar year. Taking a step back, the evolving Trump immigration paradigm leaves several big questions unanswered. First, while an argument, however harsh and myopic, could be made that the U.S. economy has suffered a battering in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and a key to recovery is to protect U.S. jobs from being cornered by foreign workers, what could the possible rationale be to imperil the lives of foreign students — all of them admitted to universities on merit, and none of them posing an immediate threat to jobs? Second, given that market forces of demand and supply have led to the U.S. economy being suffused with immigrant workers across sectors for many decades, how could the Trump administration now posit that its local population has adequate skilled labour to do the jobs that millions of Indians, Chinese and other foreign workers have so efficiently been doing all this while? Unless Mr. Trump is planning to massively overhaul the U.S. higher and professional education systems to imbue Americans with technical know-how and a culture of advanced learning, it may be futile to wall off large swathes of the economy to those capable of delivering value in such jobs. If Mr. Trump is only doing this to shore up his election campaign through political signalling, then it is the economic prospects of the very people he claims to be fighting for that he will damage in the longer term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/visa-politics/article32037303.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Invisible loads, arbitrary deletions||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has announced a reduction in the curriculum for the year 2020-2021 for Classes IX to XII. This is a measure they have adopted in view of the reduced number of class hours available this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The CBSE circular says that the move has been finalised by the respective Course Committees with the approval of the Curriculum Committee and Governing Body of the Board. The shedding of portions from the science syllabi is faulty from two perspectives — of basic sciences and of critical reasoning and thinking. The treatment of the physics curriculum is an example of the former while that of biology falls into the latter category. Basic topics removed The proposed syllabus for Classes XI–XII physics presents quite a shock. While many basic topics such as Newton’s laws; motion along a straight line and basic concepts of heat have been removed, more advanced topics corresponding to these have been retained, for instance, the topic work, power and energy, which uses the concepts of Newton’s laws; motion in a plane, which expands on linear motion; and kinetic theory of gases, which builds on heat, have been retained. This is only a sample. In physics, many fundamental and basic topics have been deleted whereas the concepts building on them have been retained. So, teachers will have to teach the deleted portions anyway, in order to build the next level of concepts. Sure enough, the CBSE circular further says, “The Heads of Schools and Teachers may ensure that the topics that have been reduced are also explained to the students to the extent required to connect different topics,” while emphasising that the “reduced syllabus will not be part of the topics for internal assessment and year-end board exams.” The resultant syllabus is twice damaging — first, the deletion being only nominal adds an invisible burden on teachers, and second, that it is not going to be used to examine the students may just encourage rote learning. In basic science topics, it is much better to retain the fundamentals and, if need be, remove the higher application levels. On the contrary, the steps taken by the CBSE are in the opposite direction. Tragic and ironic At the other end of the spectrum is biology. In the biology syllabus, higher-level topics such as ecology, environmental science and evolution have been arbitrarily removed. It is not just that topics like these connect the student to real-life situations, it is ironic that such a deletion should happen at the time of the pandemic. The point has been noted by the group, Indian Society of Evolutionary Biologists (ISEB), which has released a note addressing these deletions. According to the observations of ISEB, “This pandemic has tragically highlighted the consequences of our neglect of evolution and ecology in school and higher education in India. Understanding practically every aspect of a zoonotic pandemic requires a thorough grounding in diverse areas of ecology and evolution, including species interactions, population dynamics, coevolutionary dynamics, evolution of host range expansions, and the transmission dynamics of pathogens. A direct consequence of our neglect of ecology and evolution is the relative paucity of epidemiologists in India.” The group further observes that the removal of most of evolution and ecology, including systematics and the diversity of life, from the Class X-XII syllabus is not only dangerously tragic, but ironic as well. A science curriculum is a holistic entity. The truncations and deletions suggested by the CBSE in the Class XI-XII syllabus violate the cohesiveness and holistic nature of the planned curriculum. It would be far better to allow the students a gap year to pursue their own interests. The alternative, of course, would be to take into account the voices of all stakeholders in the area of education and do a careful job of trimming the syllabus. shubashree.desikan@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/invisible-loads-arbitrary-deletions/article32037316.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Joining the scattered dots||A letter writer, who claimed to be a reader for four decades, once wrote to The Hindu Data Team, appreciating our efforts in making “interesting charts and maps.” But he also added that he was miffed at our use of what he called, “the circle graphs.” These had become repetitive, he complained. The circles were small, the text was tiny, he said adding that he was “not interested to zoom in and see every single State of the country”. Sometime later, I had a conversation with my 88-year-old grandfather, who has been reading the newspaper “end-to-end, since 1953”. I asked him whether he understood the charts we use in our data stories. His prompt response: “I skip your graphs. Especially those ‘dotted ones’. I only look for your byline and move on.” Both these inveterate readers were referring to the “scatterplot”, arguably the most controversial visualisation technique that we, data journalists, deploy in our “Data Points” quite regularly and at times invoke the ire of other readers and even our colleagues for doing so. A colleague terms it the “crime scene graph which features blood-red dots splattered across the page”. The reason why we deploy the ‘scatterplot’ despite the adverse feedback is simple. When we need to depict multiple data variables and the relationship between them, the choice is limited. A scatterplot helps chart those variables on a Cartesian coordinate system and allows us to study relationships. Let us assume 10,000 people visit a beach every day. We need a graph which dissects the visitors based on their age, gender and find out their preferred visiting hours. Imagine each visitor as a small dot. So there are 10,000 dots in total. Blue dots depict men, red denotes women. Now imagine a horizontal line which depicts the time of the day, starting at 4 a.m. in the leftmost point to 11 p.m. in the right most point. Imagine a vertical line which depicts the age of the visitor — starting at age 10 in the bottom most point to age 100 in the top most point.  Many key insights Now, start spreading the dots along both the lines. The dots near the top of the vertical line are elders, most of them are also on the left side of the horizontal line, which means most elders visit in the morning. The dots near the bottom of the vertical line are teens, most are also on the right side of the horizontal line, which means many teens visit in the evening. Not many red dots are on the right side, are women leaving sooner due to security concerns? Look at the few dots in the middle of the chart. Who are these middle-aged men visiting the beach in the afternoon? One chart helps us generate the above insights. This depiction is not possible using simple bar charts or line graphs as they tend to convey only limited information even if they are easy to understand. The scatterplot requires the reader to be a bit more involved in trying to grasp the information and examine it. Once the reader does so, the graph enables her to derive more insights than what the banal and simple graphs manage to do. The statistician Edward Tufte, who has written several tracts on visualising data and information, estimates that 70% of all graphs in scientific journals are “scatterplots”. This is understandable as they are most effective in not just conveying information but deriving insights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/joining-the-scattered-dots/article32037310.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Privy Purse: P.M.’s Fresh Move||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, will shortly sound leaders of various parties in a bid to get the Bill to abolish privy purses passed in the monsoon session of Parliament. The Constitution Amendment Bill for the abolition of privy purses has already been introduced in Parliament during the budget session. Mrs. Gandhi has already held preliminary talks with officials of the Law and Home Ministries on the question of payment of compensation to the princes. Now that Mrs. Gandhi has taken charge of the Home portfolio, she has taken up this item for discussion to get herself fully acquainted with the problem. While the Prime Minister is confident that she would secure the support of all parties for this move, she is still considering a suggestion for holding talks with the former rulers. No specific formula for compensation has yet been finalised but the rulers themselves are veering round to the view that it would be more acceptable to them if instead of abrogating the covenants under which privy purses have been granted, new agreements are entered into with them individually under which transitional payments and concessions are conferred on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/privy-purse-pms-fresh-move/article32037309.ece
10 July 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Holder’s six-for restricts England to 204||West Indies captain Jason Holder returned Test-best figures of six for 42 as England slumped to 204 all out on the second day of the series opener at Southampton on Thursday. Holder, the world’s top-ranked Test all-rounder, surpassed his previous Test-best of six for 59 against Bangladesh at Kingston two years ago, making full use of overcast conditions at the Ageas Bowl. His haul, the sixth time in his past 10 Tests that Holder has taken five or more wickets in an innings, included the prize scalp of opposing captain Ben Stokes, who top-scored with 43. Shannon Gabriel, who did the early damage, finished with four for 62. The fast bowler was initially selected as a travelling reserve for this series before regaining full fitness following ankle surgery. England slipped to 87 for five before a stand of 67 between Stokes (43) and vice-captain Jos Buttler (35) repaired some of the damage. Off-spinner Dom Bess chipped in with an unbeaten 31. Twice lucky England could have been dismissed even more cheaply, with Stokes dropped on 14 and 32 after Kemar Roach floored a difficult diving chance at long leg before Shamarh Brooks spilt a far easier opportunity at extra cover. Left-hander Stokes struck fast bowler Gabriel for two square-cut fours and a superb front-foot drive off Roach went for another boundary. But Holder had Stokes, second in the all-rounder rankings, caught behind as he aimed leg-side after advancing down the pitch. England badly needed a big score from Buttler, who had just one hundred from his 41 previous Tests. But having hit seven fours, he was undone by a superb Holder delivery that took the outside edge, with wicketkeeper Shane Dowrich holding a diving one-handed catch. Holder then had fellow Barbados-native Jofra Archer lbw for a duck, although for the third time in the innings an original not out decision by English umpire Richard Kettleborough was overturned. Holder was not finished, having Mark Wood caught in the gully. Earlier, with continued heavy conditions under the floodlights at Hampshire’s headquarters again making life difficult for the batsmen, England, which resumed at 35 for one, was soon 51for three as Gabriel removed Joe Denly (18) and Rory Burns (30). Holder then got in on the act, having Zak Crawley lbw with one that came back, after moving several deliveries away, before Ollie Pope was caught behind as the West Indies’ joyful shouts echoed round the empty stands. West Indies has not won a Test series in England since 1988 but holds the Wisden Trophy after a 2-1 success in the Caribbean last year.  West Indies 57 for one West Indies had made 57 for one after 19.3 overs in its first innings when bad light stopped play. Kraigg Brathwaite (20) and Shai Hope (3) were at the crease. John Campbell (28) was dismissed by James Anderson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holders-six-for-restricts-england-to-204/article32037443.ece
10 July 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala out of the race to host ISL||Kerala’s passionate football fans may be the envy of the country’s top clubs but the State appears to be out of the race to host the Indian Super League this year. With the coronavirus restrictions in place in many parts of the country, there is a good chance that all the matches of the ISL’s seventh edition, planned for November to March behind closed doors, will be held in one State. And just a couple of days ago, Goa and Kerala appeared to be the frontrunners to hold the country’s premier league but now it looks like the former is the big favourite. “Goa is definitely one of the States. Kerala cannot be an option because it does not have (enough) stadiums,” Kushal Das, secretary of the All India Football Federation, told The Hindu on Thursday. Travel issue “Kochi has only one stadium and for Kozhikode you have to travel with the teams. For Thiruvananthapuram also, you have to travel. We are trying to avoid travel as much as possible but have not taken a final decision.” The AIFF secretary said that Kolkata and Mumbai are also in the race. “Kolkata is also one of the venues for the under-17 Women’s World Cup (from Feb. 17, 2021) but there are other stadiums in Kolkata. “We have to figure out what are the best possible options and a final decision would be made by the end of this month,” said Das. Meanwhile, Kerala Football Association secretary P. Anilkumar felt that Goa is the favourite to host the ISL. “The general impression is that Goa will get the ISL. It is preparing to host the National Games and the under-17 women’s World Cup camp will also be held there. So everything seems to be in control,” said Anilkumar. “In Kerala’s case, some five lakh people from other countries are expected to come here in the next two months or so. So we don’t know what the (coronavirus) situation will be here then.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-out-of-the-race-to-host-isl/article32037427.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Uncertainty over US stay an added burden for Tejaswin||While most sportspersons across the world are concerned about training, preparations and restarting of events, Tejaswin Shankar has an added worry — uncertainty over his situation in the United States as an international student on sports scholarship. The reason being the US Government’s decision to not allow international students pursuing entirely online courses further stay in the country. Tejaswin, who is majoring in Business Administration at the Kansas State University, has been there since 2018. He was among the few Indian students to stay put in the US when COVID-19 restrictions were imposed. Evolving situation “That’s an evolving situation at the moment so not sure what to expect. They (the university) are saying that we will have a hybrid model so foreign students at K-State enrolled in face-to-face classes shouldn’t worry. But if things change or get worse then we might be moved online, which would mean we might have to come back,” the high jump National record-holder told The Hindu . The revised timeline for the fall semester includes a quarantine period for international arrivals and classes beginning August 17, but it remains to be seen how universities adjust to the the new regulations. “They should tell us before August 17 as the semester starts then. I have another two years before I’m done with my course,” the 21-year-old Tejaswin added. Good news There is good news, though, with the University indicating it was working out ways to allow international students to stay in the US. "Kansas State University currently plans to hold classes physically in person for the Fall 2020. In order to allow for social distancing many classes are transitioning to a hybrid model to allow for a combination of online and in-person instruction. As our plan currently stands, international students will be able to stay in the US to continue their studies through these hybrid offerings. This is the case for both undergraduate and graduate populations," Amy Hall, Assistant Director of International Recruitment & Admissions at the University told The Hindu in an e-mail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uncertainty-over-us-stay-an-added-burden-for-tejaswin/article32037429.ece
10 July 2020||Mumbai,||Domestic cricket only when it’s safe to travel, says Ganguly||The Indian domestic season will only start when it is safe for young players to travel within the country for their Ranji Trophy matches, BCCI president Sourav Ganguly said. There is a huge uncertainty, with the IPL, if it is held in October, forcing a curtailed domestic season due to coronavirus. The 2020-21 domestic season would have started with the Vijay Hazare in late August, followed by Ranji Trophy, Duleep Trophy and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. Last season’s Irani Cup was cancelled due to the announcement of Lockdown 1. Asked about domestic cricket and junior cricket, Ganguly told Sports Tak , “It is necessary, but it will happen only after coronavirus. When it is safe, only then, especially junior cricket.” Ganguly reasoned that India was a large country and teams needed to travel from one place to another for their matches and hence domestic cricket won’t start till everything is safe. “We don’t want to expose young players. Our country is so large and our domestic cricket is so robust that everyone has to travel and play. So till the time it is not safe, it will not happen,” clarified the BCCI boss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/domestic-cricket-only-when-its-safe-to-travel-says-ganguly/article32037424.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||It felt good to compete again, says Pranjala||Being in the right place at the right time with the right people has helped Y. Pranjala get a head start for the season ahead. With the sports world in lockdown, and players struggling to get back to their routine, the 21-year-old, a former Asian junior tennis champion who had reached a career-best rank of 265, has managed to find some competition down under. Away in Melbourne from February, Pranjala has been recovering from a strained back with the help of one of the best physiotherapists on the professional circuit, Paul Ness. Practising against the wall and having sessions with friend Himakesh Sankineni, Pranjala had regained some rhythm as well, while winning three matches for the title in a UTR event. With more events lined up over the next few days, Pranjala is excited, after having missed nearly a year owing to injury. “I was feeling a bit sore after every match,” said Pranjala, who had won back-to-back singles titles on the $25,000 ITF circuit at Lagos in 2018. “It felt good to compete on the courts again.” Pranjala was grateful to Paul and his wife Stacy for being very caring and professional with the rehabilitation. “The aim was to activate the muscles. Paul focused on making my back move as it was restricted when I first came to Melbourne. I feel much better now,” said Pranjala, whose Australian visit has been funded by GoSports Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-felt-good-to-compete-again-says-pranjala/article32037576.ece
10 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Good response to ‘Our Chance To Serve’: Neha||Former Olympian and table tennis champion, Neha Agarwal, said the initiative she launched with Commonwealth Games medallists Sharat Kamal and G. Sathiyan —‘Our Chance To Serve’ — raised Rs. 17 lakh from about 250 donors at the end of our campaign on July 5. In a media release here on Wednesday, Neha said the target initially was to raise Rs. 10 lakh to cater to the needs of about 100 beneficiaries but with the funds raised, they can now support about 170 members. “We are grateful to the donors for their wonderful response ever since we launched this on June 23 last month. “The beneficiaries across 18 States in India include 40 per cent players and the rest coaches, umpires and support staff who are solely dependent on the sport,” Neha said. “I am grateful to the two champion players Sharath and Sathiyan for their gesture and also to the GoSports Foundation for the support,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-response-to-our-chance-to-serve-neha/article32037649.ece
10 July 2020||London,||Liverpool rides on Salah brace||Mohamed Salah kept Liverpool on track to set a new Premier League points record as the champion won 3-1 at Brighton, while Manchester City bounced back to form with a five-goal rout of Newcastle on Wednesday. Jurgen Klopp’s side is hoping to break the 100-point record established by Manchester City in 2018 and remains on course after securing its first away win since February. Liverpool has 92 points and need nine more from its remaining four games against Burnley, Arsenal, Chelsea and Newcastle to clinch the new record. Liverpool has reached 30 wins in a season faster than any other in English history. Barcelona kept its faint title hopes alive and doomed Espanyol to relegation on Wednesday as Luis Suarez’s goal proved the winner in a pivotal Catalan derby at the top and bottom of LaLiga.   The results: Premier League: Manchester City 5 (Jesus 10, Mahrez 21, Fernandez 58-og, D. Silva 66, Sterling 90+1) bt Newcastle 0; Sheffield United 1 (Egan 90+3) bt Wolves 0; West Ham 0 lost to Burnley 1 (Rodriguez 38); Brighton 1 (Trossard 45) lost to Liverpool 3 (Salah 6, 76, Henderson 8).   LaLiga: Getafe 1 (Duro Perales 80) lost to Villarreal 3 (Cazorla 66-pen, 86-pen, Pena 90+3); Real Betis 3 (Rodriguez 4, Pedraza 25, Alena 90+7) bt Osasuna 0; Barcelona 1 (Suarez 56) bt Espanyol 0.   Serie A: Fiorentina 0 drew with Cagliari 0; Genoa 1 (Goldaniga 49) lost to Napoli 2 (Mertens 45+1, Lozano 66); Roma 2 (Mkhitaryan 43, Veretout 57) bt Parma 1 (Kucka 9-pen); Atalanta 2 (Toloi 75, Muriel 85) bt Sampdoria 0; Bologna 1 (Barrow 90+1) lost to Sassuolo 2 (Berardi 41, Haraslin 57); Torino 3 (Mateju 48-og, Belotti 58, Zaza 86) bt Brescia 1 (Torregrossa 21).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-rides-on-salah-brace/article32037426.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian men to resume campaign next April||The Indian men’s hockey team will resume its campaign in the FIH Pro League only in April next year. India, which has played six home games in three ties so far, will travel to Argentina for its first game on April 10, 2021. The team would then complete its European commitments, playing six games against Great Britain, Spain and Germany (two each) over a period of 12 days in May before returning for the last two games against New Zealand. The International Hockey Federation on Thursday announced the revised schedule for the competition that was suspended because of the pandemic. Germany vs Belgium  The nine-team, double-leg event would resume on September 22 with Germany hosting Belgium for both the men’s and women’s ties. India is currently placed fourth with 10 points, the same as Argentina but with two games in hand and a better goal-difference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-to-resume-campaign-next-april/article32037430.ece
10 July 2020||Paris,||CL, Europa last eight draw today||The draw for the final eight of the Champions League — and the Europa League — will be held on Friday amid ongoing uncertainty about how safe it will be to play out the competition in Lisbon as planned, and with four last-16 ties still to be completed. UEFA plans to complete the Europa League with an identical format, a final eight in Germany, with the final due to go ahead in Cologne on August 21. The draws for the quarter-finals and semi-finals of both competitions will be held on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cl-europa-last-eight-draw-today/article32037421.ece
10 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy and Harika exit||The Indian challenge ended on Thursday in the third Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women's Speed Chess, as both Koneru Humpy and Dronavalli Harika lost their quarterfinal matches. World No. 2 Humpy was outplayed by Russia’s Alexandra Kosteniuk, losing 2-9. Harika was outwitted by World No. 1 Hou Yifan of China, losing 3-7. Humpy and Harika, however, will have another opportunity when they play in the fourth leg from July 15. Sarasadat Khadmalsharieh of Iran and Russia’s Kateryna Lagno also entered the semifinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-and-harika-exit/article32037420.ece
10 July 2020||Mumbai,||Asia Cup deferred till June 2021||The Asia Cup has formally been postponed from September 2020 till June next year due to the COVID-19. The Asian Cricket Council (ACC) confirmed the deferment in a statement on Thursday. “Travel restrictions, country-specific quarantine requirements, fundamental health risks and social distancing mandates have posed as substantial challenges to the holding of the Asia Cup. “Above all, the risks related to health and safety of participating players, support staff, commercial partners, fans and the cricketing community were deemed to be significant,” read the statement. The ACC is now planning to conduct the tournament in Sri Lanka, which has swapped hosting rights with Pakistan for the forthcoming editions, in June 2021. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly had told Aaj Tak , a news channel, on Wednesday that the tournament had been postponed.  The Asian Cricket Council (ACC) is now looking at hosting the tournament in Sri Lanka in June 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asia-cup-deferred-till-june-2021/article32037422.ece
10 July 2020||Tokyo,||Tokyo expects to secure all venues for 2020 Games||Tokyo Olympics organisers expect to be able to use all the venues as originally planned at next year’s rearranged Games, several Japanese media outlets reported on Thursday. Securing venues was a top priority for organisers and Kyodo and NHK, citing unnamed sources, said they were now confident they would be tied down for Olympics use again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-expects-to-secure-all-venues-for-2020-games/article32037650.ece
10 July 2020||Mumbai,||Veteran actor Jagdeep laid to rest||Veteran actor-comedian Jagdeep, whose real name was Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jafri and best known for his role as Soorma Bhopali in Sholay , was laid to rest at a south Mumbai cemetery in the presence of family and close friends on Thursday. Jagdeep, 81, passed away at his residence here on Wednesday night. The veteran actor, whose real name was Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jafri, was laid to rest at a cemetery in south Mumbai’s Byculla neighbourhood around 2.30 p.m, a family source told PTI. There were around 10-12 people in attendance, including his sons — actor Javed and producer Naved, grandson Meezaan and industry colleague Johnny Lever. Javed said, “There are a lot of people who have sent us messages but we couldn’t reply to everyone... We thank you for your blessings and love.” “Our father gave 70 years to the industry and got a lot of love and respect. That love is being reflected today, as we can see. On behalf of our father, please, if you could say a small prayer for him. That will be a lot for us,” he said. Starting as a child artiste to playing lead actor and then gaining fame as a comic icon, Jagdeep appeared in around 400 films. But it was his role as Soorma Bhopali that is remembered even today. In his long career, Jagdeep played memorable roles in Khilona , Brahmachari , Purana Mandir and Andaz Apna Apna and Phool Aur Kaante .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/veteran-actor-jagdeep-laid-to-rest/article32037447.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Time is unyielding||Time, like Maya is the most subtle and powerful aspect of the Supreme Lord and though not perceivable, the effects of the passage of Time are felt and noticeable when one gets engulfed in it. In cosmic terms, Time is shown to be cyclic as during Pralaya everything is contained in the Lord who is the absolute controller and exists beyond it. But during creation Time holds sway over the entire universe. The sun, moon and the planets and all of Nature move in accordance to Time that is directed by the Lord. In the Gita, the Lord describes Himself as the relentless ‘Kala’. Yet, in many instances, it is shown that the Lord Himself abides by the dictates of Time even when He has the power to overrule it, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. When the celestial beings Indra and others pray to Him to give relief from the atrocities of Hiranyakasipu, He advises patience and promises help at the appropriate time when His devotee Prahlada will be born. So too, He waits for Sisupala to hurl a hundred curses before taking him to task. In the Ramayana, Sita undergoes untold suffering in Asoka Vana and is relieved only after the evil effects of Time get exhausted. Prahlada presents a practical picture of the human lifespan to his asura classmates to show how each one is subject to the effects of passing Time. Granted that it is a hundred years, it is a great wonder how this can slip unobtrusively even before one may realise it. Of this, one half of it is spent in sleep and darkness. Childhood, boyhood, etc race towards old age in great haste. The wise who know this take care not to waste this chance by totally getting involved in samsara leading to entanglement in the form of love and affection for the kith and kin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/time-is-unyielding/article32037385.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 08:38 IST,||Sudoku - July 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-10-2020/article32038244.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Fermented to perfection||Axone, available on  Netflix, has left most movie-watchers seeking the answer to one question — ‘what was the storyline about?’ Storyline, script aside, it is the title has got everyone talking about axone (pronounced ak-hu-ne). Many want to know more, and the adventurous ones want a taste. But while akhune is unique to Naga cooking, fermented bamboo shoot is widely used in the entire Northeast region. Local cuisines boast of unique ways in which fermented bamboo ( baah gaaj in Assamese; bastanga in Naga and soidon , soibum in Manipuri ) and cane shoots are used. Characterised by its unique pungent aroma, fermentation alters the quality and feel of the shoots and lends it a totally different texture and appearance. Says Guwahati-based home chef Sanjukta Dutta, “After it is fully fermented and ready, the bamboo shoots become mushy and delectably tangy. It is such a versatile ingredient that the mention of khorisa tenga to the people of upper Assam will have them recollect the taste and flavours of dishes like khorisa tenga maas bhaja (fish fried with fermented bamboo shoot), khorisa kukura (chicken stew with bamboo stew) and khorisa tenga ulkosu pitika (tangy fermented bamboo with mashed yam) doing a time lapse in their imagination.” Sometimes, a portion of fermented shoots are sun-dried for storage. Does it alter taste? “Slightly. Especially with the look and fragrance,” says Sanjukta. A significant fermented food enjoyed by the Assamese is kharoli . “ Kharoli is fermented sesame seeds. When fully fermented it gives a wasabi-like pungent kick and is best enjoyed as a side dish with poita bhaat (leftover rice fermented overnight),” explains Guwahati-based Chef Atul Lahkar, who also worked with Chef Gordon Ramsay during the latter’s travel to the Northeast a couple of years ago. So, what is akhune ? Executive chef-partner Thomas Zacharias of The Bombay Canteen says, “ Akhune or axone made from fermented soybeans is one of the key ingredients used in Naga cooking which gives the cuisine an unexplainable unique flavour and differentiates it from neighbouring cuisines. I was fortunate enough to sample different variations of akhune during my ‘Chef on the Roadtrip’ in Nagaland two years ago.”  Akhune is an ingredient and not a name of a dish. Such is the intrigue over it now that Chef Zac even explained the process in a detailed Instagram post. He wrote, “The boiled soybeans are drained in bamboo baskets and undergo a first stage of fermentation. Some gentle mashing before it is wrapped in banana leaves and allowed to ferment over the fireplace a second time. The resulting mash is intensely aromatic and super rich in umami: that delicious, toothsome flavour profile found naturally in ingredients like truffles and seaweed. The Nagas use akhune in a variety of chutneys, pickles and stews, and most notably, in the incredible smoked pork with akhune . At the Angami home in Khonoma, we witnessed it being added to the yam stem and wild basil curry, simple unassuming stew with the most complex of flavours thanks to that funky, flavour bomb.” Why ferment? According to Chef Zac, “The origins of fermentation in Nagaland could be attributed not just to a need for preservation but also perhaps to compensate for the unavailability of salt as an ingredient here. The enhanced ‘funky’ taste as a result of the fermentation adds beautiful layers of flavour to the dish which mimics the effect of salt... The Nagas ferment close to 150 different types of products, each with their own flavours and nutritional benefits.” Chef Achung of Northeast Kitchen in Hyderabad says, “Apart from akhune , Nagas also make anishi — fermented yam leaves. Once fermented, it is cooked with with pork and considered a delicacy. To make anishi , yam leaves are stacked and wrapped in banana leaves. The leaves are left to turn yellow. After the fermenting process is over, the leaves are ground into a paste with salt, chilli and ginger and made into cakes which are again dried over the fireplace or in the sun.” Chef Achung adds, “Fermentation is one of the oldest methods of preserving food and enhancing taste. The food science behind fermentation is that it promotes growth of beneficial bacteria known as probiotics and is also believed to improve digestion and boost immunity.” It is not only the people of Nagaland who are into fermentation. Fermented food of the Meiteis, inhabiting the valley area of Manipur, consists of fermented bamboo shoots, fermented fish ( ngari , hentak and utonga kupsu ), fermented soybean known as hawaijar , and fermented mustard seed/rapeseed (consumed by the Chakpa clan) known as hanggam maru hawaichar . Pune-based Manipuri blogger and home chef Pushpita Aheimbam explains, “The process of preparation is passed down from generation to generation. Hentak is fermented fish paste made with a mix of locally found river fish which are sun-dried and powdered with an equal quantity of sun-dried petioles of hongu/alocasia macrorrhiza/giant taro as well as at times a local variety of small onion (meitei tilhou). The mixture is kneaded into small balls and kept for fermentation in an earthen pot for 15 to 20 days. Traditionally, it’s consumed during the postpartum period (three months) as an alternative to ngari . Hentak is not produced in large quantities unlike ngari . There’s also utonga kupsu that is somewhat similar to hentak . It is consumed by the Meitei community of Assam’s Cachar district.” Other specials  Sinki , consumed in Sikkim, is made from fermented radish taproot which is found in abundance in winter. After fermentation, the food comes out as a mass which is cut into small pieces and sun-dried for three to five days. It can be stored for up to two years at room temperature giving it periodic exposure to sunlight.  Gundruk , popular with the Nepalis, is made with mustard leaves or lai pata and cauliflower. Tungrumbai is prepared by the Khasi people of Shillong and Jaintia hills. Like axone , tungrumbai too is prepared from soyabeans. It is one of the most common sources of protein in the diet of the Khasi people, consumed as a side dish with rice. So, the next time you discuss food of the Northeast, you will have more to talk about than just alu pitika, momo and chowmein.  Local cuisines boast of unique ways in which fermented bamboo (baah gaajin Assamese;bastangain Naga andsoidon,soibumin Manipuri) and cane shoots are used||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/fermented-to-perfection/article32037771.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Budding kitchen farmers||Dr. Jenita Sereen, posted in a fever clinic in Kulasekarapattinam in Kanyakumari, was finding it difficult to keep her children, aged seven and four years, engaged while she was away on duty. Whipping up quick but nutritious meals for them daily was also challenging, with no help around. “But that was in April,” she says over a phone call. “Now, I am amazed at how my children have learnt to grow their own microgreens and include it in their food,” adds the happy mother. One day, a WhatsApp forward drew her attention. It was about a 15-day session for children between four and 14 years, to teach them easy techniques of growing microgreens with whatever seeds were available at home, and use them in recipes. Jenita promptly enrolled her son, Ryan Redwin, as she was promised it would entail simple activities for the children. “I started with growing coriander and methi (fenugreek) seeds while attending the workshop and got the first crop of leaves before the workshop ended,” says Ryan. Every three days ever since, he has been experimenting and planting something different. “I am now growing fenugreek leaves, scallions, green gram, ginger, green peas, cumin and garlic,” he says. At least 700 children from across the country are now bound together in this microgreens project initiated by Chennai-based E-zone India, a company that does environment projects with and for schoolchildren. Founder Hafeez Khan says that over the last five years since he initiated this drive, his team has visited schools in Chennai for two months at the start of every academic year to teach the students. “It was not easy because not all schools gave us time and neither could we follow-up with the students’ progress.” The lockdown helped them convert the programme into live WhatsApp video sessions with batches of 60 students from anywhere in the world. Now, with children at home, the team is able to continue the sessions over an extended period, run simultaneous multiple sessions with different batches and monitor every child’s progress. “They clear their doubts; solve puzzles and quizzes; maintain daily record with notes, photos and videos of their plants; make posters highlighting qualities of farmers such as hope, patience, humility, discipline and teamwork; implement the feedback we give them — all this collectively keeps them committed,” adds Hafeez. Chefs in the making The best part, says Jenita, is when the children bring their harvest to the dining table. “They neatly cut the leaves and put them into salads, scrambled eggs, samosas and sandwiches,” she adds. Eleven-year-old Tisya Subba Rao was with her grandmother in Mangalore when she started with three spring onion bulbs in a plastic bottle with some water and soil. “Earlier, I never bothered to think how plants grow but now I enjoy observing them every day,” she says. Midway, when she had to return with her parents to her home in Mumbai, her granny sent her daily photos. “I was thrilled when she told me she used the onions in khichdi ,” says Tisya. She was motivated to enrol for another 14-day session, and now grows mustard, fenugreek, mint, fennel and wheat, among other plants. “From school, we were taken on farm visits and shown how fields are prepared for sowing and reaping, but it is only now when I am growing my own set of plants am I able to understand how seeds germinate or photosynthesis happens,” she says. Now, every window sill in the house is occupied by her tiny pots, ice cream boxes and used bottles, says her doting father Kalyon Subba Rao, an agro-forester. “I mostly cut the leaves and sprinkle them on any soup or curry my mother makes. It also goes inidli/dosabatter or coats thebajjimix,” says Tisya. The eighth-floor farm Aniruth Appar’s mother agrees as she talks of her nine-year-old son, who has started growing capsicum, chickpeas, cumin and lemon. What gladdens Deebika Prasanna the most is that the little boy has become more responsible. “We live in an eighth-floor apartment in Bengaluru’s Electronic City and Aniruth, without fail, shifts the plants under sunlight and keeps a meticulous track of everything he is growing. He started with two pots of methi and now the entire house looks beautiful with greens. Whether I make plain or fried rice or noodles, he will cut their leaves and sprinkle them on every dish.” Each batch of students goes online for an hour at 10.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. daily, and sessions are moderated by Hafeez and his team. Even after the children complete their 15-day workshop, they keep in touch with each other. “We find that most children are continuing with their micro-farming and experimenting with different seeds available at home,” says Hafeez. He says what excites the entire family is that everybody is able to eat what they are growing, and though he has shared simple recipes, the children are also coming up with their own innovative recipes.  (Call 9840254762 for more details. The registration fee is Rs. 199)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/budding-kitchen-farmers/article32037767.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Contact-free idlis and pani puri||Admit it. During the lockdown, what street food-lovers miss most is pani puri , gol gappa or puchka . At a time when WhatsApp discussions and food platforms are abuzz with recipes offering easy hacks and recipes, Gujarat-based Bharat Prajapati has invented a dream-come-true. Apani purivending machine, which stands proudly in his village Banaskatha. Called the Pani Puri ATM , the machine is designed to look like the familiar bank ATM, and took Bharat six months to build. After the machine is loaded withpuris, masala and the water mix, a customer has to make some selections and insert the required cash. Then, within seconds,puriis flooded with the water and masala, and the entire puri starts rolling out. All you do is pop it in your mouth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/contact-free-idlis-and-pani-puri/article32037775.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes on honesty||The story so far:Rayu and Rani get into trouble with Mad Malini for playing with the sonography machine but it turns out that their mischief actually helped. They discover that Floppy needs surgery.  I don’t like reading newspapers. Yet, it was one of the chores I tried at Happy Home. I was racing with Mr. Garg in the corridor, when Mr. Shetty, a grouchy Goldie, called me. “If you are done playing with Mr. Garg, come here and read the newspaper to me.” I agreed. I had plenty of experience reading the newspaper when my grandfather had had a cataract operation. Mr. Shetty was seated on a chair outside his room, when I brought the newspaper from Sister Rosie’s office. He listened without moving an inch even when I waved my hand in front of his dark glasses. When I reached the third page, he grunted. “Enough! You are the worst newsreader I have ever heard. You are too fast. Your pronunciation is terrible. But I will still pay you for the time you have spent.” Taking the money He pointed his cane at the nearest desk. “You will find a purse in the right drawer. Open it and take a 10 rupee note.” I found a couple of 500 rupee notes along with a few 10 rupee notes in the purse. I took out a 500 rupee note and put the purse back. I was about to leave when he stopped me. “Show it to me.” I squirmed and placed the note on his outstretched hand. “It’s a 500 rupee note,” he said, after feeling the note with his fingertips. “I may be visually challenged, but I am not stupid. I am disappointed with you, young man. If you wanted more, you should have asked me. There was no need for you to steal.” “I don’t want your money. Sorry!” I mumbled and ran all the way home. “Can visually challenged people read currency notes?” I asked Rani when she joined me for lunch. “Don’t know! Don’t care,” she said, digging into a plate of peas pulao. Pa walked in and pulled out all the notes in his purse and handed them to me. “Look carefully! They are for viewing purposes only,” he said, before disappearing into the kitchen. There was a 10, a 20, a 100 and a 500 rupee note lying before me. I closed my eyes and felt them as I had seen Mr. Shetty do that morning. They all felt the same. I placed the notes side by side. “Not all notes are of the same size.” Rani laughed. “It is not the size, it’s the dot on the side of the notes.” She was right.   Lesson learnt : Never cheat people. Sometimes truth pops out even if you don’t want it to. (To be continued)  Mr. Shetty felt the note with his fingers and knew it was not a 10 rupee note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/notes-on-honesty/article32037936.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The first shock||It happened before daybreak on July 10, 1806 — much before the ferocious Sepoy Mutiny of 1857 that is widely considered to be India’s First War of Independence. The events of July 10 are now an indelible part of history. What exactly happened? It was a time when India was under British rule. Though the atmosphere was fairly peaceful, anger against the rules imposed on Indians was gradually building up. In 1805, General Sir John Craddock, who was the Commander-in-Chief of the Madras Army, ordered a change in the army’s uniform that hurt the sentiments of both Hindu as well as Muslim soldiers. Hindus were prohibited from putting religious marks on their forehead and Muslims were forced to trim their moustaches and beards. Further, in place of the turban they were used to wearing, they were asked to wear a round hat usually associated with Europeans. This naturally angered the soldiers. Those who protested were punished with whipping and sent out of the army. Another trigger point was Tipu Sultan, who was the ruler of the Kingdom of Mysore till he was defeated and killed by the British in 1799. After his death, his wives, children and servants were confined to the city of Vellore. People were angry about the disrespect shown by the British to the erstwhile ruler’s sons. An attack was planned. Surprise strike The setting was the Vellore Fort that housed battalions of the British and Madras Infantry. The day was the wedding of one of Tipu Sultan’s daughters. Soon after midnight, around 500 Indian soldiers broke into the fort and murdered more than 100 unsuspecting soldiers who were sleeping. The outnumbered British were taken by surprise and they fled. In a fiercely symbolic gesture, the rebels took down the Union Jack (the flag of the U.K.) and replaced it with the flag of Tipu Sultan. They then declared Tipu Sultan’s second son as the king. A lack of clear leadership, however, caused the rebellion to lose focus beyond this point. Meanwhile, the British started fighting back. Lead by Sir Rollo Gillespie, a team of soldiers approached the fort. They blew open its doors and shot dead 100 Indian soldiers who were still inside. A total of around 350 Indian sepoys were killed in the counter-attack. Tipu Sultan’s family was eventually shifted to Calcutta. Though the revolt was suppressed within a day, it was successful in sending across a message to the British — that dissent was starting to simmer.  The outnumbered British were taken by surprise and they fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-first-shock/article32037942.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The monster in the head||There was a monster in Avni’s head. It had been there for years. Avni didn’t know what it looked like; she only knew its voice. The monster had spoken in sudden short bursts when Avni was younger but now its voice was stronger. Sometimes Avni and the monster said the same things. When Avni screamed in joy on the amusement park rides, the monster did the same in her head. But this didn’t often happen. Usually the monster said things that Avni couldn’t. Avni could never have said, ‘That’s not fair!’ when Ayesha quarrelled with her. But the monster could and did. The monster’s words comforted Avni, but she wanted more. She wanted to speak aloud the things the monster said inside her head. When people called her dark, Avni longed to shout, ‘Meanies!’ But it was the monster who did it. Unable to protest Avni wanted to protest when people did things she didn’t like. When Sujal Uncle pulled her on his lap, she wanted to shout, ‘Let me go!’ But she just couldn’t; it was the monster who said it. She was wishing she had the monster’s courage when she walked to Gopi Uncle’s shop for milk. “Come and get it,” Gopi Uncle said. Inside her head, the monster began muttering. Avni was reaching into the fridge when she felt Gopi Uncle’s arms snake around her. The monster leapt to roaring life. ‘Stop it!’ it shouted. ‘Don’t touch me!’ Avni stood frozen with fear. It was only when the monster shouted ‘Run!’ that she broke free and ran, the milk forgotten. Ai was annoyed when she returned without the milk but Avni heard nothing because her head was filled with the monster’s shouts of rage. She was glad someone was saying what needed to be said. But the monster seemed to be getting weaker; it only said a few mild words when Avni was teased about being fat and nothing at all when she was called names. Was the monster in her head going away? Avni had always been afraid it would. What would she do without the voice in her head telling her when things were wrong or unfair? She was thinking so hard that she barely noticed Sujal Uncle walk in. She was laughingly grabbed and plonked on his lap.  Now  , Avni thought, the monster would wake and shout all the things she wanted to but didn’t dare to. But there was only resounding silence in her head. Avni knew the monster had truly fallen silent. And it was her fault. The loss filled her with sudden rage and she pushed away from Sujal Uncle. “Don’t!” she shouted. “I don’t like it!” Miraculously, the monster in her head was awake; it was shouting with her. For the first time, Avni knew that she was heard. Then she knew that the monster in her head was her, it had  always  been her. Only this time she had dared to speak up. And that had made all the difference.  Avni wanted to protest when people did things she didn’t like.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-monster-in-the-head/article32037966.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Eerie visitors||The story so far: The first at the home stay proved to be eventful. In the dining room, we found a meal going on, though we could not see anyone around the table. Later we were frightened by the sound of gun shots. When we went down to find out what happened, we found the dining room in disarray and a rapidly growing red stain on the carpet.  We huddled together in my parents’ room. The old house sighed and creaked, as it settled down for the night. I must have dozed off. But I was startled awake when I heard the sound of footsteps creeping outside our door. I listened. There was a faint tread in the hallway. I held my breath as it came closer. The door knob turned. I tried to wake up my sister and brother but they slept on, oblivous. The door creaked open and I saw the figure of a girl come in. Her eyes shone like burning coal while the rest of her was deathly white. She looked furtively around the room, as she crept into the cupboard and shut the door. Sudden intrusion Somewhere downstairs, a door flew open followed by angry footsteps tramping around the house. Doors opened and shut. We were all awake now. I whispered that I saw a girl hiding in the cupboard. None of us dared get out of bed. Just then, the door flew open and we saw an angry man charge in, waving a gun in his hand. He walked around the room searching… Not finding what he wanted, he left. We heaved a sigh of relief. The rest of the night passed slowly and uneventfully. We were up early. We dressed and went downstairs wondering what awaited us. Imagine our surprise when we saw that the dining room was empty and there was none of last night’s disorder and chaos. While we pondered this mystery, a red car drove up. We watched through the windows, as a smartly dressed man jumped out and turned the key in the door. “WHHHAAA….??” He screamed in surprise. “When did you get here?” “Last evening,” said my father. “And you are...?” “Helbo, I am Ramesh Babu. I run this homestay. How did you get in? I was not expecting you till this evening! Your booking is for the 22nd and not 21st. “Wait a second, yesterday was not the 22nd?” We were famous for this. Mixing up days and missing trains – that’s why we always travelled by car, but that too had its problems. “Was everything okay last night?” asked the man, hesitantly. “Errr..no…” my father said, and went on the recount the happenings of the night. “That’s why we never lease out our rooms on June 21. There’s a long story there…” We settled down to hear it. A disinherited son, angry at his father’s decision and wanting to punish him for it, barges into the house during a dinner party and mows down the family and their friends. The butler too was a casualty. He leaves the house after the massacre but realises that his sister is still alive. So he returns to find her. He searches her room but doesn’t find her. He hides in the kitchen till daybreak. The sister thinks he has left and sneaks into the dining room only to be ambushed and killed too. “We’ve tried to cleanse the house of this evil, but every June 21 the whole gory scene is reenacted.”  The end||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/eerie-visitors/article32037970.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||July in the spotlight||July is definitely a happening month for celestial events. This month treat yourself to a lunar eclipse, a comet and an asteroid, four close approaches with visible planets, and three meteor showers! The July night sky will be full of wonders, and hopefully clear of clouds.   to be seen; the next opportunity is around July 24. Mercury will reach its highest poinude morning sky. To try and spot Mercury, you’ll need a clear, unobstructed view of the eastern horizon.  Piscis Austrinid Meteor Shower  The first in a trio of meteor showers that round out the month, the Piscis Austrinid meteor shower will peak on the night of July 28. As its name implies, this shower can be seen lower in the southeastern sky of the southern hemisphere. To try and spot Piscis Austrinid meteors, you’ll need to stay up late: the peak is expected to occur around 3.00 am local time. The maximum rate of meteors you can expect to see will be about five per hour.  Delta Aquarids Meteor Shower.  An average shower, it can produce up to 20 meteors per hour at its peak. It is produced by debris left behind by comets Marsden and Kracht. The shower runs annually from July 12 to August 23. It peaks this year on the night of July 28 and morning of July 29. The second quarter moon will block many of the fainter meteors this year. But if you are patient, you should still be able to catch a few of the brighter ones. Best viewing will be from a dark location after midnight.  Watch the rings  July will be a big month for Saturn, starting around July 9, when Saturn will be in opposition to the sun. It will be visible in the evening instead.  Jupiter at Opposition.  The giant planet will be closest to Earth, brighter than any other time of the year and visible all night long. This is the best time to view and photograph Jupiter and its moons. A medium-sized telescope should be able to show you some of the details in Jupiter’s cloud bands. A good pair of binoculars should allow you to see Jupiter's four largest moons, appearing as bright dots on either side of the planet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/july-in-the-spotlight/article32037979.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||On a rampage||Movie: Wreck-It Ralph  Genre: 3D computer-animated comedy Video game characters love socialising too. Confused, much? When Litwak’s Family Fun Center and Arcade shuts shop at night, its various video game characters leave their normal in-game roles and travel through their cabinets’ power cables to socialise in a power strip, called “Game Central Station”, and other cabinets. Wreck-It Ralph, the antagonist of the video game Fix-It Felix Jr. , is given the cold shoulder by its other characters for being the game’s villain, while the hero, Felix, is naturally praised and awarded medals. The game’s members even leave out Ralph from the game’s 30th anniversary party. Ralph gets fed up with being constantly branded as the “bad guy” and being defeated by so-called “good guy” Felix and takes matters into his own hands. He sets off on a game-hopping trip in a determined bid to prove that he has what it takes to be the hero. However, things fall apart when he accidentally lets lose a deadly enemy that threatens the whole arcade. Will Ralph forever be ostracised or will he save the day?   Fun facts  The concept for Wreck-It Ralph started in 1980, but it took 32 years to hit the big screen.  In the three-odd decades before the movie hit the theatres, screenwriter Phil Johnston said that Ralph went through several incarnations, including part cat, part baboon, part dog, part skunk, to name a few.  The movie features more than 180 different characters including those from both Disney and Nintendo. While Disney has a total character base of around 60, most of the characters that made cameo appearances were from Nintendo’s archive.  The production team was urged to spend many hours playing video games. The creators spent hours on different platforms using various controllers and joysticks that would assist in the look and feel of the in-game environments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/on-a-rampage/article32037983.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding gold||Guess what kept me company during the COVID-19 lockdown? Gold! No, not the yellow metal that everyone wants to have, but something even more precious. A profusion of golden yellow flowers of an amaltas tree just outside my window burst into bloom in April-May, just as the lockdown was making me restless. In its own spectacularly humble way, this tree was telling to me that I didn’t have to go roaming everywhere to be with nature, to see beauty, to enjoy life.  Amaltas , aptly called Golden Shower tree (scientific name Cassia fistula ), has various names in Indian languages: chahui (Manipuri), konrai (Tamil), sonali (Bengali), garmalo (Gujarati), and bahava (Marathi). In association with a number of other trees with brightly coloured flowers (like the palash and kachnar ), this blooms just as the Indian plains are getting hot and dusty. The chandelier-like cascades of golden yellow flowers are certainly a sight for tired eyes, and this time they were a soothing presence for a restless mind. What a sight Every morning, for three to four weeks, I would glance out of my window and see the burst of gold, interspersed with the tree’s long, brown seed pods. What better way to start the day? And then it would get even better, as a plethora of bird, bee and butterfly species would visit it throughout the day. Some birds simply used its branches as a perch; some, like house sparrows, actually ate the flowers. Bees seemed to be searching for nectar in the flowers. The best was a purple sunbird, its shiny colour contrasting beautifully against the yellow; and conversely, a common iora with its greenish-yellow body getting almost lost amid the flower bunches. Butterflies like the common grass yellow and common emigrant visited, perhaps, to lay their eggs on its leaves?  Amaltas is native to India, celebrated in literature and poetry for its sheer beauty. Its seed pods have medicinal value, as a laxative (useful if you have a obstinate stomach that refuses to download its contents!). In fact, in Ayurveda, it is called Aragvadha, meaning ‘disease killer’, as it is also useful in several other stomach, heart and skin problems. Its wood is quite hard, and has been used for making furniture and in wood crafts. It is the state flower of Kerala and people there call it vishu konnai for its use in the Vishu festival, during which they strive to get a sight of it. Much like me during the lockdown. As I write this, the flowers are gone; the tree is covered once again in broad, shiny green leaves. But even now, when I wake up, the first memory is of that gorgeous golden treasure, just outside my window.  Conservation and Nature is a series brought to you by Kalpavriksh Environmental Action Group (www.kalpavriksh.org).   The chandelier-like cascades of golden yellow flowers are a sight for tired eyes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/finding-gold/article32037991.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking measures||Well, this is not about Mathematics. Maybe a wee bit. You could say sugar-coated mathematics. Sugar-coated? Sometimes when a medicine pill is very bitter, they give it a sweet covering or coating so that your tongue doesn’t get the bitterness. The tongue only tastes the sweetness. The stomach has to deal with the bitterness. For some people, Maths is a bitter pill. It’s nice to coat it with some sweet stuff. What’s the meaning of a square foot? A square foot is a square in which the four sides measure one foot each. The plural of square foot is square feet, just as the plural of foot is feet. So what would two square feet mean? It means two squares like the one we just spoke about. A question of size Supposing someone said the size of a room was 100 square feet, that would mean you could fit in exactly 100 such squares on the floor. So if you are on the phone and tell someone: this room is 1000 square feet, he or she will get the idea that it’s a somewhat large room. It could pack a thousand children if all of them were very thin and stand really close to each other and if each one occupies only one square. But don’t try this out. You could suffocate, because one person needs a lot more space than one square foot. Before we go to cubic feet, let’s see what a cube is. Examples of cubes are everywhere: building blocks, ice cubes, dice , and so on. But perhaps the most famous cube is the Rubik’s Cube. If you count the sides of a cube, you will find that there are six sides or surfaces. And now what is a cubic foot? A cubic foot is a cube in which all the sides measure one foot each. Supposing someone says the room has a volume of 1000 cubic feet. That means that the room can hold a thousand such cubes when they are packed from the floor to the roof. So square feet is for areas and cubic feet is for volume. And what about two left feet? Imagine that your right foot was shaped like the left foot. How difficult would you find it to walk, dance and perform any kind of movement! You’d be clumsy. So when someone’s clumsy, they describe that person as someone with two left feet. Not a very polite thing to say though, unless you are telling it about yourself!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/taking-measures/article32037973.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Drive me crazy||Across  1.____ bend: A sharp curve (7) 6.____ beam: Bright, glaring headlights (4) 7. Do not honk in a _____ zone (6) 10. A ___ way has traffic in a single direction (3) 11. The ‘L’ board is for this person (7) 12. ____mobile: Another way of saying ‘car’ (4) 14. To go backwards (7) 17. ___ beam is when you dip your headlights (3) 19. Makes the car move (6)  Down  1. Road that connects cities (7) 2. Avoid the ____ hour traffic (4) 3. To keep the engine running (4) 4. Edge of the road for emergency stops (8) 5. To manoeuver the car (5) 8. ____ section: Crossroads (5) 9. This pedal lets you stop the vehicle (5) 13. You have to pay this to use the road (4) 15. Bigger than a car, smaller than a bus (3) 16. ___roof: Opening on top of the car (3) 18. To give ___ is to yield to another vehicle (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/drive-me-crazy/article32037945.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Where is the wettest place in India?  The wettest place is considered to be the one with the most rainfall. Mawsynram, a village in the East Khasi Hills district in Meghalaya. It has the title of not only being the wettest place of India but also of the entire world! The average annual rainfall is about 11,871mm. The second most wettest place both in India and the world is also in Meghalaya, Cherrapunji. In fact, it is often disputed which one is wetter, but studies and data from over the years show it is in fact Mawsynram.  Whydo dead whales explode?  This strange phenomenon only occurs to beached whales — this means they die and end up on the beach. Gas builds up inside the whale as its stomach contents decompose — but due to its thick, tough blubber and skin, it can't be released. What normally causes a whale to finally burst is not natural, however. It is often because people who find a dead whale get curious and try to poke it, or some even try to move it back into the water, causing the skin to rip and then — pop! It’s not a pretty sight afetrwards. Whales that die in the ocean, however, sink to the ocean floor where they are eventually scavenged by sharks, fish and tiny bone-eating worms, so they don’t explode underwater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article32037928.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article32037961.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article32037924.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The monster in the head||There was a monster in Avni’s head. It had been there for years. Avni didn’t know what it looked like; she only knew its voice. The monster had spoken in sudden short bursts when Avni was younger but now its voice was stronger. Sometimes Avni and the monster said the same things. When Avni screamed in joy on the amusement park rides, the monster did the same in her head. But this didn’t often happen. Usually the monster said things that Avni couldn’t. Avni could never have said, ‘That’s not fair!’ when Ayesha quarrelled with her. But the monster could and did. The monster’s words comforted Avni, but she wanted more. She wanted to speak aloud the things the monster said inside her head. When people called her dark, Avni longed to shout, ‘Meanies!’ But it was the monster who did it. Unable to protest Avni wanted to protest when people did things she didn’t like. When Sujal Uncle pulled her on his lap, she wanted to shout, ‘Let me go!’ But she just couldn’t; it was the monster who said it. She was wishing she had the monster’s courage when she walked to Gopi Uncle’s shop for milk. “Come and get it,” Gopi Uncle said. Inside her head, the monster began muttering. Avni was reaching into the fridge when she felt Gopi Uncle’s arms snake around her. The monster leapt to roaring life. ‘Stop it!’ it shouted. ‘Don’t touch me!’ Avni stood frozen with fear. It was only when the monster shouted ‘Run!’ that she broke free and ran, the milk forgotten. Ai was annoyed when she returned without the milk but Avni heard nothing because her head was filled with the monster’s shouts of rage. She was glad someone was saying what needed to be said. But the monster seemed to be getting weaker; it only said a few mild words when Avni was teased about being fat and nothing at all when she was called names. Was the monster in her head going away? Avni had always been afraid it would. What would she do without the voice in her head telling her when things were wrong or unfair? She was thinking so hard that she barely noticed Sujal Uncle walk in. She was laughingly grabbed and plonked on his lap.  Now  , Avni thought, the monster would wake and shout all the things she wanted to but didn’t dare to. But there was only resounding silence in her head. Avni knew the monster had truly fallen silent. And it was her fault. The loss filled her with sudden rage and she pushed away from Sujal Uncle. “Don’t!” she shouted. “I don’t like it!” Miraculously, the monster in her head was awake; it was shouting with her. For the first time, Avni knew that she was heard. Then she knew that the monster in her head was her, it had  always  been her. Only this time she had dared to speak up. And that had made all the difference.  Avni wanted to protest when people did things she didn’t like.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-monster-in-the-head/article32037975.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A step back in time||Although there is no evidence of a linear evolution of Bharatanatyam over the last 2,000 years, Tamil and Sanskrit texts confirm its ancient roots. Scholars Dr. Kapila Vatsyayan and late Dr. V. Raghavan have traced the dance style to Ekaharya Lasyanga, a solo performance depicting themes of love and relationships, mentioned in the Sanskrit text Natyasastra (2BC-2AD). Between 2BC-9AD, referred to as the Second Period in the history of dance by Dr. Kapila, the first being the prehistoric period, she observes the centrality of dance in society. ‘Had it not been so widely prevalent and popular, it is inconceivable that a monumental treatise like the Natyasastra could be compiled,’ reasons Dr. Kapila. According to her there is sculptural evidence of the technique of human movement followed by this style from 5 AD, and of the ardhamandali stance with bent knees turned outward, common to classical styles (margi) across India, from 10 AD. To the traditional sculptural motifs of a tree, woman, yaksha and yakshini, etc, dance was introduced. Reliefs of Bharhut, Sanchi, Amravati, Nagarjunakonda, Ellora, etc. and mural paintings in Bagh Caves, Ajanta, Ellora, Sitanavasal, etc, present yakshas and yakshinis in dance poses alongside dance scenes and orchestras. Sanskrit literature of the classical period, kavyas, natakas, epics, Ramayana and Mahabharata, too featured dance. Little before and during the second period, Dr. Kapila says that Sanskrit influenced the intellectual and artistic life of people across the country. It is interesting how an authoritative commentary on the Natyasastra written in Kashmir by Abhinavagupta (9th-10thC) reached all over India, just as karanas from the Natyasastra were found carved in the 11th c Brihadeeswara temple in the South. Regional influences At the First Dance Seminar, 1958, organised by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, Dr. Raghavan presented a detailed paper, ‘Bharata Natya’. In it he said that he found productions of Natyasastra treatises at different centres where kings came into prominence, thus showing the countrywide cultivation of this art. Lasya, the art of the Nati, flourished in the two main venues where it was patronised, the temple and the court, and in other public and domestic venues on social and festive occasions. As dance spread to different parts of the country, regional influences were added and Desi Lasyangas evolved. Dr. Raghavan made a comparative study of the Sadir repertoire and the contemporary Bharatanatyam repertoire, the margam, formalised by the Thanjavur Brothers in the early 19th Century. A pre-Thanjavur Quartet repertoire of a solo Nati or Nartaki from Sangita Muktavali (15 C) featured: Pushpanjali, Mukhacaali, Suddha-Yati nrtta, Raagaanga- Yati-nrtta, Sabdanrtta, Rupa-nrtta, dance and abhinaya to songs in dance-dramas (Rupakas), Dhvaada, Sabdacaali, Sudasabda, Sudagita, various Gita-prabandhas, followed by local dances like Cindu, Daru, Dhrupad, etc. The first three — Pushpanjali, Mukhacaali, Suddha-Yati nrtta, made up the familiar invocatory rituals, Melaprapti, now out of practice; Alarippu may be traced to the first Desi Lasyanga, Caali, mentioned in the Sangita Ratnaakara , and to Pushpanjali, Sabhavandana and Mukhacaali. The next, Jatisvara, was a descendant of Raganga-Yatinrtta, a combination of raga and yati, denoting tala. The third, Sabda or Salamu, originally sung in Khambodi raga in praise of a deity or hero, maybe considered a North-South link, just like the Tillana. The Sabda, mentioned in older texts, was also called Kavitva, which morphed into the Tamilised Kavuttuvam. Following this in the repertoire, is the Varna or Swarajati, padas and Tillana, ending with a Sloka from the Amarusataka, Krsnakarnaamrta, a navarasa sloka, etc. The Tillana may be traced to one of the limbs of Prabandha compositions — Paata, which is fitted with rhythmic syllables of instruments. Dr. Raghavan’s research found that the Sthaana-Caari-Mandala-Karana-Angahaara chain mentioned in older texts could be equated to today’s Adavu-Korvai-Tirmaana sequence. He found Kuttana-Adavu classifications in Sangita Saaramrta by King Tulaja (1763-1787), in which the Sanskrit names and the Telugu-Tamil equivalent are mentioned. Some adavus are known, such as Samapada Kuttana as Tattadavu, Santaadya-paarsni-Kuttana as Tatti-mettadavu, etc., but not all. Lesser known is the antiquity of Tamil literature which can confirm Dasinatyam or Sadir’s roots. Silappadhikaram (5th-6thC) is considered a treasure, with one canto ‘Arangetruk-kaadhai’ dedicated to dance; Dr. Raghavan, Dr. Kapila and Lakshmi Viswanathan have analysed this in detail. Tamil research scholar Professor Dr. S. Raghuraman argues that although Silappadhikaram is an important reference, it is not the first reference to dance in Tamil literature. According to him, grammar texts that included details related to dance predated the Natyasastra. Ahaththiyam, a text on grammar for literature, music and dance, for which manuscripts are not available, predated the available Tholkappiam (5 BC). Tholkappiam is a book on Tamil grammar that presents koothu (dance) as a special-occasion community activity and analyses emotions in Aham (love) literature with concepts of abhinaya theory such as ashta rasa, eight basic emotions, as also natyadharmi and lokadharmi, stylised and realistic presentation. In other texts such as Panchamarabu (approx 9 C), words like Natyam, denoting dance with music and poetry, nrittam, 108 karanams, sounds used in Koothu, ‘Ta, Ti, Tho, Ki, Ikk’ (followed today in dance and percussion), the basic stances, pada bhedas (foot movements), hand gestures (kais), nine basic emotions (navarasas), and the movements for the emotions, the dance arena (aranga illakkanam) and the stick used to keep time measure (pirambu illakkanam), are mentioned. Professor Raghuraman has further referenced Koothanool , Bharatasenapatiyam , Tamil epics and other ancient texts, in this regard. “After the tenth century, Bharatanatyam seems to have developed chiefly in the South around what is now known as Tamil Nadu,” says Dr. Kapila. She believes that despite solo dance being a part of the Bhagavata Mela Natakams, it can be assumed to have had an independent existence as a derivative of Natyasatra’s Ekaharya Lasyanga; the argument being that as a classical art form, whether presented in temples or courts, it had the same technique. If there are questions about the authenticity of the Bharatanatyam technique, King Tulaja’s book confirms the evolution of adavus. They were likely refined by the Thanjavur Brothers less than fifty years later. Oral tradition There was however a break in continuity in the art form in the 19th century. Dr. Kapila rues that the invaluable oral family tradition of the masters, known as Sampradayas, across different styles of classical Indian dance, were not recognised by the British system of education and those who were schooled during the 19 C were isolated from the art traditions of the country. Then came the ban on temple dancing in the Madras Presidency in 1910. She says, ‘Temple dancing was forbidden but the devotees of the art continued to practise it in the seclusion of their homes. Apparently, the art had died by the 20th century and what could be seen of it was only a diluted, almost degenerate form of what was known as Nautch in the North and Sadir in the South... ' From the 1920s, revivalist E. Krishna Iyer, Kalyani Daughters, Kum. Bharati and others brought awareness to the tradition. With patriotism as a backdrop, the social stigma connected to the art form reduced. Devadasis, the traditional repositories, came out to present their art, and chief among them was the legendary T. Balasaraswathi. Young dance masters from temple towns of the South came to Madras and trained girls from non-devadasi communities, ushering a new cultural order. What of the dance style itself? Lakshmi Viswanathan sums up the re-named Bharatanatyam, “It was not the ritual dance of the temple. Rather it was a smart re-invention of the court dance of the nineteenth century, structured by the nattuvanars who had come to live in Madras.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-step-back-in-time/article32037285.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Not happy with how music is being handled’||It’s been more than six decades since Pt. Hariprasad Chaurasia began his career — as a typist at the Additional District Planning Office in Allahabad. At 81, he is a byword for mastery of the bansuri or bamboo flute, and the winner of a plethora of awards both national and international. And when we meet at his Vrindaban Gurukal in Bhubaneswar, he stresses that every struggle in his life has shaped him into the person he is today. His father, a professional wrestler, wanted his son to follow in his footsteps, but the young Chaurasia had begun to nurture a dream. He’d started learning music in secret from the age of 15. Pretending to go to the library to read newspapers, he would instead sneak off to visit his gurus. At first, he studied classical vocal under Pt. Rajaram, but one day he heard a recital by Pt. Bholanath, a flautist from Varanasi, who was then working with All India Radio (AIR) in Allahabad. Chaurasia decided to change his focus to the flute, and learned from Bholanath. “Such was my determination that when some people in Allahabad told me that those who play the flute end up as beggars, I decided that I would nevertheless continue — but, instead of begging, would spend my whole life playing the flute at a temple and live by eating whatever was available there,” he says. Getting the typist’s job when he was 18 bolstered his confidence, and his father was happy when Chaurasia told him he’d started earning a salary and didn’t need to eke out a living as a wrestler. And with six months of hard work, he had learned stenography and got a job as a stenographer at the same office. Meanwhile, his friends and colleagues started noticing his talent as a budding flautist. While continuing with the stenographer’s job, Chaurasia started working as a casual artiste at AIR Allahabad in 1954, playing the flute in children’s programmes. He did want to join AIR as a regular employee, and a programme executive at the radio station helped him find a vacancy. He finally made it when he was posted at far-off AIR Cuttack in 1956, where he worked as a performer as well as a composer. His parents, however, were far from happy that he’d quit his government job. “Music was not getting any support from the government as it has been in recent years.” The young artiste’s popularity grew manifold in Odisha when — to the envy of his colleagues — many Odissi exponents, including Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra and his disciples, classical singer and music director Raghunath Panigrahi and Odissi vocal singer Balakrushna Das, invited him to play the flute in their programmes. In 1963, he was transferred to AIR Bombay, a move that brought with it new opportunities. His talent was soon noticed outside radio when music director Madan Mohan called him in to play, as his regular flautist was unavailable. On his very first day, Chaurasia accompanied Lata Mangeshkar for a song recording in the morning and Talat Mahmood in the evening. He then studied the flute with Annapurna Devi, the famed surbahar player and daughter of Ustad Allauddin Khan of the Maihar School of Hindustani music. It wasn’t easy to survive in Mumbai on Rs. 250 a month — though this was more than the Rs. 160 he’d been paid in Cuttack — and he was struggling to balance his time between his job and recording at private studios. So, Chaurasia quit his AIR job after only a few months and began to split his time between studios in several major cities while living in Mumbai. Scoring music for films Despite these moves, he never lost touch with Odisha, its people and their language, which he speaks fluently. He married an Odia girl, the singer Angurbala Roy with whom he had fallen in love during his days at AIR Cuttack. He teamed up with Bhubaneswar Mishra in Odisha and Pt. Shivkumar Sharma in Mumbai — the duos were known as Bhuban Hari and Shiv-Hari — to score music for many Odia and Hindi films respectively. His Odia films include Maa , Gapa Helebi Sata and Baata Abaata , while his Hindi films include Silsila , Faasle , Chandni and Lamhe . He likes to spend most of his time in Bhubaneswar these days. “Odisha is the best place in the country. It’s peaceful and the people here are good. If some people here don’t like your music they will still not leave.” He now runs Gurukuls in both Bhubaneswar and Mumbai, with 11 boarding students at the former and six at the latter, as well as a few day scholars. The full-time students, who don’t pay any fees, are selected on the basis of merit and include one from Italy and one from Bangladesh. Chaurasia’s horizons extend beyond north Indian classical to Indian folk and popular music, as well as Western music. How has music changed over time? “Music has changed a lot over the years with the development of technology, and the change has been for the better. I am also happy with how the number of musicians is growing, but not that happy with the way they are handling their profession. Gharana does not matter to an artiste if he is good at what he performs and is well-mannered.” And what is his message for today’s youth? “They should choose to do what they like and pursue it with complete devotion. One should just give enough time to music. The whole world will know.”  In 1963, Chaurasia was transferred to AIR Bombay, a move that brought with it new opportunities. His talent was soon noticed outside radio when music director Madan Mohan called him in to play||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/not-happy-with-how-music-is-being-handled/article32037273.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||What does practice mean in DANCE||The meaning, modalities and methods of dance practice have over the years begged for some spotlight, even as the wash of performance aspects in practice often dominates. The first of the series on sustenance as a dancer started from the concept of technologies of dominance and technologies of the self and how they control or empower a dancer, leading to what mindful practice constitutes. In this second and final part of the series, the discussion will be centred around ‘revisiting habituality’ and ‘self-regulation’ in practice. Revisiting habituality extends to movement, choreography, teaching and thinking in dance. The rationale for such revisiting with intent comes from the fact that dancers typically rely on what feels right, which is often imposed or at the least influenced by what is accepted and appreciated in the fraternity. It is, however, important to remember that “feeling is not always reliable; what we are accustomed to feels right.” Body and mind split Conceptual understanding, creative imagination and theoretical knowledge does not translate tangibly, and so they are considered skills that are good to have but not mandatory for a dancer, compared to performance aspects such as symmetry, stamina and presentation. The learning and teaching, therefore, has narrowed down to simply learning and building repertoires, where the memory as much as the mind is engaged in learning. This leads to a split between the body and mind, and their honing as two separate entities, with an ill-proportionate priority on the body. Such an approach leads to a situation suggested by Eric Bredo, where practice becomes athoeritical and theory becomes impractical, impoverishing both. On the other hand, the very familiar sloka, ‘Yato Hastas, Tato Drishti’, taught early in dance learning, establishes that conceptual understanding is shaped by bodily experience, which in turn proposes the mind and the body to be one single entity. Such a process, of ‘thinking in activity’, not only steers away from a misplaced purpose of practice, but also promotes higher order skills in the dance studio. Practice could then shift its focus on what goes on inside the body, rather than solely focus on what the body looks like or how it ‘should’ behave, as suggested by dance educator and scholar Jill Green in her research. Investing time and thought Revisiting habituality in teaching perspective in dance is of most importance, since it directly influences the practice and thinking of the student/dancer. The assumption of the teacher as the one source of all knowledge often leads to over-dependence on the teacher, as a substitute for reflection and investment from the student. In a simple movement, for example, a disrupted understanding occurs when the student tries to directly copy the physical aspects of a teacher’s movement, which integrates concept and action. This leads to a difference between what the student is doing and what they think they are doing. This split between ‘subjective reality’ and ‘objective reality’ occurs when the student does not invest time and thought in understanding the movement but wants to progress anyway. Teaching online only magnifies these concerns, which may sometimes go unnoticed in a physical class. The content, process, pedagogy and most importantly, a realistic outcome, are aspects that are crucial in delivering a class online. A discussion on teaching online also leads to the criticality of developing self-regulation in dancers. Self-regulation is not forcing oneself into hours of practice, trying to imitate or reproduce pre-choreographed content. It leads to the body being managed and subdued. It is also why looking at another dancer’s practice or video and trying to imitate it without understanding the purpose will not help. Self-regulation is the skill of using a teacher’s guidance or any clear reference to develop purposeful practice by accessing unique, personal sensory data. This leads to the development of proprioceptive awareness, which allows the understanding and owning of a complex movement or even a basic stance such as a Natyaramba, which is individual to every person. Find the inner idea A two-way practice of ‘building and breaking habits’, came up in a conversation with Odissi exponent Bijayini Satpathy, whose regular posts on practice on social media, particularly over the last few months, have been motivating dancers. She elaborates that the process of breaking down traditional choreographies and understanding recurring and rare features; revisiting outer shapes to find the inner idea of spatial intent, time uniqueness, etc., becomes a practice one builds, that guides dancers to find an outcome. She simultaneously highlights the need to retain clarity in the creation and honouring of technical precision, as well as in allowing the flow to happen, in terms of how it takes shape in a certain body. “To be comfortable with being surprised with the outcomes is where practice comes in. As you build a word, what forms/happens with the next new alphabet is something that is meant to be unearthed, which is guided by practice. That is where breaking a habit comes - the wonder. The choices are political - I was a quiet rebel,” she says. Though she initially thought there was no need to choreograph new work, with the abundance of master works, she acknowledges that within the broad and core understanding of what Odissi is to her, attributes such as interpretation and perception are coloured by our own, just like the river in different parts changes in depth, colour and its banks. “Dancers get comfortable with a formula, for example, knowing that a certain smile works. Something tickling curiosity, or something that throws me off that helps me be present in every moment, allows me to break habit,” she says. Slow down and learn As far as teaching methodology is concerned, Satpathy believes in retaining and reinventing. While key cues of a movement are important to be highlighted, she recollects that traditional learning methodology is built on the capacity to grasp, both the visceral and beyond. For her online students, she sends videos with specific instructions, but encourages them to work on it without a deadline, till they are happy. “This time is also about slowing down and learning. Blended learning brings in self-regulation and the joy of discovery, which is special. That becomes their blueprint to learn, which may be applied to any other learning,” she says. Interested in her practice evolving into whatever it becomes over time, she adds that in this present situation, without judging anyone else, she does not intend to perform till circumstances get better. The creator of the illustrations for this article, Veena Basavarajaiah, says, “For me the word ‘practice’ is not limited to honing performance skills but extends to writing, research, critique. And the cartoons that I draw are also part of my artistic practice. During the pandemic, I took this as an opportunity to explore how boredom, lethargy and being quarantined could influence movement. My practice of critique and reflection informs my work and the artistic choices I make.” With the thoughts and conversations in this series on sustenance through practice, two central purposes of practice stand highlighted: a process of ‘becoming’ through the ecology of the self and an enhancement of the product through the enrichment of the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/what-does-practice-mean-in-dance/article32037293.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Many mudras of the master||In the surfeit of obituaries eulogising Saroj Khan’s contribution to Bollywood, many have forgotten her dalliance with classical dance. “In Bollywood, she was working with human anatomy, here she worked with the aesthetics of a dance tradition,” says film director Sharada Ramanathan, who got her to choreograph her debut film Sringaram (2007). The film not only fetched Saroj Khan her second National Award but also helped her breach the barrier between the classical and the popular. “Sarojji was my plan A and plan B for Sringaram . The film was about a sadir dancer, the dance of devadasis from which Bharatanatyam, which is much more structured, evolved. I wanted somebody who could capture its aesthetics on camera and take it to the present generation. And I could not think of anybody but Saroj Khan.” Sharada was cautioned with tales of the sought-after choreographer’s temperament and eccentricity, but she had decided to take a chance and didn’t actually encounter anything of the sort. “For Sarojji, Sringaram was like a homecoming, where she connected with her early days spent with Sohanlalji, who taught her the basics of different dance forms, including Bharatanatyam. She worked with four generations of actors, starting with Vyjyantimala and Padmini. She would say that with Sringaram , life had come full circle. I had seen her crying, it was cathartic for her. But she never made a show of it. I experienced it because I was there.” Steeped in tradition Coming from the sets of Bollywood, choreographing a film steeped in classical tradition was not easy, but Saroj was up for the challenge with her wit intact. “When I sent her the compositions of Lalgudi Jayaraman, she called up to say, ‘What! you want me to do a padam.’ But, then she did it.” Sharada recalls the conversation between Lalgudi Jayaraman and Saroj. “She would tell him in jest, ‘Choreographing your compositions for the camera is torture.’ And the legend would just smile. Next moment, she would ask, ‘when will we work together again’.” Sharada recalls how once Saroj called up when she was doing her recce and research in Thanjavur. “Excited, she said that she too wanted to smell the soil of the cradle of dance. She quickly took a flight, for which she made her own arrangements, and somehow reached Thanjavur. She asked only for a room with AC. She spent three days there talking and taking notes from Chidambaram Kamalambal, a veteran Sadir dancer, who was around 101 years old at that time.” Sharada, who would translate their conversation, remembers how Kamalambal said, “‘Saroj, find me a young man whom I can grow old with. To which, Sarojji replied if I find one, why would I give him to you. And Kamalambal retorted, ‘Right! If he would see me, he won’t stay with you.’” At work, Sharada says, she was very punctual and blunt in making the other person know if he or she was breaking the timeline set by her. “She was very soft with Aditi (Rao Hydari) and Hamsa (Moily). She would say yeh Bollywood actors jaisi nahin hain .” By the time shooting ended, she would tell Sharada, “Two directors have challenged me the most: Sanjay (Leela Bhansali) and you.” The film, says the director, was accepted well by the purists. “The National Award was a validation that Saroj brought out the soul of the dance form. “She never asked for payment. Once she planned to fly down from Amsterdam, where she was shooting with Aishwarya Rai. I asked how she would do that and she said she would manage. When I asked about her fees, she replied in her trademark style, ‘it’s more than the budget of your film’.” In the last few years, the legend was asking for work from her favourite directors and Sharada was one of them. “We were collaborating on a project drawn from an epic. In fact, she had sent me a few ideas. I will credit her when it materialises,” she says. Like they make films for the stars, Sharada says, Bollywood should have made a Saroj Khan musical. “She deserved it.” Owning the stage In 2009, Saroj Khan was invited by Sri Krishna Gana Sabha for its prestigious Natya Kala Conference during the annual Margazhi music and dance festival. Senior Bharatanatyam dancer-guru Ananda Shankar Jayant, who was the convenor of the conference that year, remembers eyebrows being raised when the news reached the closed circle of classical dancers that Saroj Khan had been invited to perform with her students. “But on the day she took the stage, it was jam-packed!” she chuckles. “It was part of Dance Matters, the theme that year, where I wanted to bring all things related to dance to centre stage.” Ananda created a matrix and one of the tiers of that matrix was the sweep and stretch of dance in television and cinema, and its overriding influence thereof. “The idea was to take dance out of brackets. We all dance to engage the audience in some way and when a true artiste is immersed in dance, the boundaries dissolve.” This, Ananda says, happened that day during the session on choreography in films. “First, her students performed to her film songs. Then Sarojji, immaculately dressed in white, was persuaded to demonstrate. She danced to ‘Mar Dala’ ( Devdas ) and what should I say, unhone humein maar hi dala (she overwhelmed us).” Sixty-one years old then, Ananda says she may not have had the perfect physique, but “one could feel the grace and experience the emotions...” She received a standing ovation. “And Padma Subrahmanyam rushed to the stage and hugged Sarojji. She said one of her movements was from the chaaris of Natya Shastra.” Coming from one of the icons of Bharatanatyam and scholars of the treatise, says Ananda, was the defining moment of the day.  Saroj Khan belonged to a generation that enacted lyrics through dance. So ‘Mere hathon main nau nau choodiyan hain’ had to be enacted and also ‘Dhak dhak karne laga’. There was no fast intercutting of shots to hide the flaws of the actor and/or choreographer. In an interaction with this journalist, Saroj Khan had said she could not be gimmicky or vulgar or rely on costumes to hold the attention of the audience. “I come from the tradition of Master Sohanlal, who choreographed, ‘Hothon pe aisi baat’ ( Jewel Thief ), one of the best choreographies of Hindi cinema, where he used circular tracks and dynamic cuts to take the song to a crescendo.” Saroj was his assistant then and rehearsed with Vyjayantimala who recorded the song in one take. For her, a Madhuri Dixit or a Sridevi were just a medium to reach young girls in the audience. “I can’t repeat my steps because the moment a song becomes a hit, young girls will copy it. I have to give them something different every time. Otherwise, I will fail them in their weddings and parties,” she said.  Coming from the sets of Bollywood, choreographing a film steeped in classical tradition was not easy, but Saroj was up for the challenge with her wit intact||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/many-mudras-of-the-master/article32037271.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||As graceful as princess Damayanti||Margi Vijayakumar’s Damayanti is an ever-evolving character. Initially, she is a teenage princess enjoying the company of her friends. When she hears about Nala, the handsome, noble and valiant king of Nishadha, Damayanti is drawn to him even though she has never seen him. A golden swan acts as the messenger in their love story. Then, she becomes Nala’s wife, and evolves into a diligent, practical and intelligent queen, who sends her children to the safety of her father’s palace when Nala begins to lose a game of dice. When Nala is divested of his kingdom and fortune, Damayanti does not lose heart. Finally, it is her determination and wisdom that helps her find Nala and be reunited with him. Vijayakumar takes audiences to the depths of each of these facets of Damayanti’s character on the four days of the staging of Nalacharitham . This, according to Bharata, the author of Natya Shastra, is the essence of acting or abhinaya , which literally means ‘to bring the character to the forefront’. Vijayakumar, who recently retired as principal of the reputed Margi theatre in Thiruvananthapuram, was born 60 years ago, the seventh of eight children, to Velayudhan Nair and Lalithamma, in Thonnakkal, near Thiruvananthapuram. His father was the headmaster of a primary school, and ensured a good education for all his children. Vijayakumar had a brief exposure to Kathakali acting at a training centre founded by the then up-and-coming Peethambaran, but from 1975 he trained under thespians Mankulam Vishnu Namboothiri and Enchakkaattu Ramachandran at the Margi. Maiden performance For his maiden performance at Vivekananda Cultural Institute in Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayakumar was to play Rugmini but chose to play Rugmi, the heroine’s brother. Due to the physical strain, he fell unconscious during the performance, and Guru Mankulam consoled him, saying he would shine in female roles. He went on to become the favourite disciple of the legendary Kalamandalam Krishnan Nair, then a visiting professor at Margi, who trained him in all the major female roles in Kathakali. Over the years, Vijayakumar has excelled in all of them, but he counts Urvashi’s role next only to that of Damayanti. When Urvashi describes Arjuna’s charms in great detail to her friend, the actor has to visualise his physique and demeanour in all its grandeur. Vijayakumar delights in meeting the challenges of playing several moods simultaneously, as in the case of Mohini in Rugmangadacharitham . On one hand, at Brahma’s behest, she has to see that King Rugmangada allows his Ekadasi ritual to be interrupted. On the other, she is immensely disturbed about conveying to the king the terrible alternative of having to behead his beloved son. Realistic portrayals In presenting Poothana in Poothanamoksham , Vijayan does not employ the usual practice of holding a doll to represent the infant Krishna; he creates the impression that Lalitha is holding the child and feeding him by placing the cloth covering her head over her left elbow to give the impression of Poothana holding a baby. In Kalyanasaugandhikam , where Bhima and Draupadi are in a romantic mood, a fragrant flower falls from the sky that Draupadi picks up and shows to Bhima. Vijayan presents the whole sequence without the need for a real flower to be thrown on the stage. Whether Sairandhri, Sati, Kirathasthri, Sita, Rugmini, Subhadra, Lakshmi, Draupadi or Kunthi, Vijayakumar is able to lend an edge to the performance. And recently, he has begun to expand his repertoire with strong male roles such as that of Sudeva in Santhanagopalam.   Vijayakumar delights in meeting the challenges of playing several moods simultaneously||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/as-graceful-as-princess-damayanti/article32037276.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A new chapter in her life||Music lovers can seldom forget the hit song of the 1960s, ‘Chithirame Nilladi’, featuring young Nirmala in the film Vennira Adai . It marked her debut in the Tamil film industry and earned her the prefix ‘Vennira Adai.’ Nirmala went on to do over 400 films. In the recent past, she has been working in television serials. The veteran actor talks about her long film career and her passion for classical dance. ‘ Vennira Aadai ’ was your first Tamil film. But was that the first time you faced the camera? Not really. My first shoot was in Bombay for a song in the Hindi film ‘ Jwala ,’ directed by M.V. Raman. In Tamil, I had a few misses before Vennira Adai came my way. I was to act with MGR in a film produced by ‘Friend’ Ramaswamy. But after the test shoot, they felt I was too young for the heroine’s role. I also missed the chance to work in Kadhalikka Neramillai , directed by veteran Sridhar. While you were being featured as a heroine, you also accepted cameo roles Yes, I was open to do cameos. I did a dance number in Idhayakkani , that starred MGR in the lead. I did dance sequences also in Annaiyum Pithavum , and Thunaivan. I only looked at the production house and my role. If I felt comfortable, I would accept the offer. About your foray into the small screen... While I was busy doing films, Janaki amma (MGR’s wife) offered me a role in the serial ‘Aadi Varum Thene,’ produced by one of her relatives, Madhu Mohan. After that I was roped in for character roles in serials such as ‘Janani,’ and Khushboo’s ‘Kalki.’ ‘Deivamagal,’ was my latest assignment. It was aired on Sun TV. I would have done just four to five serials but am happy that they were one of the most-watched shows on TV. What is the biggest tribute or praise you got and from whom? Among the many awards and accolades, I consider the compliments that I received from MGR as one of the best and the most memorable. He praised me for my performance in ‘Bharathi Kannama’, a dance ballet, based on the songs of Subramania Bharati and staged during the poet’s centenary celebration. The late Jayalalithaa was also present on the occasion and appreciated my dancing skills. How do you feel looking back at your celluloid journey? Very happy. I have acted in all the four regional languages — Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada. It was only because of films that I have earned a special place in the hearts of the people. How did you pursue your love for Bharatanatyam? I was delighted when I performed on January 1, 2013, at the Chidambaram Nataraja Temple. The next year, on January 1, I performed at ISKCON Temple, Chennai and in the subsequent year, it was at the Vellore Golden Temple. I teach dance at Tiruvallur to young aspirants from the farming community. I have nearly 30 students in my school and I am happy to teach them. How have you been spending time during the lockdown?   The lockdown has helped me unearth my hidden talent as a writer. I am working on a book, originally written in Hindi. I am translating it into Tamil. But until I get the author’s permission, I can neither reveal the title of the book nor the author’s name. I will complete it in a few months. If everything goes well, the book might be released sometime next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-new-chapter-in-her-life/article32037267.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Adieu maestro||Hearing the strains of music as the opening credits roll while watching The Good, the Bad and the Ugly is one of my fondest memories of Ennio Morricone. Something about the music is so comforting. Of course, Clint Eastwood was a major draw, but the musical score enhanced the scenes. Ennio Morricone was truly a maestro, who redefined cinematic soundtrack. He was prolific and composed around 500 scores and brought alive so many movies of celebrated directors. Born in 1928, Morricone enrolled at the prestigious St. Cecilia Music Conservatory. At the age of seven, he wrote his first composition. For years he worked as a ghost-writer and an arranger before he started working on projects that brought him to fame. He rose to prominence in the 1960s and 1970s when he started writing musical scores for Westerns, a sub-genre set against the background of the ‘Old West’. Perhaps the defining moment of his career was when he wrote the compositions for Sergio Leone’s Dollar trilogy — A Fistful of Dollars (1964). For A Few Dollars More (1965) and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966). Propelling him to international stardom, the music of these movies became cult classics.    Unconventional sound Due to budget restrictions, Morricone could not afford a full orchestra and hence, he had to make do with the crackle of whips, gunshots, piercing whistles, murmured voices, and the jew’s harp (an instrument that he is widely recognised for using). ‘The Ecstasy of Gold’ became one of Morricone's best-known compositions and was used by many other artistes in their works. Following the success of the Dollars Trilogy, Morricone also composed for Leone’s subsequent films. And the most notable of them all is his score for Once Upon a Time in the West, which is till date one of the best-selling instrumentals. Morricone then went on to work with other Spaghetti Western directors like Sergio Corbucci — Navajo Joe (1966) and The Hellbenders (1967) and Sergio Sollima — Face to Face (1967) and Run, Man, Run (1968). Much of the music for films that he wrote was for Italian filmmakers like Bellocchio, Bernardo Bertolucci, Giuseppe Tornatore, Lina Wertmüller and Pier Paolo Pasolini. One of Morricone’s first contributions to an American director’s film was the music for John Huston’s The Bible: In the Beginning …(1966) and, in 1970, he composed the music for Don Siegel's Two Mules for Sister Sara, a movie which starred Clint Eastwood and Shirley MacLaine. Slew of awards In 1978, the composer worked with Terrence Malick for Days of Heaven, which starred Richard Gere. Despite the 1960s and 1970s having been the time when he composed his most imitated works, Days of Heaven got him his first Oscar nomination for Best Original Score. It wasn’t until decades later that he won his first Oscar. Quentin Tarantino always wanted to work with Morricone and prior to getting the opportunity, he borrowed a lot of his works in his movies. Morricone composed the song, ‘Ancora Qui’, with lyrics by Italian singer Elisa, for Tarantino’s Django Unchained in 2012. This again earned him an Oscar nomination, but it wasn’t yet to be. Then in 2015, he wrote the original music score for The Hateful Eight and it won him the Oscar in 2016 at the age of 87, making him the oldest person to have won a competitive Oscar. Through his career, Morricone won many international awards including three Grammys, three Golden Globes, and an honorary Oscar in 2007. Despite all the recognition, he preferred to remain in the country of his birth and only spoke Italian. The beauty of Morricone’s music lay in the fact that it was wildly unpredictable. He had no fear of sailing in unchartered waters. Morricone is no more but his unconventional compositions will live on.  "The Ecstasy of Gold" became one of Morricone's best-known compositions and it was used many times by other artistes in their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/adieu-maestro/article32037278.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Layered with emotion||Day two of the workshop began with a series of sights and sounds: fireflies flutter, a blazing orange sun moves across the sky, a deep violet dusk descends, gentle hands light lamps, and waters of the river gleam in the dark night. Bharatanatyam artiste Praveen Kumar’s three-day workshop titled “Art Thou? - my child, my companion, my Lord,” brought alive the layered emotions and complexities in the compositions of the Haridasa poets through the vocabulary of dance. This was hosted by Aalaap through Zoom recently. Bharatanatyam dancer-choreographer-teacher Praveen Kumar described the event as an exploration of emotions through the compositions of Haridasas. Praveen Kumar helped the participants (who were dancers) explore the ideas of the Lord, who is seen as a child, as a companion, or the supreme through two rare compositions of Purandaradasa. He came up with multiple layers of imagery — of how a dancer could raise a subject to much higher levels of feeling and exploration. Dimensions of bhakti rasa The dancer-choreographer explained that Devarnamas (Haridasa compositions) are based on bhakti, but touches upon various subjects and emotions through the fundamental concept of bhakti. ‘Kadagola Thaarenna Chinnavae’, the first piece he taught was an example of Vaathsalyabhava while the other piece, ‘Ranganyaantake’, was rich in Sringara. Though based on Vaishnava philosophy, the compositions of Haridasas sometimes reflect Sringara, as a dimension of bhakti. “‘Ranganyaantake’ by Purandaradasa is like a javali,” said Praveen Kumar. A Virahotkanthita (one distressed by separation) heroine waits haplessly for Krishna to appear, when a hand gently touches her shoulder. It is her sakhi. She hastens her sakhi to bring Krishna right away. The wait has been long, dusk has fallen, and the lamps have been lit. Forlorn, she can wait no longer. “Behind all these emotional layers of Sringara is Bhakti,” he added. It is impossible to talk about the workshop without dwelling on Praveen Kumar's artistry. He brings to the Bharatanatyam abhinaya imageries of Nature to enable the audience to understand the concept easily. Then he weaves in Yashoda’s unconditional love, little Krishna’s pranks, a nayika’s emotions, a sakhi’s support, Vishnu’s avatara, and philosophy. Moreover, this dancer/teacher has an incredible penchant for detail, be it abhinaya, movement, posture and footwork. Ultimately through all these, the dancer aims to blend Vishnu bhakti and philosophy. “As Dasarapadagalu are about the avatars of Vishnu, you will see several names of Vishnu such as ‘Rama’ mentioned in the sahitya. Much of it has philosophical undertones, the act of churning shows a disturbed mind, for instance; and even love implies devotion,” said Praveen Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/layered-with-emotion/article32037280.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The passing of a patron||V. Sethuram, president of the Indian Fine Arts Society, one of the oldest music sabhas of the city, passed away on July 4. It was a full life, for he was 93. But it marks the passing of a certain way of living — an older and more gracious world. Almost three generations of South Indians grew up on stationery and, more importantly, pencils that his family business churned out, for he was a scion of the Vupputur clan that ran V. Perumal Chetty and Sons. Equally famous were the Hoe & Co diaries that the eponymous printing house, also owned by the family, brought out. There were other business interests as well, including being dubashes to the Railways. The Vupputurs were in the top order of the Arya Vysya community of old Madras, whose business heyday was from the 1850s to the 1950s. These Telugu-speaking Chetties left their imprint in diverse fields ranging from law and construction to industry, jewellery and trading. And the more successful built large houses in the Chetpet/Kilpauk area — huge bungalows, of which Vupputur House on Flowers Road was one of the largest. Today, Mylapore may lay claim to being the bastion of Carnatic music but when the Arya Vysyas were at their zenith, it was George Town, their business headquarters, and Kilpauk/Egmore, where they lived, that most artistes aspired to perform in. Legend has it that when his community was exorted to found its own Sabha by T. Chowdiah, the famed violinist, the Indian Fine Arts Society (IFAS) came into being in 1932. B.V. Gopalakrishna Rao, an employee of the Corporation of Madras, was the founder but it was in reality bankrolled by the Arya Vysyas. T.V. Subba Rao, an employee at Hoe & Co, roped in the Vupputurs and that is how the family got involved. Different venues But it was only in the 1950s that Sethuram and, more importantly, his older brother Emberumanar Chetty came to practically run the Sabha, with able assistance from N. Ramachandran, the sabha secretary. Between them, they moved it from George Town, where it had functioned from the historic Gokhale Hall, to Vani Mahal and later the German Hall in Habibullah Road. In addition, the family was also involved in the running of the 50:50 Club. The brainchild of S.Y. Krishnaswami, an ICS officer, the club held its programmes in SGS Sabha on Habibullah Road. Its name came about owing to its restricting membership to a hundred couples — with husband and wife being joint members and therefore having equal weightage. The programmes involved a concert, followed by dinner. Emberumanar and Sethuram were the club’s live wires. At the IFAS, run by the brothers together with secretary Ramachandran and his brother Srinivasan, courtesy to performing artistes was an absolute must. During the 1980s, when Semmangudi, Balamuralikrishna and S. Balachander were hurling imprecations at each other like Nordic gods and many Sabhas took sides, the IFAS remained a venue where all three performed and often launched broadsides against their bete-noires, much to the delight of the audiences. With time, even as the Perumal Chetty and Hoe & Co businesses wound down, and IFAS could not count on that support, Emberumanar and Sethuram ensured that the Sabha became financially independent — sponsors came on board drawn by the sheer goodwill the brothers enjoyed. They knew everyone. “Call Sethu,” was one of the most frequent instructions of S. Muthiah whenever he had any questions about the old business families of Madras. At the December Music Festival, it was customary for Emberumanar to stand at the gate of German Hall and welcome everyone in. After his passing, Sethuram became president and moved the Sabha to Ethiraj Kalyana Mandapam. He continued the tradition, even till a year or so ago, the only concession to age being a sofa near the entrance to sit on. Running IFAS was not easy and I asked him once why he persisted. “It is part of my life,” he said. Calling on him and his gracious wife Sridevi, who predeceased him, at their Barnaby Road flat meant being welcomed by relics of Vupputur House — Thanjavur paintings, a hideous stuffed bear that doubled as a sofa, lovely lacquered screens and, of course, an old world hospitality. Sridevi was a talented veena player herself and one of her prized possessions was a miniature instrument, around 18 inches at most, that could be performed on. Outside of music, Sethuram involved himself in numerous charities. He was also a pillar of Chinmaya Mission, Madras Riding Club and Bala Mandir Kamaraj Trust. His world of friends and acquaintances was large and he embraced everyone with love and affection. He was, as I said, among the last representatives of a different world.  At the IFAS, run by Sethuram and his older brother Emberumanar Chetty with secretary Ramachandran and his brother Srinivasan, courtesy to performing artistes was an absolute must||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-passing-of-a-patron/article32037296.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn Lalgudi Jayaraman’s varnams online||The 90th birth anniversary celebrations of legendary violinist Lalgudi Jayaraman will begin with a special three-day vocal online workshop to be conducted by Lalgudi GJR Krishnan and Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi. Participants will get an opportunity to learn Guru Lalgudi Jayaraman’s varnams and tillanas. To be held from July 17 to 19, 8 p.m. to 9.30 p.m., participants will be taught varnams in Mohanakalyani, Atana and Maund. The siblings plan to host more such workshops. Participants need to have a minimum of five years learning experience in Carnatic vocal or instrumental. Visit https://forms.gle/uZVrHc4Cd8tzgPEB9 to apply. Those interested can also register through lalgudivijayalakshmi facebook or instagram handles or mail sayhello@ shreyanagarajan singh.com. A part of the proceeds from the workshops will go towards supporting artistes in dire straits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/learn-lalgudi-jayaramans-varnams-online/article32037287.ece
10 July 2020||July 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Blend of horror and history||When a grisly murder shocks Los Angeles in 1938, Detective Tiago Vega and his partner Lewis Michener become embroiled in an epic story that reflects the troubled history of the city. Watch how the duo save the city in the chilling tale ‘Penny Dreadful: City Of Angels.’ to be premiered today at 10 p.m. on Zee Cafe.  The story revolves round the Vega family and the deep-rooted horrors that form the cornerstone of a city deeply infused with Mexican-American folklore and social tension. Tiago and his family grapple with powerful forces that threaten to tear them apart. While on one side there is the Mexican folklore saint - Santa Muerte (Lorenza Izzo), on the other is her spiritual sister, the demoness Magda, who believes mankind is inherently evil and committed to let the world burn! All it takes for Magda is soft whispers to bring the City of Angels to destruction. Amid racial tensions, the looming threat of war and Nazi conspiracies threaten to derail the Vegas at every turn. Created by John Logan, the horror historical drama also stars Natalie Dormer, Daniel Zovatto, Kerry Bishé and Rory Kinnear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/blend-of-horror-and-history/article32037257.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU told to clarify dates for undergraduate exams||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Delhi University to clarify by July 13 the date sheets of the final-year undergraduate exams, which saw a series of postponement due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subromanium Prasad also expressed displeasure at the varsity for postponing the exams, which were scheduled for July 10 and deferring them to a date beyond August 15. “Why are you pushing the examination schedule to a date beyond August 15 knowing very well that the career of thousands of students hinges on the results declared and the certificate issued of passing out,” the Bench said. The counsel for petitioners, all final-year students, have given a list of over 40 reasons for what kind of problem they would facing as a result of this deferment. “Have some empathy for the students. Their entire career hinges on the exam timeline,” the Bench said while directing DU to also clarify what mode — online, offline or a combination of both — that it proposes to conduct the exams. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the University Grants Commission, stated that fresh Standard Operating Procedure and office memorandum had been issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development mandating an exam for the final-year students not beyond September end. Mr. Mehta said universities across the country had been granted the option of conducting the final-year exam either online, offline or a merger of both. The High Court remarked that the “Delhi University has been turning turtle a little too often for our comfort” pointing to the series of postponement of the final-year exams. The Bench earlier issued a contempt notice to the varsity and its officers for withholding material information from the court and trying to mislead the court over the postponement of the open book exams (OBE), which was first scheduled on July 1 to July 10. It has clubbed a bunch of petitions filed by final-year students over the holding of the OBE which will be heard together. On Wednesday, a lawyer for one of the petitioner said he received over 500 emails from students, many of whom were suffering from mental trauma due to the repeated postponement of exams. The petitioners also raised the issue of difficulty in pursuing postgraduate studies in foreign universities, including the U.S. and the U.K., as transcripts had to be submitted by the end of July or early August. They highlighted that several students were unable to access the portal of the OBE due to the crashing of the portal during mock test. The High Court was also informed that several students were themselves suffering from COVID-19 and unable to give the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-told-to-clarify-dates-for-undergraduate-exams/article32037580.ece
10 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab for cancellation of varsity, college exams||Describing the COVID-19 situation in the State as non-conducive for conduct of examinations, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said that he will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking cancellation of exams in universities and colleges. The Chief Minister said he will seek revocation of the July 6 Ministry of Home order on compulsory conduct of final terms exams in the universities and colleges by September, and withdrawal of the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) guidelines accordingly. COVID-19 cases in Punjab are increasing every day and are projected to peak in September, Captain Amarinder pointed out, adding that he was not ready to risk the lives of students in these circumstances. “How can we take the risk of exposing students by bringing them together for exams at this juncture?,” asked the Chief Minister. He further said that the exams could not be held in online mode, which the UGC had suggested as an option, since a large section of the students in Punjab, especially in the rural areas and among the backward communities, do not have access to affordable and uninterrupted Internet connectivity.  ‘Not feasible’ It is just not feasible to hold exams in the current situation, he stressed at a meeting of the Education Department to discuss the issue. Pointing out that seven other States had already raised their concerns on this count with the Central government, Capt. Amarinder said all Congress-ruled States had in fact decided to approach the Union government in this regard. Notably, the Punjab government had already announced its decision to award degrees and diplomas, and promote students on the basis of performance of past semesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-for-cancellation-of-varsity-college-exams/article32037613.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active virus cases slump to 21,567; count below 3,000 for 13th day||A total of 2,187 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally of cases to 1,07,051, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. At the same time, 45 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, which took the death toll to 3,258. After the single-day entry almost touched 4,000 on June 23, it has been below 3,000 for the 13th consecutive day on Thursday. Of the total cases, 82,226 people have recovered and there are 21,567 active cases. Though the total cases in Delhi have been increasing, the active cases have been constantly decreasing for the past seven days from July 1, except for July 6, when there was an increase. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1 and has decreased by 5,440 to reach 21,567 on Thursday. Rapid testing All Delhi government-run dispensaries and polyclinics will be conducting rapid antigen tests for people with influenza-like  illness (ILI) symptoms and asymptomatic persons, who are direct and high-risk contacts of a positive case, according to an order issued on Thursday. “In continuation of various measures undertaken by Govt. of NCT of Delhi to augment COVID-19 testing and to ensure that it is more accessible, it has been decided that rapid antigen detection tests will be offered by all Delhi government dispensaries and Polyclinics from 9 a.m. to 12 noon on all working days to all eligible individuals [as per annexure]. This comes into effect immediately,” the order read. The order said that with nearly 2,500 cases being reported each day, there are expected to be at least seven-eight direct and high-risk contacts of a COVID-19 positive person at home and workplace. “Aggressive contact tracing and testing holds the key to ensure that infection is controlled in its tracks effectively. This effectively means that we consistently need to test at least 20,000 people each day. Since the contacts can be in any part of the city depending on the movement of the patient. The testing facility will be made available at all identified dispensaries/polyclinics between 9 a.m. and 12 noon on all working days,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/active-virus-cases-slump-to-21567-count-below-3000-for-13th-day/article32037610.ece
10 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Usmani sent to judicial custody||Student activist Sharjeel Usmani, who was picked up by the U.P. Anti-Terrorist Squad from Azamgarh on Wednesday, was presented in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate in Aligarh on Thursday evening and sent to 14-day judicial custody, police said. Lawyer Ale Nabi, who represented Mr. Usmani, said they would seek bail when the court opens on Monday. “The charges are serious as sections 307 (attempt to murder), 153 (promoting enmity), 506 (criminal intimidation), apart from several other sections have been invoked against him but I am sure we would get bail,” said Mr. Nabi. Mr. Usmani was picked up from the home of his maternal uncle in Azamgarh by the U.P. ATS in connection with two cases registered in Aligarh for allegedly inciting Aligarh Muslim University students during the Anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests that led to a clash with the Aligarh police on December 15, 2019, leaving several students and policemen injured.  ‘Ex-student of AMU’ While the university administration considers him as an ex-student, his relatives and friends claimed he was a student of AMU as he had a backlog in one of the papers in B.A. (Political Science). Mr. Usmani’s father, Tariq Usmani, who teaches Geography in AMU, told The Hindu that for almost 24 hours he had no idea where his son was. “My younger son Areeb, who was also in Azamgarh with Sharjeel, told me over the phone that five policemen in plain clothes picked up Sharjeel when he went out to have tea. They brought him to the residence and confiscated his laptop and books. The family members were photographed but when they asked the purpose they were told that Sharjeel knew about it.” It was only in the evening on Thursday, Dr. Usmani said, that an inspector from a local police station called up to say that his son had been produced in court. Dr. Usmani said his son was named in the FIR filed against students in connection with anti-CAA protests in AMU. “He is a student of political science and writes for two reputed news portals. But these days writing something against the popular narrative is considered illegal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/usmani-sent-to-judicial-custody/article32037616.ece
10 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. does U-turn on land ordinance for MSMEs||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam has in a U-turn scrapped a proposal to do away with any kind of permission or clearance for business enterprises to set up medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) in the State. The Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had on June 29 approved the Assam MSME (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Ordinance, 2020, in a bid to promote industrialisation. The proposals included scrapping the requirement for permission to establish industries with investments up to Rs. 50 crore. Organisations such as the All Assam Students’ Union and All Assam Tribal Sangha panned the draft ordinance as “anti-indigenous people” and said the government was trying to “sell off” the State’s land resources by inviting “outsiders” to set up shop without seeking clearances. “The provisions in the draft ordinance related to the use of land created some apprehensions in the minds of a section of the people. The Chief Minister convened a meeting on July 7 to address the issues and concerns,” Industry and Commerce Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary, also the government spokesperson, said on Thursday. “After detailed discussion, it was unanimously decided that stringent measures and provisions should be made so that the right of the indigenous people over their land are protected and kept unaffected,” he added.  ‘All permissions needed’ “The business enterprise will now have to take all the permission, clearance and approval related to land before starting any industry. In addition to that, all land-related laws and provisions will have to be followed,” Mr Patowary said. The government also clarified that the draft ordinance prohibits enterprise on restricted land such as tribal belts and blocks, public grazing reserve, village grazing reserve, wetland, historical and archaeological sites, and those allotted to religious institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-govt-does-u-turn-on-land-ordinance-for-msmes/article32037618.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Nizamuddin event: 60 Malaysians walk free on fine of Rs. 7,000 each||A Delhi court on Thursday allowed 60 Malaysians to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs. 7,000 each after they accepted mild charges, under the plea bargain process, related to various violations, including the visa norms, while attending an event at a religious centre in Nizamuddin here, their lawyer said. Metropolitan Magistrate Siddharth Malik passed the order after the Malaysians sought lesser punishment under plea bargain and accepted mild charges, the lawyer said. They were chargesheeted for attending the religious congregation here in March having allegedly violated visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak in the country. They were allowed to walk free after the Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Lajpat Nagar, who was the complainant in the case, Additional Commissioner of Police at Lajpat Nagar and Inspector at Nizamuddin said they had no objection to their pleas, advocate S. Hari Haran said. Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence, praying for a lesser punishment. The Code of Criminal Procedure allows for plea bargaining in cases where the maximum punishment is 7-year imprisonment, offences don’t affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and the offence is not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years. During the hearing, the foreigners were produced before the court and the officials concerned of their embassy were also present, said the counsel. Mr. Hari Haran told the court that the alleged offences were committed inadvertently and not without any mal intention and would not be repeated. The judge proposed a fine Rs. 15,000 each on them to which the lawyer pleaded for a lesser fine saying some of them were students and retired persons and will not be able to afford it. The judge then imposed a fine of Rs. 7,000 on them. The Malaysian nationals were granted bail on Tuesday on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 10,000 each.  In April, COVID-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation, tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nizamuddin-event-60-malaysians-walk-free-on-fine-of-rs-7000-each/article32037603.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for robbing people by posing as CBI officer; 2 on the run||A 39-year-old man has been arrested here for allegedly posing as a CBI official and robbing people after offering them a lift, the police said on Thursday. The accused — Tinkal alias Tedha — from east Delhi’’s Trilokpuri, was arrested from his residence on Tuesday, they said, adding that his accomplices Mukesh and Girender are on the run. The matter came to light after the police received a complaint on June 30 from Ajeet Kumar Pal, who was robbed by the accused. Pal told the police that he and his friend had boarded a car from Maharani Bagh bus stand for Burari. The three accused were already inside the car. After a while, they threatened Pal and his friend and forced them to hand over their ATM cards, the police said. The trio claimed to be CBI officials and had weapons and wireless communication sets. The accused dropped Pal and his friend near the ISBT in Kashmere Gate and withdrew Rs. 1,70,000 from their accounts using the ATM cards, the police said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Kumar Gyanesh said bank transactions, cash withdrawal by the suspects and CCTV footage were scanned to identify the accused. In one footage, the men were seen wearing masks and withdrawing money from an ATM in Kamla Nagar, he added. The officer said the accused used their car for the crime. One of them would reach a bus stand, identify a target and enquire about his destination. Meanwhile, his associates would arrive in the car, and the accused would pretend to ask for a lift and offer the target to join him. After going a certain distance, they would introduce themselves as CBI or police officials and run recorded messages on wireless sets to gain the confidence of the passenger. They then would accuse the victim of being involved in a robbery and threaten to get him arrested at the nearest police picket. On this pretext, they would ask the passenger to hand over all belongings and keep them in an envelope. They would then threaten the person to reveal his ATM PIN numbers. After that, they would dump the victim at an isolated place and flee the spot, the officer added. Receipt of over 90K The accused was previously involved in 10 cases, including snatching, robbery, theft and cheating, the police said. A shopping receipt of Rs. 99,253 was found in his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-robbing-people-by-posing-as-cbi-officer-2-on-the-run/article32037581.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police website to post updated list of most-wanted criminals soon||A senior Delhi police officer said that they will update the list of most-wanted criminals and soon upload the same on their website as per due procedure. The Delhi Police official website does not post pictures of Delhi’s most-wanted criminals. After the arrest of U.P.’s most-wanted gangster Vikas Dubey in Madhya Pradesh, Delhi Police has instructed all of its units to update the list of most-wanted criminals in the city. The list will be shared with all Delhi Police units in order to nab criminals with a bounty on their head at the earliest. A senior police officer said that before uploading picture on the website or publishing it in newspapers, they required court permission. “Under CrPC Section 82, it is clearly mentioned that the court may also, if it thinks fit, direct a copy of the proclamation to be published in a daily newspaper circulating in the place in which such person ordinarily resides. We follow all due procedure before publishing the list on the website,” said the officer. The officer added that after the Delhi police prepare the list of most-wanted, it is sent to the office of Commissioner of Police for requisite permission over reward amount. As per the Delhi police website, the pictures of a terrorist were uploaded in 2010 and that of a rape accused was uploaded in 2015. A list of criminals was uploaded this year with reward amount, but no pictures were uploaded. The reward amount gets revised after reviewing the offences of the criminal. “In Delhi, there are more than 20 dreaded criminals wanted on various heinous crimes. The list include names of criminals like Kapil Sangwan, Jyoti Sangwan, Rohit Chaudhary, Hashim Baba and many others. Police teams are regularly working on them,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-website-to-post-updated-list-of-most-wanted-criminals-soon/article32037611.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Cancel DU final-term exams, say academics||A group of about 30 academics across the country, including former University Grants Commission chairperson Sukhadeo Thorat, wrote to the current chairperson Dhirendra Pal Singh on Thursday appealing for the cancellation of the final-term examinations. “I am hoping that as fellow teachers committed to the welfare of our students and the integrity of our examinations, you and your colleagues in the commission will take note of the widespread sentiment that this appeal represents,” wrote Mr. Thorat. Fresh uncertainty The UGC’s latest guidelines issued on Monday effectively extend the period for holding the exams and create fresh uncertainty for States that had already decided to cancel exams, the signatories, including Jayati Ghosh, Apoorvanand, Sunil Kumar, Nandini Sundar among others, wrote. They argued that the call to cancel the exams was not being made because of doubts about its value, but precisely to avoid it being devalued. In the present situation, cancelling exams served the purpose of avoiding extended uncertainty through repeated postponements and protecting the integrity of exams. Given the realities faced by an overwhelming majority of students, online or mixed exams would be biased in favour of those with better Internet access and without proper invigilation. Terming exams as “open book” was an attempt at renaming failing a virtue, they argued. They appealed to the UGC to reconsider its advisory in the interests of students and ending the uncertainty involved by cancelling them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cancel-du-final-term-exams-say-academics/article32037584.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Testing camps for SSGs set to commence today||After a modified ‘Revised Delhi COVID Response Plan’ was released on Wednesday, some of the districts have decided on dates for holding camps for testing special surveillance groups (SSGs) including domestic workers, drivers, daily wage workers and electricians for COVID-19 in areas where they work or stay, officials said. Thousands of people will be tested using rapid antigen test for COVID-19 in camps held near markets, taxi and rickshaw stands among other places. The results will be provided in 30 minutes. “The idea is that people falling in this group such as sabziwala will interact with a larger number of people on a daily basis and if he is positive then he has the potential to infect a large number of people. We are trying to stop it,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . Also, mass disinfection exercises will be carried out on a regular basis at all areas where people fall under the SSG conglomerate. While some of the 11 districts have decided on the areas and dates for holding the testing camps, other districts are in the planning phase. Schedule prepared The south west district has prepared a schedule of 41 such camps, which begins on Friday, in different areas in the district. The tests will be completed in 10 days. “We have already identified markets, taxi stands, areas were people who fall into the SSG lives and camps will be held,” Rahul Singh, District Magistrate (South West) said. Officials of central district said that they were in the process of deciding dates. Isolated cases Moreover, the new plan has identified isolated cases as a “matter of concern” and the official said that door to door survey will be carried out in thousands of houses in areas where isolated cases have been regularly reported for 28 days. “About 20% of the total COVID-19 cases are currently being reported from such areas,” the official added. Explaining about actions on areas where isolated cases are being reported, Mr. Singh said, “We are getting 30-40% of cases in our district from three areas: Raj Nagar, Dabri, and Sadh Nagar. A larger containment zone will be created and we will deploy 100 teams for active surveillance.” An official of the south district said that they too were in the process of coming up with a schedule of the testing camps. “The door to door survey in areas where isolated cases are being reported will take time. It will be a huge process,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/testing-camps-for-ssgs-set-to-commence-today/article32037608.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC unhappy over virus test issue of pregnant women||The Delhi High Court on Thursday expressed displeasure at the Delhi government for failing to clarify again whether every pregnant woman who goes to a hospital for delivery or urgent treatment is required to undergo COVID-19 test, symptomatic or not. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan remarked that the Delhi government’s counsel has been unable to give any clarity on the issue despite over four hearings in the case. A genuine human problem has been turned into a “bureaucratic nightmare”, the Bench said, highlighting that a pregnant women do not go to a hospital 48 hours before the delivery. “Sometimes they go at the last moment... As per your status report, they will be kept in isolation till declaration of results without a family member close by. What kind of society are we living in?” the High Court asked. The court noted that the July 5 order of the Delhi government had stated that all ‘at high risk’, like aged people and those suffering from serious ailments like cancer, when approaching a hospital for treatment of non-COVID ailments need to undertake the rapid antigen detection test (RADT) before being admitted. It pointed out that the order does not include the category of pregnant women, but the status report filed by the Delhi government before the court said they are included. The court also pointed out that while the Delhi government’s advisories had said that all pregnant women have to undergo testing before being admitted, the Delhi government has taken a different stand in the High Court that asymptomatic pregnant women do not have to undergo testing as a pre-condition for being admitted. The court has posted the case for further hearing on July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-unhappy-over-virus-test-issue-of-pregnant-women/article32037601.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||2L ask UGC to scrap final-year exams||Nearly two lakh people signed a petition, calling for the scrapping of final-semester examinations in all universities across the country, as recommended by the UGC in a recent order. Students in several universities had already submitted internal assignments, expecting to be assessed based in those and had even started preparing for entrance examinations for further studies, the petition noted. “The sudden decision by the UGC is bound to cause mental agony to lakhs of terminal semester students especially when many states like Maharashtra and Punjab have already decided to scrap their exams,” it read. The guidelines issued by the UGC are not in the wider interest of the student community as they would also delay the commencement of the new academic session, it argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2l-ask-ugc-to-scrap-final-year-exams/article32037582.ece
10 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||AIIMS-Bhubaneswar shuts OPD||Faced with an acute shortage of healthcare staff on account of COVID-19 infection and self-isolation, AIIMS-Bhubaneswar announced the closure of its out-patient department (OPD) for the general public from Friday. AIIMS-Bhubaneswar is the latest addition to the list of leading referral hospitals in Odisha to close OPD services on account of rising infection cases. “About 31 staffers, including 11 doctors, have tested positive since March. Only seven of them have recovered,” said Gitanjali Batmanabane, AIIMS-Bhubaneswar Director, on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aiims-bhubaneswar-shuts-opd/article32037620.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Discoms issue advisories as monsoon begins||With the onset of the monsoon, power discoms here issued advisories about the precautions to be taken to ensure there are no untoward incidents. Some of the problems faced during monsoons include waterlogging, strong winds uprooting trees, falling branches that damage electricity installations resulting in outages, said discom BSES. Customers have been advised to take safety precautions such as staying away from electrical installations, cautioning children from playing near such installations, and instal earth leakage circuit breaker to help avoid shocks, the discoms said. Tata Power DDL said that it had undertaken an extensive safety drive. The BSES said that it has set up an action plan to ensure minimal downtime of power supply due to monsoon-related exigencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/discoms-issue-advisories-as-monsoon-begins/article32037577.ece
10 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Permission for plasma bank||As COVID-19 cases continue to rise in Punjab, the State government on Thursday gave the go-ahead for establishment of a plasma bank to facilitate plasma therapy treatment, which is already being carried out as an Indian Council of Medical Research trial project in the government hospitals. Chairing a review meeting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh approved the establishment of the plasma bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/permission-for-plasma-bank/article32037614.ece
10 July 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Ex-Manipur MLA blames Cong. for crisis||A former Bharatiya Janata Party MLA has accused two Congress lawmakers of forcing him to sign a resignation letter that led to a political crisis in Manipur last month. Soibam Subhaschandra, who represented the Naoriya Pakhanglakpa Assembly constituency, was one of three BJP legislators who had quit along with four National People’s Party (NPP) and two other MLAs on June 17. The NPP legislators returned to the BJP-led coalition later. Mr. Subhaschandra had on July 4 filed a first information report at the Patsoi police station, alleging he was “forcefully confined” by the Congress from June 17-23. He named Congress MLAs Keisham Meghachandra and Thokchom Lokeshwar and a construction entrepreneur as his tormentors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ex-manipur-mla-blames-cong-for-crisis/article32037619.ece
10 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police ASI dies of COVID-19||A Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspector died due to COVID-19 on Thursday morning, He has been in the hospital since June 23 and was also given plasma therapy. ASI Jeevan Singh, a technician posted in the Special Branch MT Store – a unit where official vehicles are repaired – and a resident of Noida, passed away at Ganga Ram Hospital. Singh’s niece Ruchi Bisht (24) said that her uncle was regularly going to work and fell sick on June 18, adding that he had developed symptoms of the virus. “He got a test done the next day. His reports came on June 21 and he was positive,” she said. The authorities, she said, took him to a quarantine centreNoida where, they suspect, his condition worsened. They shifted Singh to a private hospital in Lajpat Nagar on June 23. He needed plasma therapy and was shifted to Ganga Ram Hospital. He was shifted again on June 27,” she said. A plasma therapy was conducted but he could not survive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-asi-dies-of-covid-19/article32037604.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP State unit restructuring continues||The restructuring of the BJP’s State unit continues with a special emphasis on dealing with over a dozen individuals considered “permanent fixtures” in the unit, given their association with the Delhi BJP in one way or another over the last decade, insiders said. During the last decade the party has seen at least three State presidents. Insiders also said that leaders from the national unit have 35 teams to nominate local leaders for each block president post as part of its ongoing reorganisation in the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-state-unit-restructuring-continues/article32037605.ece
10 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. selects private firm for tele-counselling||The Delhi government has selected a private company for tele-counselling of over 12,000 COVID-19 positive people, who are under home isolation, after the previous company’s service was cancelled by the Lt. Governor in June, according to officials. “The new company was selected through an open tender and an MoU will be signed tomorrow [Friday],” an official source told The Hindu. The company will charge Rs. 315 per person for 10 days of tele-counselling, the source said. Once a COVID-19 infected person, who is mild or asymptomatic, is placed under home isolation after physical verification by Delhi government officials, the private company will be in touch with the patients through telephone calls. “The company will contact each patient at least once in a day and ask about their temperature and oxygen level among other details,” the source said. These details will be then conveyed back to the government. The previous company’s service was cancelled as it was not selected through a tender and by nomination, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-selects-private-firm-for-tele-counselling/article32037606.ece
