11 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Dubey shot dead in ‘exchange of fire’||Vikas Dubey, the history-sheeter accused of killing eight policemen in Bikru village last week, was gunned down early on Friday while allegedly trying to flee from custody after an accident as he was being taken from Ujjain to Kanpur, the Uttar Pradesh police said. The police team shot Dubey multiple times after he fired at them from a pistol he managed to snatch from a police officer, who was injured in the accident, the U.P. Special Task Force (STF) said in a statement. Vehicle turns turtle The STF said the vehicle carrying Dubey lost control and overturned when the driver, who was tired after a long journey, turned sharply to avoid a herd of cattle that suddenly ran onto the road. The accident happened near a hospital in the Sachendi area on the national highway a few kilometres ahead of Kanpur around 6.45 a.m. Dubey was being escorted to Kanpur to be produced in a court, police said. Dubey is the sixth person to be eliminated by the Uttar Pradesh police following the killing of eight policemen by the gangster and his associates on the night of July 2-3 at Bikru village. The police operation came under question after several journalists, who were trailing the convoy from Ujjain, said their cars were suddenly stopped a few kilometres ahead of the spot where Dubey was shot. Several social media users also asked the U.P. police to explain why Dubey, who was earlier seen in a TATA SUV while crossing a toll plaza, happened to be in another vehicle that met with the “accident”. A journalist, who was trailing the convoy from near Jalaun, said several journalists were stopped at the tollbooth there without proper explanation. “I then asked my friends, who were further ahead, to keep track. However, even they were stopped for security checks,” said the journalist on condition of anonymity. Traffic blocked Another mediaperson said several private vehicles, including those of journalists, were blocked at the Barra toll plaza some 10-11 km away. The mediaperson also said that along the way the police constantly shifted Dubey from one car to another and even changed the formation of the moving vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dubey-shot-dead-in-exchange-of-fire/article32048327.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Local spread spiralling, 416 new cases||The emerging COVID-19 situation in Kerala has now begun to resemble the situation in any major metropolis in the country with the pace of disease transmission in the community surpassing all efforts at containment, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The pace at which a superspreader event had transmitted the disease fast and wild across three urban wards in the capital city was an indication how fast the disease could spread across a small and densely populated State such as Kerala, he said here on Friday. Till Friday, the huge number of cases reported daily was on account of imported cases, reported in people coming from abroad or other parts of the country. Picture reversed But on Friday, the picture reversed for the first time, with cases from the community due to local transmission overtaking the number of imported cases, a clear indication of how the epidemic will progress in the coming days. Of the 416 new COVID-19 cases reported, 242 were cases of local transmission, while the imported cases of infection were 174. The disease is spreading across the camps of para military forces in the State with 35 personnel of the Indo Tibetan Border Police in Alappuzha district, two jawans of the BSF in Thrissur and one CISF jawan in Kannur testing positive. One more death Meanwhile, a 63 year-old man and a resident of Poonthura in the capital district, who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 died at the Medical College Hospital here on Friday night. This has not been added to the official death toll. Hospital sources said the patient had several co-morbidities. He had apparently contracted the disease from one of his sons who had tested positive earlier. With 112 recoveries being reported, the number of active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals now is 3,099. The cumulative number of cases reported ever since the outbreak began is poised to touch the 7,000 mark, at 6,950 cases, of which, 3,820 persons have recovered from the disease. Capital tops again For the second day, the maximum number of fresh cases, 129, was reported from Thiruvananthapuram district, of which 122 are “contact” cases which were acquired through local transmission. The number of patients currently undergoing treatment in the district has also suddenly galloped to 450, with a majority of the mild and asymptomatic cases being treated at first line treatment centres. Mr. Vijayan said the government w ould prefer to focus on increasing testing and expanding the current treatment facilities to accommodate the surge in patients. He said that of the total cases, the proportion of cases through local transmission had gone up from 5.11% on June 27 to 20.64% in a matter of two weeks. He said the seriousness of the crisis should be clearly understood and that no government could move forward with effective containment activities unless the people cooperated with the authorities concerned and strictly maintained physical distancing and universal masking policies. Surveillance list The number of persons currently under surveillance is over 1.84 lakh, of whom, 3,517 with COVID-like symptoms are isolated in hospitals The number of hotspots in the State now is 194.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spiralling-spread-416-new-cases/article32048647.ece
11 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports highest single-day surge of 7,862 cases||With a staggering single-day high of 7,862 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, Maharashtra’s total case tally reached 2,38,461. A total of 226 new deaths pushed the total death toll to 9,893. The State has reported over 7,000 cases in a single day twice in less than a week, with the previous highest single-day spike of 7,074 cases recorded on July 4. Of the total cases, 95,647 are active, said State Health Department officials. With 5,366 patients being discharged on Friday, the number of recoveries has gone up to 1,32,625. Mumbai’s total cases crossed the 90,000 mark today, with 1,337 cases bringing the tally to 90,461. However, only 23,035 of these are active. With 73 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 5,205. The number of cases in Dharavi rose to 2,359 with 12 new cases. Pune district reported as many as 37 deaths as its total death toll crossed the 1,000 mark to rise to 1,026. The toll continued to rise in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as well with Thane reporting 17 deaths to take its cumulative tally to 672, Navi Mumbai reporting 12 as its total death count rose to 270, Kalyan-Dombivli reporting 10 to take its cumulative toll to 189, and the Vasai-Virar civic body reporting nine fatalities as its death toll climbed to 150 Nine deaths from Aurangabad district in Marathwada saw the district’s total death toll rise to 323. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said that the State’s recovery rate had risen to 55.62%. The State’s case fatality is 4.15%. Cases in MMR surge Along with Mumbai and Pune, big surges were reported across the MMR. While Navi Mumbai reported the highest single-day surge with 362 positive cases taking its tally to 8,879, Panvel recorded its second-highest surge with 181 new cases taking the tally to 3,511. Thane, too, reported 772 new cases to take the district’s total cases past the 21,000 mark. Kalyan-Dombivli reported a spike of 694 new cases, taking its total case tally to 13,192. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded sharp spikes, reporting 205 and 333 new cases respectively to take their total case tallies to 5,566 and 7,236. Nashik district saw a spike of 352 cases, taking its total case tally to 6,585 of whom 2,683 were active. Likewise, the rise in cases continued in Aurangabad, which reported 278 new cases, taking its tally to 7,691, of which 3,806 are active ones.  (With inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-highest-single-day-surge-of-7862-cases/article32048743.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. issues safety advisory for distribution of textbooks||Free textbooks and other educational resources will be distributed to students of government and government-aided schools in adherence to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the State government. Students of Classes 10 and 12 will first receive their books, and this is being done to facilitate learning from home during the COVID-19 lockdown. In the SOP issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, the schools have been asked to distribute the books in pre-assigned time slots to students or their parents. Not more than 20 persons will be allowed to gather on the school premises during a slot of one hour and physical distancing norms will have to be followed. Teachers, students and parents have all been instructed to wear masks. The schools have also been asked to ensure that students get the video content of lessons on their laptops. For this, the designated staff members have been asked to collect their laptops and take them to the hi-tech labs in the schools. Once the e-resources are downloaded, the laptops will be returned to students. No student or parent will be allowed into the labs. On school campuses, two classrooms will be earmarked as waiting halls for parents and students, who have been asked not to linger outside the premises after the distribution is over. For students who are in quarantine or in containment zones, the schools have been asked to hand over the books once their quarantine period is over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-issues-safety-advisory-for-distribution-of-textbooks/article32048761.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||More military-level talks next week||India and China on Friday agreed to push for a “timely” and “complete” disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and to hold another round of military-level talks, set for next week, to address persisting border tensions. This followed talks held during the day under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs, convened through video-conference. This was the second WMCC meeting in the past two weeks and only the 16th meeting of the body in eight years, underlining the unprecedented recent state of affairs along the border following the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley. The disengagement process is still in progress in several spots along the LAC, and there remains a substantial build-up of thousands of troops along the border, including in-depth areas. The Ministry of External Affairs said both sides reaffirmed that they “will ensure complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity.” D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-military-level-talks-next-week/article32048328.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Commercial vaccine will take at least 12 months, say officials||A novel coronavirus vaccine will take at least 12 months to be commercially available and a realistic deadline for it would be some time next year, a group of government officials informed the Parliamentary Panel on Science and Technology, headed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, at a meeting on Friday. This timeline is contrary to the letter sent out by Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr. Balram Bhargava, exhorting institutions involved in the Covaxin trial to ready the vaccine for “public health use by August 15”. The ICMR later backtracked from this. “We asked them pointedly about the timeline, to which the officials said it can take a minimum of 12 months, if all goes well,” a member who attended the meeting said. The officials also indicated that when the vaccine is developed, it will first be made available to vulnerable groups before distribution for public use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/commercial-vaccine-will-take-at-least-12-months-say-officials/article32048329.ece
11 July 2020||Bhopal,||Solar energy will play big role in ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said solar energy would play a major role in achieving self-reliance in energy, essential for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India). Inagurating a 750 MW solar power project in Rewa district, Madhya Pradesh, he said: “We won’t be able to use solar power entirely unless we have within the country improved solar panels, improved batteries and best quality storage. We need to work in this direction now.” Solar energy, he asserted, would be a big medium for the energy needs of the 21st century. “This is because solar energy is sure, pure and secure. Sure because other sources of energy can be exhausted, but the sun will continue to shine. Pure because instead of polluting the environment, it helps in protecting it. And secure because it’s a huge symbol, inspiration for Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Mr. Modi said. The Rewa solar project, being touted as Asia’s largest, is the first such project in the country to break the grid parity barrier. While the Delhi Metro will use 24% of the electricity produced from it, Madhya Pradesh will use the rest. “The project, along with others, will make Madhya Pradesh a hub of cheap and clean energy,” said Mr. Modi. While the world was in a quandary whether they should focus on environment or economy, he stated that India had shown these two were not in opposition to each other. “They are partners. For us, environmental protection is not limited to some projects, but it’s a way of life. When we launch big renewable energy projects, we are also ensuring our resolve towards clean energy is seen in every aspect of life.” The government’s priority was that electricity reached everyone and the environment remained pure. “This is reflected in our policies relating to solar energy. In 2014, the price of solar power was Rs. 7-8 per unit. Today, it is Rs. 2.15-2.30 per unit. Not just in the country, all over the world it’s being talked about how solar power is so cheap in India,” he observed. In order to achieve self-reliance, the country aimed at ending its dependence on imports. “We have decided that government organisations which buy solar cells and modules should buy only the ones made in India,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/solar-energy-will-play-big-role-in-atmanirbhar-bharat-pm/article32048331.ece
11 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal records highest single-day spike of 1,198 cases||West Bengal recorded its highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases till date, with 1,198 new cases being reported from the State on Friday Twenty-six deaths were also recorded in 24 hours. The total number of cases in the State has increased to 27,109 of which 8,881 are active. Of the 26 deaths, 13 were recorded in Kolkata, six in North 24 Parganas and four in Howrah. One death each was recorded in Hooghly and Purba Medinipur. The total number of deaths in the State due to the viral infection stands at 880. Doubled in 2 weeks An analysis of the daily COVID-19 infections and deaths reveal that both the figures have doubled in the past two weeks. For instance, on June 27, the number of new COVID-19 infections recorded were 521, with 13 deaths The next day, new cases recorded increased to 572, while the number of deaths dropped to 10. Since the end of June, fresh cases and death numbers have increased every passing day. North 24 Parganas district has emerged as a new hotspot of the disease, recording a high number of cases and deaths. On Friday, the district recorded 328 new cases of the infection. It was second only to Kolkata, which recorded the highest number of new cases — 374. The persistent surge in cases has dented the recovery rate of patients in the State which had risen to over 66% of all cases. Presently, the recovery rate is 63.99%.  No increase in tests Another major area of concern pointed out by health experts is that despite the number of infections and deaths rising, the State has not increased the number of samples being tested. The average daily samples tested in the State remains between 10,000 to 11,000 over the past several days. Meanwhile, strict lockdown has been imposed in 434 containment zones since Thursday evening. Most of these containment zones are in North 24 Parganas district, followed by Howrah and South 24 parganas. Kolkata currently has 25 containment zones. Police Commissioner Anuj Sharma visited various areas of the city on Friday and assured that the police will cater to the essential needs of people living in these containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1198-cases/article32048701.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Nizamuddin event: 73 more foreigners walk free||Delhi courts on Friday allowed 62 Malaysians and 11 citizens of Saudi Arabia, who had participated in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin here during the COVID-19 lockdown, to walk free on payment of fine between Rs. 7,000 and Rs. 10,000. The foreign nationals were facing trial for violating visa norms and COVID-19 rules. This comes a day after 60 Malaysians, who were facing similar charges, were allowed to walk free after they paid a fine of Rs. 7,000 each. Metropolitan Magistrate Siddharth Malik allowed 62 Malaysians to walk free on payment of Rs. 7,000 fine each after they filed a plea seeking lesser sentence under the plea-bargaining process by accepting mild charges. Plea bargaining is a provision under the Code of Criminal Procedure in which an accused can negotiate with the prosecution at the pre-trial stage by pleading guilty in exchange for certain concessions in quantum of sentence. Another court of Metropolitan Magistrate Aashish Gupta allowed 11 Saudi Arabia nationals to walk free under a similar process after they paid Rs. 10,000 each. The police have said that over 900 foreign nationals are accused in the case. The congregation in March had emerged as a major hotspot of infections. A Delhi court on Friday also granted bail to 82 foreign nationals from Bangladesh who had been chargesheeted for attending the congregation. They had to furnish a personal bond of Rs. 10,000 each. As of July 10, 371 foreign nationals connected with the case have been granted bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nizamuddin-event-73-more-foreigners-walk-free/article32048552.ece
11 July 2020||Patna,||LJP, RJD call for postponing Bihar poll||With the Assembly election in Bihar just months away, parties from both the ruling and opposition camps in the State on Friday demanded its postponement in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. While National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partner Lok Janshakti Party requested the Election Commission to take a decision after “looking into all aspects”, the Rashtriya Janata Dal demanded that the poll be postponed. “A large section of the population should not be pushed into further danger due to election. An election in the midst of pandemic could lead to very low poll percentage, which will not be good for democracy,” tweeted LJP president Chirag Paswan. He elaborated on his apprehensions, tweeting that an election at this juncture would put additional strain on the common man as well as the Central and State governments. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, who is also Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, took aim at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar while opposing the upcoming election. “Health experts fear countless deaths in the State primarily because of abysmally low testing and dilapidated medical infrastructure,” tweeted Mr. Yadav. With the death toll likely to go up in the coming months, the RJD leader categorically said: “Now is not the appropriate time to conduct elections considering the alarming spread of this disease.” Similar noises have also come from other quarters earlier, including Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) leader and former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav who threatened to knock on the doors of the Supreme Court if the EC decides not to defer the Bihar election beyond October-November. Not all on board All parties, however, are not on board. The CM’s Janata Dal (United) put the ball squarely in EC’s court. “It is up to the EC to decide. The RJD leader is unnecessarily raking up the issue,” said JD(U) spokesperson and Minister Niraj Kumar. RJD ally Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) on Friday announced that the party would contest the poll “whenever the EC decides to hold it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ljp-rjd-call-for-postponing-bihar-poll/article32048546.ece
11 July 2020||Chennai,||Sellur Raju third Minister to test positive for COVID-19||Tamil Nadu Minister for Co-operation Sellur K. Raju on Friday became the third member of the Edappadi K. Palaniswami Cabinet to test positive for COVID-19. He has been admitted to a private hospital in the city. While Electricity Minister P. Thangamani tested positive on July 8, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan was infected last month. Four legislators each from the AIADMK and the DMK have also tested positive so far. Sources said Mr. Raju had accompanied his wife who had tested positive four days ago. He got tested on Thursday, and the result returned positive. His wife, meanwhile, developed complications because of pre-existing health issues and required intensive treatment. In a tweet, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam wished Mr. Raju a speedy recovery and appealed to those in public life to be careful while doing their duty. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had a detailed conversation on the phone with Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on the situation. Noting that Chennai was still a hotspot though the situation had improved, Dr. Vardhan said the sudden increase in cases in rural areas of the State was a matter of concern. More tests urged In a tweet, he said he had advised the State to increase testing and adopt other containment strategies. The State is focusing on lowering the death rate through early diagnosis. It has deployed 350 mobile fever clinics and screened 35,000 to 40,000 persons daily in Chennai. The mortality rate is low at 1.39%. He also posted data on COVID-19 and medical equipment/medicines in the State. In his tweet, Dr. Vijayabaskar said Dr. Vardhan appreciated the State government’s aggressive testing strategy and preventive measures. He also assured the State of support from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sellur-raju-third-minister-to-test-positive-for-covid-19/article32048417.ece
11 July 2020||MUMBAI,||CM, Pawar meet again: Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli lockdown extended||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday for the third time in the past week, even as the government issued a fresh transfer order for 10 Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) in Mumbai, and two municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reporting high cases extended the lockdown in their jurisdictions till July 19. An earlier transfer order for the DCPs, issued on July 2, was scrapped three days later ostensibly due to some discontent over the issue between Shiv Sena and NCP, allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The first meeting between Mr. Pawar and Mr. Thackeray had been held after differences surfaced over the decision to extend the lockdown in the MMR, with Congress and NCP ministers indicating they were kept out of the loop on the decision. Later, both leaders, and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, had met after the transfer orders for 10 Mumbai DCPs were put aside, and it was decided that periodic review meetings will be held to avoid scope for communication gaps within the three constituents of the MVA. On Friday, Mr. Pawar and the CM reviewed ongoing COVID-19 relief work. Apart from extending the lockdown till July 19 in Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli, Mr. Pawar sanctioned nine of the 10 proposed transfers of DCPs. DCP Paramjit Dahiya, who was earlier transferred to Zone I, has now been sent to Zone III, while Sangaramsingh Nishandar will continue as DCP Zone I, according to the fresh order. Mohan Dahikar, who was posted as DCP (Detection), as per the earlier order, has been now sent to Local Arms, Tardeo, while Nandkumar Thakur, who was posted as DCP (HQ 1) will now be DCP (Detection). The charge of DCP (Operations) has been given to DCP Special Branch I, while the Protection and Security Branch will be under the DCP Prevention (Crime). The other transfers first effected on July 2, remain the same. According to sources, such meetings will now be held at regular intervals. “The rumours spread by the Opposition about a threat to the stability to this government have no basis. We are working fine. These meetings are to ensure no miscommunication takes place,” an MVA leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-pawar-meet-again-thane-kalyan-dombivli-lockdown-extended/article32048744.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Backward Classes panel constituted||One-and-a-half years after the completion of the term of the State Backward Classes Commission, the government has formed a new seven-member panel under the chairmanship of former Judge of the Madras High Court, M. Thanikachalam. Three former civil servants T. Pitchandi, T.N. Ramanathan and V. Chandrasekaran have been made members of the commission. The other members of the panel include two academicians, A. Alagumalai and M. Sivakumar, and a chartered accountant M. Alagirisamy. Directors of BC Welfare and MBC and De-notified Communities are the ex-officio members. The Commission’s brief is to entertain, examine and recommend upon requests for inclusion and complaints of over-inclusion and under-inclusion in the lists of Backward Classes (BC) /Most Backward Classes (MBC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-bc-panel-constituted/article32048449.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||14% excess rain in India so far this monsoon||Monsoon rainfall since June has been 14% more than what is normal for this time of the year. So far, India has received 28.7 cm rainfall as opposed to the typical 25.2 cm. Only on nine of the 40 days of monsoon so far has rainfall been less than the daily average, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). About 40% of districts received excess rain while 27% others have seen deficient rain, having received at least 20% less rain than usual. There are 29 districts in Uttar Pradesh, 17 in Gujarat and 16 in Jammu and Kashmir that have received deficient rain. Paradoxically, Uttar Pradesh also leads in the number of districts with excess rain (35), followed by Bihar (32) and Madhya Pradesh (28). Currently, the IMD collates rainfall data from 681 districts. The good rains so far have been helped by the monsoon’s timely onset, on June 1, as well its coverage of the entire country in record time. The rain bearing concentration of clouds, called the monsoon trough, oscillates from the east to the west of the country. In its forecast on Wednesday, the IMD said that this trough is likely to shift northwards towards the foothills of Himalayas from July 9 onwards. In addition to this, moist southwesterly/southerly winds from Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels were likely to converge over the northeast and the adjoining east India from Friday, and southwesterly/southerly winds from the Arabian Sea very likely to converge over northwest India, also from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-excess-rain-in-india-so-far-this-monsoon/article32048378.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State tally crosses 25,000-mark with 1,608 new cases||The State has again witnessed the highest single-day spike of 1,608 fresh COVID-19 cases and 15 deaths during the past 24 hours as of Friday morning. The tally has crossed the 25,000-mark from 20,000 in just four days and a whopping 3,163 cases were reported in the past two days. The tally has gone up to 25,422 and the death toll climbed to 292 with two deaths each in Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Kurnool and one death each in Nellore, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. At present, there are 11,936 active cases, which is less than the number of recovered cases which is 13,194. The recovery rate is at 51.90% and 1,040 patients recovered in the past day. Of the total cases, 22,647 are of locals while 2,351 cases are of people from other States and 424 are of foreign returnees. Among the fresh cases, 1,576 are of locals and 32 are of people from other States. Chittoor district reported 208 fresh cases, while Anantapur reported 191 cases and East Godavari reported 169 cases. They are followed by Kurnool (144), West Godavari (144), Guntur (136), Prakasam (110), Kadapa (91), Visakhapatnam (86), Vizianagaram (86), Krishna (80), Srikakulam (80) and Nellore (51). Meanwhile, Kurnool, Anantapur and Guntur are inching close to cross the 3,000-mark and only four districts have seen less than 1,000 cases so far. The district tallies of fresh local cases are as follows: Kurnool (2,939), Anantapur (2,850), Guntur (2,799), Chittoor (2,209), Krishna (2,175), Kadapa (1,645), West Godavari (1,527), Visakhapatnam (1,277), Prakasam (975), Nellore (955), Srikakulam (646) and Vizianagaram (419). With 21,020 samples tested in the past day, the total samples tested so far stand at 11,15,635 and the positivity rate is 2.28%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-tally-crosses-25000-mark-with-1608-new-cases/article32048320.ece
11 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘State to buy anti-viral drugs on large scale’||Amid complaints of shortage of anti-viral drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said the government will buy them “on a big scale” to ensure that they are available for the needy across the State “soon”. He also said the government will take strict action against black marketeers of the drugs, which are used in treating COVID-19 patients. Mr. Deshmukh made the remarks following his meeting with Food and Drugs Administration Minister Rajendra Shingne. “The State has started the process of purchasing the drugs... It will be available soon,” Mr. Deshmukh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-buy-anti-viral-drugs-on-large-scale/article32048745.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Buggana urges Nirmala to release Polavaram, GST dues||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi on Friday, and requested her to release funds for implementation of the Polavaram project, development of backward areas, schemes envisaged in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, GST dues. and for various other programmes. Mr. Reddy later told the media that he informed Ms. Sitharaman about the blow the COVID-19 pandemic had dealt to the State’s finances. Mr. Reddy also said that he requested Ms. Sitharaman to reimburse the expenditure incurred by the State so far on the Polavaram project as per the Central government’s commitment to implement it as a national project, and to release the GST dues amounting to about Rs. 3,600 crore. The State’s revenues fell by 40% during period between April and June due to the pandemic, Mr. Reddy said. Later, he called on Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buggana-urges-nirmala-to-release-polavaram-gst-dues/article32048255.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Recovery rate up in States||Eighteen States/Union Territories, including Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, have clocked a recovery rate more than the national average of 62.42 %, the Health Ministry said.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recovery-rate-up-in-states/article32048321.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Chinese troops move back||Chinese troops have removed their tents and fully moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5 at Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh while they continue to occupy the ridge lines of Finger 4, a defence source said.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-troops-move-back/article32048333.ece
11 July 2020||Jacob KoshyNEW DELHI,||14% excess rain in India so far this monsoon||Monsoon rainfall since June has been 14% more than what is normal for until this time of the year. So far, India has received 28.7 cm rainfall as opposed to the typical 25.2 cm. Only on nine of the 40 days of monsoon so far has rainfall been less than the daily average, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). About 40% of districts received excess rains while 27% others have seen deficient rains, having received at least 20% less rain than usual. There are 29 districts in Uttar Pradesh, 17 in Gujarat and 16 in Jammu and Kashmir that have posted deficient rains. Paradoxically, U.P. also leads in the number of districts with excess rains (35), followed by Bihar (32) and Madhya Pradesh (28). Currently, the IMD collates rainfall data from 681 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-excess-rain-in-india-so-far-this-monsoon/article32048332.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Lockdown extended in capital city||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that with the COVID-19 situation in the capital city is threatening to go out of hand, the government has decided to extend the lockdown imposed within the city Corporation by another week. However, the stringent triple lockdown, wherein a perimeter control would be imposed and the movement of people strictly regulated through a single entry and exit point, would be imposed only in areas where the disease transmission was intense, he said. Between March 11 and July 9, 481 cases had been reported in Thiruvananthapuram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extended-in-capital-city/article32048710.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Six-year-old suspected to have fallen into SWD||Over 25 personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services and Quick Response Team of the Civil Defence carried out a search and rescue operation till late Friday after receiving information that a girl had fallen into a stormwater drain near Bellandur lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-year-old-suspected-to-have-fallen-into-swd/article32048376.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,||CET to be held as scheduled||Despite calls to postpone the Common Entrance Test, it will take place as scheduled on July 30 and 31. C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Higher Education Minister, said that it will be conducted amidst precautionary measures. Other competitive examinations like PGCET and diploma CET will be conducted as per schedule in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cet-to-be-held-as-scheduled/article32048377.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||15-20% in Delhi have antibodies: sero survey||At least 15-20% of the over 22,000 people tested across the city as part of a serological survey have developed antibodies against COVID-19, said officials. High seropre-valence may mean that a large part of the population has a low chance of getting infected again, claimed officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-20-in-delhi-have-antibodies-sero-survey/article32048548.ece
11 July 2020||new delhi,||High Court rejects Sharjeel Imam’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Friday rejected a plea by former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens, challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-rejects-sharjeel-imams-plea/article32048549.ece
11 July 2020||Jalpaiguri/Kolkata,||One killed, five injured in elephant attack in West Bengal||One person was trampled to death and five others injured after a wild elephant attacked them in Banarhat area of Jalpaiguri district, having strayed from the herd, a forest official said on Friday. One of the injured is in critical condition, while the rest have been discharged. The elephant was later directed to the nearby Banarhat tea garden by forest personnel and efforts are on to make the animal return to its habitat.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-five-injured-in-elephant-attack-in-west-bengal/article32048702.ece
11 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal tourism deptt reopens 10 facilities amid COVID-19 pandemic||The West Bengal tourism department has reopened at least 10 of its facilities in different parts of the State, even as the travel industry reels under the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said on Friday. Among those opened to the public are the Morgan House tourist lodge in Kalimpong in North Bengal and a property in the seaside resort town of Digha. All care is being taken to ensure safety of tourists, the official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-tourism-deptt-reopens-10-facilities-amid-covid-19-pandemic/article32048703.ece
11 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Give info on steps to curb COVID-19 in Byculla jail’||The Bombay High Court on Friday sought information from the NIA and State government on the measures being implemented in Byculla women’s jail to curb the spread of COVID-19 after hearing a criminal appeal filed by civil rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj, challenging the rejection of her bail plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-info-on-steps-to-curb-covid-19-in-byculla-jail/article32048746.ece
11 July 2020||Pune,||10-day lockdown in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad||With Pune reporting an average of 1,000 new COVID-19 cases every day for the past one week, the district administration on Friday announced a strict 10-day lockdown from July 13. The decision came as people in the district are not taking the COVID-19 situation seriously, said Deputy CM Ajit Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-day-lockdown-in-pune-and-pimpri-chinchwad/article32048747.ece
11 July 2020||Chennai,||Plasma bank to be set up in Chennai||After Delhi, Chennai will soon have the country’s second ‘plasma bank’ at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). The Tamil Nadu government is expediting work to establish the facility at a cost of Rs. 2 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plasma-bank-to-be-set-up-in-chennai/article32048418.ece
11 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||89 test positive in Vijayapura district||Vijayapura district recorded its highest single-day spike on Friday with 89 persons testing positive for COVID-19. Dharwad recorded 50 fresh cases, and with these, the total number of such cases in the district went up to 882. Also, Dharwad recorded two deaths on Friday taking the toll to 29. Meanwhile, Haveri recorded 42 cases followed by Uttara Kannada with 33 cases. Davangere recorded 21, Gadag 19, Belagavi 15 and Bagalkot six cases. Dharwad and Gadag recorded two deaths each, while Haveri recorded one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/89-test-positive-in-vijayapura-district/article32048587.ece
11 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Three die in Bidar||Bidar reported three deaths due to COVID-19 on Friday. The total number of deaths stands at 52 now. In Kalaburagi, a 61-year-old male and 52-year-old male who died on July 8 have tested positive for COVID-19. Kalaburagi’s toll now stands at 34. In Ballari, a 47-year-old male died of COVID-19 on Friday. The district’s toll has now climbed to 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-die-in-bidar/article32048586.ece
11 July 2020||Chennai,||3,680 new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu recorded 3,680 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking its tally to 1,30,261. Chennai reported 1,205 cases. The State’s death toll climbed to 1,829, with 64 more deaths, including that of a one-year-old from Kancheepuram. As many as 4,163 persons were discharged on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3680-new-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu/article32048421.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||TN adds a record 3,680 cases, Karnataka 2,313||Tamil Nadu added 3,680 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking its overall tally to 1,30,261. While another 4,163 persons were discharged after treatment, the State’s toll climbed to 1,829 with 64 more deaths including that of a one-year-and-seven-months old child being recorded. The situation in Kerala appeared to be similar to any major metropolis, with community disease transmission defying containment efforts, the Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said on Friday. The pace at which a ‘super spreader’ event had transmitted the disease across three urban wards in Thiruvananthapuram showed the speed of transmission in a small and densely populated State, he said here. Till Friday, the large number of daily cases were imported — people from abroad or other States. But on Friday, the picture reversed. Of the 416 new cases, 242 were cases of local transmission, while imported ones stood at 174. The disease was spreading across the camps of para military forces with 35 personnel of the ITBP in Alappuzha district, two jawans of the BSF in Thrissur and one CISF jawan in Kannur testing positive. With 112 recoveries, the number of active cases in hospitals was 3,099. For the second day, the maximum number of fresh cases, 129, was from Thiruvananthapuram district, of which 122 were “contact” cases from local transmission. The number of patients in treatment in the district also shot up to 450. Mr. Vijayan said the government would prefer to focus on increasing testing and expanding the treatment facilities to accommodate a surge. Of the total cases, the proportion of local transmission rose from 5.11% on June 27 to 20.64% in two weeks. In another single-day spike of 1,608 fresh cases, besides 15 deaths in 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh’s tally went up to 25,422 and the death toll to 292. There were two deaths each in Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Kurnool and one death each in Nellore, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts, the Health Department said. There were 11,936 active cases, and 13,194 recovered cases. Among the fresh cases, 1,576 were locals and 32 people from other States.  Tamil Nadu’s Health Department said the child, a resident of Kancheepuram, was admitted to a private hospital on July 8. He had posterior fossa intracranial space occupying lesion with hydrocephalus. He died within a day of admission on July 9 due to disseminated central nervous system malignancy and COVID-19.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-adds-a-record-2313-cases-kerala-416/article32048271.ece
11 July 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. police had earlier shot dead five associates of Vikas Dubey||Prior to Vikas Dubey’s killing in an alleged exchange of fire, the Uttar Pradesh police had shot dead five other accused linked to the ambush of July 2-3, in which eight policemen were killed. Prem Kumar Pandey and Atul Kumar were killed a few hours after the ambush, in an alleged exchange of fire. A pistol and rifle looted from the police team that had gone to raid Dubey’s house in Bikru were recovered from them, said police. Pandey, who supervised work on an earthmover that was used to block the path of the police team in Bikru on July 2, was a distant maternal uncle of Dubey. His son Sashikant, who works in a detergent factory, is also an accused with a bounty of Rs. 50,000. He is still absconding. Amar Dubey, an aide of Vikas Dubey, who was often seen carrying a gun with the history-sheeter, was shot dead in a village in Hamirpur’s Maudaha on Wednesday. According to police, Amar was spotted in a village after a tip-off by an informant. He threw his bag on the ground and started firing at police with an “intent to kill”. A sub-inspector was shot in his bullet-proof vest. The special task force then asked Amar to surrender but he abused them and started firing again, said U.P. police. Then, the police entered into his firing range in a bid to arrest him and a constable was injured after allegedly being shot by Amar. In covering fire, Amar was shot. He died at a community health centre. An illegal semi-automatic .32 bore pistol was recovered from him, said police. Prabhat, another aide of Vikas Dubey, was arrested in Faridabad on Wednesday. On Thursday, he was being brought to Kanpur under transit remand when one of the U.P. police vehicles had a flat tyre near Panki, said police. Prabhat snatched a pistol from a sub-inspector and tried to flee, while firing indiscriminately at the police team, who shot him in self-defence. He was killed. Bauwa Pandey was shot dead in Etawah the same day. At around 3 a.m. on Thursday, some persons in an SUV were seen escaping after looting a car on a highway near Bakewar, Etawah. They were intercepted at Kachaura road at 4:30 a.m. and, during the chase, the looted car collided with a tree, following which the criminals started firing, said police. When Bauwa Pandey was intercepted, he fired at the police team and, in return fire, he got seriously injured and was declared dead in the hospital, added police. A pistol and a DBBL gun were recovered from him. His three accomplices managed to flee in the SUV. Shyamu Bajpai was also shot by police in his leg in a separate incident but he survived. Bajpai and the two others were arrested on July 7 during a vehicle check. On the morning of July 8, Shyamu was taken to a forest area four km near Shivli Road to recover the weapon used in the earlier encounter of July 2. Shyamu dug out a pistol hidden in a pit on the side of the road and fired at the police team with the intent to kill, following which the police shot at him in self-defence, police said. He was arrested. Family protests Bajpai’s family, however, said he had already been picked up by police on July 3 from his house, where he was sleeping, a few hours after the ambush. Bajpai himself told media after being treated at a hospital that he had been in a police station and knew nothing about the killing of the cops. A country-made pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from Shyamu, an alleged accomplice of Vikas Dubey, according to police. Shyamu works as a labourer in a detergent factory, his family said. Dayashankar Agnihotri, Vikas Dubey’s cook, was also arrested by police after an alleged exchange of fire in which he was shot in his leg. After his arrest, Agnihotri told media that on the night of the ambush Dubey had received a tip-off about the police raid from a policeman in Chaubeypur station and that he had then summoned around 20-30 armed men to his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-police-had-earlier-shot-dead-five-associates-of-vikas-dubey/article32048283.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Recovery rate is above national average in eighteen States/UTs||Eighteen States/Union Territories are currently clocking a recovery rate more than the national average of 62.42 %, the Health Ministry said on Friday. Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tripura, Rajasthan, Delhi and Ladakh, among others have a recovery rate of over 70 %. “States/UTs have also taken many steps to keep the fatality rate low with mapping of the communities to focus on the high risk group like the elderly/aged and population with co-morbidities, and providing special care to them,” said the Health Ministry. There was a focus on improving the quality of the medical care for COVID patients. A strong network of ASHAs and ANMs, along with Ayushman Bharat – Health and Wellness Centres, have helped in effective surveillance and contact tracing of the cases, including lakhs of migrants and returnees, the Ministry said. Presently, India has 1,218 Dedicated COVID-19 Hospitals, 2,705 Dedicated COVID Healthcare Centres and 10,301 COVID Care Centres. “The Health and Wellness Centers (HWCs) across India recorded 8.8 crore footfall in the five months since 1st February despite restrictions on movement of people during the intervening lockdown periods this year,” noted the Ministry.  The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that the country currently had 1,169 labs, with 835 in the government sector and 334 in the private.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recovery-rate-is-above-national-average-in-eighteen-statesuts/article32048306.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘1st phase of disengagement completed’||Chinese troops have fully moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5 at Pangong Tso in Eastern Ladakh while they continue to occupy the ridge lines of Finger 4, a defence source said. They have thinned down but not pulled back from ridge lines of Finger 4, a defence source said. The disengagement from Patrolling Point 17A is fully complete, another source said. Chinese troops have removed their tents and fully moved their troops and vehicles from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5, the source said. Chinese troops have thinned down in terms of numbers on the ridgelines at Finger 4 in the last few days, but they have not pulled back yet, the second source said. The first phase of disengagement is now fully complete at PP 14, 15 and 17A with Indian troops too pulling back as per agreement after the Chinese troops moved back first. Details of the next phase of disengagement would be worked out at the next round of Corps Commanders talks which are expected to be held next week. However, the date is not clear yet. At the next round of talks, the focus would be on the next phase of disengagement from the standoff sites as well as pull back of the thousands of troops from the depth areas along the LAC. There have been three rounds of Corps Commander-level talks so far on June 6, 22 and 30 in an attempt to resolve the situation along the LAC. While there is some disengagement at Pangong Tso, there is a long way to go, a second defence source said referring to the ingress by China from Finger 8 to Finger 4 during the current standoff, which began in early May. As reported by The Hindu earlier, Chinese troops pulled back from PP 14 and PP15 earlier this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1st-phase-of-disengagement-completed/article32048292.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF gets last of 5 AH-64E Apache attack helicopters from Boeing||Boeing handed over the last of the five AH-64E Apache attack helicopters to the Indian Air Force (IAF), completing the contract for 22 Apaches. The Apaches were deployed at the Leh air base as part of the forward movement of assets, amid the stand-off with China in Ladakh. The final five of the 22 Apache attack helicopters were handed over to the IAF at the Air Force Station, Hindan, in June, Boeing said in a statement on Friday. Earlier, in March, Boeing handed over the last five of the 15 CH-47F(I) Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to the IAF. The IAF inducted the first batch of Apaches in September 2019 and based them at Air Force Station, Pathankhot, Punjab. While the last five Apaches arrived in India early this year, the handover was slightly delayed due to the COVID-19 lockdown. $3 billion deal India contracted 22 Apache helicopters and 15 Chinook helicopters from Boeing through the Foreign Military Sales programme of the U.S. government in September 2015 under a $3 billion deal. During the India visit of President Donald Trump in February, India and the U.S. signed a deal for six additional Apaches for the Army. Boeing’s joint venture in Hyderabad, Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited, has been producing aero-structures for the AH-64 Apache helicopter for both the U.S. Army and international customers, the statement said. Boeing’s suppliers in India are manufacturing critical systems and components for the Chinooks, including the crown and tailcone assembly by the Tata Advanced Systems and the ramp and aft pylon by Dynamatic Technologies, Boeing added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-gets-last-of-5-ah-64e-apache-attack-helicopters-from-boeing/article32048298.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘States are requesting cancellation of trains’||The Indian Railways on Friday said it had not been able to announce more special passenger trains as the national transporter is already receiving requests from various State governments to either cancel existing trains or to reduce their frequency in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. “We are in constant touch with State governments on a real-time basis, and depending on the COVID-19 situation, we are getting requests for the cancellation of a few trains, reducing the frequency of trains, and sometimes cancelling the stoppage of the trains in the State. Based on their requirements, we are making these adjustments,” Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav said. He added that the Tamil Nadu government had requested that seven trains running in the State be cancelled for now; the West Bengal government has asked that the frequency of five trains be reduced; Odisha has sought to cancel some of the stoppages; and Jharkhand has requested that two trains be cancelled for the time being. “We are running the trains so that essential travelling services are met. At the same time, we are monitoring the COVID-19 situation. It is the reason why we have been unable to announce more train services,” Mr. Yadav said while addressing a virtual conference. Of the 230 special passenger trains being run, about 80 trains are running at over 100% capacity as of June 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-are-requesting-cancellation-of-trains/article32048318.ece
11 July 2020||Bhopal,||Dubey was taken without transit remand: M.P. police||Vikas Dubey, who was killed by the Uttar Pradesh police reportedly in an encounter on Friday, was being taken by them to Kanpur from Ujjain without obtaining a transit remand from a local magistrate, said the Madhya Pradesh police. Adarsh Katiyar, Madhya Pradesh Additional Director General of Police (ADG), Intelligence, told The Hindu , “Transit remand was to be taken by the Uttar Pradesh police as he was wanted by them. That was their call.” Uttar Pradesh ADG, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar, had said on Thursday that Dubey would be brought to the State on transit remand. According to a note issued by the Uttar Pradesh police’s Special Task Force (STF), Dubey was reportedly being taken to a Kanpur court. “The accused, Vikas Dubey, was being taken by the STF to Kanpur city to be produced before the court of Kanpur city from the Ujjain court according to rules,” the STF said. Confirming that the U.P. police hadn’t produced Dubey before a magistrate in Ujjain, Arvind Tomar, in charge of the Mahakal police station under which Dubey was arrested, said, “The Ujjain Superintendent of Police received an application from the Kanpur police saying Dubey was absconding and carried a reward. And in order to complete the judicial process, he should be handed over to them. So, we handed him over to them in compliance with that.” Dubey was reportedly arrested on Thursday by the Ujjain police near the Mahakal temple. Meanwhile, Mr. Tomar rubbished a social media post claiming Dubey had told the Ujjain police after his arrest that he had fired on the police team, out to arrest him on the intervening night of July 2 and 3, fearing an encounter death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dubey-was-taken-without-transit-remand-mp-police/article32048281.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||After camel back, drones used for cross-border smuggling||Not long ago, Pakistan-based criminal syndicates and terror outfits smuggled drugs, weapons and other illegal goods on camel back across the vast Thar desert in Rajasthan and through well-trained foot couriers. Now, they are taking to drones. The increasing use of drones for cross-border smuggling has led the Indian security agencies to look for various ways to put in place reliable systems as part of a smart border management mechanism for deterrence. In terms of border security, drone jammers may not prove to be more effective and, hence, other viable options for surveillance and detection are being explored. The latest case of arms dropping through a Pakistani drone was detected when the Border Security Force shot down the UAV near Rathua village in the Hira Nagar sector of Jammu on June 20. It was loaded with a M4 rifle of the U.S. make, two magazines, 60 live rounds and seven grenades. Recipients unidentified This was the first time a drone dropping was noticed in the Hira Nagar sector along the International Border with Pakistan. The enforcement agencies are yet to identify the intended recipients of the consignment. No arrests have been made so far. Another case was reported in the intervening night of June 3 and 4 when a weapon consignment was dropped through three drone sorties on the outskirts of Dharamkot Randhawa village in the Dera Baba Nanak area of Punjab’s Gurdaspur. According to a security agency official, the consignment included two MP-9 guns, six pistols and Rs. 4 lakh in counterfeit currency. Preliminary investigation revealed that it had been sent at the instance of Ranjeet Singh Neeta, chief of Pakistan-based Khalistan Zindabad Force, who was recently designated by the Central government as a terrorist under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Neeta’s accomplice was identified as Germany-based Gurmeet Singh Bagga, who has also been designated as a terrorist. “Such an operation cannot be carried out without the knowledge of Pakistani agencies. Efforts are being made to identify all those involved,” said the official. Terror module busted On September 21, 2019, the Punjab police busted an alleged pro-Khalistan terror module and seized a cache of weapons, including five AK-47 assault rifles with 16 magazines, four pistols of China make with 8 magazines, nine grenades, 472 cartridges, Rs. 10 lakh in fake Indian currency and five satellite phones.  The consignment had also been dropped using “Pak-controlled” drones at the pre-decided locations in Punjab. Alleged module leader Akashdeep Singh was arrested along with Balwant Singh, Harbhajan Singh and Balbir Singh. Investigation indicated that the consignment was also sent at the behest of Neeta and Gurmeet Singh Bagga was a co-conspirator, as alleged. “A drone with payload capability is available in the market for Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 2 lakh. Quadcopters are also being deployed by Pakistani agencies for spying activities in the border areas,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-camel-back-drones-used-for-cross-border-smuggling/article32048290.ece
11 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Heavy rain triggers landslips in Arunachal Pradesh, 8 dead||Two instances of landslips, nine hours apart, killed eight people, including an eight-month-old girl, in Arunachal Pradesh on Friday morning. The first incident happened around 2.30 a.m. at Tigdo village in Papum Pare district. The second one occurred around 11.30 a.m. at Modirijo village on the outskirts of State capital Itanagar. Officials said four people were buried alive in each spot after heavy showers. The deceased included four minors, including the eight-month-old. The State’s disaster management officials said the police and local people retrieved all the bodies from the debris at both sites. Rescue workers managed to save three persons at Modirijo. “The Modirijo incident happened when rain washed down earth from the dumping site of a highway and engulfed a kutcha house,” Superintendent of Police Tumme Amo said. Chief Minister Pema Khandu announced an immediate release of ex-gratia of Rs. 4 lakh to the survivors of the victims. “Incessant rain in the last couple of days that triggered landslips and flood has left trails of largescale devastation in the entire State,” he said.  Landslips in Arunachal Pradesh have so far killed 12 people in less than two months.  In Assam Heavy rainfall triggered landslips in Assam also, killing 24 people since May last week. Of these, 21 died in three districts of Barak Valley. Forty people have died in floods in the State since May 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heavy-rain-triggers-landslips-in-arunachal-pradesh-8-dead/article32048295.ece
11 July 2020||PATNA,||Call to defer Bihar election||With the Assembly election just months away, there is a growing demand for its postponement from both the ruling and Opposition parties in view of the surging cases of COVID-19 in the State. On Friday, Lok Janshakti Party, a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), requested the Election Commission to take a decision after “looking into all aspects”. Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly Tejashwi Yadav also demanded postponement of the election. “A large section of the population should not be pushed into further danger. Besides, an election in the midst of the pandemic could result in a very low turnout, which will not be good for democracy,” tweeted LJP president Chirag Paswan. “The common man as well as the Central and State governments are financially strained due to the pandemic. Under the circumstances, polls will be an additional burden,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-defer-bihar-election/article32048273.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC puts on hold demolition of Secretariat buildings||Telangana High Court on Friday passed an order staying the ongoing demolition of Secretariat buildings till Monday. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy announced the stay order after hearing the PIL petition filed by professor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao and Cherukuri Sudhakar alleging that due procedure of law was not being followed in demolition of the buildings. The petitioners’ counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar contended that the State government ought to have complied with rule 4 (3) of the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules-2016 while demolishing the Secretariat buildings. But it did not do so and hence the demolition was illegal and needs to be stopped, he argued. According to him, the rule says that waste generators should submit a waste management plan and obtain appropriate approvals from the local authority before construction or demolition of a building. In the Secretariat case, the local authority was the GHMC. On hearing the counsel’s contentions, the CJ sought to know from the Advocate General B.S. Prasad whether the government followed the said rules. The AG replied that he was yet to get information on those two points. The bench observed that, in the backdrop of it being unclear whether the government prepared a plan and secured permission, prima facie the building demolition was in violation of the rule. Making this observation, the bench instructed the government to stop the demolition till Monday. “Any citizen has a right to raise any questions challenging the action of the State if that person opines the State was violating the law,” the bench remarked. “Please do not continue demolition,” it said. The bench noted that it had understood from media reports that demolition of Secretariat buildings would be over in seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-puts-on-hold-demolition-of-secretariat-buildings/article32048247.ece
11 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Yediyurappa goes into quarantine||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has gone into home quarantine for a few days from Friday, after some employees of his home-office, Krishna, tested COVID-19 positive. Mr. Yediyurappa has cancelled all meetings and decided to stay at his official residence, Cauvery, on Kumara Park Road in the city. He was scheduled to attend a send-off programme of 16 retiring MLCs at 10.30 a.m. on Friday. “As a few personnel at ‘Krishna’ tested COVID-19 positive, I am discharging duties from home for a few days, giving instructions and suggestions through videoconference. I am healthy and there is no need to panic,” the Chief Minister tweeted. Sources in the State government said that one of the Chief Minister’s drivers and a cook at his residence, Dhavalagiri, tested positive. Last month, the Chief Minister’s home office was sealed after four government employees, including two policemen, tested positive. Then he shifted all meetings scheduled at Krishna to the State secretariat. Sources said that in the next few days, the Chief Minister will hold videoconferencing with officials, Ministers, MLAs, and Deputy Commissioners and discuss COVID-19 related developments in the State. The public entry has been banned to Krishna and Cauvery. The Chief Minister has also cancelled all public meetings during the next five days. All vehicles used by the Chief Minister and his home office would be sanitised, the sources added.  As a few personnel at ‘Krishna’ tested COVID-19 positive, I am discharging duties from home for a few days, giving instructions and suggestions through videoconference. I am healthy and there is no need to panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediyurappa-goes-into-quarantine/article32048250.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||NIA to probe Kerala gold seizure case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case in connection with the smuggling of gold at the Thiruvananthapuram airport. The NIA said in a statement that initial enquiries indicated that the “proceeds of the smuggled gold could be used for financing of terrorism in India”. The 30 kg of gold concealed in imported plumbing material was seized by the Custom officials on July 5 upon inspection of an air cargo consignment addressed to the Consular General of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). NIA registered the case under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, against four persons — Sarith P.S, Swapna Prabha Suresh, Fazil Fareed and Sandeep Nair. “The aforesaid consignment was found camouflaged in diplomatic baggage from UAE that is exempted from inspection as per the Vienna Convention. The said consignment was to be received by Sarith, who had worked in the UAE Consulate earlier as Public Relations Officer. Initial investigation by Customs Department has revealed that Sarith had received multiple such consignments earlier as well,” the NIA said. As the case pertains to smuggling of a large quantity of gold into India from offshore locations, threatening the economic stability and national security of the country, it amounts to a terrorist act as stated in Section 15 of the UAPA, it said. One of the suspects, Swapna Praba Suresh, has moved an anticipatory bail plea claiming she was innocent. She was an employee of the Consulate. She mentioned in her plea that though she had resigned from the Consulate, she was still working as secretary on “request basis” in view of the COVID-19 situation. Protest turns violent Meanwhile, Youth organisations of the Congress, the BJP, and the IUML clashed with the police at many places on Friday as their protest marches demanding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation in the gold-smuggling case turned violent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-to-probe-kerala-gold-seizure-case/article32048266.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fresh push for pedal power in smart cities||With public transport affected due to the spread of COVID-19, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Friday invited cities to come up with quick solutions for promoting cycling. The ‘India Cycles 4 Change Challenge’ and an online portal for cities to submit their proposals was launched by the Smart Cities Mission of the Ministry. Apart from the 100 cities implementing the Smart Cities Mission, cities with population of over 5 lakh and capitals of States and Union Territories can apply. “In October 2020, 11 cities will be shortlisted and will receive Rs. 1 crore award and guidance from national and international experts to further scale-up the initiatives in stage two, which will be held until May 2021,” the Ministry said in a statement. “The challenge aims to help cities connect with their citizens as well as experts to develop a unified vision and initiatives to promote cycling,” the online portal stated. Cities would be encouraged to create extensive cycling networks using low-cost methods like pop-up cycle lanes and non-motorised zones and set up community-led cycle rental schemes.  Two stage challenge After its launch by Smart Cities Mission Director Kunal Kumar in an online event, the mission tweeted that the challenge would be in two stages — implementation of pilot projects for cycling by all cities that register and scaling up the interventions by cities selected based on their proposals. The programme would be supported by the India Programme of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy, it said. The cities shortlisted for the challenge would be announced on October 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-push-for-pedal-power-in-smart-cities/article32048288.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Approach HCs on school fees, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed parents seeking a moratorium on school fees for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic restrictions to approach the High Courts, saying the situation in each district, leave alone each State, differed from one another, and the apex court could not pass an “omnibus” order. “Problem with every State is different. Parties are involving jurisdiction of this court as an omnibus case. But these are fact-intensive situations in each State and district,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde observed. He said parties invoke the jurisdiction of the apex court in myriad matters and then go on to express disappointment when the judicial orders do not meet their expectations. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Sunil Gupta, representing the schools’ interests, said there was a difference of views among the parent community across the country. Mr. Gupta said the policy should be left to the Executive to decide. The plea also sought that the Centre and all States be asked to direct the private unaided/aided schools to only charge proportionate fees based on actual expenditure towards the conduct of online virtual classes, and no other fees from April 1 till the commencement of physical classes. Parents of school-going children who have moved the top court hail from Rajasthan, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/approach-hcs-on-school-fees-says-sc/article32048302.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘U.S.-bound students worried’||The recent order by the U.S. Immigration and Custom Enforcement (ICE) and Homeland Security that foreign students studying in universities where online classes are being held due to the COVID-19 pandemic will not be allowed to stay in the country has caused a lot of uncertainty in the large Indian student community in the U.S. Speaking to The Hindu , former Lok Sabha MP from Nizamabad and immigration lawyer heading the New York-based law firm Sharma Yaskhi and Associates LLP, Madhu Goud Yaskhi, said that while Indian students already studying in universities in the United States were affected, the situation for those who had received offers from U.S.-based universities but were yet to start their academic year in the fall term was worse. “Anxiety levels are high and students are very worried. We have received calls from anxious students and parents on the status of new admissions, etc. We have also been in touch with a student body here, called Meri Zimmedari, who tell us that universities are seeking feedback via town halls with students, etc., on what to do next,” he said. Challenging order Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have already decided to legally challenge the order, but Mr. Yaskhi says many others are still studying the import of the order. “During the spring semester, universities had allowed foreign students to stay on campus despite classes not being held. This order has made that accommodation difficult for the upcoming fall semester,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-bound-students-worried/article32048308.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC creating confusion with its guidelines: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the University Grants Commission (UGC) of creating “confusion” by issuing guidelines to hold final term examinations in September and asked the body to promote students on the basis of their past performance. He said it was “unfair” to hold examinations in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and sought their cancellation. “COVID-19 has affected everyone. Our students in schools, colleges and universities have been struggling very much. IITs, colleges have cancelled the examinations and have promoted the students. The UGC is creating confusion. The UGC should also promote students based on past performances,” Mr. Gandhi said in a video message. The message was part of the Congress’s online campaign #SpeakUpforStudents that was meant to highlight the issues faced by the students. “It is extremely unfair to conduct exams during the Covid19 pandemic. UGC must hear the voice of the students and academics,” Mr. Gandhi had tweeted earlier while asking for the cancellations of exams. The Congress’s student wing, the National Students Union of India, that piloted the campaign, claimed that it was the third highest trending topic until 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ugc-creating-confusion-with-its-guidelines-rahul-gandhi/article32048309.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Why remove masks, sanitisers from list of essentials: Cong.||The Congress on Friday slammed the Union government for removing masks and hand sanitisers from the category of essential commodities and accused it of colluding with MNCs for ‘profiteering’. In a series of tweets, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked what changed between June 16, when the government notified sanitisers and face masks to be treated as essential commodities until the end of the year, and July 1, when the Ministry of Consumer Affairs decided to remove them as items under the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, 1955. “‘Opportunity in Adversity’ said the PM. The ‘unholy nexus’ of BJP Govt with MNCs/Companies of profiteering at the cost of people stands exposed. Govt has removed face masks & hand sanitisers as ‘essential commodities’. Now, masks/hand sanitisers can be sold at any MRP!” tweeted Mr. Surjewala, who tagged the July 1 notification of the Ministry. The notification said the Ministry had decided not to continue these items as ‘essential commodities’ under the EC Act beyond June 30 as there were no adverse reports from States and Union Territories (UTs) regarding the price or availability. The Congress leader also tweeted a notification of June 16 to show the change in the government’s stance in 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-remove-masks-sanitisers-from-list-of-essentials-cong/article32048312.ece
11 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Dubey ‘encounter’ similar to 2009 Meghalaya case, claim activists||The death of Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey in an ‘encounter’ with the police on Friday morning was reminiscent of a similar incident in Meghalaya 11 years ago, rights activists in the hill State recalled. According to the Meghalaya-based Civil Society Women’s Organisation (CSWO), the script of the U.P. ‘encounter’ seemed to have been taken from the same playbook that prescribed an encounter death for Fullmoon Dhar in 2009. Wanted for a series of crimes, including rape and murder, Dhar was said to have been on the payroll of some coal mine owners in Meghalaya, specifically in East Jaintia Hills district. The major players have allegedly been controlling the political parties, bureaucracy and police in the State. Dhar was caught in September 2008 for the murder of two women, one of whom worked at the house of a former Director-General of Police. He was lodged in the Shillong Central Jail from where he escaped on May 31, 2009, along with six under-trial prisoners. The police allegedly shot him in an encounter in West Jaintia Hills district 24 hours later, while the six others were recaptured. Two rights organisations lodged complaints that the encounter was fake and needed proper investigation. Nothing came out of the case, said CSWO president Agnes Kharshiing. The probe ordered in 2009 took almost two years to get off the ground. A fresh investigation was initiated in 2016 and two investigating officers subsequently closed the case for lack of evidence. The CSWO objected to the closure and the case was handed over to the West Jaintia Hills district police chief. “The UTPs in that jailbreak said the guards saluted Dhar and that they had virtually walked out. Dhar spoke to someone on the phone while they were making their way through a forest. The police were waiting for them when they reached the spot where Dhar was shot,” Ms. Kharshiing said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dubey-encounter-similar-to-2009-meghalaya-case-claim-activists/article32048553.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Free oxygen service comes handy||In an attempt to help COVID patients or those diagnosed with coronavirus-like symptoms and low oxygen levels, several groups and conscientious individuals in the city have embarked on providing free oxygen cylinder service. For instance, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind’s Hyderabad wing has tied up with oxygen cylinder suppliers, and thus far, reached out to dozens of those in need. According to the socio-religious organisation’s city president Mohammed Rashaduddin, the move came after the organisation was apprised of the severe want of oxygen cylinders. “We started this initiative on July 2 and have given 151 cylinders so far. We found that oxygen cylinders are short in supply but high in demand by patients. Several hospitals are not even admitting patients. This service comes to the aid of such people,” he said. “The organisation is providing 17 litre and 40 litre oxygen cylinders. The beneficiaries will have to pay a fully-refundable deposit of Rs. 10,000 for the 17 litre cylinder and Rs. 20,000 for the 40 litre cylinder. The moment the cylinders are returned, the deposit will be handed back to them,” Mr. Rashaduddin said. “There are some conditions such as doctor’s prescription which is mandatory, and copies of ID proof of the patient and attendant. The cylinder will be given to any Indian citizen. We are saying that only those in need must have them,” he said, adding that so far, six cylinders have been returned by beneficiaries. Those in need of oxygen cylinders can contact 8712313740 and 8247434088. “ We took one more initiative of free ‘Oxygen Bank’ to help those who cannot afford private hospitals. Those in need of oxygen, can call 8499843545,” Mr. Teja said.  The organisation is providing 17 litre and 40 litre cylinders. Beneficiaries will have to pay a fully-refundable deposit of Rs. 10,000 for the 17 litre cylinder and Rs. 20,000 for the 40 litre cylinder.  Mohammed Rashaduddin City president of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-oxygen-service-comes-handy/article32048611.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Flipkart, MSME Department sign MoU for better market access||Flipkart, India’s homegrown e-commerce marketplace, and the Department of MSME and Mines, Government of Karnataka, have signed a memorandum of understanding to promote the State’s arts, crafts and handloom sectors by bringing them on to the e-commerce platform and providing market access. The partnership, under the Flipkart Samarth programme, will enable local artisans, weavers and craftsmen of Karnataka to showcase their hallmark products to a pan-India customer base. Both the State government and the Flipkart Group will focus on creating avenues to increase business and trade inclusion opportunities for these underserved segments of the society, thereby adding further thrust to the Make in India efforts. Commenting on the partnership, Maheshwar Rao, Principal Secretary, Department of MSME and Mines, Government of Karnataka, said, “The collaboration with Flipkart will be instrumental in driving commercial and social development in the State. This partnership will help in taking the local handicraft and handloom businesses of Karnataka to a national consumer base. MSMEs in the State will also benefit.” Flipkart Samarth seeks to break entry barriers for artisans by extending time-bound incubation support, which includes benefits in the form of onboarding, free cataloguing, marketing, account management, business insights and warehousing support, said a Flipkart statement. “The partnership will see renowned Karnataka-based brands — Cauvery - Karnataka Handicrafts Development Corporation and Priyadarshini Handlooms, part of Karnataka Handlooms Development Corporation — joining the FlipkartSamarth programme,” said the company. “We are delighted to give the State’s artisans the opportunity to showcase and sell their products on a transparent platform. These are challenging times, and as a homegrown platform, we believe it is our responsibility to boost local businesses,” said Rajneesh Kumar, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Flipkart Group. Over 500,000 artisans, weavers and micro enterprises across the country are currently part of Flipkart||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flipkart-msme-department-sign-mou-for-better-market-access/article32048380.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajasthan’s education guidelines irk NCPCR||National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has pulled up the Rajasthan government for its new guidelines on elementary education that “violate” the Right to Education Act, 2009 and deny children from economically weaker sections the right to free education in nursery classes. “...NCPCR seeks your comments on the matter within 7 days. NCPCR recommends that these Guidelines may be re-examined in light of the RTE Act, 2009 and necessary changes be made,” chairperson of the NCPCR, Priyank Kanoongo, wrote to the Secretary of the Department of School Education of Rajasthan on July 9. The guidelines issued earlier this month state that admissions to private schools under the RTE Act, 2009, for the 2020-21 academic year will take place only from class 1 or above. This is in contravention of the RTE Act, 2009, which states that private schools will have to admit, “to the extent of at least twenty five per cent of the strength of that class, children belonging to weaker section and disadvantaged group in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory education till its completion.” The recent guidelines also violate the RTE Act insofar as they recommend the age of admission to be “5 years or above but less than 7 years as of 31st March 2020.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthans-education-guidelines-irk-ncpcr/article32048299.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||A new low in man-animal conflict, says SC; sends notice to Kerala and Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday took cognisance of the death of a pregnant elephant in May from eating pineapples filled with fire crackers by villagers in Kerala as a new low in man-animal conflict episodes across the country. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde sought a response from the Centre, Kerala and other States about the increasing levels of barbarity witnessed in trapping and killing wild animals straying into human habitation. The court issued notice on a petition filed by Shubham Awasthi, represented by advocate Vivek Narayan Sharma, who urged the court to issue guidelines to the government for creation of Standard Operating Procedures to tackle cruelty shown by villagers desperate to save their crops and livelihood from the animals. The petition also said the forest service is riddled with a large number of vacancies, making their presence ineffective. They are hardly able to patrol the large swathes of forest land or play a role in wildlife conservation. There is hardly any scientific practices evolved to lessen man-animal conflicts. The petition sought declaration of the “practice of using barbaric means/snares/shaved sticks/explosives to ward off wild animals as illegal, unconstitutional, and violative of Articles 14, and 21 of the Constitution.” Besides Kerala, other States which are made party in the petition include Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. Mr. Awasthi said the incident which happened in Kerala and hundreds of incidents like it were waiting to unfold in various parts of the country due to the dubious practice of using snares to scare wild animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-new-low-in-man-animal-conflict-says-sc-sends-notice-to-kerala-and-centre/article32048245.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ruckus over COVID deaths at hospital in TS||Death of four in-patients at the Government General Hospital in Nizamabad in the wee hours of Friday led to tension after the relatives of the four — three COVID cases and another COVID negative patient — staged a protest in front of the hospital alleging medical negligence. Police were deployed at the hospital after ‘rumours’ spread that the four patients died due to delay in oxygen supply. The hospital authorities as well as the district administration, however, clarified that there was no truth in the allegation and the deaths had nothing to do with oxygen supply. The COVID-19 patients who succumbed were a 75-year-old woman from Zakranpally, a 50-year-old man from Bheemgal and another 58-year-old woman from Edavally. The fourth was a 78-year-old man who was brought dead to the hospital, according to sources. Superintendent of the hospital Dr. M. Nageshwar Rao said, “There is not an iota of truth on denial of oxygen supply to the COVID patients. Their immediate cause of death was their serious health condition due to the virus and other co-morbidities.” He explained that the first patient was seriously ill but her oxygen saturation level was 67%, the second was suffering from diabetes besides COVID and his oxygen saturation level was 83% and the third patient was suffering from hypertension along with coronavirus but her oxygen saturation level was low. He further stated that doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in the hospital were discharging their duties properly keeping their own lives at stake and oxygen, both at isolation and ICUs, was proper with back-up facility of bulk cylinders in addition to the central supply. Meanwhile, District Collector C. Narayana Reddy said, “There is no shortage of oxygen supply in the general hospital and 17 patients were on oxygen support on Thursday night. However, bringing some oxygen cylinders inside the ICU ward as back-up provision had led to confusion after an in-patient and an attendant spread misinformation about the oxygen cylinders”. He stated that there was no negligence on the part of the hospital authorities for the deaths and they have been providing medical care as per the ICMR guidelines. He appealed to people not to spread such rumours in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ruckus-over-covid-deaths-at-hospital/article32048379.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||14% excess rain in India so far this monsoon||About 40% of districts received excess rain while 27% others have seen deficient rain, having received at least 20% less rain than usual. There are 29 districts in Uttar Pradesh, 17 in Gujarat and 16 in Jammu and Kashmir that have received deficient rain. Paradoxically, Uttar Pradesh also leads in the number of districts with excess rain (35), followed by Bihar (32) and Madhya Pradesh (28). Currently, the IMD collates rainfall data from 681 districts. The good rains so far have been helped by the monsoon’s timely onset, on June 1, as well its coverage of the entire country in record time. Two weeks ago, the IMD said the southwest monsoon had covered the entire country at a pace not seen since 2013. The normal date for the monsoon to span the whole country is July 8. The rain bearing concentration of clouds, called the monsoon trough, oscillates from the east to the west of the country. In its forecast on Wednesday, the IMD said that this trough is likely to shift northwards towards the foothills of Himalayas from July 9 onwards. In addition to this, moist southwesterly/southerly winds from Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels were likely to converge over the northeast and the adjoining east India from Friday, July 8, and southwesterly/southerly winds from the Arabian Sea very likely to converge over northwest India, also from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-excess-rain-in-india-so-far-this-monsoon/article32048262.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||More military-level talks next week||The two sides also agreed to “follow the consensus reached by the two Special Representatives (SRs), National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and State Councillor Wang Yi, during their call on July 5”. “As agreed by the two SRs, the Senior Commanders will meet soon to discuss further steps so as to ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation in a timely manner,” the MEA said, adding that both sides reviewed the situation “including the progress made in ongoing disengagement.” The fourth meeting at the Corps Commander-level is expected to take place next week, to take forward the next phase of disengagement. China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said in a statement that both sides agreed “to continue to maintain dialogue and consultations through military and diplomatic channels, promote further de-escalation of the situation on the ground, strengthen confidence-building measures in the border areas, and properly handle border issues in a timely manner to avoid differences becoming disputes.” The talks were led by Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the MEA, and Hong Liang, Director General of the Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs of the MFA. On Friday, the Chinese Embassy in India released an 18-minute video address by Ambassador Sun Weidong. He said the June 15 clash in Galwan Valley “was a situation neither China nor India would like to see.” He said the two SRs on July 5 “reached a positive consensus on easing the current border situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-military-level-talks-next-week/article32048261.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Commercial vaccine will take at least 12 months’||The meeting was attended by Principal Scientific Advisor to the Prime Minister K. VijayRaghavan. Officials from the Department of Biotechnology, the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research and the CSIR deposed at the meeting. Mr. VijayRaghavan at a press conference held on May 28 had said, “Preclinical studies [for the vaccine] are likely to be completed by October, after which it is likely to move on to human trials.” There are five promising candidate vaccines from India, including Covaxin from Bharat Biotech and ZyCOV-D from Zydus Cadilla, which were cleared by the Drug Controller General of India for early human trials. During the deliberations, it was pointed out to the committee that India’s pharma industry is heavily dependent on imports from China. Chinese imports “We were told that our pharma supply chains are dependent on Chinese imports. In the current situation between the two countries, this dependency could prove expensive. Medical security is as important as defence security,” another member said. Patanjali’s Coronil, which was briefly marketed as a cure for the SARS-CoV-2, also came up for discussion, but officials refused to comment on the subject saying that it did not come under their purview, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/commercial-vaccine-will-take-at-least-12-months/article32048263.ece
11 July 2020||Srinagar,||Soldier dies in Pak. firing along LoC in Rajouri||A soldier was killed in Pakistan firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Pir Panjal Valley’s Rajouri district on Friday. An official said Pakistan troops resorted to unprovoked firing and shelling on the LoC in Rajouri on Friday morning. “One soldier, identified as Havildar Sambur Gurung of 33 Rashtriya Rifles (58 Gorkha Rifles), a resident of Manbu in Nepal, died in the shelling,” the official said. The soldier suffered multiple splinter injuries.  Meanwhile, Hakam Bai, a civilian, who was injured in a shelling incident in Poonch on July 8, succumbed to her injuries in a hospital on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldier-dies-in-pak-firing-along-loc-in-rajouri/article32048276.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PIL in SC had flagged possibility of his killing||Hours before the death of Vikas Dubey, accused of ambushing a Uttar Pradesh police team and killing eight officers on July 3, a PIL was filed in the Supreme Court seeking an investigation into the “fake encounters” of his alleged associates. Filed by a Maharashtra-based lawyer, it had ominously said, “There is every possibility” that Dubey, arrested on July 9, will be killed by the police. He was shot dead on July 10. He was being brought back from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, where he was apprehended, to Uttar Pradesh. The petition, filed by advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay, has made the Uttar Pradesh Police, SP Kanpur and the CBI parties in the case. The petition recounted that “even the Chief Minister of the State exhorted that sacrifice of policemen will not go in vain and none of the culprits shall be spared”. The police took the “totally unknown to law” step of demolishing Dubey’s properties, including his home and vehicles. “This kind of act on the part of administration/police demonstrate complete lawlessness and ‘jungle raj’ of ‘police raj’ and by no angle this kind of action on the part of the administration/police is justified and permissible,” it said. It questioned how “five accused were arrested/caught and then killed by the police in the name of encounter.” The plea said, “There is every possibility that even Vikas Dubey Shall be killed by Uttar Pradesh Police like other co-accused once his custody is obtained by Uttar Pradesh police.” It raised questions on the actual circumstances of Dubey’s arrest in Ujjain. “There have been hot debates on various news channels of the country on the issue of escape of Vikas Dubey from Uttar Pradesh and he being found and in fact, he himself having revealed his identity to the security guard of Mahakal temple and thereby getting himself arrested by Madhya Pradesh police,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pil-in-sc-had-flagged-possibility-of-his-killing/article32048275.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICSE, ISC results declared without any merit list||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has cancelled its Class 10 and 12 board examinations due to begin later this month, even as the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations declared the final results for its own interrupted examinations. The NIOS exams had originally been scheduled for March-April, and were then postponed to begin on July 17. Results will now be calculated on the basis of past performances, tutor marked assignments and practical exams, according to a NIOS circular issued on Friday. As a one-time measure, students will also have the option to write the next public examination or one of NIOS’ on-demand examinations, which will be held whenever the situation is conducive to hold examinations again. Students who choose this option in order to improve their performance will have to accept the marks achieved in that examination as final. For ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) students, there will be no board exam toppers this year. Given the “exceptional circumstances” of papers cancelled due to COVID-19, the CISCE says it has decided not to publish any merit list this year. The end result was that this year’s pass percentage was higher than last year, with 99.3% of ICSE students passing their exams, while the pass percentage for ISC is 96.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icse-isc-results-declared-without-any-merit-list/article32048277.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition raises queries over manner of death||Several Opposition leaders on Friday questioned the manner in which Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey was killed and demanded a judicial probe by a sitting Supreme Court judge to find out if he was killed to protect the people who patronised him. Former Chief Minister and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati as well as Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra stressed that such an inquiry was necessary to expose the criminal-politician nexus in the State. Ms Mayawati said in a tweet, “There should be an unbiased probe under the supervision of the Supreme Court into the killing of policemen in Kanpur and the encounter of main accused Vikas Dubey... A high-level probe is necessary for ensuring justice to eight policemen killed in Kanpur and to identify the nexus between police and criminal political elements.” Samajwadi Party president and former Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav made a direct attack on the State government through a cryptic tweet: “Actually, the car did not overturn but the government has been saved from being overturned.” Ms. Vadra said in a video message, “Everyone knows that such protection comes from political sources, such protection comes from those in power... After his encounter, how do we assure the family members of eight martyred policemen that we are delivering justice and the sacrifices of their loved ones didn’t go in vain. The Congress party demands a judicial probe.” Several other State leaders also slammed the government and the police for “subverting” the judicial process.  Congress poser At the Congress’s official briefing, its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala picked several loopholes in the police’s theory. “Why were the media persons travelling with the Special Task Force motorcade stopped and not permitted to go forward just before the encounter? If the criminal was running away, why was he not shot in the back instead of being shot in his chest?” asked Mr. Surjewala. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted, “Dead men tell no tales #Vikas Dubey”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-raises-queries-over-manner-of-death/article32048279.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Myanmar Nagas worried over Army crackdown’||International rights groups have panned the Myanmar military, called Tatmadaw, for violence on the Rohingya Muslims and the Buddhist Arakanese. The predominantly Christian Nagas in Myanmar have been the Tatmadaw’s targets too, the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland has said while pointing fingers at the Indian Army for the plight of the people in the adjoining country. The group, known as NSCN(IM), calls itself the National Socialist Council of Nagalim. “Amid COVID-19 pandemic sweeping the globe, the Indian Army and the Myanmar Army launched military operation in the northern western parts of the Naga Self-Administered Zone, Sagaing Region of Myanmar bordering India,” it said in its mouthpiece, Nagalim Voice . The group cited the Eastern Konyak Union as saying that the “army has been deployed in every village of the Naga-inhabited areas of Myanmar. This has instilled fear in the minds of the people who have not been getting rice and other essential commodities since February due to the crackdown, combined with the Coronavirus situation”. “We do not want gunfights in the midst of the pandemic. We appeal to the Indian and Myanmar governments to help stop the military activities in the area,” union president S.A. Khotai and general secretary K. Honwang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/myanmar-nagas-worried-over-army-crackdown/article32048293.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Six bidders for tender||Six bidders have submitted financial bids for a global tender by the Railways for the semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains, including CRRC Pioneer Electric, in which China’s CRRC is a joint partner. The other five bidders for the tender for procuring electric traction kits for 44 Vande Bharat trains are Indian PSU Bharat Heavy Electricals, Hyderabad-based Medha Group, Himachal Pradesh-based Electrowaves Electronic Pvt. Ltd, Powernetics Equipments Pvt Ltd and Bharat Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-bidders-for-tender/article32048319.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Solar energy will play big role in Atmanirbhar Bharat’||The Rewa solar project, being touted as Asia’s largest, is the first such project in the country to break the grid parity barrier. While the Delhi Metro will use 24% of the electricity produced from it, Madhya Pradesh will use the rest. “The project, along with others, will make Madhya Pradesh a hub of cheap and clean energy,” said Mr. Modi. While the world was in a quandary whether they should focus on environment or economy, he stated that India had shown these two were not in opposition to each other. “They are partners. For us, environmental protection is not limited to some projects, but it’s a way of life. When we launch big renewable energy projects, we are also ensuring our resolve towards clean energy is seen in every aspect of life.” The government’s priority was that electricity reached everyone and the environment remained pure. “This is reflected in our policies relating to solar energy. In 2014, the price of solar power was Rs. 7-8 per unit. Today, it is Rs. 2.15-2.30 per unit. Not just in the country, all over the world it’s being talked about how solar power is so cheap in India,” he observed. In order to achieve self-reliance, the country aimed at ending its dependence on imports. “We have decided that government organisations which buy solar cells and modules should buy only the ones made in India,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/solar-energy-will-play-big-role-in-atmanirbhar-bharat/article32048264.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR anguished at damage to religious structures||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed anguish and dismay at damage to a mosque and temple during demolitions carried out in the Secretariat complex to pave way for construction of new buildings. In a release, Mr. Rao promised that the government will construct more spacious mosque and temple on larger extent of land at its own expenditure within the complex. He said he had learnt that the mosque and temple suffered some damage when the debris from demolition of adjacent high rise buildings fell on them. This had anguished him. It should not have happened but, nevertheless, the government will construct new structures for the twin religious places at the same site. “The government will not mind spending crores of rupees for the construction of mosque and temple which are more spacious and occupy larger extent of land than the present structures and hand them over to the managements”. Mr. Rao also said he will personally meet the members of the managements shortly to gather their views on the new constructions. Telangana is a secular State committed to maintain its secular fabric. The incident took place accidentally, he said and appealed to people to understand the situation with kind heart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-anguished-at-damage-to-religious-structures/article32048251.ece
11 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Mega dairy plant on course||The State government has firmed up plans for setting up a mega dairy plant at Mamidipalli in Rangareddy district. In addition to processing dairy products, the mega dairy will have research centre relating to artificial insemination and other activities, and a training centre for farmers on the same premises. Steps are being taken to lay the foundation stone for the complex next month, coinciding with the auspicious Shravana month, Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said. He said the project was part of rejuvenating traditional occupations including animal husbandry, dairy, fisheries and related sectors on the lines of CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s vision to empower these sections, which constituted a major chunk of population. He recalled how the State had distributed sheep among the Golla Kuruma community. The government was actively working on providing insurance cover to sheep distributed among the community and a committee had been constituted to work out details. The government was now contemplating providing quality meat at the doorstep of consumers. Mobile vans would be deployed soon to sell meat and a committee constituted to study the feasibility of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mega-dairy-plant-on-course/article32048610.ece
11 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Nine minors rescued from Muzaffarnagar ashram||Nine minors have been rescued from an ashram in Shukrataal, Muzaffarnagar, and four of them found to have been sexually abused. Police said an FIR has been lodged and two persons arrested, including a self-styled priest and manager of the ashram. Sanjeev Kumar, Station House Officer, Bhopa, said the police acted on Tuesday after getting a call from helpline CHILDLINE India Foundation. “Ten children from the north-eastern States were rescued from Godia Math in Bhopa on July 7 during a raid on the ashram. They were presented before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Muzaffarnagar, which directed a medical exam”. After the medical report found sexual abuse of four children and physical and mental abuse of the others, an FIR was registered on Thursday against the ashram manager Bhaktibhushan Govind Maharaj and one unidentified person under Sections 323, 377 and 504 of the IPC and Sections 5f and 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Mr. Kumar said of the 10 children rescued, one was aged 18 and the rest in the age group of 8-16. Rakhi Devi, local coordinator of CHILDLINE, said she acted after a tip-off from the Delhi office after an anonymous call was made on their 1089 helpline. “When we went to check the complaint, we found a child carrying a cylinder on his head and another testing the visitors with a thermometer and offering sanitiser,” she said. Ms. Devi said the children were from Tripura and Mizoram and some of them had been at the ashram for three-four years. Kamlesh Verma, chairperson of the CWC, said all the children complained of sexual abuse and beating. “Their statements were recorded in front of a magistrate. They said they were shown objectionable videos, made to drink liquor and beaten up if they objected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-minors-rescued-from-muzaffarnagar-ashram/article32048550.ece
11 July 2020||Lucknow,||Dubey had 3 bullet wounds, says doctor||Vikas Dubey, the history-sheeter, who was accused in the killing of eight policemen during a raid at Bikru village last week, was brought dead on Friday to the hospital after being shot by policemen while trying to flee, the principal of Kanpur Medical College R.B. Kamal said. While an autopsy report is awaited, Dubey had three bullet wounds on his chest and one on his shoulder, said Dr. Kamal. Dubey was shot dead by the U.P. police while allegedly trying to flee from custody after an accident while he was being taken to Kanpur from Ujjain. Two special task force jawans were shot in the hand and leg, said Dr. Kamal, adding that the bullets brushed against their body. Four other policemen were injured in the car accident, said police. All are out of danger, doctors said. According to the police, Dubey took advantage of the accident and tried to flee towards a kutcha road after snatching a pistol from an injured policeman. “The police surrounded him from all four sides and tried to make him surrender, but he fired at the police. In self-defence, police fired two bullets [at Dubey], injuring him,” said Kanpur SP (West) Anil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dubey-had-3-bullet-wounds-says-doctor/article32048274.ece
11 July 2020||Mumbai,||Lawyer seeks CBI probe into Dubey death||Atalbihari Dubey, an advocate practising at the Bombay High Court, has written to the Chief Justice of India requesting him to take suo motu cognisance of the “fake encounter” of Vikas Dubey and direct the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take over the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lawyer-seeks-cbi-probe-into-dubey-death/article32048286.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects Sharjeel’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Friday rejected a plea by former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens, challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude investigation. Justice V. Kameshwar Rao said, “The present petition filed by the petitioner (Mr Imam) is devoid of merit and is as such dismissed.” Mr. Imam, in his plea, had challenged the April 25 order of the trial court which granted three more months, beyond the statutory 90 days, to the police to complete the investigation in the case filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The court also pointed out that Mr. Imam has not challenged the addition of Section 13 of UAPA to the list of offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-sharjeels-plea/article32048285.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath reviews LAC situation||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh carried out a comprehensive review of the situation in eastern Ladakh with top military brass on Friday, in view of the withdrawal of troops from the friction points by China’s Peoples Liberation Army, sources said. Among those who attended the meeting were Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen. M.M. Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria. Gen. Naravane gave a detailed account of the implementation of the first phase of the mutual disengagement of troops from the Galwan Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-reviews-lac-situation/article32048296.ece
11 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal against govt. advisory on exams||The West Bengal Higher Education Department has objected to an advisory of the Central government asking universities and other academic institutions to compulsorily conduct final year examinations by September-end, and sent a letter to the Ministry of Human Resource and Development (MHRD) to “re-examine the matter in the interest of physical and mental well-being of students”. In the letter addressed to MHRD secretary Amit Khare, principal secretary of the West Bengal Higher Education Department Manish Jain said the State government be allowed to implement its own decision and the MHRD/UGC (University Grants Commission) revised guidelines of July 6 not be made mandatory. In its order, the UGC said final year exams at the university may be postponed until the end of September but must be conducted on either online or offline mode. “Mentioning statement like final term examinations should be compulsorily conducted as per the revised guidelines of UGC, by the Ministry of HRD, [Department of Higher Education] Vide its... dated 6th July, is only against the spirit of the federal structure enshrined in the constitution of India as “education” is placed in the concurrent list… ,” the letter, dated July 9 read. ‘State not consulted’ The communication said the “State was never consulted by UGC despite sending a request for consultation with respect to framing of such guidelines, vide this office DO number 08-Pr. Secy- HED/2020 dated 18 th April 2020 to the secretary UGC”. Mr. Jain referred to the “unforeseen, uncertain and challenging situation when educational institutions are being used as quarantine centres” restrictions on rail movement and cyclone Amphan in West Bengal. He said the State government, after consultation with vice chancellors, had issued an advisory to give due weightage to the internal assessment in the previous semesters in order to ensure transparency. The letter pointed out that several States had decided not to conduct terminal exams and a number of Indian Institutes of Technology had cancelled their final year exams. “The decision to conduct examinations by September 2020 will not only affect public health, but would have an economic impact on students who would be put at a disadvantage vis-a-vis students of other autonomous universities or other countries,” it said. BJP sees politics The State leadership of the BJP said the government was opposing the UGC guidelines for political reasons. “There is still more than two months to September, how do we know what will be the situation then. Opposing a development that is scheduled in September is only for political reasons,” West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Meanwhile, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has called a virtual conference of vice chancellors on July 15. Mr. Dhankhar said COVID-19 had stressed the student community like never before and urged vice chancellors to look for solutions to students’ problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-against-govt-advisory-on-exams/article32048310.ece
11 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Briefly||Nine minors have been rescued from an ashram in the Shukrataal area of Muzaffarnagar, four of them have been found to have been sexually abused. Police said an FIR has been registered and two persons arrested, including a self-styled priest and manager of the ashram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/briefly/article32048748.ece
11 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID-19: steepest single day spike in Odisha||Odisha registered its steepest ever single-day jump in COVID-19 positive cases, reporting 755 new infections on Friday. The State’s tally has now shot up to 11,956 while the rise in positivity rate (11.69%) became a cause of concern for the government. Of the 6,456 tests conducted, 755 were found to be positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-steepest-single-day-spike-in-odisha/article32048314.ece
11 July 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmir doctors favour continuing lockdown||As the J&K govt. initiated measures to “unlock” normal life in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, doctors have raised alarm bells. “Initially, the majority of infected people were asymptomatic. Of late, many are moderate to severe cases,” Dr. Salim Khan, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said. He has appealed to the government to re-impose the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-doctors-favour-continuing-lockdown/article32048315.ece
11 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||4 more COVID-19 deaths in Punjab, 3 more in Haryana||Punjab saw 217 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday. It also reported four more deaths, taking the tally to 187, said an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 7,357. In Haryana, 565 fresh cases surfaced, taking the cumulative tally to 19,9934. Haryana also reported three deaths, taking the total to 290.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-more-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-3-more-in-haryana/article32048317.ece
11 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports highest single-day surge of 7,862 new cases||With a staggering surge of 7,862 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, Maharashtra posted its highest single-day surge till date as its total case tally reached 2,38,461. As many as 226 new deaths pushed the total death toll to 9,893. Of the total case tally, 95,647 are active ones, said officials. The cumulative recoveries till date has gone up to 1,32,625.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-reports-highest-single-day-surge-of-7862-new-cases/article32048316.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 3,680 new cases, 64 deaths||Tamil Nadu added another 3,680 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking its tally to 1,30,261*. While another 4,163 persons were discharged following treatment, the State’s toll climbed to 1,829, with 64 more deaths, including that of a one-year-and-seven-months-old child. According to a bulletin issued by the Health Department, the child, a resident of Kancheepuram, was admitted to a private hospital on July 8. He had posterior fossa intra-cranial space occupying lesion with hydrocephalus. He died within a day of admission, on July 9, due to disseminated central nervous system malignancy and COVID-19. A total of 82,324 persons have been discharged following treatment, while 46,105 are under treatment in the State, as on date. Chennai at 1,200-mark Chennai’s daily count stood at the 1,200-mark, while many of the northern and southern districts continued to witness a surge in new infections. With 1,205 cases, the city’s tally inched closer to the 75,000-mark. A total of 18,616 persons are under treatment in the city, while the city has so far accounted for 1,196 deaths. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts saw 242 and 219 new COVID-19 cases, respectively. Among the other northern districts, Tiruvannamalai had 101 cases and Vellore 140. Though there was a slight dip in the number of new patients in Madurai, with 192 persons testing positive for COVID-19, a majority of the southern districts reported more than 100 cases each — Kanniyakumari (105), Theni (108), Thoothukudi (194), Tirunelveli (141) and Virudhunagar (143). Salem reported 125 cases, while Tiruchi saw 108 cases. A total of 44 persons who returned from abroad and other States tested positive for COVID-19. Till date, a total of 3,41,677 persons have returned to the State by flights, trains, by road and by the sea. Of this, a total of 4,219 persons have tested positive for COVID-19. A majority of them — 2,827 persons — returned by road. Of the 64 fatalities, Chennai accounted for 25 deaths, while Chengalpattu recorded seven deaths and Madurai six. With this, a total of 101 persons have died in Madurai. So far, a total of 6,442 children aged below 12 and 15,784 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 37,309. With this, the total number of samples tested in the State so far rose to 15,29,092. One more private laboratory — MGM Healthcare Pvt Ltd, Aminjikarai, Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing in the State. With this, there are now a total of 101 testing facilities in Tamil Nadu. Death condoled In a statement, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar condoled the death of a sector health nurse attached to the Kallamedu primary health centre in Marungapuri block, Tiruchi. The nurse, S. Pichaimani, had complaints of fever and headache on June 19 and was treated at a private hospital. On June 25, her swab returned positive for COVID-19, and she was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. However, she died on July 8. Mr. Vijayabaskar assured the nurse’s family of appropriate relief.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-3680-new-cases-64-deaths/article32048470.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. begins testing traders in northern parts of city||Markets across north Chennai are now among the priority areas for COVID-19 testing. In the last five to six days, over 2,000 traders were screened in some of the main markets in the northern part of the city. Markets are potential COVID-19 hotspots. Following the emergence of the Koyambedu cluster, which led to a huge spike in cases during May, medical teams of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) are reaching out to traders in markets across the five zones of north Chennai in a bid to detect cases early and prevent further transmission. “We have started to test traders and shopkeepers. If a shopkeeper is infected, they can easily transmit the infection to 20 or more persons. By testing them on time, we can pick up cases early and prevent transmission. This will go on to reduce cases for the next 10 to 15 days. Along with contact tracing and surveillance of influenza-like illness, we are aggressively testing in market areas,” an official said. He added that they were seeing 8% to 10% positivity among the traders screened. “For instance, about 10 to 15 traders at the Madhavaram market tested positive and we were able to immediately take them into isolation,” he said. Market zones such as the Ennore Express Highway, fruit market in Madhavaram, Kothavalchavadi and a number of standalone markets in zones II (Manali) and IV (Tondiarpet) are among the focus areas now. “Right now, the focus is on high-density market areas. Next, we will screen shopkeepers in streets where cases are reported. We may not be able to screen all traders. Our intention is to cover all markets on a rotational basis. This way, we can prevent cases from multiplying,” he added. While medical teams went to the doorstep of traders, in one zone, the merchants association came forward and arranged for screening in a hall. “Traders can come forward for testing as asymptomatic patients can transmit the infection,” the official said. Strike a balance There was a need to strike a balance as this was a question of livelihood. The markets cannot be shut and people require basic commodities. Hence, apart from the static testing centres, mobile teams comprising lab technicians and nurses were involved. “In fact, testing picked up after this change in strategy. We are now testing 2,300 samples a day in the north region,” he said. He added that while testing had gone up, the test positivity rate has come down drastically from 45% at the beginning of the lockdown to 15 to 20% now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-begins-testing-traders-in-northern-parts-of-city/article32048435.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After Delhi, ‘plasma bank’ to come up in Chennai||After Delhi, Chennai will soon have the country’s second ‘plasma bank’ at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). The Tamil Nadu government is expediting the work to establish the facility at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. In the absence of a ‘drug of choice’ for treatment of COVID-19, the State government obtained the approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to take up the trial of convalescent plasma therapy for patients with moderate COVID-19. Under this, 500 ml of plasma is collected from a person who has recovered from the disease through the apheresis method and transfused to patients. So far, 18 of the 20 patients who received plasma under the trial have recovered at RGGGH, while one patient has recovered at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said in a release. In addition to these two institutions, a trial is set to begin at the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. As per the guidelines of the Drugs Controller, blood banks that possess the licence for apheresis machines are permitted to accept plasma donations. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital and the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University in Chennai and government medical college hospitals in Tiruchi, Salem and Coimbatore will soon accept plasma donations. Eligible donors Persons aged 18-65 can donate plasma. Patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 are eligible to donate plasma 14 days after their swab returns negative for COVID-19. Those with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, cancer and kidney diseases and those who have undergone organ transplants and surgeries cannot donate plasma. Persons who come forward to donate plasma will undergo screening, and a maximum of 500 ml of plasma will be collected from eligible donors. The process will take 30 minutes and persons can donate plasma twice in 28 days. The plasma can be stored at -40 degrees Celsius for a year. Mr. Vijayabaskar said that when steroids and other medications did not help patients or when the oxygen requirement kept increasing, plasma therapy could offer a higher chance of recovery. Patients required transfusion of 200 ml of plasma each for two days. Antibodies in the transfused plasma could neutralise the virus, reducing the viral load and the patients’ dependence on oxygen support, he said. The Minister appealed to persons who had recovered from COVID-19 to donate plasma without fear. This was a lifesaving initiative, and would help reduce deaths, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-delhi-plasma-bank-to-come-up-in-chennai/article32048460.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water courses in and around Chennai will be desilted||The State government has allocated Rs. 9.9 crore for desilting major water courses and waterbodies in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Cuddalore districts, as part of preparations by the Public Works Department (PWD) before the advent of the northeast monsoon in October. Of the total amount, Rs. 6.5 crore is meant for works coming under the Araniar basin, Kosathalaiyar basin (Rs. 2 crore each) and Lower Palar basin (Rs. 2.5 crore), all of which will benefit Chennai and surrounding areas. The Coleroon Basin will get Rs. 2 crore and the Vellar Basin Rs. 1 crore. The remaining Rs. 40 lakh will be spent on water courses in the jurisdiction of the Krishna Water Supply Division-I in Chepauk, according to a recent order issued by the PWD. Last year, the State government earmarked Rs. 7.65 crore, using which 51 works were taken up. This year, 14 works have been planned. Repairing eroded banks Among the water courses to be covered in Chennai are the Velachery drain, the stretch of Veerangal Odai between Adambakkam tank and Pallikaranai marshland and repairs on eroded banks of the entire 25.7-km Kandaleru-Poondi Canal. The main objective of the work is to clear debris from the Cooum, the Adyar, Otteri nallah, Buckingham and Virgumbakkam canals. The government has directed PWD’s Engineer-in-Chief to ensure that while executing the work, dumping of solid waste in waterbodies was prevented, “effectively” involve local bodies, police and revenue officials “wherever necessary” and draw up a plan to prevent discharge of waste water into the waterbodies and instead divert it into sewage treatment plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-courses-in-and-around-chennai-will-be-desilted/article32048428.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK may not win next election but won’t disappear either’||Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP and former TNCC chief, Su. Thirunavukkarasar, who will turn 71 on Monday (July 13), cut his political teeth in the AIADMK under its founder M.G. Ramachandran (MGR). In an interview, he strongly feels that though the ruling AIADMK does not have chances of victory in the 2021 Assembly elections, it will not get destroyed, as it has its network in every nook and corner of the State. Excerpts:  You spent over 20 years of your nearly four-decade-old political career in the AIADMK till 1997. How do you see the future of the party? The AIADMK of the MGR era or the Jayalalithaa period was different. Now it does not have a mass leader or an established leader who is acceptable to the party rank and file and the common man. MLAs who are supporting [Chief Minister] Edappadi K. Palaniswami are not his choices. They had all won the last election as Jayalalithaa’s nominees. Only after eight or nine months will we see how successful he is. Even then, I don’t think the party has got chances of victory. The party’s future depends on its performance in the Assembly poll and the quality of leadership it gets thereafter. It is my assessment that the party will not get destroyed. It will remain there in the field as it has cadres and office-bearers all over the State but the level of its strength will be decided by the Assembly election results. In the event of the release of V.K. Sasikala [Jayalalithaa’s aide] from a Bengaluru jail, will her return to the AIADMK or active politics cause any impact? I do not think it can make any impact. It is doubtful whether Sasikala will be taken back in the AIADMK as such a move will weaken only the position of Edappadi [Palaniswami]. Even assuming that she runs her own political party, she has nothing much to claim about her track record in public life as Jayalalithaa had never given any position in the party to Sasikala. Even during the last Assembly election, when Jayalalithaa was not doing well health-wise, she did not assign any election campaign work to Sasikala. Even if Sasikala starts a party, this can only disturb marginally the prospects of the AIADMK at the time of the Assembly elections. With Assembly elections due in next 10 months, do you think the present alignment of political parties will continue? I think the DMK-Congress alliance will continue. This is my desire also, as this will benefit us mutually. The forthcoming poll is going to be a very important one as far as Tamil Nadu is concerned. For the first time, [DMK chief] M.K. Stalin and Edappadi are going to face the Assembly election on their own. Unlike in the Lok Sabha polls when the State had an anti-Modi, anti-BJP, pro-Rahul and pro-Congress wave, there is no such factor at work. Of all the parties in the State, the DMK is the strongest as it has not suffered any split. If the DMK-Congress alliance continues, it will achieve a resounding success. Will Rajinikanth enter politics? Will his presence in politics make any difference? He has been my friend for more than 30 or 35 years. Even though he said a few years ago that he would start a party, he has not launched it yet. When eight or nine months are only left for the Assembly election, there are certain questions whether it is a sufficient period for a party to be launched and run, and whether such a party can face the polls on its own. A bigger question than all these is whether he will start a party or not. Having said that, let me also say that it is not up to me but to him to clarify whether he will start a party or not.  For the full interview, visit: http://bit.ly/Thirunavukkarasar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-may-not-win-next-election-but-wont-disappear-either/article32048474.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes areas in and around city||City residents woke up to rain accompanied by thunder and lightning on Friday. Many areas in and around the city received moderate rainfall. Southern localities received heavy rain. During the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday, Sriperumbudur recorded 12 cm of rainfall, followed by Meenambakkam and Alandur with 11 cm and Anna University with 10 cm. Many other places, including Nungambakkam, Ennore port and Red Hills, recorded up to 1 cm of rainfall during the same period. Heavy rain lashed several places in neighbouring districts. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, India Meteorological Department, Chennai, said the interaction between easterly and westerly troughs in the middle-level troposphere caused rainfall across the State. This also triggered development of thunderstorms. The same weather trend may continue for the next few days. “We expect good rainfall activity between July 12 and 16 across the State due to weak monsoon conditions. Rain may occur due to various weather factors, including strengthening of easterly winds. There may be a lull in rainfall in some areas, after which it will pick up again,” he added. Overnight rainfall on Friday helped wipe out the rainfall deficit in districts, including Chennai and Cuddalore. In this southwest monsoon, the State has, so far, registered an average of 10 cm of rainfall, which was 39% more than its normal of 7 cm for the period, Mr. Balachandran added. Chennai could get a respite from the heat as the sky will be cloudy and moderate rain with lightning or thunder may occur in some areas till Sunday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-areas-in-and-around-city/article32048430.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Investigators seize crucial evidence pointing to torture||Investigators have seized crucial evidence such as blood-stained clothes, lathis and video footage among others that point to the torture of traders — P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J. Benicks, 31, — in the Sattankulam police station on the night of June 19, sources said on Friday. Traces of blood were seen at 18 spots on the police station premises, including the lock-up. The judicial magistrate who commenced an enquiry into the circumstances that led to the deaths of the father-son duo saw the blood stains on the floor and took swabs. Blood-stained clothes and some lathis were seized from different locations. Samples were sent for forensic analysis, sources said. The magistrate, who launched his investigation under the provisions of Section 176(1A)(1) of CrPC after remand prisoners Jayaraj and his son died in the Government Hospital, Kovilpatti, also recorded the statements of police personnel, family members and others who had knowledge of the sequence of events on June 19. “While the judicial magistrate has taken samples of blood stains found in the Sattankulam police station, lathis and clothes for forensic analysis to confirm whether they matched with that of Jayaraj or his son or both, we have taken possession of footage from the CCTV at the GH where the accused were produced before remand and some documents,” a senior police official told The Hindu . The Crime Branch CID had so far arrested 10 police personnel after establishing proof of their involvement in the incident. The role of other department officials was under investigation. “As regards the Friends of Police, no evidence has emerged so far to substantiate allegations that they were engaged to beat Jayaraj and his son in custody. Three volunteers did accompany the police till the police station but they did not enter the premises. Statements of some police personnel and relatives of the deceased also confirm the fact that the volunteers stood outside the police station,” said the official who preferred not to be quoted. The CBCID handed over all case files to Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday night, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/investigators-seize-crucial-evidence-pointing-to-torture/article32048446.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Major reshuffle of police officers||The State government on Friday effected a major reshuffle of IPS officers, many in the rank of Superintendent of Police (SP). Also, as many as 11 new officers have been posted as Deputy Commissioners (DC) in Chennai city. V. Vikraman, Superintendent of Police, Office Automation & Computerisation, was transferred and posted as DC, Adyar, replacing P. Pakalavan, who was posted as SP, Karur. DC Ambattur N.S. Nisha, DC, Law and Order, Tiruchi city, was shifted and posted as DC Ambattur in place of I. Eswaran, posted as Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Establishment. K. Balakrishnan, AIG, Establishment, has been posted as DC, Madhavaram, and Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni was shifted from DC, Madhavaram, and posted as SP, Dindigul. T. Nagar DC T. Ashok Kumar was posted to Security Wing of Chennai City Police and D.N. Hari Kiran Prasad, promoted as SP, has been posted in his place. E. Karthik, DC, Law and Order, Madurai city, was shifted and posted as DC, Flower Bazaar district, Chennai city. G. Jawahar, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Nagercoil, on promotion was posted as DC, Anna Nagar, Chennai city. K. Adhiveerapandiyan was shifted from the post of AIG, Welfare, and posted as DC, Kilpauk, and M. Manohar has been posted as AIG, Welfare. G. Shashank Sai, SP-I, Cyber Crime Division, Chennai was posted as DC, Mylapore, while incumbent Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay was posted as SP, Thanjavur. Swapped The posts of K. Feroze Khan Abdullah, DC, Traffic (East), Chennai City Police, and S.R. Senthil Kumar, DC, Administration, have been swapped. Deepa Sathyan, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Anti-Vice-Squad, on promotion as SP, was posted as DC, Central Crime Branch-II, Chennai City Police. N. Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police on promotion has been posted as DC, Traffic (South), Chennai D. Shanmuga Priya, who was serving as SP-II, Cyber Crime, was posted as SP Kancheepuram. Ziaul Haque, SP, Tiruchi district, has been posted as SP, Kallakurichi district, and T. Jeyachandran, SP of Kallakurichi, was shifted to Tiruchi district. P. Thangadurai, DC, Law and Order, Salem city, was posted as SP, Erode district. Sakthi Ganesan was transferred to Namakkal district. Ara Arularasu has been posted as SP, Coimbatore. Sujit Kumar, SP, Coimbatore, has been posted to Madurai district. N. Manivannan was transferred to Tirunelveli from Madurai district. SP, Cyber Crime Om Prakash Meena, SP, Tirunelveli district, was posted as SP-II, Cyber Crime, Chennai. M.R. Sibi Chakravarthi, SP, Tiruvannamalai district, has been posted as AIG, Administration, and S. Aravind, SP, Special Division, has been posted as SP, Tiruvannamalai. N. Shreenatha, Kanyakumari SP was moved to SP-Crime CID-II and V. Badri Narayanan, DC, Law and Order, Tiruppur, was moved to Kanniyakumari district. L. Balaji Saravanan, DC, L&O, Coimbatore city, was moved to Pudukottai district as SP. Dongare Pravin Umesh, Governor’s Aide-de-camp, an ASP-level officer, was promoted as SP. S. Arumugasamy, Additional Superintendent of Police, Tamil Nadu Police Academy, Vandalur, was promoted as SP and posted in the same place in the existing vacancy. Newly created post S.S. Mageshwaran, SP, Thanjavur district, was posted in the newly created post as Superintendent of Police, Marine Enforcement Wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-reshuffle-of-police-officers/article32048475.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Violinist organises online concerts to help other artistes||Nagaswaram and thavil artistes have been at the receiving end ever since the COVID-19 lockdown began. Summer months — Panguni, Chithirai and Vaikasi — coincide with weddings and temple festivals and nagaswaram music is an integral part of these auspicious occasions. As COVID-19 deprived nagaswaram and thavil players of their livelihood, noted violinist A. Kanyakumari has organised an online music festival to help them . “It [this thought] occurred to me on July 3, the birthday of my teacher M.L. Vasanthakumari. Had she been alive she would have done anything to help the artistes. I have decided to organise an online festival to mark her 92nd birth anniversary,” Ms. Kanyakumari told The Hindu . She said that merely giving money was not a good idea since it would hurt the self-respect of the artistes. “My plan is to organise concerts and pay the artistes and they will be more than happy to perform,” she said. The concerts clips are posted on her Facebook page. Keyboard player Sathyanarayana and ‘kanjira’ player Sunilkumar help in their editing. While her disciples have joined hands with her in helping the artistes, her fans and others also have come forward to offer financial assistance after seeing her announcement. Asked if there was any particular reason for hosting only nagaswaram concerts, she said that even though everyone in the music world was affected by COVID-19, nagaswaram and thavil players were affected more. She said that she had so far organised four concerts. “My original plan was to help 92 artistes as it is the 92nd birth anniversary of my teacher. But the number may go even beyond 100,” Ms. Kanyakumari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violinist-organises-online-concerts-to-help-other-artistes/article32048454.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to take call on fee collection on July 17||The Madras High Court will on July 17 hear all cases related to the issue of fee collection by colleges and schools during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the meantime, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh directed the State government to form an opinion after consulting all stakeholders. A parents’ representative on Friday argued that the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff of self-financing schools and colleges would work out to less than one-fourth of the fees collected from hundreds of students; therefore, they should be permitted to collect only 25% of the fees. Advocate M. Purushothaman controverted the claim of private educational institutions that they had borrowed heavily to pay salaries during the lockdown since their institutions had been closed and the government had restrained them from demanding fees. Electricity and other miscellaneous expenses would have gone down considerably during the lockdown since only online classes were being conducted by select schools and colleges. Therefore, the government should let the institutions collect only 25% of the fees if it could not order a 100% waiver, he said. The advocate said private educational institutions always had reserve funds, and it was not as if they had to pay salaries from the fees. The judge asked him to make a representation to the government. On April 20, the government directed private schools and colleges not to force students or parents to pay the fees for the academic year 2020-21 and the dues, if any, for 2019-2020. However, in May, a PIL petition was filed accusing many schools and colleges of demanding fees in violation of the G.O. Subsequently, the All India Private Educational Institutions’ Association (AIPEIA), represented by counsel E. Vijay Anand, and others, filed petitions for quashing the G.O. and permitting them to collect fees. Justice R. Mahadevan, on June 30, directed the government to revisit its order, balancing the interests of institutions dependent on fees to pay salaries and those of middle-class parents who could not afford to pay the fees during the lockdown. Subsequently, the AIPEIA, the Consortium of Self-Financing Professional, Arts and Science Colleges in Tamil Nadu and others submitted individual representations to the government suggesting that private schools and arts and science colleges be permitted to collect fees in three instalments and self-financing engineering colleges in two instalments, semester-wise. Thereafter, a short counter-affidavit filed by the Higher Education Department stated: “The government has examined the above proposal carefully and has decided to permit self-financing colleges to collect the fees, as fixed by the fee fixation committee, in three equal instalments in August and December 2020 and April 2021.” However, it was not clear whether the decision would apply to engineering colleges and private schools, too. Opposing the government stand, Mr. Purushothaman on Friday told Justice Venkatesh that the government had decided to permit 100% fee collection in instalments without hearing out the parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-take-call-on-fee-collection-on-july-17/article32048458.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Battling the virus: medical officer recounts time spent in isolation||For B. Savitha, who just completed the 16-day home isolation after testing positive for COVID-19, it is time to look ahead. The medical officer was posted at a rural health centre, but was asked to report at the COVID-19 Control Room in Teynampet when the number of cases rose in the State capital. The 25-year-old Tambaram resident rode a two-wheeler to work daily. “I am the only one who goes out to buy groceries and other essentials. So I used to isolate myself from the rest of the family,” she said. Keeping others away Her family includes an 80-year-old grandmother and parents who are in their 50s. Her grandmother is diabetic, hypertensive and also has gastric problems. She underwent hospitalisation for acute pancreatitis last month. Her father, too, is diabetic and hypertensive. Her mother is mildly hypertensive. When she had fever on June 22, she decided to get herself tested. The medical officer whom she consulted advised home isolation. “Ours is a fairly large house and I decided to isolate myself in a room, far from my grandmother and father. Only my mother was allowed near my room, that too to leave food outside the door on a stool,” Dr. Savitha said. The fever subsided after three days but then she lost her sense of smell and taste. “Now, I can identify powerful odours like perfume. I can taste, but cannot identify them yet,” Dr. Savitha said. “I kept watch on my oxygen saturation levels. Ours is an apartment complex and we live on the second floor. My room is well-ventilated and has an attached bathroom. Being at home does a world of good for one’s emotions,” she said. For the first two days, she did not take calls from relatives or friends. Interacting with others “I spoke only to my seniors and colleagues as they needed to remain informed. A batchmate who picked up the virus from a fever clinic in Royapuram had all 100 persons from the class calling her. It worsens depression,” she said. Her father informed the apartment association to keep children safe, she said. During isolation, she concentrated on deep breathing exercises, mopping the floor and cleaning her bathroom. “I see it as a bout of cold and fever. I will remain in isolation until the COVID-19 scare blows over to ensure that my family isn’t infected,” she said.  I will remain in isolation until the COVID-19 scare blows over, to ensure that my family is not infected B. Savitha Medical Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/battling-the-virus-medical-officer-recounts-time-spent-in-isolation/article32048465.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor condition of Thirumazhisai market leads to a dip in business||Business was hit at the Thirumazhisai wholesale vegetable market on Friday as overnight rain in the city’s outskirts left the market area slushy and shops inundated. Many produce-laden trucks were stuck in the slush and traders were busy getting them out till late afternoon. Retailers and labourers waded through ankle-deep water to go about their business. Wholesale merchants said about 100 vehicles got caught in the slush and such incidents repeated after every spell of rain. This deterred several retailers from making their daily purchase in the market. Though temporary arrangements such as using gravel to prevent water logging was done in the past, it had not helped much. Flooding also led to an unhygienic environment in the market, they said. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations’ of KWMC Periyar Market, said about 1,000 tonnes of the nearly 4,500-5,000 tonnes of vegetables that arrived on Friday remained unsold. At least 20% of retailers kept away from the market because of rain and difficulty in reaching the shops. Wholesale prices of vegetables dropped by Rs. 10 a kg. For instance, carrots, ladies finger and tomatoes were sold for Rs. 20 a kg. While some stock could be retained, a considerable amount of vegetables would be wasted as there was no way to store them, he said. “Officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and Tiruvallur district administration inspected the area. They have promised to take steps. We have asked them to shift the market back to Koyambedu as it will be difficult to operate from Thirumazhisai during the rainy season. The government must allow us to function in batches on alternate days with restrictions,” Mr. Rajasekaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-condition-of-thirumazhisai-market-leads-to-a-dip-in-business/article32048437.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Foundation award for CM||The Rotary Foundation of Rotary International has conferred the Paul Harris Fellow recognition on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, according to an official release. The Chicago-headquartered foundation recognises personalities who are serving humanity in the fields of drinking water supply, health, disease control, women and children, environment and world peace, as a ‘Paul Harris Fellow’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-foundation-award-for-cm/article32048476.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CISCE announces exam results for Classes 10, 12||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Exams (CISCE) announced both ISC Class 12 and ICSE Class 10 examination results on Friday. Of the 4,197 students who took the ICSE Exams in Tamil Nadu, 4,195 students cleared them, while 1,925 out of 1,938 cleared the ISC exams. Students from 88 schools took the ICSE exam while those from 55 institutions attempted the ISC exams. In Tamil Nadu, most students of Class 12 only had one paper left and a majority of the Class 10 students had around 3 papers pending before the lockdown was announced. While the pending exams were initially rescheduled, they were finally cancelled and the council announced an alternate assessment scheme for those papers. These were the first set of board exam results to be announced in the State. There was still no official word on when the Plus 2 results would be announced for State Board students. The CBSE is yet to make any announcements. “The formula that the council has adopted to calculate the results has been done keeping the students in mind and they are extremely happy with the results,” said S. Sujatha, Principal, Vaels International School. While the CISCE usually publishes a merit list, Gerry Arathoon, chief executive of the council, said a decision was taken not to publish merit lists given the exceptional circumstances. Gowri Sivashankar, principal, Chettinad Hari Shree Vidyalayam, said the school recorded 100% pass percentage in both the ICSE and ISC exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cisce-announces-exam-results-for-classes-10-12/article32048429.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. scraps honorarium||The State government has decided not to pay honorarium to serving government employees nominated to various Committees/Boards/Panels/Commissions, as it was noticed several claims for honorariums were being made even though they were attending panel meetings only in official capacities. Government servants, who were nominated to various panels “by virtue of their official capacity”, were granted an honorarium when the Tamil Nadu Fundamental Rules 46 (b) clearly provided for granting honorarium to them as remuneration for work performed, which was “occasional or intermittent in character and either so laborious or of such special merit” as to justify a special reward, a G.O. issued in this regard on July 8 stated. The practice is not in consonance with the provisions of fundamental rules, it pointed out. “In view of the FR 46(b) and the financial crisis arising out of COVID-19, honorarium should not be paid to serving government employees nominated to various Committees/Boards/Panels/Commissions, etc.,” it stated. The payment of honorarium already made need not be recovered wherever it was paid under a valid G.O., it added. When contacted, a senior official told The Hindu , “It is not part of the austerity measures but more of a matter of propriety.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-scraps-honorarium/article32048447.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversions at Central from today||The traffic police have announced diversions near the Central railway station that will be implemented for 15 days starting Saturday. They said the changes were being implemented as subway construction work was being undertaken by the Chennai Metro Rail near the station. However, there would be no change in the regular route to reach the station from Anna Salai. Alternate routes Motorists can reach Central via Pallavan Salai and E.V.R. Salai. Those coming from Muthusamy Road towards Anna Salai should proceed through Muthusamy Bridge and Walljah Point. Similarly, vehicles from Evening Bazaar Road should take a left on E.V.R. Road and head through Muthusamy Bridge and Wallajah point to reach Anna Salai. Vehicles coming from Evening Bazaar Road would not be allowed through Stanley Viaduct. Similarly, vehicles coming from Wall Tax Road should take a left on E.V.R. Salai and proceed via Muthusamy Bridge to reach Anna Salai. Vehicles from Muthusamy Road would not be allowed through Stanley Viaduct and Pallavan Salai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversions-at-central-from-today/article32048438.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Psychological impact of pandemic on students||The third part of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Webinar Series will be held on July 11 from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. The webinar will focus on the impact of the pandemic and psychological situations on students. Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and Technology; M. Thirunavukarasu, Head of the Department of Psychiatry, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Center; Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of the Sneha Suicide Prevention Centre, and Subhashini Gopal, a psychologist with the Schizophrenia Research Foundation, will be part of the panel. The event, presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology, is for students aspiring to pursue a career in medical and health sciences. To register, visit https://bit.ly/2Z3wuPS or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/psychological-impact-of-pandemic-on-students/article32048440.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team calls on CM||Members of the Central team visiting the State capital to take stock of the COVID-19 situation in Tamil Nadu called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat on Friday and held a detailed discussion on the pandemic scenario. The team was led by IAS officer Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary in the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The Centre’s monitoring officer for Tamil Nadu, Rajendra Ratnoo; Joint Secretary in the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry Subodh Yadav; and deputy directors at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) P. Ravindran and Suhas Dhandore were also part of the team. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation G. Prakash, managing director of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation P. Umanath were present during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-calls-on-cm/article32048462.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online classes only for big cities: Kamal||After the State government announced online classes and classes through television broadcast for government school students from July 13, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday said that the government should ensure that education is made available to students in an impartial manner. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said that online classes and television-aided classrooms were only for ‘big cities’. “Though this could be seen as an attempt to impart education without any disruption, everybody knows that online education via mobiles is 100% for the big cities. There are concerns over whether this was an informed decision or one taken as a counter to the initiative taken by private schools,” said Mr. Haasan. He added that the decision to impart education through TV broadcast may have been taken without understanding the pros and cons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-classes-only-for-big-cities-kamal/article32048471.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NIA files chargesheet||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed chargesheet before the special court in Poonamallee against six accused in the special sub-inspector Wilson murder case. The six suspects — Abdul Shameem, 30, and Y. Thowfeek, 27, of Kanyakumari district; Khaja Mohideen, 53, and Jaffar Ali, 26, of Cuddalore district; and Mahboob Pasha, 48, and Ejas Pasha, 46, of Bengaluru have been charged under various Sections of the IPC. SSI of Kaliyakkavilai police station Wilson was shot and stabbed to death on January 8 while the officer was on duty at the Kaliyakkavilai Market Road checkpost. It was revealed that the accused had committed the murder with the intention to create terror in the minds of the people, including the police, as part of waging violent jihad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-files-chargesheet/article32048448.ece
11 July 2020||CHENNAI/NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Party and govt. will run without Sasikala’||Speculation about the release of V.K. Sasikala, aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and AIADMK’s former interim general secretary, ahead of the end of her term from a Bengaluru jail prompted two senior Ministers to make divergent statements on Friday. Responding to a question whether the AIADMK and the State government would be handed over to Sasikala in the event of her release, O.S. Manian, Handlooms Minister and the party’s Nagapattinam district secretary, answered: “I am an ordinary district secretary. It is for the leadership to decide. You will have to pose this question to the leadership. It would also be in the fitness of things to raise it with the leadership.” He was interacting with journalists after laying the foundation for a building to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh at the Seruthur Government High School in Nagapattinam district. Hours later in Chennai, D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister and the party’s organisation secretary, termed Mr. Manian’s view personal. The Minister, regarded as the spokesperson of the government, said: “What we decided yesterday [in April 2017] holds good today and will remain so even tomorrow. The decision is this: the party and the government will run without Sasikala and her family. And that is our aim, too.” Talking to reporters after attending a function to mark the National Fish Farmers' Day, he recalled that he had conveyed the party’s decision to the media in 2017 too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/party-and-govt-will-run-without-sasikala/article32048472.ece
11 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector asks civic body to continue monitoring Telugu and Sullivan streets||District Collector K. Rajamani on Friday asked the Coimbatore Corporation to continue monitoring Telugu Street, Sullivan Street and their neighbourhood. The Corporation had placed containment restriction on the two streets after a few persons there had tested positive for COVID-19 a few days ago. Essential commodities A release from the district administration said the Collector asked the civic body to take steps to provide essential commodities to people within the containment zones and spray disinfectants. He also directed the Revenue Department staff to join the Corporation staff in monitoring the containment zones and ensuring delivery of essential commodities. The release said Mr. Rajamani visited the containment zones, interacted with people and then inspected the medical camp that was under way at the V.V.M. Urban Primary Health Centre. Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-asks-civic-body-to-continue-monitoring-telugu-and-sullivan-streets/article32048504.ece
11 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to upgrade its mobile app with COVID-19 information||Coimbatore Corporation would soon share COVID-19-related information on its mobile application, CCMC Central, Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath told The Hindu here Friday. The upgrade, to be rolled out in a few days, would help people know and identify the containment zones in the city, list of hospitals, medical shops, nearby toilets and a few more details. The containment zones to be presented in maps would have clearly defined boundaries that would help people to avoid those. It would also alert users if they were near such zones, said sources familiar with the development. The app would also show details on the number of active COVID-19 cases, persons cured so far and other such information that the district administration shared on a day-to-day basis. At present, the users of the CCMC Central app could pay property tax, water charges, lodge complaints, know the follow-up on their complaints, among other things. Mr. Jatavath said the Corporation had started video calling people who went into home quarantine to check if they were at home. He had launched the service on Friday as the Corporation had collected details of 8.98 lakh persons from its door-to-door survey. The video call was to check people violating quarantine by leaving their homes. The teachers the Corporation had deployed to man its ward-level mini control rooms would randomly video call people in home quarantine. For them to make the calls the Corporation had given 30 SIM cards. If the teachers found self-quarantined persons going out they would alert the flying squad concerned for a spot inspection and the team concerned would initiate action if there was a violation, the Commissioner explained. In a related development, the Corporation had added eight lines each to the landline and mobile phone number at its control room in the head office. This was to ensure that people either dialling 0422-2302323 or 97505-54321 did not face engaged lines, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-upgrade-its-mobile-app-with-covid-19-information/article32048503.ece
11 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special medical camps today||Coimbatore Corporation would conduct special medical camps at the following places on July 11, said a release. North Zone:urban primary health centres, Anna Nagar in Peelamedu, Viriyampalayam in Vilankurichi, Bharath Nagar in Neelikonampalayam, Chettiar Thottam, Manickavasagar Nagar in Ganapathy Managar, Arul Nagar in Ganapathy, L.L. House, Kalaignar Nagar in Thudiyalur and Alagu Nagar in Vellakinaru. South Zone:urban primary health centres, Muniappan Nagar in Telugupalayam, Savithri Nagar in Selvapuram, Nethaji Nagar in Kuniamuthur, Kulathupalayam, Sai Nagar in Podanur, Mettur in Kurichi and Padasalai Street in Thondamuthur. West Zone:urban primary health centres and also in Marudhachalam Street, Flower Market, Dhobi Kana in K.K. Pudur, Ashok Nagar in Kavundampalayam, Thilagar Street in Seeranaickenpalayam, Ganapathy Nagar in Kalveerampalayam, IOB Colony and M.G.R. Nagar in Vadavalli. East Zone:urban primary health centres and in Nanjappa Chettiar Street in Singanallur, Rahuman Set Colony in Nanjundapuram, Anna Nagar in Sowripalayam, Iyer Layout in Uppilipalayam, Krishnapuram and Ramalinga Jothi Nagar in Ramanathapuram. Central Zone:Pattalamman Kovil Street, Avarampalayam, Subbathal Street in Rathinapuri, Raja Street, Bharathi Nagar, SNR Street, Bhajanai Kovil Street in addition to holding those at its urban primary health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-medical-camps-today/article32048505.ece
11 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man injured in road accident dies||A 55-year-old man, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died on Thursday of the serious injuries he sustained in a road accident, Health Department sources said on Friday. The man’s swab sample was lifted prior to his surgery at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). He was shifted to ESI Hospital on July 7 after the test results confirmed that he was positive, the hospital sources said. Tiruppur District Administration sources said the cause of death could be ascertained only after an audit conducted by the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-injured-in-road-accident-dies/article32048507.ece
11 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private school teachers stage hunger strike||Nearly 2,400 teachers and non-teaching staff working in private schools in the district staged a hunger strike highlighting multiple demands on Friday. The protest was organised by Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation Higher Secondary Schools Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-school-teachers-stage-hunger-strike/article32048485.ece
11 July 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 count crosses 1,000 in Kanniyakumari district||COVID-19 tally of Kanniyakumari district breached the 1,000 mark with the addition of 105 fresh cases – all indigenous – on Friday. The district’s total case count is 1,070, with 658 active cases. Thoothukudi reported 195 new cases, 194 of which were indigenous, which pushed the tally to 1,949 with 940 active cases. The district has witnessed 12 deaths. In Tirunelveli, 148 positive cases – 141 of them were indigenous – were reported on Friday to take the total number of infections to 1,551 and the active cases to 777. In view of the rise in the number of cases, traders have decided to down shutters of shops in North Bazaar in Palayamkottai for a week. After a few employees of Tirunelveli Chief Judicial Magistrate Court and the Judicial Magistrate Court – 4 tested positive, the courts were closed for disinfection. Tenkasi recorded nine new cases which took the tally to 598, and the number of active cases is 298. A total of 192 people tested positive in Madurai, taking the tally to 5,482, and the number of active cases to 4,131. The district reported six deaths – the toll is now 101 – on Friday. Collector T.G. Vinay said differently abled people, who had been isolated at COVID-19 Care Centres, COVID-19 health facilities and the speciality hospital at the GRH, were usually accommodated in the ground floor. “The facilities all have ramps and western toilets. The super speciality hospital also has differently abled-friendly toilets,” he said. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district registered 143 fresh cases and 140 discharges on Friday. The district’s tally is 1,492 with 943 active cases. The toll increased to 11 with the death of a 72-year-old man at the GRH, Madurai. Collector R. Kannan said the Covid Care Centres at Sivakasi and Krishnankoil had started functioning. Theni Theni recorded 108 new cases which took the tally to 1,495. Forty of the new cases were reported from Cumbum, 22 from Theni, 12 from Periyakulam and 11 from Uthamapalayam. The district witnessed three deaths. A public sector bank near Rajadhani police station was shut after a manager tested positive. Customers were advised home-quarantine. Dindigul Dindigul reported eight fresh cases which pushed the total number of cases to 750. Twenty-six people, including a one-year old child, were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram Eighty-five people tested positive in Ramanathapuram, taking the tally to 1,691. Most of the fresh cases were from Ramanathapuram town, Kilakarai and Paramakudi. Sivaganga Sivaganga reported 45 new cases which took the tally to 720. Devakottai, Manamadurai, Karaikudi and Sivaganga Town recorded most of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-count-crosses-1000-in-kanniyakumari-district/article32048740.ece
11 July 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||New Cauvery combined drinking water scheme to be launched soon||A new Cauvery Combined Drinking Water Supply Scheme (CWSS) meant for 13,144 habitations in Kulithalai and Thogamalai panchayat unions in Karur district will be commissioned soon. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board has commenced trial run on the scheme. Apart from pumping water from the collector well, trial on pumping water to the overhead water tanks is also underway. The water scheme will cater to the habitations situated in 253 hamlets in the two panchayat unions and has been executed at an estimated cost of Rs. 52.75 crore. While the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development has extended an assistance of Rs. 42.52 crore for the project, the State government has contributed Rs. 10.23 crore. The project has been designed for a per capita supply of 55 litres a day to residents in 2,144 habitations in 42 hamlets in Kulithalai Panchayat Union and 11,000 habitations in 253 hamlets in in Thogamalai panchayat union. The scheme will pump water from the Cauvery river near Vathiyam. Water will be pumped by two powerful motors to a ground level sump with a capacity of 16.05 lakh litres situated near Rathinampillai Pudur colony from water will be distributed to the overhead water tanks. With all the works on the scheme being completed, Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar, accompanied by Collector T.Anbalagan, inspected the trial run on Thursday. Mr.Vijayabhaskar said that supply of water from the scheme would begin soon after the trial run was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cauvery-combined-drinking-water-scheme-to-be-launched-soon/article32048768.ece
11 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Trauma Care Centre to become surgical unit||The Trauma Care Centre of Government Rajaji Hospital, which is situated near the Collectorate, would soon be converted into a surgical COVID-19 facility, said Dean Sangumani. Addressing the press here on Friday, he said, “Some of the patients who needed surgery test positive for COVID-19. So to accommodate them in a designated place where they could convalesce in comfort during quarantine, we have planned for the surgical facility.” Apart from the 564 beds at the COVID-19 wing, 900 more beds had been made available at the GRH and Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur. Currently, 614 COVID-19 positive patients were being treated at the GRH, he said. More doctors, staff nurses and health workers had been drafted for COVID-19 duty on Thursday. Now, 150 more staff would help the 272 employees currently on duty. “On Friday, at the GRH main hospital, there were 952 inpatients and 2,694 outpatients, and 40 major surgeries, 30 minor surgeries and 50 deliveries were performed. Despite the workload due to COVID-19, we also have staff working round-the-clock at the main hospital, tending to patients who are sick,” he said. On an average, the GRH sees around 500 deaths a month, excluding the present COVID-19 deaths. Of the 95 COVID-19 deaths, 70.8% of the cases had comorbidities, the Dean said. Treatment coordinator of COVID-19 speciality hospital and Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association president K. Senthil said the GRH being a tertiary hospital, it dealt with patients with severe infection. “We get test results in eight hours and have quality medicines for the patients,” he said. The Dean said patients must be confident and not panic when they get to know that they test COVID-19 positive as there have been over 1,000 discharges from the hospital and only a few deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trauma-care-centre-to-become-surgical-unit/article32048730.ece
11 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin finds fault with every move of State government, says Minister||As DMK president M.K. Stalin could not come to terms with the fact that the State government and officials across various departments were confident of overcoming challenges posed by the COVID-19, he had been criticising every measure, said Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar here on Friday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the ‘Amma kitchen’ at Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry building, from where food is being prepared for patients, doctors and front-line workers such as police personnel at the three COVID Care Centres in Madurai, he said that as an opposition leader, Mr. Stalin was welcome to give suggestions. But his statements triggered panic among people. “Even as he finds fault with the hospital administration, doctors and their teams are working closely with patients in isolation wards, taking huge risks to their lives,” he said. The three COVID Care Centres in Madurai had close to 1,300 patients. Right from serving ginger tea in the morning, the patients were given healthy food, including sprouts, egg with meal, chappatis and dhal, rice with rasam and milk with pepper at night. The food prepared at the kitchen was served by volunteers, he said and added that the government was prepared to handle even a larger number of patients, he said. When this was the reality, DMK president had been issuing statements and nothing beyond this. As a responsible leader of a party, he had not given a suggestion to the people or the government. On the other hand, he was interested in accusing the Chief Minister and the officials, the doctors and front-line workers of maladministration. He should stop issuing misleading statements. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam and a number of experts were monitoring the COVID-19 situation and the behaviour of the virus in different parts of the State. Based on their advice and suggestions, the official machinery functioned and would continue to move forward in the right direction. Tamil Nadu would certainly break the virus chain very soon. Like, Chennai, which had been witnessing a declining trend, other districts would also follow suit, Mr. Udayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-finds-fault-with-every-move-of-state-government-says-minister/article32048733.ece
11 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||With deaths mounting, gasifiers run non-stop||Over the past two weeks, the staff at the two crematoriums in the city — Thathaneri and Moolakarai — are struggling owing to increase in workload. According to a Corporation source, only COVID-19 bodies or ‘suspects’ are cremated at Thathaneri which has only one gasifier. The rest are diverted to the adjacent cremation ground where bodies are burnt on a pyre. At Moolakarai crematorium, known as ‘Anjali’ and maintained by Rotary Club of Madurai MidTown, COVID-19 bodies are cremated for 12 hours from 6 p.m. using two gasifiers. “Normal cases are attended to during the day,” says V. Murugan, Manager of the Anjali Trust. With rise in COVID-19 bodies, both the crematoriums have started working round-the-clock. In the past six days, 120 COVID-19 bodies or ‘suspects’ had been cremated at Thathaneri gasifier, against a maximum of 10 bodies a day before the coronavirus days. Those working at the adjacent cremation ground say they are attending to double the number of normal deaths than usual. “It is like decades back when traditional method was the only option,” says a caretaker. The situation is no different at Moolakarai, which recently handled a record high of 44 cases in a day. “Usually, we attend to around 300 cases a month. But, from July 1 to 9, 257 bodies were cremated,” says Mr. Murugan. The two registrars at Thananeri are working 24 hours at a stretch on alternate days. The single gasifier is working continuously. “Operations were suspended in the crematorium for a night recently due to overheating. After all it is a machine, and it needs time to cool off,” a staff says. Due to shortage of crematoriums, family members wait for a few hours to cremate their loved ones, says Mr. Murugan. There must be more crematoriums in the city- at least one in each of the four zones, says V.P. Manikandan, who helps in the last rites of abandoned elders. “This has to be done on a war footing to meet the demands of a city as big as Madurai,” he says. A crematorium can be set up on the Corporation’s cremation ground at K. Pudur, besides increasing the number of gasifiers at Thathaneri and Moolakarai, it is felt. Assistant City Health Officer B. Vinodh Raja says in a week’s time the additional gasifier at Thathaneri will be repaired and become operational. “Based on need, we will increase the number of crematoriums,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-deaths-mounting-gasifiers-run-non-stop/article32048737.ece
11 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Market shifting: HC demands remedial measures from govt.||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to suggest remedial measures after the Tiruchi Collector, in a counter affidavit, apprehended law and order problem in moving traders from Gandhi Market to Kallikudi Market in Tiruchi. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam suo motu impleaded the Chief Secretary and the Principal Secretary to the Revenue Department in a petition filed by K. Krishnamoorthy, who sought a direction to the district administration to shift the wholesale market to Kallikudi Market. The court was informed that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Gandhi Market was closed for the present and trade was permitted in four makeshift markets. After pursuing the counter affidavit filed by the Collector, the court observed that the Collector was unable to persuade the traders to move to the newly constructed Kallikudi Market. If the Collector apprehended law and order problem, it was for the Collector to handle it with the aid of the police. For that purpose the officials could not seek the aid of the court. The court said that at this juncture the role of the court was primarily adjudicatory and the effective functioning of the administration fell within the domain of the government. But repeatedly the authorities concerned were trying to wash their hands of the issue apprehending law and order problem. If the authorities concerned came out with affidavits explaining their inability to deal with law and order problem, this court might consider the issue, the judges said. The court directed the newly impleaded respondents to go through the counter filed by the Collector and file their affidavits suggesting remedial measures. The case was adjourned till August 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/market-shifting-hc-demands-remedial-measures-from-govt/article32048766.ece
11 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t construct drama stage adjacent to PHC’||S. Rajangam, a bus conductor, from Peraiyur moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday seeking a direction to restrain the State from constructing a drama stage adjacent to a primary health centre (PHC) in Athankaraipatti near Peraiyur in Madurai district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Block Development Officer and the panchayat president to file counter affidavits on the basic facilities available in the village and the justification on the need to construct a drama stage. The court adjourned the hearing in the public interest litigation petition. The petitioner said the PHC was the only medical centre in the village and the road leading to it was narrow. If the stage was constructed, it would lead to crowding. During emergencies, patients would be put to hardship, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-construct-drama-stage-adjacent-to-phc/article32048741.ece
11 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘3,000 tests a day soon’||Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar said Madurai district would be averaging around 3,000 COVID-19 tests a day soon and the swab samples will be sent to either Chennai or Coimbatore. After distributing pulse oximeters and thermal scanners to the Health department here on Friday, he told reporters that over 2,000 people were tested for COVID-19 each day in the past three days. Out of them, only around 250 people tested positive daily, he said adding that this must be perceived as a positive sign. The Minister added that the district administration’s methods had recently come under the scanner for the sudden rise in cases and deaths but officials and doctors were fighting each day trying to keep the mortality rate low. “People keep raising questions about the number of deaths taking place in Madurai. However, if we take into account the people who have died, most are above 60 years of age and had comorbidities. This is a challenge across the world,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3000-tests-a-day-soon/article32048728.ece
11 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Two groups of fishermen spar over use of banned fishing nets||Two groups of fishermen in the district conducted demonstrations at different locations on Friday warring over use of the banned purse seine nets for fishing. Demanding permission to use the banned nets a few hundreds of fishers from hamlets in Chandrapadi area, staged a demonstration at Nandalar bridge, holding vehicular traffic for over an hour. On their part a similar number of fishers from Tranquebar area congregated at the town opposing the use of the banned nets. There was, however, no clash. The overlapping of fishing grounds for the two groups of fishermen of Chandrapadi and Tranquebar that are separated by just a few kilometres had caused the conflict. The fishers in Tranquebar area had eschewed use of banned nets two years back, and had been critical of the continued use of such nets by their counterparts in Chandrapadi area. Accompanied by senior officials of Fishing and Police departments, Collector Praveen P. Nair, rushed to Chandrapadi and prevailed upon the fishers to withdraw their demonstration with an assurance to convene peace talks next week. The protesters in Tranqebar whom the Collector met subsequently also relented and accepted to take part in the peace meeting, official sources said. According to senior officials of fishing department, the fishers of hamlets in Chandrapadi area had sought a new deadline to suiting their convenience to do away with purse seine nets. The district administration has time and again been cautioning fishers that use of purse seine nets will invite action under Fishing Regulation Act. As per the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2016, the use of purse seine and pair seines nets are banned in the State. In a communication issued last month before resumption of fishing activities, the District Collector had informed that committees had been formed with officails of Revenue, Police, Transport and Fisheries Department to take action on boats using the banned nets. The fishers were warned that in the event of flouting of the directive, the catches, the vehicles used for transport, fishing nets and boats will be confiscated. “We have been confiscating the catches and auctioning them. There has been no let up on our part,” Joint Director of Fisheries Amal Raj Xavier, Nagapattinam, said. Even on Thursday, the fish catches from eight boats that were caught using banned nets were confiscated and auctioned, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-groups-of-fishermen-spar-over-use-of-banned-fishing-nets/article32048765.ece
11 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records one death and 72 new cases||One more COVID-19 death took the toll in the Union Territory to 17 on Friday. With 72 new cases, the cumulative total stands at 1,272. The district administration has opened the Beach Road for public movement from 5 a.m. to 12 p.m. starting Friday. Collector T. Arun on Thursday in an order said that the beach road could be used by walkers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-one-death-and-72-new-cases/article32048450.ece
11 July 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco should not insist on payment of power bill immediately’||Members of the Pudukottai district unit of the Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi have appealed to the Tangedco authorities not to compel the public to pay power bill immediately and desist from disconnecting electricity supply for default of payment. Party functionaries led by the party's district secretary S. Niyaz Ahmed submitted a memorandum to the Superintending Engineer, Tangedco, here on Friday. The memorandum said several people had lost their livelihood during the lockdown clamped by the Central and State governments to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Heeding the government’s announcement, people had been remaining indoors which only increases the power requirements. It further said it was Tangedco’s fault that electricity metre reading was not done at the appropriate time. It claimed that Tangedco employees were disconnecting power supply citing non-payment of power bill during the current juncture. The Tangedco should give extension of time for payment of power bills by reducing the amount by half or the State government should entirely bear the full amount. At a time when many were finding it hard to even earn a livelihood, Tangedco should not levy a fine for the amount paid beyond the deadline, the memorandum further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-should-not-insist-on-payment-of-power-bill-immediately/article32048776.ece
11 July 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Counselling for mother of murdered minor girl||The district administration has arranged psychological counselling for the mother of a minor girl who was raped and murdered at Embal village in Arimalam union in the district recently. Acting on the instruction of Collector P. Uma Maheswari, a team under the District Social Welfare Officer met the victim’s mother and gave her counselling. Arrangements were also made to admit her to a mental health home in the district. An official press release said the team members during their visit on July 6 advised the victim’s father Nagooran to admit his wife to a mental health home for treatment. hey also advised him to admit his other daughter to a Government Children’s Home, keeping in mind her safety.  The release further said Nagooran contacted the District Mental Health Centre over phone on Tuesday and expressed his willingness to get his wife admitted for treatment. On Wednesday, the authorities admitted the woman to a mental health home at Annavasal Government Hospital, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-for-mother-of-murdered-minor-girl/article32048763.ece
11 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors warned against selling masks with fake N95 label||With the governments mandating wearing masks in public to prevent spread of COVID-19, many are trying to make money using the situation by selling poor quality masks and masks with fake N95 labels on roadsides. Health officials advise the public to wear cloth masks over disposable ones as the former can be washed and reused while surgical masks require measures to dispose through authorised agencies. Hence, several street vendors are selling masks made of different fabrics with fake N95 labels affixed on them. J.M. Boopathi, president of Consumer Voice Foundation, said, “many street vendors are selling such masks for Rs. 40- Rs. 50 per piece. People will get misled by the labels. Officials should take stern action against such persons.” District Collector S.A.Raman warned of criminal action against persons selling masks with fake labels. Mr. Raman said that its wrong to sell masks with such labels. It had also come to the notice of the authorities that at some places, the vendors were reusing/ selling discarded fabric masks after washing them. Action would be taken against such persons, he said. He advised the public not to discard masks made with non-woven fabric along with general waste. “Wash them with soap water, pack them separately, mark it with red ink as ‘masks.’ Wear reusable masks only after thoroughly washing them in soap water and drying them in sun for two days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendors-warned-against-selling-masks-with-fake-n95-label/article32048493.ece
11 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals temporarily closed||Six private hospitals in the town have been shut temporarily as medical practitioners and staff attached to these institutions tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday. While five hospitals/clinics have suspended their operations as their doctors turned positive, the other institution was closed temporarily as one of the staff tested positive. Meanwhile, a textile showroom in the town was also closed temporarily as some of the staff working there tested positive for COVID-19, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-temporarily-closed/article32048772.ece
11 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CBI takes over custodial deaths case||An eight-member CBI team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Shukla arrived in Thoothukudi on Friday to formally take over probe in the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case. The team received evidences and documents pertaining to the case from Anil Kumar, Investigating Officer of the CB-CID team, which probed the case on the directions of the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench). The State agency had arrested 10 policemen and recorded the statements of many witnesses. Earlier in the day, CB-CID IGP K. Shankar said that the agency would hand over to the CBI all documents recovered from Sattankulam police station, Sattankulam and Kovilpatti government hospitals and Kovilpatti sub-jail and the statements of witnesses. Holds discussions  After receiving the documents, the CBI team had an over two-hour discussion with the CB-CID team including Superintendents of Police Vijayakumar and Madasamy. The CBI is likely to approach the court next week seeking custody of the accused in the case for interrogation. Since the CBI investigators have to visit Sattankulam and Kovilpatti in connection with this case, the investigating agency is likely to have its office in Palayamkottai, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-team-formally-takes-over-custodial-deaths-case/article32048445.ece
11 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi’s main bazaar a containment zone||In a move to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Tiruchi Corporation has declared wards 16, 17 and 18 of Srirangam, encompassing the city’s main bazaar area, as a containment zone. All shops, except those selling essential commodities, are to be closed for 14 days in the three wards. The civic body began cordoning off the area, erecting barricades at all the entrances to the market, and the surrounding residential areas in the three wards of Srirangam zone on Friday afternoon. The shops in the bazaar, and the surrounding residential area will be closed for a period of 14 days, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner told The Hindu . “This zone has seen a sudden spike in cases over the last 10 days. If we ignore it now, it might become another Koyambedu market-like situation,” he said. A total of 56 active cases have so far been reported from this area. A senior official of the civic body said that the following streets- NSB Road, all entry points to the bazaar areas from West Boulevard Road, Singarathope, Small Kamala Street, Big Kamala Street, the entire Big Bazaar Street beginning from Chinna Kadai Street to Gandhi Market Arch, Big Chetti Street, Vellai Vethalai Street, Kalla Street, Pulikara Street, Sandhukadai Street, Sunnambukara Street, Kiledhar Street, Boologanathar Kovil Street, Jaffersha Street and Nadu Guzilli Street will be inaccessible for visitors. As many as 30 entry points are being barricaded, he said. Although the areas will be closed for a period of 14 days, a review will be conducted after a week, Mr. Sivasubramanian said. “If there are no new cases at all, then a decision on its reopening will be made,” he said. The move was initiated by the district administration and the city corporation in consultation with the Tiruchi city police, he added. Mr. Sivasubramanian assured that small grocery shops, milk vendors and other essential services including pharmacies would be allowed to open. Two large retail outlets on NSB Road had employees testing positive, with as many as 580 people from a single shop being placed under home quarantine only a few days ago. Sources said that an employee of a leading textile outlet contracted the virus from a friend who had been working in a nearby jewellery-cum-utensil showroom. Both shops remain closed. Officials of the health department and the revenue department have been asked to monitor the 580 employees. “NSB Road, one of the busiest localities in the city, is frequented by shoppers of all age groups, when people in this area have already tested positive, it is important to monitor the spread,” a senior official of the civic body said. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that random sampling in the region, which is already under way, will be scaled up. “We will check all the residents for fever symptoms on a daily basis. Those showing symptoms will be tested immediately,” he said. Meanwhile, two junior assistants of the Tiruchi City Corporation and three women of a Self-Help Group who manage the Amma Unavagam adjacent to the K. Abishekapuram zonal office near the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. While the junior assistants both suffered from fever and cold symptoms, the women had attended a funeral of a common contact, from where they contracted the infection, official sources said. The ground floor of the Tiruchi Corporation head office, on Bharathidasan Salai was sealed and sanitised following the admission of the two junior assistants to the Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchis-main-bazaar-a-containment-zone/article32048774.ece
11 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths and 237 new cases in central region||Tiruchi district saw a new single-day high in COVID-19 cases with a total of 109 patients testing positive for the viral infection on Friday. The central region recorded 237 new cases, besides two deaths, one in Ariyalur and the other in Nagapattinam. A 53-year-old man hailing from Nagapattinam was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on July 5, and swabs lifted from him returned positive the same day. He suffered respiratory failure and died on July 8, according to the Health Department bulletin. Official sources at the hospital said that he was diabetic. A 44-year-old man hailing from Ariyalur, with pre-existing health conditions of asthma, wheezing and liver issues died of the viral infection at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. He had been admitted to the hospital on July 7, when he tested positive. However, late on Thursday, he succumbed to health complications, including pneumonia and respiratory failure, official sources said. Of the 207 fresh cases in the central region, 109 were from Tiruchi, 47 cases in Thanjavur, 36 in Pudukottai, 27 in Tiruvarur, seven in Nagapattinam, five each in Ariyalur and Karur and one patient in Perambalur. In Tiruchi, of the 109 patients, more than half hailed from the city, while many hailed from the Bazaar area. People from Thillai Nagar, Anna Nagar, Palakkarai, E.B. Road, Woraiyur, Thiruvanaikoil and Manachanallur also tested positive. Meanwhile, 23 patients, including 19 from Tiruchi and one each from Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari were discharged from the Tiruchi MGMGH after recovering from the infection. A total of 23 patients were also discharged from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai where asymptomatic patients were being treated. All these 46 patients were sent home and asked to stay indoors for a period of 14 days. Thanjavur district saw a spike in cases with 47 testing positive, while two tested positive in Tiruvarur. A total of 36 patients tested positive in Pudukottai. Official sources here said that most patients had returned to the district from other parts of the State. The patients have been admitted to the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Five patients tested positive in Ariyalur district. Of the five, two returned from Chennai, two were family members of those who tested positive and one patient returned to Ariyalur from Perambalur districts. All have been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital for treatment. Seven patients tested positive in Nagapattinam. Of them, two tested positive after being in contact with patients who tested positive earlier. Three patients returned from Chennai, while one returned from Thanjavur. A patient who travelled from Muscat also tested positive. Of the five who tested positive in Karur were four men aged 48, 59, 41 and 36 and a woman aged 60. All have been admitted to the Karur Government Headquarters Hospital for treatment. The sole patient who tested positive in Perambalur was a 47-year-old farmer with influenza-like illnesses (ILI). He had developed fever and was admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital on July 6. He was later shifted to the Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-and-237-new-cases-in-central-region/article32048775.ece
11 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities seek hike in relief||Persons with disabilities have urged the government to hike the relief given to them in view of the COVID-19 pandemic to Rs. 5,000 from Rs. 1,000. Members of the Tamil Nadu Rights and Protection of All Persons with Disabilities Association protested outside the Tiruchi District Collectorate recently seeking an increase in the assistance provided. “Many of us are the sole breadwinners in our families. We request the government to increase the assistance to at least Rs. 5,000 each month,” said J. Jayapal, district president of the association. In a petition submitted to the Collector, they also sought jobs through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Meanwhile, complaints are being aired in a few places that persons with disabilities are facing difficulties in getting the relief. The district authorities in Tiruchi have instructed those who require documents to visit their nearest Village Administrative Office to collect the amount. In Thanjavur, the authorities have undertaken the task of distributing the funds at their doorsteps. Those with national identity cards, Aadhaar cards and other necessary documents can collect the relief. “Even those with the identity cards are unable to wait at the VAO offices. Those have travelled to other districts and are stranded there are also unable to get the assistance,” said K. Kamaraj, a disability rights activist based in Tiruchi. The government must allow these migrant persons with disabilities to either receive the compensation at other locations or keep the amount in reserve, which they can avail when they return, he added. In some districts, the distribution is being done through the Public Distribution System (PDS) shops, Mr. Kamaraj said. V. Srinivasan, a resident of Thirupanandal, Thanjavur, who has been assisting persons with disabilities in his locality said, “from 10 a.m. on Friday, these people have been visiting the VAO office and returning disappointed.” R. Subramanian, Thanjavur District Differently Abled Welfare Officer, however, said that the door-to-door distribution was being donein a seamless manner. “We have distributed welfare assistance to 17,386 people and will complete the distribution within this week,” he said. Tiruchi District Differently Abled Welfare Officer R. Ravichandran said that a total of 63,617 beneficiaries will receive the relief in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-disabilities-seek-hike-in-relief/article32048771.ece
11 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl ended life, says police||Days after the body of a 14-year-old girl was found in a partially charred state at Adhavathurpalayam village on the city’s outskirts, the Tiruchi Rural Police on Friday said that she had ended her life and a 24-year-old man of the same village had been taken into custody on charge of abetting the suicide. The six special police teams, which carried out intensive investigation following the death of the girl under suspicious circumstances on Monday found that Senthilkumar had abetted the minor to commit suicide, a police press release said on Friday. Senthilkumar was a distant relative of the girl. The release said that the girl had left home on July 6 afternoon to a grocery shop owned by her relative and did not return. The girl’s sister and other relatives, who went in search of her were told that the minor had left for home. They found her body in a partially burnt state inside a bush close to her home at Adhavathurpalayam on Monday evening. The Somarasampet police had registered a case under section 174 (iii) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on a complaint preferred by the girl’s father. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-girl-ended-life-says-police/article32048777.ece
11 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||After Madurai, Tiruppur gets ‘mask parottas’||Days after a restaurant in Madurai introduced parottas in the shape of masks to spread awareness on COVID-19, a restaurant in Tiruppur has followed suit. Located on Palladam Road in Thennampalayam, the restaurant named ‘Pepsi Hotel’ has introduced these mask parottas. Latest addition Its owner R. Subramaniam said the parottas were introduced on a trial basis for a period of one week, during which it garnered a good response from the customers. “We sell about 30 different varieties of parottas ,” he told The Hindu , among which mask parottas are the latest addition. The restaurant has also introduced a special variety of masala dosa with ingredients such as ginger, garlic, pepper, turmeric and coriander aimed at boosting the immune system. Physical distancing Mr. Balasubramaniam said the restaurant, established nearly 25 years ago, now ensures that all its employees wear masks, uses hand sanitisers regularly and practice physical distancing at all times. “We also have a plan to give one mask parotta free of cost to all customers to further spread awareness on the importance of wearing masks,” Mr. Balasubramaniam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-madurai-tiruppur-gets-mask-parottas/article32048501.ece
11 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for uploading photos of woman on social media||The Tiruppur North All Women Police on Friday arrested P. Maadhu, 41, supervisor of a garment company here for uploading private photographs and videos of a woman with whom he had an affair on a social media platform. Based on her complaint, the police registered a case under provisions of the IT Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-uploading-photos-of-woman-on-social-media/article32048486.ece
11 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister lays foundation for medical college and hospital||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the Government Medical College and Hospital in Udhagamandalam through videoconferencing on Friday. In a press release, the district administration stated that the hospital will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 447.32 crore on 40-acre land located on the outskirts of Udhagamandalam town near the Hindustan Photo Films Factory Manufacturing Company Limited premises. The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, said that the hospital will benefit local residents and tourists who need medical care, as well as students looking to become doctors. Land for the medical college and hospital, where around 150 students will undergo training to become qualified doctors, was procured from the Forest Department and the Department of Animal Husbandry, the Collector added. In a statement, Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani said that the hospital will ensure residents in the Nilgiris will have access to quality, affordable healthcare. The statement said that based on the 2011 census, the only district which recorded a contraction in the population in Tamil Nadu was the Nilgiris, when the population contracted by 3% as compared to the previous census. The decrease in population was due to people moving out of the Nilgiris in search of better job opportunities, better education facilities, and due to a lack of access to quality healthcare and man-animal conflicts, he said. He added that with the construction of the medical college and hospital, residents would not have to travel to Coimbatore and Kerala to get medical attention, as was the case presently.  2,000 trees to be cut The hospital, which when constructed will spread over 40 acres, will entail the cutting down of over 2,000 trees in Udhagamandalam town. Present at the laying of the foundation stone was Dean of the medical college and hospital Dr. Ravindran, as well as MLAs from Coonoor, Udhagamandalam and Gudalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-lays-foundation-for-medical-college-and-hospital/article32048491.ece
11 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Chocolate factory shut after ‘immunity boosting’ claims||A unit producing chocolates in Udhagamandalam was on Friday sealed by a team of officials from the Food Safety and Drug Administration and Health departments, after the proprietor of the unit, who also runs outlets in The Nilgiris where the chocolates are sold, allegedly advertised claims that dark chocolate boosts immunity against COVID-19. S. Palanisami, Joint Director of Health Services, The Nilgiris district, said that action was taken after the District Collector received a complaint about the misleading advertisement. A team of officials from both the Health as well as the Food Safety and Drug Administration departments visited the production unit and held inquiries. Lack of proof J. Thanga Vignesh, designated officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration Department, The Nilgiris, told The Hindu that the proprietor of the unit as well as the outlets selling the product, M&N Chocolates, had falsely advertised the “immunity-boosting” qualities of dark chocolate. “We asked for proof for the claims made by the owner, but they were unable to provide any, other than a few articles from a website,” said Dr. Vignesh. The production unit also had license only to manufacture bakery products and biscuits, and not chocolates, the officials said. Samples of the chocolates were taken and sent for further testing. “Once we get the results, we will take action against the owner of the facility under Section 61 of the Food Safety and Standards Act,” said Dr. Vignesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chocolate-factory-shut-after-immunity-boosting-claims/article32048464.ece
11 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Elephant could have died of complications from fall’||A translocated elephant from Hosur, which was found dead near a waterfall in Segur forest range in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve on Thursday, could have died of complications arising from a fall, Forest Department officials said after the post-mortem on Friday. Deputy Director of MTR ((buffer zone) L.C.S. Srikanth said, “We suspect that the animal slipped while drinking water and fell in a position known as sternal recumbency. When this happens, the elephant needs to get upright in a few minutes, failing which it could lead to asphyxiation and death.” The elephant’s lack of knowledge of its new habitat could have contributed to its death, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-could-have-died-of-complications-from-fall/article32048494.ece
11 July 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT entrance exam cancelled||Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) has cancelled its engineering entrance examination this year. Admission this year will be based on Class 12 (Plus Two)/ Pre-University marks in Physics,Chemistry and Mathematics/Biology. Those who have scored in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE Main) will be given weightage. Forms to provide the candidate’s marks and JEE (Main) scores have already been provided on the VIT websitewww.vit.ac.in. In case the results of the board examination taken are not declared, they may upload the marks as soon as the results are available. For clarifications, contact toll free number 1800-102-0536 or emailugadmission@vit.ac.inor WhatsApp 9566656755.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-entrance-exam-cancelled/article32048426.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two persons die of COVID-19 in Salem, one of them a doctor||Two persons died of COVID-19 in Salem district on Friday, and there were 127 fresh cases, of which 116 were indigenous. Officials said the Salem Corporation limits alone reported 75 cases. The deceased include a 48-year-old woman who was brought dead to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH) on Thursday and a 65-year-old doctor of a private hospital in Tirupattur. The doctor had severe lung ailments and was admitted to GMKMCH on Thursday, health officials said. The swab sample of the woman was collected and it tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. As for those shown as imported cases, seven had come from other districts such as Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Kallakurichi, Tirupattur and Villupuram. Four patients had come from Mumbai, Bengaluru and Gujarat. With two staff at the Salem Collectorate testing positive on Thursday, their office and adjacent offices in the building were closed. District Collector S.A. Raman said the Collectorate premises would be disinfected over the weekend. Namakkal district had two new cases. One was a 45-year-old man working at a bank in Aravakurichi and the other a 16-year-old girl from Kumarapalayam who had travelled to Madurai. 43 cases in Coimbatore Coimbatore district saw 43 new cases on Friday, out of which 13 were employees of a gold jewellery showroom on 100 Feet Road in the city. Sources in the Health Department said that a total of 15 employees of the showroom of a Kerala-based jewellery chain had tested positive. On Thursday, the showroom was closed for disinfection after two employees tested positive. Efforts to trace the source of their infection are under way, the sources said. Bank branch closed Tiruppur district saw 24 new cases – 18 men and six women -- on Friday. Three of the men were from one apartment complex in Tiruppur Corporation limits. On Friday, the district saw its second imported case --a 41-year-old man who travelled from Bihar to Bengaluru by train and then to Tiruppur by road on July 5. Of the 288 cases so far in Tiruppur district, this is only the second imported case. The rest are indigenous. Among the new cases was a 28-year-old man working as an electrician in State Bank of India’s branch on Uthukuli Road in Tiruppur Corporation limits. The bank branch was closed for disinfection on Friday. 16 cases in Erode Erode district saw 16 new cases, of which 12 were reported in Erode Corporation limits, two from Chennimalai and one each from Perundurai and Modakurichi blocks, official said. Meanwhile, swab samples were taken from 580 LPG cylinder delivery men of various oil marketing companies at the District Headquarters and Hospital and block Primary Health Centres in the district. The Nilgiris reported 10 new cases on Friday. In Dharmapuri, 14 persons tested positive on Friday. They included two girls aged 11 and 14, and three boys aged seven, 15 and 17. One of the infected persons was a contact of a 45-year-old man who died of COVID-19. The man from Hosur suffered complications from hypertension at the hospital on Wednesday night. Three persons, including a three-year-old girl, tested positive in Krishnagiri district. The others were a 24-year-old woman and a 19-year-old medical student studying in Puducherry. The medico had visited Puducherry to collect his belongings. He was tested there and the results were sent to him on Thursday.  Gym shut  The gymnasium in which he worked out was closed after he tested positive. The swab sample of a 45-year-old mechanic of a leading company here was sent for testing after he had collapsed at the firm’s premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-die-of-covid-19-in-salem-one-of-them-a-doctor/article32048499.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench seeks status report on encroachments||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State to file a status report in a petition filed by a woman from Tiruchi district who sought a direction to the State government to restrain anyone from carrying out construction or cultivation activities on a waterbody in Muthalaipatti in Karur district. The court was hearing the petition filed by V. Annalakshmi, the daughter of A. Veeramalai. Last year, Veeramalai and his son Nallathambi were hacked to death by a group of men after they had opposed the encroachments on the waterbody in their village. The High Court Bench had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident and passed a slew of directions for the removal of encroachments and police protection to the family. The petitioner, Annalakshmi, who resides in Tiruchi district, said the removal of encroachments was being opposed by some individuals. The district administration must restrain them from carrying out any construction or cultivation activities. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian informed the court that a case was pending before the Supreme Court challenging the removal of a temple structure that was constructed on the waterbody. Other encroachments were removed, he said. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State to file a status report and adjourned the hearing till August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-bench-seeks-status-report-on-encroachments/article32048762.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture sales oulet inaugurated||Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan and Deputy Director of Horticulture (in charge) S. Kalaiselvan inaugurated a horticulture sales outlet at Uzhavar Sandhai in Anna Nagar here on Friday. Mr. Kalaiselvan said fruits and vegetables would be directly procured from farmers and sold at this outlet. “It is a temporary facility. Within two months, it will be shifted to a place near Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple in Tallakulam. A cold storage facility will also be set up there,” he said. The Chief Minister had announced establishment of horticulture sales outlets in Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Salem and Chennai. “Farmers Producer Groups will be roped in for purchasing good quality fruits and vegetables from farmers and it will be sold there. This will ensure that the farmers earn good profits even as buyers will get quality farm produce at reasonable rates,” the official said. Preference would be given to organic vegetables and fruits, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/horticulture-sales-oulet-inaugurated/article32048727.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Industries face challenges as migrant workers return||For the last few days, there are reports of migrant workers who have returned to Coimbatore district testing positive for COVID-19. This has created concern among industries and also brought to light the need for guidelines that industries need to follow when they bring the workers back. “The situation is not alarming. But, industries need to be cautious. If they take the precautions, the risk of spread of COVID-19 among the workers can be controlled,” says District Collector K. Rajamani. P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association, says that industries want to bring workers from other States back at any cost because they cannot keep the production facilities idle. The small-scale units can check temperature, use oximeter, and provide hand sanitisers. If the workers have symptoms, they can be checked for COVID-19. But, the MSMEs industries do not have clarity on several issues, such as availability of testing facilities, he says. According to G. Ezhil, chairman of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen, Coimbatore, the medium and large-scale foundries operate at 50 % capacity because of limited orders and availability of workforce. “There is no proper procedure related to migrant workers returning. We had appealed to the Chief Minister to create a separate quarantine facility for migrant workers who come back. The industries should not be closed if the workers test positive. That is not the solution,” he says. "In rural areas, there is no clarity on where the workers can be tested. Smaller units will not be able to bear the complete cost to test all the workers," says one small-scale industry owner. Several industries ask the high-risk category workers to stay back in the accommodations. Some ask the workers to go to the ESI hospital and get tested, if they have ESI membership. In the case of textile mills, some mills have got the workers back and some are waiting for the situation to improve. “Industries need to have strong standards operating procedures. The managements will have to take responsibility and keep the workers who return on mandatory two-week quarantine. The workers need to be tested before they resume work at the units. This is to also ensure the other workers are safe,” says Ravi Sam, chairman of the CSR, Affirmative Action, Sustainability sub-committee of Confederation of Indian Industry, Southern Region. When industries take the required precaution, the respective unit and the district benefit. The units will have to restrict the movement of the workers, use thermal scanners, and ensure the workers maintain physical distance. This is critical now. If they need any clarity on the steps they should take regarding migrant workers coming back, the industries can contact the district administration. If needed, a meeting can also be organised, adds the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-face-challenges-as-migrant-workers-return/article32048484.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dt. gets new SP||Namakkal district Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu will be the new Coimbatore district Superintendent of Police, according to the orders issued by the Home Department on Friday. The outgoing Coimbatore SP Sujit Kumar will be posted as the Madurai district SP. In Coimbatore City Police, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) L. Balaji Saravanan and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) S. Selvakumar have been transferred. They will be replaced by G. Stalin, SP (Civil Supplies CID), Madurai, and K. Gunasekaran, ASP, Prohibition and Enforcement Wing, Tiruppur respectively. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tiruppur City, V. Badri Narayanan has been transferred and posted as Kanniyakumari district SP. He will be replaced by K. Sureshkumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, Crime Against Women and Children, Salem. Mr. Selvakumar will replace Tiruppur Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) S. Prabhakaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dt-gets-new-sp/article32048487.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain predicted for Coimbatore, Tiruppur||Coimbatore district would witness South-West Monsoon rain for the next five days, the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University had predicted. It said the district would witness 5 to 8 mm rainfall on each of the next five days – till July 15. The maximum temperature would be in the 32 – 33 degree Celsius range and the night temperature around 22 degree Celsius. Tiruppur district would witness slightly lower rainfall – between 2 and 5 mm in the next five days. On Friday morning, various parts of the district and city woke up to the monsoon showers. It led to water stagnation in low-lying areas and on roads. Rainfall recorded in the 24 hours that ended 8 a.m. Friday were as follows – Annur - 19 mm, Coimbatore airport - 2.8 mm, Mettupalayam - 4 mm, Cincona - 72 mm, Chinnakalar - 82 mm, Valparai (Parambikulam Aliyar Project area) - 44 mm, Pollachi - 14.4 mm, Sulur - 3 mm and TNAU - 8 mm.  Staff Reporter adds from Erode: Several parts of the district received moderate to heavy overnight rainfall on Friday. In the city, water stagnation affected the movement of vehicles. Rainfall recorded at various places: Kodumudi - 74.6 mm, Varattupallam - 45.6 mm, Bhavani - 30.4 mm, Chennimalai - 29 mm, Kavundapadi - 29 mm, Perundurai - 16 mm, and Erode - 14 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-predicted-for-coimbatore-tiruppur/article32048483.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. Commissioner withdraws letter written to Tangedco||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath has ‘withdrawn’ the letter he wrote to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Limited (Tangedco) Chief Engineer for Coimbatore Region asking the power utility to treat its property tax assessment of buildings as building completion certificate. The Corporation Commissioner sent the letter on July 9 after the Commissioner of Municipal Administration wrote to all the municipal and corporation commissioners on July 7 reminding them that the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Buildings Rules, 2019 were in force from April 2, 2019 and that as per the Rules, that Tangedco insisted on building completion certificates to grant power connection as per the Rules and the commissioners would do well to do what was necessary. The Commissioner wrote the letter to his subordinate officers and the Corporation Commissioner wrote to the Tangedco Chief Engineer after activists questioned the letter. The activists had said the Corporation’s move would open the floodgates for unauthorised buildings in the city as the two were different. They had pointed out that while the civic body could assess all buildings for tax, irrespective of whether they were built as per plan or otherwise, the building completion certificate could be issued only for those buildings that were constructed as per approved plan and that too by the competent authority – the government agency that approved of the building plan. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon had also written to the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department secretary in this regard. He said had the Corporation Commissioner understood the context in which the government had framed the Rules, he would not have written the first letter to the Tangedco. The Government had framed the Rules placing insistence on building completion certificate even as local bodies assessed buildings for property tax. He also went on to add that if the Tangedco had issued power connection without building completion certificate but with tax assessment the officers concerned had violated the Rules and were liable for action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-commissioner-withdraws-letter-written-to-tangedco/article32048479.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A reminder||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-reminder/article32048496.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Students fare well in ICSE, ISC exams||Students of most of the schools in Madurai fared well in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) examinations for Class 10 and Indian School Certificate (ISC) examinations for Class 12, results of which were announced on Friday. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, Biology exam for Class 12 and Geography, Commerce and Biology examinations for Class 10 were not conducted. “Students were awarded marks for these subjects by taking an average of the top three scored-subjects and the internal assessment of each subject,” said Shanthi Mohan, Principal, Lakshmi School. She said the highest mark scored in Class 10 was 593 out of 600. It was 496 out of 500 in Class 12. Pearl Prem Kumar, Principal of VMJ School, said there was an improvement in the overall performance. While the highest mark in Class 10 was 584, it was 485 in Class 12. He said more centums were obtained in History. “We have received instructions that if students were not satisfied with the score given for the subjects for which examinations were not conducted, then they can apply for re-examination,” he said. A.K. Srinivasan, Headmaster of Jeevana School, said the highest score obtained in Class 10 was 586 and it was 487 for Class 12. He said 13 centums were scored in History. Vikaasa School scored the highest mark of 585 in Class 10 and 478 in Class 12 examinations. All these schools recorded cent percent pass in ICSE and ISC examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-fare-well-in-icse-isc-exams/article32048731.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Team effort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-effort/article32048770.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 10  Persons tested +ve so far: 1,071 Domestic cases: 1,039 Imported cases: 32 Persons recovered: 320 Death: 6 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 744   House quarantined: 3,082 Positive: 288 (24 fresh cases on Friday) Discharged: 156 Active cases: 130 Deaths: 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32048506.ece
11 July 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Flood prevention: State, Maharashtra to set up panel||Karnataka and Maharashtra have agreed to set up a multi-level coordination committee to monitor the flow of river water between the two States and avoid floods in the Krishna basin. This was among the decisions taken at a meeting between Karnataka Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, along with a team of Irrigation Department officials, in Mumbai on Wednesday. The panel will have sub-committees that function at three levels [local, district, and State] and will also include Irrigation Engineers and local Revenue officials in charge of rescue and rehabilitation. The local committee will include officers who are in charge of the sub-division [officers of the rank of Assistant Commissioner and Assistant Engineer]. Deputy Commissioners, Chief Engineers and Superintending Engineers will be in the district committee, and officers of the rank of Secretary and the heads of Irrigation Corporations will be part of the State-level committee. “We are utilising the gangplank approach to establish immediate and seamless communication between officers by connecting officers at different levels directly,” a Karnataka Irrigation Department officer, who was present in the meeting, said. “With this system in place, officers need not seek permission from their seniors before talking to the officers across the border, but only need to keep them informed. This will eliminate delays and improve the response time of both States,” he said. ‘In constant touch’ The modalities will be worked out at a separate meeting of officers in Mumbai and Bengaluru. “Apart from hotline telephone connections, officials will stay in constant touch with each other using email and closed social media groups. They will not insist on written orders for the opening and the closing of dams during emergencies,” said another officer. “Real-time communication between local- and district-level officers will ensure exact information on crucial data, like quantum of water release, time of release and acceleration of water depending on the amount of rainfall and inputs from run-off streams. This helps the officers operating the next reservoir to open them or close them. They will be able to calculate the time and quantity of inflow and prepare for outflow through the left and right bank canals and the river,” said the officer. In 2019, both States suffered crippling floods following heavy rain in south Maharashtra and northern Karnataka. Over 600 tmcft of water was released from Maharashtra into Karnataka. This was nearly four times the amount of water that can fill the Almatti dam [123 tmcft]. Coupled with this, the six riparian districts of the Krishna received 25,000 mm of rainfall in three months. This was slightly more than 50 times the aggregated annual average rainfall of Bagalkot district. Both States blamed each other for “improper dam management” for the floods. Mr. Jarkiholi hoped this would lead to better understanding and improved communication between the two States and have better processes for flood management.  Officers need not seek permission from their seniors before talking to the officers across the border, but only need to keep them informed. This will eliminate delays and improve the response time. Karnataka Irrigation Department officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flood-prevention-state-maharashtra-to-set-up-panel/article32048413.ece
11 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police and advocates in verbal battle||A verbal battle between advocates and the police led to an hour-long traffic jam on the Deputy Commissioner office premises in Belagavi on Friday. A police constable on duty on the office premises objected to a lawyer parking his car by the side of the road that passes through the compound wall of the premises, as he felt that it could disrupt traffic. There were some heated exchanges between the police the advocates. This angered the Bar Association members who said that the police constable had insulted the advocates. They demanded that the Police Commissioner direct the police constable to apologise to the lawyers. Assistant Commissioner Narayan Baramani, who reached the spot, summoned the police constable and asked him to take back some of his objectionable words and express regret. But the lawyers forced the police to remove all barricades in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office and make space for parking vehicles of those who visit court there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-and-advocates-in-verbal-battle/article32048591.ece
11 July 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Submit fresh proposal for Kalasa Banduri Project: Centre||The Union government has asked the State government to submit a fresh proposal for forest clearance to take up the Kalasa and Banduri Nala Project in the forest areas of Belagavi district. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has said that there was no proposal for forest land diversion pending before it. If the State government wants the clearance of a proposal it has to submit it de novo , in an online format through the dedicated portal [parivesh.nic.in] of the Ministry. In a letter to the Additional Chief Secretary of the Karnataka Water Resources Department — the user agency — the Deputy Inspector General of Forests has said that the old proposal by the State government was returned in 2003, pending resolution of the dispute between Karnataka and Goa. The fresh proposal should be as per the Forest Conservation Second Amendment Rules of 2014. It should also reflect the changed ground realities that may have taken place in the last two decades, the letter said. This is a reply to a request by the State Water Resources Department to seek diversion of forest land to the extent of 258 hectares near Kanakumbi village for the Kalasa project and 243 hectares near Nerse village for the Banduri one. Farmers’ leaders welcome the Centre’s letter. “It is a welcome step in the right direction and it means that the project has been revived,” said Krishik Samaj leader Sidagouda Modagi. He said it would not only provide drinking water to urban areas and villages in north Karnataka, but also provide water to some farmers along the banks of the Malaprabha. ‘Nothing new’ However, environmentalists differ. “It is nothing new. It does not mean that the Union government has taken any decision regarding the project,” said wildlife activist Giridhar Kulkarni. “The Centre keeps sending such letters to user agencies. It is only a request to send a fresh proposal through the online portal. That is because the government is not accepting any offline proposal since 2014,” he said. The project, aimed at providing drinking water to Hubballi-Dharwad and nearby areas by diverting 7.56 tmcft from Kalasa and Banduri nalas in the Mahadayi basin to the Malaprabha basin, has been pending for over four decades, owing to opposition from Goa and environment groups. After a prolonged legal battle, the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal (MWDT) delivered its verdict in August 2018. But it was only after Supreme Court’s direction in February this year that the Union government issued a gazette notification of the verdict clearing the first hurdle. The Karnataka government needs various permissions from competent authorities to take up work and subsequently it has begun the process of seeking them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/submit-fresh-proposal-for-kalasa-banduri-project-centre/article32048415.ece
11 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Vikas Dubey became gangster during the rule of other parties’||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi denied reports that Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey killed in a police encounter had been protected by BJP leaders. It is wrong to say that Vikas Dubey was protected by BJP leaders. He gained clout during the rule of other political parties in that State and became a gangster, he told journalists in Belagavi on Friday. Now, that he has met his end, the law of the land would take its natural course, the Minister said, without elaborating. Mr. Angadi asked Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah to stop criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on COVID-19 management. This is a time of crisis and the Opposition parties should cooperate with the ruling party and support it. This is not the time to criticise or oppose the government. There are democratic platforms such as Parliament and the Legislature where the Opposition could express its views. Mr. Siddaramaiah should realise this. He [Mr. Siddaramaiah] should understand the political maturity of Mr. Yediyurappa who continues to respect Opposition leaders, Mr. Angadi reminded him. Mr. Angadi urged Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) to go back to work as the fight against COVID-19 is a virtual war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vikas-dubey-became-gangster-during-the-rule-of-other-parties/article32048590.ece
11 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||20,000 rapid antigen tests in Bengaluru from today: Minister||Grappling with a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, the State government is all set to start conducting 20,000 rapid antigen tests in the city from Saturday. This will be apart from the regular RTPCR tests that have been happening. The point-of-care rapid antigen tests will yield results within 30 minutes. The State received one lakh antigen test kits on Thursday and has placed orders for additional two lakh. All ILI and SARI cases apart from high risk contacts, healthcare and frontline workers and people aged above 50 with comorbidities will be tested initially, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Addressing presspersons on Friday, he said of the one lakh kits 50,000 tests will be done in Bengaluru and the remaining in districts depending on the case load. The central team that had visited the State early this week had recommended ramping up of tests in the State. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer of labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said testing will be ramped up further in the next 10 days after the two lakh test kits arrive. He said health authorities will use the kits in mobile ambulances, fever clinics and door-to-door surveys to identify positive patients immediately. “As the results will be available within 30 minutes, it will accelerate the process of identifying positive cases. The plan is to ramp up testing to nearly 30,000 samples a day in the next 10 days,” he said. As of now, the State is testing an average of 18,000 samples a day and has a backlog of over 15,000 samples. Appealing to all private hospitals to start conducting antigen tests, Dr. Manjunath said this will avoid patients running from one hospital to another for want of a COVID-19 test. “As it costs just Rs. 450, the hospitals can test every patient with the rapid antigen kits and start treatment depending on the results,” he said. Guidelines Based on the advisory issued by ICMR on rapid antigen detection test kits, the State government on Friday issued guidelines on the use of the kits. All hospitals, laboratories, medical establishments (both government and private) intending to perform rapid antigen tests should mandatorily register with ICMR, and enter positive and negative results of each person on ICMR portal. Failure to register with ICMR or uploading COVID-19 results of each person on portal will be liable for action under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20000-rapid-antigen-tests-in-bengaluru-from-today-minister/article32048399.ece
11 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Health activists boycott work; contact tracing hit||Demanding a fixed honorarium of Rs. 12,000 and adequate personal protection equipment apart from “COVID compensation”, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in the State stopped work from Friday. Following this,tracing of primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients and coordination work for quarantining of asymptomatic patients apart from other regular health survey activities, including immunisation, and mother and child tracking, have been hit across the State. Representatives of ASHA workers, led by the All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) leaders, who assembled on the premises of the National Health Mission (NHM) office in the city, submitted a memorandum to Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey on Friday. In the districts, memoranda were submitted to the District Health Officers (DHOs). First point of contact The frontline workers, who are the first point of contact between patients and hospitals especially in rural areas, allege that they are not being given PPE kits and hence are at risk of contracting infection while on field. Moreover, what they get now is Rs. 4,000 as fixed honorarium as the State’s component and another Rs. 2,000 as the NHM component from the Centre. “Although we have also been carrying out our regular duties of health surveys pertaining to immunisation and mother and child tracking, our performance-based incentives are not being paid regularly for the last three years. It is difficult to make ends meet with such a meagre pay,” said M. Rajeshwari, an ASHA worker from Kurugodu taluk of Ballari district. D. Nagalakshmi, secretary of the Karnataka State Samyukta ASHA Karyakarteyara Sangha, said their strike would continue till the department considers their demands. “We have been appealing for a fixed monthly honorarium since January and all that we have got are assurances,” she said. While Ms. Nagalakshmi claimed that almost all the 41,268 ASHA workers in the State had stayed away from work, State health officials said that nearly 70% of the workers were on the field on Friday.The Commissioner, who held a meeting to discuss their demands, said the government had convinced ASHA worker that their demand for a fixed monthly honorarium cannot be considered as the Centre had put in place a performance-based incentive payment mode across the country. This, being the time of a pandemic, was not the right time to raise these demands. Prabhu Dev B. Gowda, State Nodal Officer for ASHA programme, who admitted contract tracing and other COVID-19-related work had been hit to some extent, warned the ASHA workers of action under the Karnataka State Epidemic Diseases and State Disaster Management Acts. “We can even go to the extent of invoking ESMA. They are not service providers but community mobilisers and activists by choice,” Dr. Gowda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-activists-boycott-work-contact-tracing-hit/article32048408.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exam results end agony of ICSE, ISC students||Thousands of class X and class XII students heaved a sigh of relief after getting their board examination results on Friday. Barring 34 students, all those who appeared for the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and Indian School Certificate (ISC) exams in Karnataka have cleared the papers. A press release issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations stated that as many as 19,770 out of 19,787 ICSE students cleared the class X examinations while 1,804 of the 1,821 class XII students cleared the ISC examination. In Karnataka, students from 339 schools appeared for the ICSE examination and from 41 schools for the ISC examination. Of the 19,787 students who appeared for the ICSE examination, 50.76% are boys. Of the 1,821 students who appeared for the ISC examination, 48.76 % are boys. The ICSE examination was conducted for 61 written subjects, which includes 22 Indian languages and nine foreign languages. The ISC examination was conducted for 51 written subjects that included 15 Indian and six foreign languages. Across the country, 1,377 out of 2.07 lakh class X students did not clear the examination, and 2,798 out of the 88,409 class XII students did not clear the examinations. The CISCE had cancelled many of the pending papers that were postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and originally scheduled for July. For the papers that were cancelled, the scores were calculated based on the average of the best three percentage marks obtained from among the papers the candidate has appeared for in the board examination and the internal assessment. Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive and Secretary of CISCE, has said that keeping in mind the “exceptional” circumstances this year, they would not publish the merit list for either the ICSE or ISC Year 2020 examinations. “I would like to commend our candidates, who have shown exemplary resilience and fortitude during this crisis, faced with the agony of a long wait for a possible delayed examination in the remaining papers, the subsequent prolonged wait for the results while simultaneously continuing their studies of the next class or preparing for the entrance examinations,” he said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exam-results-end-agony-of-icse-isc-students/article32048387.ece
11 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||HC highlights need for real-time data on availability of beds||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday said the State government needs to examine setting up of a real-time digital information system on the availability of beds for COVID-19 patients in the State. Pointing out that there appears to be a huge time gap in admission of a person to hospital after the outcome of the test results, besides delay in getting results of the swab sample, the court said that there is a need to have a rational procedure to be followed in every case. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar made these oral observations during the hearing of PIL petitions related to COVID-19 health facilities. After perusing the documents submitted by the government on availability of beds in Bengaluru city, the testing protocol, Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on admission of positive patients, facilities in COVID Care Hospitals, and COVID Care Centres, the Bench pointed out that the documents do not throw light on time required to shift a COVID-19 patient to hospital after the test result. While referring to the issue of delay in getting the test result, the Bench also pointed out that the delay may lead to spread of COVID-19 among the quarantined members of a family. The swab test results of about 12 judicial officers, residing in the Judicial Officers Quarters at the National Games Village, are yet to be received even though samples were collected on July 4, the Bench pointed out. However, the Bench made it clear that it was not going to supervise all these aspects but expects a rational system to be in place so that proper information and facility are available to citizens. Meanwhile, the government told the Bench that show-cause notices have been issued to several hospitals in connection with the recent incident of death of a COVID-19 positive patient owing denial of admission by a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-highlights-need-for-real-time-data-on-availability-of-beds/article32048403.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC issues notice on plea against non-registration of some e-scooters||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered issue of notices to the Centre and State governments on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition which has complained that some electric scooters are allowed to ply on the roads without registration even though the vehicles can be operated beyond the speed of 25 km per hour, the maximum speed capacity fixed for exemption from registration with transport authorities. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order on the petition filed by Prasad K.R. Rao, a city-based advocate. The petitioner has claimed that the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), which is the authorised testing agency to certify electric or battery-operated two-wheelers, has been issuing certificates that they do not exceed the speed of 25 km/hr even though in reality many electric two-wheelers are capable of travelling up to 45 km/hr. Specified standards It has been pointed out in the petition that though these two-wheelers adhere to other standards specified in Rule 2(u) of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, like to be equipped with an electric motor having 30 minutes power less than 0.25 kW, they are installed with three speed modes. The vehicle will travel up to 25 km/hr in the first mode, up to 35 km/hr and 35 km/hr in the second and third mode respectively, the petitioner said while claiming that he has video footage to show such unregistered vehicles moving at a speed above 25 km/hr. The petitioner also said that on the one hand the vehicles are allowed ply on roads without registration and on the other, payment for registrations are being avoided by declaring false speed limit in a fraudulent manner. The petitioner alleged that the ARAI had been granting certificates for exemption from registration in violation of the prescribed laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-issues-notice-on-plea-against-non-registration-of-some-e-scooters/article32048405.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Interns at private medical college stage protest||Interns of a city-based private medical college staged a protest on their campus on Friday after some of them were posted for COVID-19 duty without any briefing. Some of the interns of M.S. Ramaiah Medical College told The Hindu that they were asked to report at short notice and not given any instructions. Many of them who are already working in fever clinics said they were not given adequate precautionary measures. List of demands  After completing their duty on Friday, they gathered at the medical college, staged a protest and said they had a long list of demands but they first wanted the management to come out with a protocol on how they would be tested if they fall sick. They want the management to spell out the approach of how they would be quarantined, if they would be provided attendance and stipend.  The Hindu had reported on Friday that many interns across different private colleges in Karnataka had alleged that they have been asked to make their own arrangements for accommodation, pay for their treatment if tested positive for COVID-19, and also pay for their COVID-19 tests if they have to be tested more than once. ‘No assurance’ Following talks with the college management, the students said they did not get an assurance. The management authorities were unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/interns-at-private-medical-college-stage-protest/article32048401.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KASSIA asks govt. not to impose lockdown again||The Karnataka Small Scale Industries’ Association (KASSIA) has asked the State government to desist from imposing another lockdown despite a rise in COVID-19 cases. KASSIA, in a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday, asked the State government to ensure that all necessary support is extended to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to maintain operations in this pandemic situation. “The earlier lockdown ended in 20% of SMEs in the State downing their shutters permanently. Another such measure will lead to the closure of another 20% as it would be impossible for them to survive,” said K.B. Arasappa, president, KASSIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kassia-asks-govt-not-to-impose-lockdown-again/article32048414.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 25 lakh compensation for family of tahsildar||The last rites of tahsildar B.K. Chandramouli was held in his native village Kadiregowdanapalya in Tumakuru district, with all State honours, on Friday. He was stabbed to death by a landowner in Toppanahalli, Bangarpet on Thursday evening. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa expressed condolences and announced Rs. 25 lakh compensation, and a government job to one member of the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-25-lakh-compensation-for-family-of-tahsildar/article32048388.ece
11 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||49 private hospitals come under fire||Private hospitals in Bengaluru are under fire for refusing to admit COVID-19 patients under the government quota. In a letter to the Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) Special Commissioner (Health and Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep has given a list of 49 hospitals in the city, including some well-known ones. Mr. Randeep said that many of the private hospitals, which were accepting patients against payable private beds quota, were refusing patients under government quota. This even after the government has directed them to reserve 50% of the total beds available for COVID-19 patients. He has noted that Regina Joseph, cluster head for private hospitals, had pointed out that despite repeatedly calling these hospitals over the past few days, the calls went unanswered. Mr. Randeep told The Hindu that he had recommended to the Department of Health and Family Welfare to warn private hospitals and facilitate admission of patients referred by the civic body. “If hospitals fail to heed to the warning, showcause notices will be issued by the District Health Officer,” he said. Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar who along with top health officials had a meeting with private hospitals on Friday said the government was putting in place a centralised bed allotment system. “We have directed all private hospital heads to compulsorily enter the bed occupancy details on the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust portal. In a day or two, we will have a transparent centralised allocation system for allocation of beds and people can view its real-time availability,” the Minister said adding that the State was working on triaging patients at the swab centres itself. Meanwhile, sources said the meeting with private hospital representatives was stormy with the government insisting that the hospitals hand over 50% of the 3,000 beds agreed for government quota patients. “The government is asking us to give them their quota. But with nearly 2,000 COVID beds already occupied, we will need time to create more beds,” said R. Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/49-private-hospitals-come-under-fire/article32048392.ece
11 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KPCC office sealed for three days||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) office located on Queens Road here has been sealed for three days following three employees in the party office testing positive for COVID-19. Sources in the party said the KPCC office will be sealed on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. This decision was taken to prevent the spread of the disease to other employees and visiting members of the party. DKS’ ceremony Many senior leaders and party workers had gathered at the party office on July 2 to participate in the ceremony where D.K. Shivakumar formally took over as State Congress president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-office-sealed-for-three-days/article32048397.ece
11 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s toll crosses 500 mark||Karnataka’s COVID-19 death toll on Friday breached the 500 mark and touched 543 with 57 new fatalities. With 2,313 new cases, the total tally now stands at 33,418. This is highest number reported on a single day so far. Friday also saw 1,003 recoveries, the highest so far on a single day. With this, the total number of recovered patients now stands at 13,836. Among the new cases, 1,447 are from Bengaluru Urban. As many as 29 of the 57 deaths are from Bengaluru and eight from Dakshina Kannada. Among those who recovered from COVID-19 on Friday were two senior citizens and a two-and-a-half-year-old child. A 93-year-old educationist (founder of Vijaya College), who had a pre-existing lung infection, has won the battle at S.S. SPARSH Hospital on Mysuru Road. He was discharged after a treatment course of 19 days, said a release from the hospital. An 88-year-old male patient, who was admitted with severe pneumonia, has recovered and is slated to be discharged fromVikram Hospital on Saturday, said K.S. Satish, consultant pulmonologist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-toll-crosses-500-mark/article32048409.ece
11 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Panic after body is found||A body found by the roadside created panic in Dharwad and out of fear of contracting COVID-19, even the family of the dead man decided to seek the help of the administration to lift it. The 42-year-old man identified as Rafeeq Basti, a resident of Basti Oni in Hosayallapur (a containment zone), was found dead near KCC Bank on Thursday and this news created panic among the people in the area. As none came forward, the family members of the dead man finally hired a private vehicle and took the body to the district hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panic-after-body-is-found/article32048599.ece
11 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Kuvempu varsity to hold convocation this month||Kuvempu University has decided to hold its 30th convocation at the end of this month if the Deputy Commissioner granted permission. This was decided at the university’s Syndicate meeting at Shankaraghatta, university campus, in Bhadravati taluk of Shivamogga district on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kuvempu-varsity-to-hold-convocation-this-month/article32048605.ece
11 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Decision to check fuel prices will come at an appropriate time, says Joshi||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that the country was witnessing a “never-before-like” situation because of COVID-19 and has said that he was hopeful of the Union government taking a suitable decision to check fuel prices at an appropriate time. Addressing his first formal press conference after his return from New Delhi, Mr. Joshi said that because of COVID-19-induced lockdown and subsequent developments, the resources of the Union government had dwindled and so had revenue collection. “In this time of crisis, the Union government is depending on revenue collection from taxes on petroleum products for taking up various welfare and crisis management initiatives. I am sure that the government will take an appropriate decision on bringing down fuel prices at an appropriate time,” he said. The Union Minister, however, said that it would be beyond his purview to quantify the time required for the appropriate action. He added that the Union government was considerate to the plight of the people because of the hike in fuel prices. He further said that decontrol of fuel prices was done during the tenure of the UPA government and the fuel prices were now dependent on crude prices in the international market. However, the government would take a sympathetic view considering the problems caused by the pandemic, he said. Strict monitoring To a query, the Minister clarified that the allotment of coal blocks for commercial exploitation did not mean that they would not require any mandatory permissions. “Firms interested will have to get all clearances from the government agencies concerned. And, what is more important is that there will be strict monitoring of mining in the allotted coal blocks to ensure that there were no irregularities. We have now put in place a perfect monitoring system aided by satellite camera surveillance which will immediately send alerts to the agencies concerned if there are any violations,” Mr. Joshi said. Defending the decision to allot coal blocks to private players, the Minister said that it was required to make the country self-reliant in coal production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-to-check-fuel-prices-will-come-at-an-appropriate-time-says-joshi/article32048597.ece
11 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘42 crore poor people have benefited under Garib Kalyan Yojana’||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that 42 crore poor people have benefited under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana so far. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Joshi said that while 80 crore people had received foodgrains for three months under the scheme in the country, 12 lakh people from three-and-a-half lakh families in Dharwad district had received foodgrains under the scheme. Already, the Prime Minister had announced the extension of the scheme till November, he said. Under the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Yojna, 8.98 crore farmers have benefited in the country and among them, were 1.10 lakh farmers of Dharwad district. Similarly, 82 lakh women in the State and four lakh women in Dharwd district had received monthly assistance of Rs. 500 each, he said.  MGNREGA Under MGNREGA, 4,298 works have been taken up in Dharwad district creating 7,05,724 person days at a cost of Rs. 26.81 crore, Mr. Joshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/42-crore-poor-people-have-benefited-under-garib-kalyan-yojana/article32048598.ece
11 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Jewargi MLA Ajay Singh tests positive||Ajay Singh, a two-time Congress MLA representing Jewargi taluk in Kalaburagi district, tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Informing this on Twitter, he said: “I have tested positive for COVID-19. I am asymptomatic and will be in quarantine for 2 weeks. Would request the people who were my primary contacts to take the necessary precautions. Do stay safe.” He appealed to people who were his primary contacts to take necessary precautions. Driver tested Sources close to Mr. Singh said that sample results of two of his personal assistants and his car driver are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jewargi-mla-ajay-singh-tests-positive/article32048606.ece
11 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three more roof-top solar power projects to come up||Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) has proposed to harness solar energy by setting up three more roof-top projects with a total capacity of 695 kW on government buildings, according to MSCL managing director Mohammed Nazir. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, he said that two projects with 100 kW capacity each will be set up on the buildings of the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Secretariat and Dr. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama. Agreements for these with the departments concerned have been finalised. In addition, a 495-kW capacity project has been proposed to be set up on the buildings of Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Union Ltd. (DKMUL) at its milk dairy in Kulashekara here. An agreement is yet to be finalised. Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. has already set up six roof-top solar power projects with an installed capacity of 393 kW on government buildings in the city. The company has set a target of harnessing a total of 1,400 kW solar energy from roof-top projects, he said and added that when these three new projects are completed, the total installed capacity from nine projects will reach 1,088 kW. He said that the total projects proposed under the Smart City Mission in the city has gone up from 45 to 47 with a total plan outlay of Rs. 2,000.72 crore. Mr. Nazir said that the company has completed seven projects at a cost of Rs. 10.62 crore. In addition, work on 26 projects estimated at Rs. 558.78 crore is in progress and bids have been invited to take up four projects estimated to cost Rs. 81 crore. Detailed project reports are being prepared for five projects. It would include water front development project to a length of 2,085 m from Bolar to Netravathi bridge near Jeppinamogaru, building a jackwell at the Thumbe water pumping station which supplies drinking water to the city, rebuilding Car Street and Venkataramana Junction roads and the second stage project of the command control centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-roof-top-solar-power-projects-to-come-up/article32048604.ece
11 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||RPF traces missing bag, returns it to its owner||Railway Protection Force personnel attached to Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. in Udupi were able to trace and return a missing baggage containing Rs. 70,000 in cash to its rightful owner on Wednesday, after a fellow passenger had, under confusion, taken it away. It all started on June 17 when RPF personnel in the Udupi Railway Station got information about a passenger losing his trolley bag to passengers who alighted a train there. Though personnel checked passengers who were undergoing screening formalities at the railway station, they could not find anything. The man who lost the baggage, Gunashekara, meanwhile, also filed an online complaint. RPF personnel noticed on CCTV footage that three groups of passengers with similar trolley bags left the railway station. After obtaining phone numbers of all passengers, RPF personnel called each passenger. One of the groups informed the RPF that it indeed had an extra bag. Since the person concerned was undergoing home quarantine at Kaup, RPF personnel advised him to bring the bag to the railway station after he completed his quarantine. Meanwhile, Mr. Gunashekara reached Udupi on Wednesday and received the trolley bag with its belongings intact, said a communiqué from RPF. The man who had taken the bag said that as the group had black trolley bags, he took Mr. Gunashekara's bag away under mistaken identity, as it was similar to his. The RPF team that traced the bag comprised constables M.R. Gururaj and Karunakar and Inspector Santhosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rpf-traces-missing-bag-returns-it-to-its-owner/article32048607.ece
11 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minister Suresh Kumar visits Polai temple||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar visited Polali Rajarajeshwari temple on the outskirts of Mangaluru and Sri Manjunatha temple in Dharmasthala on Friday and offered prayers as a thanksgiving for the successful and smooth conduct of the SSLC examinations in the State. Speaking over phone from Polali, the Minister told The Hindu : “I came here on a suggestion from my wife. It is a personal visit.” The minister said that he wanted to thank the Almighty for the successful conduct of the SSLC examinations. The temple in Polali is said to be more than 1,000 years old. The examinations involved more than 9.5 lakh people, including 8.4 lakh students, he added. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U. was with the Minister during his visit to the Polali temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-suresh-kumar-visits-polai-temple/article32048601.ece
11 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Workers tap EPF savings to tide over financial needs||Job loss and pay cuts have forced thousands of workers, mainly in the private sector, to dip into their accumulated savings through the mandatory contribution to the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) account, to tide over immediate financial emergency. The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) made a special provision facilitating account holders to make a withdrawal up to three months of basic pay plus DA or up to 75% of the amount in the member’s account, which ever was lower. This measure — allowing members to dip into funds in their EPF account and which is non-returnable — has been introduced to fight any exigency as a fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. Feedback from various EPFO offices across the State indicate that people in the private sector — who have suffered job loss or pay cuts — are increasingly opting for this option to meet any emergency. The Regional Provident Fund Office in Mysuru, whose jurisdiction covers the districts of Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, and Kodagu, settled 8,789 COVID-19 claims from April 7 to June 22, 2020. A communique from the Regional Provident Fund Office in Mysuru stated that amount disbursed as on June 22 was Rs. 23.15 crore and the non-returnable advance was disbursed within three days from the date the claims were raised by the members. The Hubballi office, which has jurisdiction over Dharwad, Haveri, Uttara Kannada, Gadag, and Belagavi, received 8,392 requests during the same period and they were settled within three days. The Hassan office of the EPFO, which covers Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts, saw 1,951 members raising a demand and Rs. 5.35 crore being disbursed as on June 22. The measure has been termed timely by those who have availed themselves of the facility and were staring at a financial emergency. A case in point is that of Shivashankar (name changed) of Mysuru, an employee in a private establishment who has taken a pay cut. The reduction in the net salary diminished his ability to meet the recurring cost of medicine for one of his family members. “But I have dipped into my EPF savings and built a buffer to last for nearly a year by when things will hopefully take a turn for the better,” he said. Comes in handy In case of Imtiaz Ahmed of the city, an employee in a private company, pay cut and unforeseen expenses had stalled his property registration process as he ran out of funds. “The corpus set aside for property registration evaporated during the pandemic and the deal was threatening to get derailed but the EPF advance came in handy,” he added. For many who have faced job loss, the EPF advance has come in as a reprieve, even though it is for a temporary period. “The amount, in case of KYC–compliant members whose Aadhaar number was validated and seeded with their EPFO account, was released and credited to their bank accounts within 72 hours,” said local officials. In a bid to highlight the facility introduced by the government, the EPFO office also issued advertisements in local newspapers so as to reach out to maximum number of people. In view of the imperatives of ensuring social distancing and to minimise congregation and crowding at the EPF offices, the authorities introduced COVID-19 claims settlement through auto mode in case of such members whose accounts were fully KYC compliant. For filing COVID-19 claims, visit www.epfo.gov.in or download UMANG app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-workers-tap-epf-savings-to-tide-over-financial-needs/article32048411.ece
11 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||BJP snatches power from Congress in Yadgir Zilla Panchayat||In a surprise political development, the Congress lost power in the Yadgir Zilla Panchayat as its rebel Basanagowda Patil Yadiyapur, panchayat member from Arkera (J) Constituency in Shorapur taluk, became the new zilla panchayat president with the support of BJP members in an election here on Friday. Regional Commissioner of Kalaburagi Revenue Division N.V. Prasad announced the result after the election process was completed. The zilla panchayat, with a total of 24 seats, has 22 members after the demise of two. Of the 22, 11 belong to the Congress, 10 from the BJP and one member from Janata Dal(S). Soon after the election process commenced, Mr. Yadiyapur filed his nomination papers as a rebel candidate, while Sharanamma Nagappa, panchayat member from Sagar constituency, filed her nomination papers as a Congress nominee. Mr. Yadiyapur got the support of 10 BJP members and another Congress rebel member Kishan Rathod, a member from Gogi panchayat constituency, totalling 12 votes, while Ms. Sharanamma Nagappa got nine votes from the Congress and one from the Janata Dal(S). Mr. Yadiyapur was declared elected after he succeeded in getting more votes (12) than Ms. Sharanamma Nagappa who secured 10 votes. The Congress was in power with the support of the only Janata Dal(S) member since 2016. But, after the resignation of Rajshekhargowda Patil Vajjal from the post of panchayat president, Mr. Yadiyapur, who was an aspirant for the post, was denied the opportunity by Congress leaders. However, BJP leaders, including Venkatareddy Mudnal and Narasimha Naik, assured Mr. Yadiyapur of support and finally succeeded in snatching power from the Congress in the panchayat. The term of Mr. Yadiyapur will last till May 2021 when elections to the zilla panchayat will possibly be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-snatches-power-from-congress-in-yadgir-zilla-panchayat/article32048593.ece
11 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||District administrative building sanitised||The Yadgir district administration building was completely sanitised by the Fire and Emergency Services personnel after 20 employees working in different departments housed there tested positive on Friday. The authorities have shut the main entrance of the building and announced that the general public are not allowed access to the building for three days from Friday. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane and Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput who underwent medical examination tested negative for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/district-administrative-building-sanitised/article32048595.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Students happy with evaluation and scores||In previous years, the day after the results of any board examination are announced, students start scouting colleges for admissions. This year, with the examination schedule disrupted and the admission season pushed back on account of the pandemic, many ICSE class X and ISC class XII students have already completed admission formalities in schools, pre-university colleges or degree colleges based on their pre-board scores. For the most part, students and parents are relieved that the results are finally out as it will allow them to concentrate on the next academic year. ‘End of stress’ “It is finally the end of a very stressful time for parents and students. We are glad that students finally have some scores now,” said Rukmini S., parent of a class X ICSE student. The institutions that have not completed the admissions process have decided to conduct it online, including interviews and written tests. Fr. Abraham V.M., Vice Chancellor of Christ University, said that they have completed provisional admissions based on interviews and their entrance exam. “We are planning to start online classes and orientation programmes for undergraduate programmes from August,” he said. Clarence High School has completed provisional admission for 60% of incoming students. “We will soon conduct online admissions for the rest. Online lectures for class XI students would begin from August 5,” said principal Jerry George Mathew. Many pre-university colleges have already begun online classes for students who have finished their class X examinations even though students of State board and CBSE are yet to get their results. The Department of Pre-University Education had warned PU colleges against conducting admissions. Colleges in a bind Many degree colleges find themselves in a Catch-22 situation as there is a discrepancy in how many board exam papers students have appeared in. While CBSE and ISC students have not written a few papers, pre-university students have written all their examinations. “This is a dilemma as the admissions process has to be fair. But we just have to accept the scores that the individual boards grant in a situation like this,” said the principal of a degree college. ICSE and ISC students, who received their results on Friday, were happy with the way their marks were calculated. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had cancelled many of the pending examination papers that were supposed to be held in July. The scores of the papers cancelled were calculated based on the average of the best three percentage marks obtained from among the papers the candidate has appeared for in the board examination and the internal assessment. Mr. Mathew said that it was the best possible method in the current circumstances. “We are glad that the pre-board scores are not included as part of the assessment as different schools have different evaluation practices. In fact, some schools are very strict in pre-board evaluation. So, the system adopted is the best for students,” he said.  The procedure to evaluate the papers we haven’t written is fair, as it is also based on the best of the three papers we have written along with internals Sunaina Anantha, class X of Greenwood High   The method has helped all students and was transparent. During such a crisis, it was also a lenient method taken in the interest of the students: Prasidh Pradeep, class X of Ekya School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-happy-with-evaluation-and-scores/article32048391.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Six-year-old suspected to have fallen into stormwater drain||Over 25 personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services and Quick Response Team of the Civil Defence carried out a search and rescue operation till late Friday evening after receiving information that a girl had fallen into a stormwater drain at Kariyammana Agrahara near Bellandur lake. The girl’s uncle Pamek told The Hindu that his niece Bhoomika K. was playing with another girl when she fell into the drain on Friday afternoon. “People in the vicinity were unable to help her and reportedly saw her drown,” he said. According to sources, Bhoomika’s parents, who hail from Assam, work as housekeeping staff in commercial buildings. They live in the vicinity. “Her parents were in their settlement,” said a family member. ‘Negligence’ B.S. Prahlad, Chief Engineer, SWD, BBMP, who visited the spot, alleged that the chain link fence had been cut open so that garbage could be dumped in the drain. “I have directed the local SWD engineer in-charge to lodge a complaint against the owner of the land abutting the buffer zone of the SWD where the fence has been cut open. This unfortunate incident has happened due to negligence of people around,” he said. M.N. Anucheth, DCP (Whitefield division), said that the police were coordinating and assisting the Fire and Emergency Services and Civil Defence personnel. “When we got the alert, we immediately rushed to the spot and started search operations, but had to stop in the evening due to poor visibility. The area where she fell is quite far from the settlement where she lives. We will resume operations on Saturday morning,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-year-old-suspected-to-have-fallen-into-stormwater-drain/article32048390.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Surge in the number of vacant properties in city||The number of properties available for rent post the lockdown is witnessing a sudden rise in certain segments, prompted by the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, real estate agents say the surge in the number of vacant properties cannot be attributed solely to the fact that people are moving out of the city. Rather, it is a combination of factors that coincides with lifting of the lockdown, travel restrictions, and the economic impact of the pandemic. Haseeb Noor, member of the Confederation of Real Estate Associates (CREA), said, “There are multiple factors. People who had gone to their hometowns in March – a time when many usually take a break – haven’t been able to return due to travel restrictions. Though in the commercial sector there have been waivers with mutual consent as government regulations didn’t allow for tenants to use the property, in the residential sector, there have been cases of tenants trying to take undue advantage of the situation and seek waivers,” he said, adding that in such cases, there can be relaxation in mode of payment, but they cannot refuse to pay rent. N.A. Afzal, secretary, Bangalore Realtors Association India (BRAI), said it was in the low-income group (LIG) housing segment that a lot of vacancies are seen as people have moved out of the city, but the higher and middle income group segments have not seen many changes. “Of course, there is a segment which is making changes due to the salary factor too,” he added. With job loss and pay cuts being reported across sectors, people are relocating according to their finances. “Salaries have been affected,” said Mr. Noor. “There is a certain relaxation in mode of payment, justified more so in retail. Properties are getting empty because people are restructuring in proportion to pay cuts. For example, if they were residing in a house costing Rs. 30,000 per month, with pay cut, they may be looking to move to a cheaper place,” he added. The third scenario is of properties that were ready to be let out around March, but could not find takers due to the lockdown. Though some real estate agents tried virtual tours, it hasn't worked for everyone, agents said. Rental fluctuations Rent rates too could see some changes. Real estate agents estimate that at present, they are seeing just about 20% of their usual business. The rental rates could see a 30% to 50% dip in retail segment, 5% to 10% correction in commercial, and a ‘marginal’ change in residential rentals, according to many agents. Wasim Taher, a member of BRAI, said changes due to COVID-19 were inevitable, but this is the best time to buy property as developers are offering incentives. Interest rates are low. “Though rentals have always been in demand, the momentum has slowed down. Eventually, real estate is an asset. Today is the best time to buy. We've had transactions for purchase of properties at the rate of three enquiries to three sales as opposed to 10 enquiries and six sales. There is a growing sentiment of people wanting to invest in property rather than pay rent, and we expect this to go up in the coming months as there is clarity on job security,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surge-in-the-number-of-vacant-properties-in-city/article32048383.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||IISc. team makes robotic arm controlled by gaze||In an invention that could help people with Severe Speech and Motor Impairment (SSMI) a condition caused by disorders like cerebral palsy in which the patient finds it difficult to physically operate computer devices a research team has come up with eye gaze-controlled computer interfaces. The team at the Centre for Product Design and Manufacturing (CPDM), Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), has designed a robotic arm that can be manipulated by eye movement using a computer interface. The interface is through a webcam and a computer, unlike other eye gaze-tracking devices that use head-mounted systems, an IISc. release said. The team worked with students who have SSMI at Vidya Sagar, an institution for individuals with disabilities in Chennai. “Many of these students (with cerebral palsy) are not able to precisely focus on a single point in their visual field, due to uncontrolled gaze movement. They are also not comfortable looking at all portions of the visual field equally,” project lead Pradipta Biswas, Assistant Professor at CPDM was quoted as saying in the release. The team used computer vision and machine learning algorithms to analyse live feed of facial video from the users, and coupled this with an Augmented Reality application to allow the user to use a robotic arm for tasks like picking up and dropping objects, and placing them where they desire. With this, users can perform mechanical tasks, such as independently work on handicraft, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-team-makes-robotic-arm-controlled-by-gaze/article32048385.ece
11 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||50 test positive in Alappuzha||In the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases in the district, 50 people tested positive for the disease on Friday. Among the cases are 36 personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) unit at Nooranad who came from other States. While eight came from abroad, two others reached the district from other States. Four persons got the disease through contact. 52 ITBP men So far, 52 ITBP personnel at Nooranad unit were found to have contracted the disease in the last few days. With spiralling cases among the ITBP personnel, the district administration has initiated various measures to tackle the spread of the pandemic. District Collector A. Alexander has directed authorities concerned to ensure individual quarantine for all personnel at the barrack. Samples from all personnel will be collected and sent for SARS-CoV-2 testing in two days. Mr. Alexander has also written to the Director-General of the ITBP to stop sending personnel from other parts of the country to the Nooranad unit. Of the cases from foreign countries, four came from the UAE. A couple from Chengannur reached the district on June 21. A 46-year-old man native of Pandanad came on June 18. A young man hailing from Budhanoor reached the district on June 26. Two young men hailing from Ala and Alappuzha had come from Kuwait on June 19 and June 24 respectively. A young woman native of Budhanoor reached the district from Bahrain on June 6. Another a young man from Palamel came from Qatar on July 4. Two women, a 65-year-old from Alappuzha and a young woman hailing from Chettikkad had come from Mumbai and Delhi on June 15 and June 30 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32048750.ece
11 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Two posthumous cases||Two persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 posthumously in the district. According to officials, deceased were identified as a young woman hailing from Vettiyar near Mavelikara and a 52-year-old man from Pulinkunnu in Kuttanad. District Collector A. Alexander said that samples collected following their death tested positive for the disease. However, the fatalities were yet not included in the list of COVID-19 deaths in the State as of Friday evening. The woman along with her husband were found dead of an apparent suicide in a rented house at Chennithala on Tuesday. Results of samples collected from her for SARS-CoV-2 came back positive, while her husband tested negative. The Pulinkunnu native collapsed and died on Tuesday. The test results found him positive for COVID-19. The source of their infections is unknown. Ward 5, 6, 14 and 15 in Pulinkunnu grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-posthumous-cases/article32048751.ece
11 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Concern over rising cases in Idukki||As the number of positive cases recorded a spurt in the district, the large number of people daily coming from neighbouring Tamil Nadu is causing concern to the authorities. It is estimated that an average of 800 persons daily arrive through the Kumily check-post to the plantations in Peerumade taluk alone. For the past three days, the number of persons coming to plantations has doubled, said a local political activist. After the lockdown was relaxed, only a temporary pass issued from Tamil Nadu was the requirement for crossing the inter-State border. Traditionally, the people of Tamil origin living in the estate lanes form the major chunk of the labour force in the plantations. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, hundreds of daily workers from Tamil Nadu passed through the check-post to the cardamom plantations. This was in addition to the labourers living in the tea plantations of Peerumade. A police official said an average of 800 persons daily cross the check-post. Keralites returning from other districts through the check-post was limited, he said. The estate workers live in the community quarters known as ‘layams’ with each family having a kitchen, single room and a front area. All the families living in layams use common bathroom, drinking water and other facilities provided by the estate management. Physical distancing is rarely possible in such conditions, said a trade union leader. An official of the Health Department said that those who move to Tamil Nadu from the district required medical certificate against COVID-19. However such a parameter was not possible for workers as they had close relation with their native places in Tamil Nadu. Not different With Tamil Nadu recording a spike in COVID-19 cases, the situation of the Theni district where the workers belong to was not different, said the trade union leader. The district administration should devise a plan to check and monitor those crossing the border check-post. Once the situation goes out of control, the chances of local transmission will be very high, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-rising-cases-in-idukki/article32048754.ece
11 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||12 test positive in Idukki||Twelve persons including a health worker tested positive in Idukki on Friday. Those tested positive were six persons who returned from other States and two who returned from Gulf countries. Four persons recovered from the virus. Four were infected through contact. A 41-year-old staff at Thopramkudy veterinary hospital tested positive on Friday. A 48-year-old man, another 48-year-old man and his five-year-old daughter tested positive through contact. Meanwhile ward number 10, 11 and 14 of the Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat have been declared as containment wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-test-positive-in-idukki/article32048752.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Aluva market emerges area of concern||The district recorded 15 COVID-19 positive cases through local transmission on Friday, with six headload workers at the Aluva market testing positive. The six workers who are residents of Kadunagalloor, Karumalloor, Sreemoolanagaram, Keezhmad, Neeleswaram-Malayattoor, and Vadakkekara, were on the primary contact list of a 35-year-old headload worker from Choornikkara at the Aluva market who tested positive earlier this week. A 52-year-old principal of a school in Aluva, who is a resident of Thripunithura, and her 25-year-old relative have tested positive. Health officials said they were still investigating the source of her infection. Four primary contacts of the Alangad-based journalist who had tested positive earlier have also tested positive — a 54-year-old from Edathala who was working at the journalist’s establishment in Aluva, a 38-year-old from Vazhakulam, a 50-year-old from Chengamanad, and a 40-year-old from Keezhmad who ran separate business establishments in Aluva. A 52-year-old native of Aluva working in Thrissur has also tested positive. A 45-year-old family member of a businessman from Thrikkakara who had tested positive earlier, has tested positive. A 26-year-old from Chellanam, who was on the primary contact list of another Chellanam resident has also tested positive. Health officials said the Aluva market and Chellanam were active clusters where testing had been increased. The situation in the Ernakulam market area appears to have been contained with contact tracing, they said, though 15 positive cases could be linked to the area. In areas where COVID-19 positive cases were found in clusters, testing has been intensified, District Collector S. Suhas said on Friday, while assessing the district’s situation at a State-level meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Nine persons have tested positive in Chellanam so far, and increased testing is focussed on primary contacts and symptomatic people in three wards in the area. A total of 27 persons linked to the Aluva Market area have tested positive so far, the Collector said. The primary contact list of these people comprises 337 people. The source of infection in 14 persons in the district remains unknown. Apart from the 15 cases of local transmission, five who tested positive had arrived from outside the State, taking the district’s tally for the day to 20. As many as 487 swabs were sent for testing on Friday, and 153 antigen tests were conducted as part of the cluster containment and sentinel surveillance testing strategies. In private labs and private hospitals, 1,136 samples were collected. Thirteen Truenat and CB-NAAT tests were also conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aluva-market-emerges-area-of-concern/article32048663.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||More exemptions in containment zones||The Ernakulam Rural police have made a couple of exemptions in containment zones. Accordingly, offices of stock broking companies can offer online services with minimal staff who must maintain physical distancing and carry their identity cards. It also applies to media offices. Newspaper distrubution will be permitted in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. The police had on Thursday drawn up detailed guidelines for containment zones, according to which, exemptions have been given to police, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services, disaster management, and prisons. Those associated with the district administration, revenue divisional offices, taluk and village offices and treasury, electricity, water, and sanitation have been granted exemptions. Hospitals and all related medical establishments, including their manufacturing and distribution units, both in public and private sectors, such as dispensaries, chemist and medical equipment shops, laboratories, clinics, nursing homes, and ambulances will continue to remain functional. Transportation for medical personnel, nurses, and para-medical staff and other hospital support services will also be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-exemptions-in-containment-zones/article32048669.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL awaiting 100 e-buses for suburban services||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) may get 100 out of the 250 electric buses that Kerala will be allotted under the Centre’s FAME-2 scheme, ushering in a new era in e-mobility in Ernakulam district. The remaining 150 e-buses are likely to be deployed in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode. “The allotment of 100 e-buses will help KMRL considerably augment last-mile connectivity from 22 stations in the Kochi metro’s 25-km-long Aluva-Pettah corridor. The buses are expected to be given to us as wet lease and will be run by drivers recruited by the firm that leases out the vehicles. Commuters will be able to opt for travel using pre-paid cards or pay the fare to the driver. The buses will not have conductors, as they will operate point-to-point services from metro stations to suburban towns,” KMRL sources said. The State government will take a final call on procuring the buses from the Centre and allotting them to various cities, it is learnt. KMRL now operates two electric buses from the Aluva metro station to the international airport. The buses were among 10 such vehicles that the KSRTC took on wet lease from a firm in 2019. The remaining eight buses, including those that operated on the Thiruvananthapuram-Kochi route, are now idling with the KSRTC following low patronage for public transport in the COVID-19 situation. Although the metro agency was keen to rope them in for operating feeder services, the KSRTC is readying plans to revamp its fleet. With the KSRTC not able to operate the e-buses that were wet-leased in a feasible manner, the agency might opt for dry lease. “They were wet-leased for a 25-year period at a fixed rate of Rs. 77 per km per bus. But they were not getting more than Rs. 40 per km from ticket fare. We might opt for dry lease, under which KSRTC drivers will steer them. Forgoing the services of drivers provided by the bus manufacturer will lessen the operational expense by around Rs. 7 per km,” said a senior KSRTC official. It can be further brought down if the Centre gives a subsidy of Rs. 6 per km, under the FAME-2 scheme, and viability gap funding is availed from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The option of lessening the per-km rate and increasing it every few years too is being looked into, since the KSRTC is not at all in a position to pay Rs. 77 per km now. Moreover, efforts are under way to ready a fast-charging station in each district, so that e-buses can operate on the Thiruvananthapuram-Palakkad route, without running out of charge, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-awaiting-100-e-buses-for-suburban-services/article32048665.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Where life is confined within four walls||The only thing close to a public announcement that Baby Prabhakaran, a 67-year-old woman from Mulavukad panchayat, was used to till now was the muezzin’s calls for prayer from the nearby mosque and the sacred chants played by temples in her neighbourhood during the Ramayana month. But all that changed earlier this week when Ward 3 of the panchayat within which she lives all alone was declared a containment zone after a woman in her neighbourhood and her family tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Since then, she has become accustomed to frequent public announcements by the police, asking people to stay indoors and strictly follow the containment protocol. Notwithstanding the nearly two-month-long lockdown, people are finding it hard to get used to life in containment zones, which now covers nearly 70 wards across various local bodies in the district. “During the lockdown there was this small relief in knowing that it was applicable to all. Containment is different in that you remain locked in when the rest of the world goes about its business. It is like living in a ghost town,” said Naveen James, a postgraduate law student living in Ward 43 of Palarivattom, a containment zone. For a small idyllic fishing hamlet like Chellanam, which in its entirety is a containment zone, the complete shutdown presents livelihood challenges. “With trawling ban in place, this was the time when small fishermen in country boats used to earn enough that helped them last for the rest of the year, and that was beginning to reflect in the general economic scene in Chellanam. They were earning anywhere between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 4,000 a day when the harbour remained closed and the entire panchayat was declared a containment zone. Now, that season is as good as gone,” said Thomas Gregory, a resident of Chellanam and block general secretary of the Congress party. Mujeeb E.M., a resident of a containment zone in Thrikkakara, describes a containment zone as an “open jail”. Now, after being stopped from going to office by the police, he has now chosen to work from home. Jaseel Hansal, a resident of Aluva, finds life in a containment zone confused. “People do realise the need to stay home but have no clue as to what is happening within the zone,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-life-is-confined-within-four-walls/article32048670.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three arrested on vehicle theft charge||Three persons accused of multiple vehicle thefts were arrested by the police in two separate incidents. While the Town North police arrested one person, the Perumbavoor police arrested two. The one arrested by the Town police was identified as Vibin, 19, of Idukki. The Perumbavoor police arrested Muhammed Yasin, 22, of Kothamanagalam, and Abin, 22, of Nellikuzhi on the charge of stealing a motorcycle from Iringole Kavu near Perumbavoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-arrested-on-vehicle-theft-charge/article32048667.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rescheduling of Cusat exams worries students||A section of fourth and sixth semester B.Tech students of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and their parents have expressed concern at the recent announcement that the April examinations that were postponed in view of the lockdown, have been rescheduled to be held online from July 21. The announcement was made on July 8, and students have little time to study. Many are yet to prepare, as they have left behind their study material in hostels, in their bid to reach home following the lockdown. Moreover, online classes were not held to cover pending portions. Only assignments were done online as part of internal assessment. All this has left students, especially those from northern States, worried. They have also begun an online campaign bearing a hash tag, demanding the postponement of examinations, said a parent, on condition of anonymity. Measnwhile, a senior Cusat official said the examinations were scheduled to be held as early as April 1. “Only 10 academic days were lost due to the lockdown which took effect in mid-March. Online examinations have been scheduled with an interval of one or two days in between each to lessen students’ strain. This is the only option, since any further postponement might throw the academic calendar into disarray, because one cannot be sure of the COVID situation a few months from now. Else, teachers and students will be under undue pressure in April, when the seventh semester exams are held,” he said. The grievance, if any, on incomplete portions can be taken up with the Controller of Examinations, Cusat sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rescheduling-of-cusat-exams-worries-students/article32048666.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Former Mayor opposes move to construct memorial||Former Kochi Mayor Tony Chammany has come out against the move to construct a memorial for former Minister T.K. Ramakrishnan at the holding near the Ernakulam Boat Jetty. Any construction in the area will be in violation of the Marine Drive Development Scheme prepared by urban planner Kuldeep Singh. The area should be left as vacant space as per the scheme. The memorial constructed in the name of the trust will eventually become a party office of the CPI (M), Mr. Chammany alleged. The Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority had earlier issued Coastal Regulation Zone clearance for the construction of the memorial in an application submitted by CPI (M) leader C. N. Mohanan. The former Mayor said the move would be questioned in a court of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-mayor-opposes-move-to-construct-memorial/article32048671.ece
11 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||11 more containment zones in Ernakulam||A total of 11 containment zones were declared in the district on Friday, including all wards of the Aluva Municipality and Keezhmad panchayat. The other containment zones are Ward 14 of Chengamanad panchayat, Ward 4 of Karumalloor panchayat, Division 35 of Thripunithura Municipality, Ward 4 of Sreemoolanagaram panchayat, Ward 2 of Edathala panchayat, Ward 19 of Vazhakulam panchayat, Ward 13 of Neeleeswaram panchayat, Ward 15 of Vadakkekara panchayat, and Doraiswamy Iyer Road (Ward 66) of the Kochi Corporation. Division 27 of the Kochi Corporation has been removed from the list of containment zones. Plasma therapy at MCH COVID-19 treatment using plasma therapy is set to begin at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. Plasma, which contains antibodies and is separated from the blood of those who have recovered from the disease, is used for treatment. The plasma of five persons, who had recovered from COVID-19 at the hospital, has been collected so far. Plasma therapy will soon be used for patients in critical condition at the hospital. COVID hospital Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Friday opened an exclusive COVID-19 hospital set up by Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences at Njarakkal. The hospital has been equipped with all modern facilities and has a capacity to treat 35 patients. It also has ICU and a dialysis centre. The centre will have six doctors, besides allied staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-more-containment-zones-in-ernakulam/article32048664.ece
11 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Customs suspects involvement of higher officials||Customs officials consider Swapna Prabha Suresh as a “pivotal member of a gang engaged in the smuggling of large quantities of gold to India by defrauding government agencies and the Customs Department using the cover of diplomatic protection”. The agency made its position known to the Kerala High Court while objecting the anticipatory bail plea of Swapna. It said the custodial interrogation of Swapna was necessary as the “involvement of higher government officials cannot be ruled at out at this stage”. Swapna has also “conspired and actively participated to facilitate the act of smuggling” and she has to be interrogated in custody to unearth the facts of the case, the agency argued. Swapna was involved in a crime registered by the Valiathura police station, it said. The agency also submitted that Swapna had switched off her mobile phone and was absconding. She was deliberately avoiding summons to thwart investigation. The High Court posted the anticipatory bail plea of the accused to July 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-suspects-involvement-of-higher-officials/article32048695.ece
11 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 28 more cases||The district reported 28 COVID-19 cases and 8 recoveries on Friday. Among the patients are 10 primary contacts of the fish vendors who tested positive on July 6 and six suspected contact cases. While 10 persons are from abroad, two had travelled from Chennai and Madhya Pradesh. Seven persons aged 6, 36, 34, 14, 25, 58 and 75 are the immediate family and relatives of the fish vendor from Sasthamcotta. Three persons, including his wife, contracted the infection from the second fish vendor from Panmana. The first fish vendor from Sasthamcotta used to frequent Kayamkulam, Karuvatta and Azheekkal for buying fish that was sold at Anjilimoodu market. He had visited Navabharat Hospital on June 27 and Sasthamcotta Taluk Hospital on July 4 after he developed symptoms. The second fish vendor, a 36-year-old Panmana resident, had visited Kayamkulam, Neendakara, Ayiramthengu, Puthiyakavu and Edappallykotta for selling fish. He had sought medical assistance at Molly Hospital on June 28 and Chavra Taluk Hospital before he tested positive. The suspected contact cases include a 56-year-old and 64-year-old from Sasthamcotta, a 30-year-old Panmana resident, 47-year-old Piravathur resident, 74-year-old Kollam resident and 54-year-old Manakkara resident. A 36-year-old Pattazhi resident had travelled from Chennai with 3 others, arriving in Kollam on July 28. His sample was taken when he developed symptoms while in home quarantine. A 30-year-old Kollam resident had travelled from Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-28-more-cases/article32048756.ece
11 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Marine fishing banned||The district administration has banned all marine fishing activities in Kollam and the fishers have been instructed not to venture into the sea till further notice. After the harbours were closed, severalfishers started selling fish at beaches and at fish landing centres leading to unmanageable crowds. The authorities had received several complaints regarding this and hence the directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-fishing-banned/article32048755.ece
11 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Seven cases in Kottayam||As many as seven persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Friday. Of the fresh cases, six were asymptomatic, while the lone symptomatic case contracted the virus through local transmission, sources said. The persons who were tested positive during the day were; a 62-year-old woman from Manarcad who was in the primary contact list of a patient from Pathanamthitta ; a 34-year-old woman of Athirampuzha who returned from Muscat on June 24; a 30-year-old Melukav resident and a 29-year-old from Neendoor who returned from Abu Dhabi on June 24, a 63-year-old man of Vazhappalli and a 28-year-old woman in Kurichi who returned from Dubai and a 41-year-old man from Thidanad, who landed from Ivory Coast on June 25. Meanwhile, nine persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from the hospitals here during the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-cases-in-kottayam/article32048757.ece
11 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||BJYM, MYL stage protest seeking CM’s resignation||Activists of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) here on Friday organised a march to the district headquarters demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in connection with the gold smuggling case. The march, which started from Thirunakkara, was blocked by the police using barricades near the Collectorate. As the protesters attempted to topple these barricades, police used force to disperse the mob. Activists of the Muslim Youth League (MYL) too staged a protest march to the district headquarters on Friday. The march, which began near the District General Hospital, was blocked by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjym-myl-stage-protest-seeking-cms-resignation/article32048712.ece
11 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Protests turn violent in Kozhikode, Kannur||Protests erupted in different centres in the Malabar region on Friday with youth workers of Opposition parties taking to the streets demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleging that accused persons in the controversial gold smuggling case have close connection with officials in the Chief Minister’s office. The protests by the youth organisations turned violent in Kozhikode and Kannur, forcing the police to use water cannon and burst tear gas shells to disperse the protesters. Several protesters, police personnel and mediapersons suffered injuries. The Kozhikode Civil Station premises witnessed stormy scenes after two different marches taken out by the Muslim Youth League (MYL) workers and the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) turned violent. Over 25 activists sustained injuries in the police action. There were over 400 persons near the civil station premises, where the police had a tough time managing the protesters who thronged the area flouting the physical distancing protocol. Water cannons and smoke grenades were used to disperse the irate mob. The Nadakkavu police said cases were registered against the leaders of both MYL and BJYM for organising such a protest violating the COVID-19 protocol and unleashing attack against the policemen. MYL leader P.K. Firoz who sustained injuries in the police lathi charge said the protest would be continued till their demands were met in the gold smuggling case. . In Kannur The police used tear gas and water cannon to disperse Youth Congress activists, who carried out a march to the Chief Minister’s house at Pinarayi in Kannur. The march was inaugurated by K. Sudhakaran, MP, and was led by Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil. The police barricaded the road to the Chief Minister’s residence. The march turned violent when the police stopped the protesters. In another incident, Youth Congress workers waved black flags and tried to block Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, when his vehicle reached near the District Collectorate. In Malappuram In Malappuram, the police dispersed a BJYM march taken out to the Collectorate. BJP district president Ravi Thelath inaugurated the march. BJYM leaders said that several of them were injured in the police lathi charge. The district committee of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) OBC department staged a protest in front of the Collectorate, demanding a CBI inquiry into the Chief Minister’s alleged connection with the gold smuggling lobby. The MYL protested by staging a symbolic “gold melting” event. Youth League workers took out a march to the Collectorate at Palakkad too. In Wayanad In Wayanad, the protests were incident-free. Kerala Students Union (KSU) took out a protest march to the Collectorate in Kalpetta. MYL district committee also took out a protest march to the district collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests-turn-violent-in-kozhikode-kannur/article32048661.ece
11 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Flights to UAE from Sunday||In a major relief, thousands of United Arab Emirates (UAE)-bound Non-Resident Indians (NRI) stranded in the country since the lockdown from March will now get an opportunity to fly back to their workplaces and join the families there from Sunday. The development comes after civil aviation authorities of both countries agreed to operationalise a special arrangement following a face-off between Air India and the Dubai-based Emirates on the high-demand India-UAE route. This arrangement will be in place for a period of 15 days till July 26. It will be reviewed if required, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said. Now, Indian carriers operating repatriation flights and UAE carriers operating charter flights to bring Indian citizens from the UAE can carry residents from India to the UAE provided they get approval from the UAE’s Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship. Previously, the UAE administration had objected to Air India’s Vande Bharat flights carrying residents or even UAE nationals from India to the UAE. The prior approval of the UAE embassy in New Delhi and the UAE’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation was also required if anyone wished to fly to the UAE. As per the agreement, the four carriers in the UAE — Emirates, flydubai, Etihad, and Air Arabia — will be allowed to operate to their points of call in the pre-lockdown days. Thus Emirates and flydubai will fly to Dubai, Etihad to Abu Dhabi, and Air Arabia to Sharjah from any city in the country. Dubai already open Dubai is already open for tourists from July 7. There are no age restrictions on travel. Depending on nationality one can get a visa on arrival or can apply for visit visa from Dubai Immigration before travel. However, the passenger must have travel insurance with COVID-19 cover. One must carry a negative PCR certificate issued within 96 hours before departure. A PCR test is also available on arrival in Dubai. But these passengers must self-isolate until they receive the test result. If the test result is positive, they will stay in self-isolation. Besides, all travellers to Dubai, including passengers with a connecting flight, must have a health declaration form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flights-to-uae-from-sunday/article32048674.ece
11 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Many volunteers back out of COVID-19 activities||The number of youth volunteers who are willing to join local self-government institutions to support COVID-19 prevention and care activities is on the decline, throwing up a tough challenge for administrators. Many of those who had been active in the area following the district administration’s call are now reluctant to be part of the activities due to safety concerns. Though there were about 3,500 volunteers available in the district to undertake COVID-19-related work in the initial days, a majority of them did not rejoin the work at the end of their home quarantine period after two weeks of service. A recent request to find about 600 volunteers evoked a positive response from just 80 persons within the city limits. Officials who coordinate the Health Department’s surveillance measures said the support of volunteers was mainly used for proper monitoring of persons in home or institutional quarantine. Checks and safety arrangements in containment zones too were carried out effectively with the support of such volunteers, they added. Heads of various local bodies said the increasing number of COVID-19 cases and the fear of community spread were suspected to be the main reasons for the big drop in the number of volunteers. Organisations, clubs and youth movements should take the initiative to create awareness among their members and mobilise support for COVID-19 management activities, they added. Some local body members are planning to approach the Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK) for mobilising the support of various youth clubs to meet the crisis. In many rural areas, the youth clubs are offering support to the local administrators for managing COVID-19 surveillance and preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-volunteers-back-out-of-covid-19-activities/article32048653.ece
11 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||No respite from cases in Malappuram||Forty-one people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Friday. As many as 21 of them were found to have contracted the disease through local transmission. They were tested positive during an intensive surveillance conducted as part of controlling the spread in Ponnani taluk. The remaining 20 cases are persons who arrived from abroad. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that 456 infected persons were currently under treatment in the district. In Palakkad Twenty-eight persons tested positive in Palakkad district on Friday. All of them were returnees from abroad and other States. While 20 had come back from abroad, eight had returned from other States. As many as 244 infected people are currently under treatment in Palakkad. District officials said 12,395 persons were in quarantine. In Kannur The district recorded 23 cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Of the patients, nine arrived from abroad and 13 from other States. A CISF employee is also among the infected persons. Thirteen persons were discharged on the day. A total of 25,103 people are under observation. In Kasaragod The situation in Kasaragod continues to worry Health officials as 11 out of the 17 persons who were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday contracted the disease through contact. According to District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas, of the remaining patients, three came from abroad and three arrived from other States. Four people who were undergoing COVID-19 treatment at various hospitals in the district were discharged on Friday. As many as 6,712 persons are under observation in the district. In Kozhikode Twelve more positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kozhikode on Friday, taking the total number of active cases from the district to 149. Health Department officials said a Kozhikode native who was undergoing treatment in Kannur district recovered from the illness on Friday. As many as 940 people were quarantined on Friday, taking the total number of those under observation to 16,604. In Thrissur The district recorded 17 COVID-19 cases and 19 recoveries on Friday. Four members of a family from Vadakkekkad, including a one-year-old girl, who returned from Saudi Arabia on July 7, were tested positive. Two BSF jawans were also tested positive on Friday. A 54-year-old headload worker from Athirappilly was infected through contact. The District Collector declared three more containment zones in Thrissur on Friday. Wards 6 and 7 of Puthenchira panchayat and Ward 17 of Annamanada panchayat are the new zones.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode and Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-respite-from-cases-in-malappuram/article32048655.ece
11 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 1.6 cr. seized at Karipur||The Air Customs intelligence wing on Thursday seized 3.34 kg of gold from three passengers who arrived at the Karipur airport from the Gulf. The gold in paste form was worth Rs. 1.6 crore. Abdul Jaleel from Kodanchery, who arrived from Ras Al Khaimah, was caught with 2.045 g of gold hidden in his undergarment.  800 g from Doha Mohammed Riyas from Koduvally, who reached from Doha, was found smuggling in 800 g of gold in his undergarment. T.P. Jishar from Tenhipalam, who arrived from Ras Al Khaimah, was caught with 500 g of gold hidden in the waist-band of the jeans he was wearing. Customs Deputy Commissioner N.S. Raji; superintendents Gokuldas C., C.C. Hanson, M. Prakash and Ganapathi Potti; and inspectors K. Muraleedharan, Rohit Khatri and Shilpa Goyal made the seizure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-16-cr-seized-at-karipur/article32048697.ece
11 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Ban orders in Ponnani||Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) were imposed in Ponnani taluk on Friday following fears of rapid spread of SARS-CoV-2 in the community. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan issued the prohibitory orders as people were found to have been ignoring the triple lockdown norms already in place in Ponnani taluk. More than two dozen doctors, hospital staff, municipal councillors and government employees were found to have contracted the disease from unidentifiable sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-orders-in-ponnani/article32048657.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,KERALA||NIA begins investigation into gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case to investigate the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case. In a statement here on Friday, the NIA said that initial inquiries revealed that the “proceeds of smuggled gold could be used for financing terrorism in India.” The 30-kg gold concealed in imported plumbing materials was seized by the Custom officials on July 5 upon inspection of an air cargo consignment addressed to the Consular General of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The NIA registered the case under Sections 16, 17, and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act [UAPA], 1967, against four accused persons Sarith P.S., Swapna Prabha Suresh, Fazil Fareed, and Sandeep Nair. “The aforesaid consignment was found camouflaged in diplomatic baggage from the UAE that is exempted from inspection as per the Vienna Convention. The said consignment was to be received by Sarith who had worked in the UAE Consulate earlier as Public Relations Officer. Initial investigation by Customs Department has revealed that Sarith had received multiple such consignments earlier as well,” the NIA said. It added that as the case pertains to smuggling of large quantity of gold into India from offshore locations threatening the economic stability and national security of the country, it amounted to a terrorist act as stated in Section 15 of the UAPA. Financing terrorism “Further, as the case has national and international linkages and as the initial inquiries have revealed that the proceeds of smuggled gold could be used for financing terrorism in India, the agency has taken up the investigation of the case,” the NIA said. Earlier, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an “effective and coordinated” investigation by “all Central agencies concerned” regarding the seizure of the gold. One of the suspects, Swapna Prabha Suresh, moved an anticipatory bail plea claiming she was innocent. She was an employee of the Consulate until the government appointed her as marketing liaison officer of the Space Park project under the IT Department’s Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited. In her plea, she said that though she had resigned from the Consulate, she was still working as secretary on “request basis” in view of the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-begins-investigation-into-gold-smuggling-case/article32048694.ece
11 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Two get 9 months’ jail for damaging KSRTC bus||The Judicial First Class Magistrate at Chittur, Priya K., sentenced two men to nine months imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10,000 for destroying the wind shields of KSRTC buses on a hartal day. The judge found Ramesh, 40, son of Chandran Aryapallam, and Swaminathan, 45, son of Muthu Aryapallam, guilty of destroying public property during a hartal called by the Left parties on September 14, 2011. The hartal was to protest against the rise in petroleum prices. They waylaid a KSRTC convoy at Fatima Junction, Chittur, and attacked it with stones. The convoy was heading for Pollachi from Chittur. A case had been slapped against them for disrupting the service and for destroying the windshield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-get-9-months-jail-for-damaging-ksrtc-bus/article32048658.ece
11 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||At 400, Jalavanthi’s fatigue is showing||The nearly 400-year-old Jalavanthi, where priests of the Sreevallabha temple in Thiruvalla once used to stay, is on the verge of collapse. The temple, which dates back to 9th century AD, is known as one of 108 Tirupatis in the country and is a major pilgrimage centre of Vaishnavites. Jalavanthi, believed to have been built in the 15th century, is a two-storey structure in granite and wood with tiled roof. “Jalavanthi is a sacred place that should be maintained as scrupulously as the temple itself,” says tantri (chief priest) Akkeeramon Kalidasan Bhattathirippad. “It has been in disrepair for 12 years and our repeated pleas to the Travancore Devaswom Board for its upkeep have not been heeded,” he adds. Daily rites even now The plight is despite the fact that head priests and assistants have to perform important daily rites inside the Jalavanthi during the Sreebhoothabali at the temple even now. A major portion of the tiled roof has collapsed, exposing the wooden rafters to the elements. The remaining portion of the roof is leaky. Most of the wooden crossbars have broken, posing a threat of imminent collapse. The ground floor has become a haven for snakes and other reptiles. Centuries ago, saintly figures such as Vilwamangalathu Swamiyar used to stay here while visiting the temple, says the tantri. “Jalavanthi is important in terms of traditional temple architecture too,” says Manoj S. Nair, Vastu expert. The teak wooden rafters rest on granite beams and the pillars are carved out of single stones – an exemplary example of Kerala temple Vastu, he says. The old well in front of the temple too has caved in. The tantri has called upon the TDB to repair and strengthen the ancient structure without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-400-jalavanthis-fatigue-is-showing/article32048676.ece
11 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta reports highest single-day spike||Pathanamthitta district witnessed the highest single day spike of 32 SARS-CoV-2 positive cases, five of them contacts of infected people, on Friday. With this the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district since March 7 has gone up to 440, 268 of them cured of the disease and one persons died, as on Friday. From Gulf A 39-year- old man came to Kulanada from Kuwait, a 50-year-old man came to Koipram from Kuwait, a 41-year-old man came to Edayaranmula from Sharjah, a 42-year-old man came to Ezhamkulam from Dubai, a 48-year-old woman came to Pallickal from Uttar Pradesh, a 36-year-old woman came to Cherukunnam from Kolkata, a 13-year-old girl came to Cherukunnam from Kolkata, a 39-year-old man came to Koodal from Dubai, a 30-year-old man came to Mannady from Dubai, a 64-year old man came to Aranmula from Qatar, a 61-year-old man came to Ayroor from Sharjah, a 27-year-old woman came to Puthusserrymala from Dubai, a 29-year-old man came to Chittar from Kuwait, a 55-year-old man came of Puramattom from Dubai, a 29-year-old man came to Vennikkulam from Dubai, a 51-year-old man came to East Othera from Abu Dhabi, a 42-year-old man came to Thiruvalla from Saudi Arabia, a 51-year-old man came to Kallooppara from Sharajah, a 65-year-old man came to Kottanad from Kuwait, a 34-year-old man came to Ranni from Kuwait, a 57-year-old woman came to Vadasserikkara from Kuwait, an eight-year-old boy came to Vadasserikkara from Kuwait, a 26-year-old woman came to Vayala near Aerath from Delhi, a 39-year old man came to Kozhencherry from Kuwait, a 27-year-old man came to Thiruvalla from Dubai; all Non-Resident Keralites; a 63-year old woman and a 57-year-old woman came from Hyderabad tot Nalkalickal. The five contacts are , a 52-year-old from Vayala, and four others who have been subjected to Rapid Antigen Test in Pathanamthitta municipal limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-reports-highest-single-day-spike/article32048758.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital to be under curbs for a week more||The government has decided to extend the prevailing restrictions in Thiruvananthapuram city amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases by another week. Triple lockdown will be intensified in coastal areas that are currently being treated as a critical containment zone and its buffer zone. On Friday, the number of COVID-19 cases reached a new high in the district with 129 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. That they include 17 cases with no evident sources of infection also raises the spectre of new clusters in the district. As many as 122 people, including a health worker, contracted the infection through local transmission. Nearly 100 cases were detected from the high alert areas, including Poonthura and Manikyavilakom wards, as well as the adjoining areas of Beemapally and Ambalathara. Several densely populated colonies at Poonthura, including IDP Colony, New Colony and Maduvan Colony, have reported several cases. Among the cases having no known sources of infection include three youths hailing from Palayam and Padma Nagar in Fort and those reported from Pachalloor, Nedumparambu, Perumkulam, Parassala, Pulluvila, Poovar, Poovachal, and Paruthikuzhy. No history of travel A 71-year-old native of Kottakkal in Malappuram who has no recent history of travel also tested positive for the infection. A 32-year-old employee of a private hospital is the latest in a series of positive cases to be reported among health workers in the district. The imported cases include a 36-year-old Kilimanoor native who came from the UAE, a 29-year-old Shangumugham native who returned from Qatar, two Tamil Nadu natives, aged 65 and 30, who came from Oman, a 55-year-old Karamana native who came from the UAE, and a 25-year-old Thycaud native who came from the UAE. Meanwhile, tight surveillance continued across the city, particularly along the coastal areas. Inspector General and City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay warned of legal action against those found propagating falsehoods regarding the lockdown. The police booked 154 people and seized 52 vehicles for violating lockdown norms in the city. Besides, action was initiated against 21 shops that failed to ensure physical distancing on their premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-to-be-under-curbs-for-a-week-more/article32048715.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Caution and care thrown to wind as Poonthura residents protest||Poonthura witnessed tense scenes on Friday morning following a protest by local people without following social distancing norms. Health workers also bore the brunt of the protest. Their vehicles were blocked and they had to face angry outbursts from the protesters. The protest, fuelled partly by lack of access to essential items and partly by false rumours regarding testing, led Health Minister K.K. Shylaja to make an emotional appeal to not mislead the public and worsen the situation. The district administration also eased some of the restrictions and promised to run mobile units of Supplyco and Consumerfed, as well as mobile ATMs in the affected wards. Rumour According to sources, there has been a rumour among the local population that the government was reporting a larger number of cases in Poonthura than what actually exists. Many here believe that the rapid antigen tests are not accurate and even people with mild symptoms are testing positive. The reporting of cases from the adjacent Manikyavilakam and Puthenpallly wards under Poonthura’s name, as it belongs to the same cluster of virus spread, has also led to anger among the people. On Friday morning, protesters stopped a vehicle carrying health workers to a test centre. “We were divided into five teams and each of the teams had to take 100 tests during the day, with an aim of 500 tests. Our team’s vehicle was heading to the test centre when a group surrounded the vehicle and began shouting at us. They alleged that Poonthura was being unfairly branded,” said a health worker. Since July 6, the Health Department conducted 1,192 tests in Poonthura alone, of which 243 positive cases were found. The three wards have a total of 31,985 people, out of which 5,611 are elderly and 2,250 are below the age of five. The area also has 184 people under palliative care. The people have also been facing a shortage of essential items, as only a few shops are functioning and the shops from adjacent areas were not keen on them visiting. A meeting was held with local people and officials in attendance. According to Father Bevinson, Vicar of the Poonthura church, demands were raised for the declaration of results from each ward separately. Restrictions Later, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, in-charge of the district, announced easing of some of the restrictions. He said mobile units of the Supplyco and Consumerfed would travel around the wards to provide essential items at affordable rates. The local population would be allowed to carry out fishing for their own needs. “They can sell the fish locally, and the rest will be procured by the Matsyafed. No auctioning will be allowed, nor can fish be brought from outside,” said Mr. Surendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-and-care-thrown-to-wind-as-poonthura-residents-protest/article32048722.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ICSE, ISC results bring cheer||Despite the long wait and anxiety, the results of the ICSE and ISC examinations that were announced by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Friday brought much cheer to the State. The pass percentage was 99.96 for the ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) examinations and 99.48 for the ISC (Indian School Certificate) examinations, higher than the national pass percentage that was 99.34 for the ICSE and 96.84 for the ISC examinations. The pass percentage in the State was also more than that last year when it was 99.91 for the ICSE and 98.97 for the ISC examinations. All but three students who appeared for the Class 10 examinations and 14 students who sat for the Class 12 examinations passed. The CISCE did not release the merit list for either the ICSE or the ISC examinations owing to the COVID-19 situation. In the Class 10 examinations, 8,011 of the 8,014 candidates emerged successful. Of them, 3,760 were boys and 4,254, girls. In the Class 12 examinations, 2,691 of the 2,705 students (1,340 boys and 1,365 girls) who took the examinations passed. As many as 162 ICSE and 66 ISC schools had presented candidates for the examinations.  Alternative assessment The examinations in February-March were disrupted owing to the COVID-19 outbreak. The CISCE then decided to conduct the pending examinations between July 1 and July 15. However, it had to cancel the remaining examinations owing to safety concerns over the rise in number of COVID-19 cases. It then came up with an alternative assessment scheme to compute the candidates’ marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/icse-isc-results-bring-cheer/article32048679.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CKC collects 6,000 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste||Clean Kerala Company Ltd. (CKC) has collected 6,000 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste from 395 local bodies in various districts for resuming refuse processing, once the lockdown curbs are eased. The local bodies collected the waste comprising plastic, electronic, rubber, and leather goods from houses and institutions in these districts, said company managing director P. Kesavan Nair. Clean Kerala Company is a joint initiative of the State government and local bodies for managing non-biodegradable waste. Green army’s fight The local bodies have formed Haritha Karma Sena (green army), comprising 32,000 members, for waste collection in association with Kudumbashree. The waste collected by the sena members is being stored at material recovery centres. The company will collect it from there and pass it over to recycling units or process it otherwise. The plastic waste that could not be reused will be shredded and used for road tarring. Following the outbreak of COVID-19, waste collection and functioning of the recovery centres have come to a complete halt. Even the waste collected before lockdown could not be moved. Stored in godowns As per a directive of the government, the company moved the waste kept at the recovery centres to its district godowns. The waste collected as part of the pre-monsoon cleaning was also moved to its godowns .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ckc-collects-6000-tonnes-of-non-biodegradable-waste/article32048678.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rice, wheat allotted to State||Kerala will be entitled to 3.87 lakh tonnes of rice and wheat for the five months from July to November under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). The foodgrain allocation worth Rs. 1,388 crore constitutes the second-phase allotment under the Centrally funded PMGKAY meant to alleviate hardships faced by the underprivileged on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Under it, priority households and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cardholders will be entitled to five kg of rice or wheat free of cost. The free rations under the PMGKAY is in addition to subsidised grains given through the Public Distribution System under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). In Kerala, the scheme is expected to benefit 1.54 crore people. The monthly allotment for the State would come to 0.632 tonnes of rice and 0.142 tonnes of wheat, the Centre said on Friday. Sufficient stocks are available at the Food Corporation of India (FCI) depots across Kerala to meet the requirement under the NFSA and PMGKAY for the next four months, FCI general manager (Kerala) V.K. Yadav said in a statement. “At present, 5.41 tonnes of foodgrains are available for utilisation in Kerala, out of which 4.80 tonnes is with the FCI and 0.61 tonnes of custom-milled rice is with the State government,” Mr. Yadav said. FCI stocks in Kerala are being continuously replenished to ensure food security during the subsequent months, the FCI official added.  3.87 lakh tonnes under PMGKAY to benefit the indigent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rice-wheat-allotted-to-state/article32048688.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Agitation “instigated”: Shylaja||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has come down hard on those “instigating” the fisher community at Poonthura to hold organised protests on streets without any safety precautions, even after a superspreader event resulted in 243 new COVID-19 cases being reported from the area in the past three days. Addressing the media through an online platform on Friday, Ms. Shylaja said Kerala would be facing a catastrophe if popular protests during the pandemic took on the form it did in Poonthura, especially since it looked like the local transmission of COVID-19 was spreading from the coastal area to other parts of the city. Vested interests Ms. Shylaja was talking to the media after the local community at Poonthura took to the streets in the morning to protest against the “discrimination” against coastal folk, the lack of facilities provided to patients, and for not providing amenities for daily living to the families. According to the Minister, some vested interests tried to stir up confusion amongst the fisherfolk by spreading false information that the rapid viral antigen tests that were being conducted in large numbers in the area, following the COVID outbreak there, were not reliable tests and that these tests were picking up healthy people as positive cases. She said while those who tested positive at Poonthura in the past three days were not sick and had only mild symptoms or were asymptomatic, they had to be observed for the next 14 days because none could actually predict which of these persons would suddenly develop serious disease. However, there seemed to be some misunderstanding amongst the people that healthy people were being sent to quarantine, she said. Unusual situation The Minister also said the local people had been put into some difficulties following the sudden imposition of triple lockdown. But it was an unusual situation that called for unusual measures and the government was trying its best to take care of all grievances. Rapid antigen tests done in Aryanad had found six positive cases and another 15 in Manacaud area. More test kits would be utilised in areas where disease transmission was intense to detect people quickly while in hospitals, the primary testing modality would continue to be PCR-based. Temporary hospitals She said the government had identified two centres in Poonthura itself, where temporary COVID hospitals would be set up immediately to ensure that the mild or asymptomatic patients from the locality could be cared for there. These two centres could accommodate 150 or more people. One more centre would be opened up as soon as the place was identified. With local disease transmission intensifying in many areas, the attempt was to ensure that the surge was limited to the localities without spread. Physical distancing and mask-wearing were important and stringent measures would have to be adopted in containment zones to limit the movement of people, Ms. Shylaja said. She appealed to political parties to desist from holding mass protests on the roads or else the State would squander away any advantage it might have had so far in COVID containment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agitation-instigated-shylaja/article32048713.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Airport working with minimum personnel||Personnel in various wings have been reduced to the minimum at the Thiruvanananthapuram international airport, as the T-1 domestic terminal on the Shanghumughom side is on the boundary of the wards declared buffer zones in the wake of the COVID-19 superspreader in Poonthura region. With the district administration asking the airport authorities to be cautious, hundreds coming from the critical containment zone of Poonthura comprising Puthenpally, Manakiyavilakom and Poonthura wards and buffer zone wards of Vallakadavu, Beemapally, Beemapally East, Valiyathura and Muttathura have been asked to remain at home. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the various stake holders engaged in airport operations and security had ensured that no one from the Poonthura region, adjacent buffer zones, and other containment zones in the district, reported for work at the airport, Airport Director C.V. Ravindran said on Friday. Crisis planning “We are running the airport with minimum personnel in the Communications, Engineering, Maintenance wings and in Air Traffic Control. The officials of the HR, Finance and other wings of the AAI have been asked to work from home. Contingency plan is in place to handle any exigency,” he said. Movement of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who provide security to the premier airport of the State, have been badly affected, as the barracks of the force is in Muttathara, a containment zone. Their movement from the notified Poonthura region through the NH 66 bypass has been restricted. Outside the barracks About half of the force, however, stay with their families outside the barracks and they are the ones helping in the crisis situation by reporting for duty and also chipping in extra hours after work. Fire services wing of the AAI is working with full strength. Operating airlines are working with skeletal staff at the domestic terminal. The terminal, the parking area, and busy road in front, remain deserted. The police have barricaded the road in front of the T-1 domestic terminal to prevent movement to and from Vallakadavu and Valiyathura sides. Entry restricted The entry to the T-1 terminal for flyers and for personnel on duty at the airport has been assigned through the Chakka-All Saints-Shanghumughom road. But the caving in of the road due to the high waves is a concern. Domestic flight services from T-1 and of repatriation flights ferrying stranded Non Resident Keralites from West Asia from the T-2 international terminal could be accessed from the city side.  Movement of the CISF personnel has been badly affected, as the barracks of the force is in Muttathara, a containment zone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airport-working-with-minimum-personnel/article32048718.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||60 Corporation employees asked to go in quarantine||Around 60 employees of the city Corporation, including contingent workers, have gone in home quarantine after two employees hailing from Poonthura tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. One of the employees who tested positive used to work in the Secretariat health circle, while the other was employed at the Friends Janasevana Kendram at the Corporation office. “Both of them have been coming for work regularly until the lockdown was declared. Around 45 employees, including Health inspectors and contingent staff, had come in contact with the employee from the Secretariat circle, while around 15 to 20 are estimated to have come into contact with the employee from the Friends centre. We have informed all the employees in these sections who might have come into contact with them to go for home quarantine,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/60-corporation-employees-asked-to-go-in-quarantine/article32048717.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AIE to operate 98 flights||Air India Express will operate 98 flights from nine airports between July 12 and 26 for those with the United Arab Emirates’ Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship entry permit and resident visa to return to the emirates. Flexi fares The flights will be from Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kozhikode, Kannur, Mangaluru, Tiruchirapalli, Chennai, Mumbai, and Delhi airports. Air India Express sources said flexi fares would be applicable for the Vande Bharat flights to the UAE. The one-way bucket fare in the Kerala-Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Sharjah sectors, which are most in demand, would start from Rs. 20,000. Of the 98 flights to be operated to Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Sharjah, 51 would be from the four airports in Kerala. Cochin airport would handle 21 flights, Kozhikode 15, Thiruvananthapuram nine, and Kannur six flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aie-to-operate-98-flights/article32048684.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. suppressing agitations, says BJP||The protests demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for the alleged involvement of his office in the gold-smuggling case will spread all over the State and the government need not attempt to defuse it in the name of COVID-19 spread, Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran has said. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan had said that those participating in the agitations would be affected by COVID-19. The agitators were breaking the COVID-19 protocol when the government was attempting to suppress them using the police. He accused the government of using the spread of the virus as an opportunity for committing graft and as a means for securing funds for the Communist Party of India (Marxist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-suppressing-agitations-says-bjp/article32048691.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Youth outfits clash with police across State||Youth organisations of the Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party, and the Indian Union Muslim League clashed with the police at many places in Kerala on Friday as their Statewide protest marches demanding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation in the gold-smuggling case turned violent. The police used water cannons and lathicharged the activists to disperse them. All COVID-19 caution was thrown to the winds by the protesters. Over 6,500 cases have been reported in the State so far and the numbers are going up each day. Over 50 Youth Congress activists marched to Mr. Vijayan’s house at Pinarayi in Kannur and tried to climb over the barricades, and the police used water cannons to disperse them. In Kozhikode, 14 Muslim Youth League activists were injured when the police resorted to lathicharge after they threw stones on being prevented from marching to the Collectorate. A few media personnel were also injured in the melee. The marches turned violent in Kollam and Alappuzha also. The Customs Department seized over 30 kg of gold from a baggage carrying the name of a diplomat that landed by air cargo at the international airport here on Sunday. The case took political overtones after it was found that a woman suspect had been working for the State IT department, a portfolio held by the Chief Minister. She was later sacked. A former employee of a foreign consulate here has been arrested while the ex-IT Department employee, who is absconding, has moved the Kerala High Court for anticipatory bail. Keeping the heat up against the government, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy held a joint press meet here and reiterated their demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the case, in which the Centre has already announced an National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigation. Cabinet meet sought “The Chief Minister should convene an emergency Cabinet meeting as soon as possible and recommend a CBI probe in the matter,” the KPCC president told reporters. Pointing out that the case had international ramifications, he said the Chief Minister’s Office should also be brought under the probe’s purview.  While welcoming the NIA probe, Mr. Chennithala said the case should also be investigated by the CBI and the RAW (Research and Analysis Wing) as the NIA could not probe the corruption angle. “The BJP is trying to save the government and the Chief Minister,” he said.  In Kozhikode, 14 Muslim Youth League activists were injured when the police resorted to lathicharge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-outfits-clash-with-police-across-state/article32048696.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: NIA probe may lead to UDF leaders’ doorstep||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the United Democratic Front (UDF) leadership should be genuinely worried about the outcome of the impending probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the misuse of diplomatic channels to smuggle gold into the country through Kerala. Mr. Vijayan on Friday suggested, rather ominously, that the oncoming NIA investigation could lead to the doorstep of some in the UDF leadership. He attempted to shrug off insinuations by the Opposition that his office had some dubious role in the economic offence. The Centre had ordered the NIA inquiry at the behest of the State government. The administration had no guilt to hide or cause to worry. “Those who consumed salt should drink water,” Mr. Vijayan said. The government would consider passing a law that would empower law enforcement to prosecute economic offences with national security implications. Mr. Vijayan attempted to turn the tables on the UDF, which has been on the warpath against his office for its alleged link to gold smugglers. The Chief Minister said the UDF, for reasons best known to its leaders, wanted to dodge an NIA probe at all costs. Hard-pressed for a fig leaf to hide its liability, the UDF had attempted to lay down a smokescreen of lies against the government. It had orchestrated a violent street campaign under the pretext of seeking a CBI probe against the Chief Minister’s Office. Its leaders had callously endangered the lives of their cadres and the police. They had set a bad example to the public by glad handling supporters, encouraging gatherings, breaching physical-distancing norms and refusing to wear masks. Most of the UDF leaders were aged and should have been in reverse quarantine in their homes. The public protests orchestrated by the UDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could cause a troubling spike in infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-nia-probe-may-lead-to-udf-leaders-doorstep/article32048690.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Congress, BJP helping spread of COVID-19: Balan||If the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party are involving in street violence in the name of the gold smuggling case, the COVID-19 containment initiatives of the government will be defeated, Minister for Cultural Affairs A.K. Balan has said. Mr. Balan said on Friday that if the State moved to a community spread, the responsibility would be on the agitators. Such agitations were against the provisions of the epidemic Ordinance and the Disaster Management Act. The National Investigating Agency has started a probe following the request of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Congress was not cooperating with the inquiry and that sounded mysterious, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-bjp-helping-spread-of-covid-19-balan/article32048692.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Engineers to closely monitor dams’ water levels||The Irrigation Department has asked its officers to closely monitor water levels in reservoirs managed by the department, given the possibility of an increase in southwest monsoon rainfall activity in the days ahead. Dam engineers have been directed to ensure emergency preparedness in dam operations to manage ‘critical situations,’ a July 7 circular issued by the Chief Engineer (Irrigation and Administration), said. “Executive engineers in charge of dams/barrages shall inspect the dams and ensure smooth functioning of spillway shutters along with other maintenance works that might affect the smooth functioning of dam/barrage,” the circular said. They have been instructed to keep reservoir levels in accordance with the rule curves and maintain updated data on water levels, storage charts, and inflow and outflow. Dam operations had come under the scanner after Kerala faced back-to-back devastating floods in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/engineers-to-closely-monitor-dams-water-levels/article32048680.ece
11 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kadakampally flays ‘fake news’, DCC denies charge||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran has condemned the ‘fake propaganda’ being spread among a section of the people in the district. Mr. Surendran said shops in buffer zones of Muttathara, Valiyathura and Vallakkadavu would be allowed to function till 5 p.m.  DCC denies charge The District Congress Committee (DCC) has accused the State of marginalising the fisher community of Poonthura by whipping up panic. DCC president Neyyattinkara Sanal said the agitation was a natural reaction towards the harsh restrictions and dismissed CPI(M)’s allegation that V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, and his colleagues were responsible for creating unrest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kadakampally-flays-fake-news-dcc-denies-charge/article32048720.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Expert panel to look into child suicides||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said an expert committee headed by Director General of Police R. Sreelekha would study child suicides in Kerala and submit a report to the government. Mr. Vijayan said 66 children had committed suicide in Kerala since March. One reason was broken families. The government has launched an online scheme with the help of Student Police Cadets to counsel children and parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-panel-to-look-into-child-suicides/article32048672.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Auto, taxi stir a success, claims action panel||Autorickshaw, taxi, and light motor vehicle workers in the State went on a six-hour strike from 6 a.m. on Friday in support of their demands, including fare hike or fuel at subsidised rate. The joint action committee of the workers claimed that the strike was a success. The action committee consisted of members of INTUC, CITU, AITUC, STU, HMS, KTUC, UTUC, TUCI and UTUC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auto-taxi-stir-a-success-claims-action-panel/article32048683.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online camp for NCC cadets begins||An online camp, ‘Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat,’ comprising 100 NCC cadets from the Kerala and Lakshadweep Directorate and Rajasthan Directorate commenced on Friday. The six-day camp was inaugurated by Brig. A.Y. Rajan, Group Commander, Kozhikode Group. The event will have a series of presentations conducted by the participating cadets on the history, geography, economy, culture, traditions, and cuisines of their respective States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-camp-for-ncc-cadets-begins/article32048682.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Postal adalat on July 29||The 103rd Dak Adalat of Kerala Postal Circle will be held online at the office of the Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Circle, Thiruvananthapuram on July 29 on Google Meet platform. Those who wish to file cases before the Adalat are directed to send their petitions, including their mobile number, to the email aspcsco.keralapost@gmail. com or cpmg_ker@indiapost.gov.in with subject CIRCLE DAK ADALAT- QE June 2020 by July 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postal-adalat-on-july-29/article32048681.ece
11 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||5 found guilty in murder of youth at Thrissur flat||Five persons, including a Youth Congress leader, were found guilty in the murder of a youth in a flat at Panchikkal near Ayyanthole. The Thrissur Additional Sessions Court Judge K.R. Madhukumar will pronounce the quantum of punishment on July 13. KPCC former secretary M.R. Ramadas was acquitted in the case. The murder occurred on March 3, 2016, at Pinnacle Apartment at Panchikkal owned by Youth Congress leader Rasheed Azeez of Puthukkad. Rasheed killed Satheeshan, 32, of Ottappalam, following an altercation with him over his girlfriend. According to the police, Rasheed locked Satheeshan in the flat on February 29 after brutally assaulting him. Satheeshan was denied food and water and the attack continued in the following days. Finally, Satheeshan died on March 3. ‘Misleading police’ Mr. Ramdas was accused of misleading the police and helping Rasheed to evade arrest for many days. Later, Rasheed surrendered at a court in Palakkad soon after the arrest of Ramadas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-found-guilty-in-murder-of-youth-at-thrissur-flat/article32048656.ece
11 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU’s online certificate courses||The Centre for e-Learning under the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has invited applications for two distant online certificate courses “Organic Agricultural Management” and “Plant Propagation & Nursery Management.” The courses are of six-month duration. Online registration form is available at (e-krishipatashaala) link atwww.celkau.in. Last date for registration is July 21. For more details visit the website,www.celkau.in. For any queries mail tocelkau@gmail.comor contact at 0487-2438567 / 9895145889, according to a KAU press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kaus-online-certificate-courses/article32048677.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No lockdown for hunger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-lockdown-for-hunger/article32048724.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Powered by will||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/powered-by-will/article32048687.ece
11 July 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With closure of virology lab, pressure mounts on other centre||The virology lab at the King George Hospital (KGH) has been closed after some nurses tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. With the closure of the main RT- PCR lab for COVID-19 testing, the pressure will shift to the other RT-PCR centre, also located in KGH. There are 10 Truenat machines, which have been upgraded recently, at the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) in the city besides those at a few other hospitals in the district. These machines can conduct rapid tests for COVID-19. “The main unit at the virology lab can test up to 2,000 samples a day. There is, however, no cause for alarm as we have another testing lab at the Microbiology Department of KGH. This equipment, belonging to NACO, can test up to 500 samples a day,” P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu on Friday. “The testing equipment at the Microbiology Lab of KGH is being used to test the samples from Vizianagaram district. But now it will also be used for testing of samples from the city also. The main testing lab will be opened after the mandatory sanitisation in a couple of days,” he says. Speaking about the district’s preparedness to handle the rising cases, Dr. Sudhakar, who is also the district COVID Special Officer, said “We presently have 3,000 beds at 10 hospitals in the district and an additional 2,000 beds are also kept ready at 10 other hospitals for admission of patients, if needed. We have estimated that in the worst case scenario not more than 5,000 beds would be required in the district and we have prepared plans accordingly.” Meanwhile, the mobile teams of the Government ENT Hospital have stopped going to the containment zones during the last three days for collection of samples. Teams from the hospital cover the containment zones in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation(GVMC) area by turns. Some nurses, who had to interact with the teams, tested positive. Each team consists of an Assistant Professor, a PG student, a lab technician and ANMs. The GVMC and ward secretariat staff prepare the list of persons, who need to be tested in the respective zone, according to a source. ‘Lack of manpower’ The government has not permitted private hospitals and diagnostic labs to undertake testing and the pressure is mounting on the government hospitals. The inadequacy of manpower to conduct the tests is another reason for delays in getting the results, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-closure-of-virology-lab-pressure-mounts-on-other-centre/article32048823.ece
11 July 2020||BHIMAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP legislators turn up the heat on Narsapuram MP||Several YSRCP legislators and leaders have lodged complaints with the district police against party MP from Narsapuram K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, accusing him of making abusive comments against them and the party. Among those who lodged the complaints were MLAs K. Venkata Nageswara Rao (Tanuku), Grandhi Srinivas (Bhimavaram), and Mudunuru Prasada Raju (Narsapuram), and party leaders from Palakol and Achanta. Mr. Raju was said to have alleged irregularities in the supply of sand and government schemes, and opposed the proposal to auction properties of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). MP ‘fears’ threat to life Condemning Mr. Raju’s statements, party workers staged protests and burnt his effigies at Undi, Achanta, Akiveedu and other places. On June 17 and 18, Mr. Raju’s personal secretary K.U. Krishna Verma had lodged complaints with the police at Undi, Achanta, Akiveedu and Tadepalligudem, apprehending threat to the MP’s life from the party workers. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, SP K. Narayan Naik said, as all the complaints were non-cognizable, they were forwarded to courts concerned, and cases would be booked after obtaining legal opinion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-legislators-turn-up-the-heat-on-narsapuram-mp/article32048811.ece
11 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor police raise guard against virus||Police stations in Chittoor district are on high alert against COVID-19 after the virus wormed its way into the force, infecting over 12 police personnel in Puttur sub-division. Apart from the 12 police personnel who tested positive in Puttur sub-division, another 12 policemen from the mandal who were on duty in Srikalahasti also contracted the virus. The first positive case among the force was reported in Puttur town on April 22 — a policeman who was believed to have been infected while on duty in Srikalahasti. Within the next few weeks, two dozen cases surfaced in Satyavedu, Nagalapauram and Nagari. A few weeks ago, a Circle Inspector of the sub-division and his family contracted the virus, followed by constables and home guards. The spread of the virus among the police force was attributed to the movement of public towards Tamil Nadu from the municipalities of Puttur and Nagari, and vice-versa. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar said that when the first case of COVID-19 among the police force in the sub-division was reported, adherence to COVID-19 protocols was further intensified. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar arranged thermal screening equipment at all police stations, apart from stocking up on gloves, masks, face guards and sanitisers, he said. The Deputy SP said that all police personnel who were over 55 years of age were strictly barred from performing duties at red zones and containment areas. “Police personnel who fall under the high-risk category are made to work in a safe atmosphere inside the police stations. We are deploying only young constables in the red zones,” Mr. Murali Dhar said. Regarding Madanapalle sub-division, Deputy SP A. Ravi Manohar Achari said that so far no cases have been reported among the police force. He said that police personnel who were deployed on inter-State border with Karnataka followed all COVID-19 protocols to keep the virus at bay. Chittoor sub-division, with a growing number of cases in the municipal corporation zone, has only seen a few police personnel getting infected. Deputy SP (Special Branch) Sudhakar Reddy said that as per latest reports, 99% of the police personnel and their family members who tested positive for the virus were discharged from hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-police-raise-guard-against-virus/article32048786.ece
11 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains bring smiles to Chittoor||Heavy rains lashed Chittoor district on Friday, bringing much-needed relief to farmers who were badly awaiting the rains following a swing in sowing season. For the first time in a decade, the district witnessed excess, normal and deficient rainfall in 65 mandals out of 66. Agriculture Department officials termed Friday’s rain of 3,399 mm as “very helpful” for the initial stages of the Khariff sowing season. The mandals of Gudipala, Somala and Narayanavanam received rainfall in excess of 100 mm, while several mandals both in the eastern and western side received normal rainfall. While the Shantipuram mandal in the west received 94 mm, its adjoining mandal received zero rainfall. The Narayanavanam mandal received the highest rainfall at 106 mm, while Tamballapalle mandal received the lowest rainfall at 5.4mm. As many as 35 mandals received excess rainfall, 21 had normal rain, while ten mandals received deficit rainfall. Joint Director (Agriculture) N. Vijay Kumar said that Friday’s rain was a welcome development, averting the chances of withering of groundnut fields in several hectares. “In June, Chittoor district stood at -84 mm rainfall. Now, for the month of July, we are in excess of 17% rainfall. With good prospects of rains, we hope the acreage in the district would go up to two lakh hectares by July-end. We have already completed 61% of sowing of groundnut, and sowing for sugarcane and paddy is in progress,” the official said. Superintending Engineer (Irrigation) Surender Reddy said that Friday’s rain led to minor inflows into several tanks with an area of ten acres each. “Except for minor leakages of sluices in some areas, no breaches of tanks or canals were reported so far. Average rainfall of 51 mm on Friday would be helpful to cattle and growth of fodder,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rains-bring-smiles-to-chittoor/article32048788.ece
11 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB CI, SI suspended||Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao on Thursday suspended sub-inspector M. Vijay Kumar who was arrested on charges of smuggling non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) from Telangana, along with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) circle inspector P. Harunsi. The Chintalapudi police, during a vehicle checking drive at the Lingagudem border checkpost, seized 557 liquor bottles and arrested the SI, SEB CI and car driver N. Kamal Santosh. Another accused, Nagaraju managed to flee along with the vehicle, and a search has been launched to trace him. Report submitted West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik said the accused SI was suspended by the DIG after a report was submitted to him. A similar report has also been submitted to the SEB authorities, seeking action against the CI. SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal said the accused CI has been placed under suspension. The accused allegedly procured the liquor from an outlet at a bordering village in Telangana. Efforts are on to trace the other accused in the case, Mr. Naik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-ci-si-suspended/article32048818.ece
11 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing will be intensified in containment zones: Collector||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has said that testing will be intensified in containment zones. The Collector along with SP, Guntur Urban, Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha visited containment zones in Guntur city and Tenali municipality and took stock of the situation. “Ensure that containment zones are kept out of bounds for people and there can not be any compromise. The number of COVID-19 positive cases are increasing and we can not let our guard off,” said Mr. Samuel Ananda Kumar. The team of officers visited containment zones in Brodiepet, Srinagar Colony, IPD Colony and Amaravathi Road and inspected the containment strategies. Later, the Collector along with Tenali Sub-Collector Dinesh Kumar visited containment zones in Tenali and instructed the officials to take all precautions. “Testing should be intensified and priority be given to those who are above 65 years and with comorbid conditions. Those showing symptoms should be immediately shifted to quarantine facility and all those in containment zones should be tested using rapid test kits,” said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-will-be-intensified-in-containment-zones-collector/article32048336.ece
11 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||International cargo express chugs off to Bangladesh||The first international cargo express from the land of chilli chugged off on Friday, setting the pace for commercial operations across the borders. This is the first of its initiative from the division post lockdown. Divisional Railway Manager, Guntur, Mohan Raja, and senior officials of SCR, Guntur, flagged the cargo express from Guntur. The express with 16 parcel vans and carrying capacity of 384 tonnes of chilli, chugged off from New Guntur station, heralding a new era for transportation of agri products from this region. Guntur is the hub of exports of chillies and other spices. With an acreage of 75,000 hectares, the district is among the top chilli producing States in the country. Considering the high demand for export of chillies and other spices like turmeric, ginger, onion, cumin seeds to Bangladesh, a proposal has been made for running a Time-Tabled Parcel Cargo Express from Guntur to Benapole in Bangladesh. General Manager, SCR, Gajanan Mallya, and the Railway Board have very proactively pursued the proposal with the Bangladesh Government and obtained the permission for running parcel cargo into Bangladesh in a very short time. Adviser (Railways), Indian High Commission in Bangladesh, Anita Barik, too has actively piloted the proposal with Bangladesh Railways. The Guntur district has been an epicenter of production, aggregation and processing of chillies and other spices. The booming cultivation of these products is sustained with an excellent ecosystem of mirchi yard, processing centres and a chain of cold storage facilities with deep export networks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/international-cargo-express-chugs-off-to-bangladesh/article32048338.ece
11 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure implementation of welfare schemes: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday asked the heads of various departments to ensure that all welfare schemes were grounded and on a saturation basis. Reviewing the implementation of schemes launched in June this year, which included YDR Vahana Mitra, Jagananna Chedodu, YSR Netanna Nestam and YSR Kapu Nestam, the Chief Minister said that in spite of financial constraints, the government was able to launch many welfare schemes which proved to be a great support during the times of COVID-19. As part of YSR Netanna Nestam, the government credited Rs. 24,000 into accounts of beneficiaries last year and has completed payments this year six months before the schedule so that weavers could get benefited. Later the Chief Minister reviewed the RFR pattas and asked the Forest Department to complete the process of identification of beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-implementation-of-welfare-schemes-jagan/article32048797.ece
11 July 2020||K. Srinivasa RaoVIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP wooing Ashok, other TDP leaders?||The Bharatiya Janata Party high command, which is keen on strengthening the party base in the North Andhra region, is reportedly trying to woo top leaders of the Telugu Desam Party. With the directive from the party high command, BJP State co-incharge Sunil Deodhar and BJP State treasurer Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju met TDP MLC Dwarapu Reddy Jagadish a couple of days ago and reportedly assured him of a bright future in the national party if he joined it. Mr. Jagadish’s brother Dwarapureddy Rammohana Rao had already joined the BJP and contested unsuccessfully from Bobbili Assembly segment in the 2019 general elections. Both Mr. Jagadish and Mr. Rammohana Rao have strong hold in Bobbili and Parvatipuram constituencies. Mr. Sanyasi Raju informally met former Union Minister Pusupati Ashok Gajapathi Raju and his daughter and Vizianagaram constituency in-charge Aditi Gajapathi Raju recently and conveyed the wish of the party high command. He explained the special importance accorded to Mr. Ashok when he was Cabinet Minister in the Narendra Modi government between 2014 and 2018. Mr. Raju had also reportedly contacted former TDP Minister Sujay Krishna Ranga Rao over phone explained the bright future he could have in the BJP. The TDP leaders were tight-lipped over the political development. Speaking to the media at Parvatipuram on Friday, Mr. Raju said that BJP would ensure a decent political life if leaders of the TDP and YSRCP wanted to join the party and serve the nation under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The Union government had successfully handled COVID-19 and the dispute with China. These two factors have improved the image of Mr. Modi,” said Mr.Raju. “We are hopeful that all leaders whom we met would respond positively,” he added. “Many YSRCP leaders are unhappy with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s administration. That is why they are also looking at the BJP. Our party can ensure protection from any kind of harassment apart from ensuring political elevation,” he added. New district Meanwhile, Mr. Sanyasi Raju extended the support for the demand for creation of Paravatipuram district since the government was planning to make all 25 Parliamentary segments new districts. “Parvatipuram is part of Araku Paraliement seat and it will have many geographical disadvantages in future. That is why, we are insisting on making it a separate district,” Mr. Raju added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-wooing-ashok-other-tdp-leaders/article32048801.ece
11 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable who died of COVID-19 hailed||The Kadapa district police paid tributes to Varaprasad, an Armed Reserve head constable who succumbed to COVID-19 recently. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan garlanded Varaprasad’s portrait at his office on Friday, while police personnel stood in silence in respect to the departed soul. Terming the incident ‘unfortunate’, Mr. Anburajan said that the department would reach out to the family of the deceased and extend all support, apart from conducting his funeral in a grand manner. Mr. Anburajan appealed to the public to understand the risks being taken by the policemen to keep people safe and extend cooperation in keeping the disease at bay. He said that no one should venture out of their home without a face mask and follow social distancing at all times. Deputy Superintendents of Police U. Suryanarayana (Kadapa town) and Ramanaiah (Armed Reserve) took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-who-died-of-covid-19-hailed/article32048795.ece
11 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Evacuation of Polavaram-hit set to begin from July 20||The East Godavari district authorities are gearing up to rehabilitate people of 10 habitations facing submergence under the Polavaram project from July 20. The 10 villages, which form part of Devipatnam mandal in Rampachodavaram Agency, are as follows: Devipatnam, Toyyeru, Enugulagudem, Thondangi, Ganugula Gondi, Moolapadu, Maripalli, Mantada, Poorapalli and China Ramanayyapeta. At a meeting convened by district Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy here on Friday, the officials concerned had been directed to begin the rehabilitation process following rise in the flood waters in the Godavari. Rampachodavaram ITDA Project Officer (in-charge) Praveen Adithya said, “The R&R package has been settled to the people of the 10 habitations. Construction of rehabilitation colonies for them has also been completed.” Of the 44 habitations falling in the submergence area of the Polavaram project, 10 habitations have already been evacuated. “By August end, the remaining habitations will be vacated,” Mr. Praveen Adithya said. Mr. Muralidhar said the issue of arranging boats to evacuate the people would be discussed with his West Godavari counterpart R. Mutyala Raju on Sunday. The authorities are preparing to deploy 20 boats for the evacuation operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/evacuation-of-polavaram-hit-set-to-begin-from-july-20/article32048799.ece
11 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak from ONGC pipeline plugged||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) safety wing on Friday arrested a gas leak from an underground pipeline under two wells at Pasarlapudi Lanka village of Maamidikuduru mandal in East Godavari on Friday. On Friday morning, locals noticed the leakage of gas from the underground pipeline installed in a coconut orchard and alerted the ONGC and Fire staff. In an official communication, ONGC Communication Officer Akrati Bhatia said there was a slight underground pinhole leakage of the two wells (Ps 37 and 41) located in the coconut orchard. The leakage had been arrested and the two wells had been closed on Friday. ‘Minor incident’ Mr. Akrati said it was a minor incident that was brought under control by the ONGC’s local safety wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-from-ongc-pipeline-plugged/article32048252.ece
11 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID tightens its grip over Nellore, Prakasam districts||COVID-19 tightened its vice-like grip over south-coastal Andhra Pradesh, where one more person succumbed to the virus while 187 patients — 105 in Prakasam district and 82 in Nellore district — tested positive in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of confirmed cases shot up to 1,340 in Nellore district and 1,191 in Prakasam district. The death toll rose to three in Nellore city and seven in SPSR Nellore district, health officials said. Nellore city accounted for a maximum of 60 new cases. As many as 106 patients — 57 in Nellore district and 49 patients in Prakasam district — were discharged from COVID-19 hospitals during last 24 hours. There was no let-up in cases in remote Pamur village in Prakasam district, which accounted for a maximum of 35 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 155. The number of confirmed cases rose to 266 in Ongole, where 17 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. A five-year-old girl from Ongole and a 70-year-old man from Inimerla were among the newly-infected patients. A small village of Alavalapadu registered 15 new cases. Among the cases, three persons were from Telangana and Odisha each. Two each had returned from Delhi and Karnataka while one each had returned from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. A stringent lockdown was implemented in Markapur and Chirala, which have 160 and 130 positive cases respectively. The virus continued to spread to remote villages including Chakicherla, Manetikota, Yerronapalli, Jagarlamudi, Inamanameluru, Uputuru, Santhamagaluru, Pedaraveedu, Sivapuram, Koppolu and Tallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-tightens-its-grip-over-nellore-prakasam-districts/article32048793.ece
11 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP for uniform power tariff across States||Andhra Pradesh’s high power tariff is becoming an impediment to industries in the State, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Y. Raghunatha Babu said on Friday. “The ruling BJP government at the Centre is not against subsidising power tariff for the poor. But this should not be at the cost of industries as many of them, including ferro-alloy units, would have no other option but to down their shutters in view of the high tariffs,” Mr. Raghunatha Babu told reporters here, adding that the State Government should bear the power subsidy for the poor instead of passing on the burden to industrial consumers. The Central government will soon come out with a national policy on power tariffs to give a boost to the ‘Make in India’ movement, at a time when global captains of the industry are mulling to shift base to India from China, the BJP leader said. Andhra Pradesh was the biggest gainer of power projects sanctioned by the Centre, Mr. Raghunatha Babu said, and wanted the State Government to come out with a progressive industrial policy to promote port-led development by taking advantage of the State’s vast coastline, which is second in the country only to Gujarat. Mr. Raghunatha Babu, also the chairman of the Tobacco Board, said tobacco growers could hope for better days to come in the wake of the market intervention by Markfed. Farmers can realise a better return for their produce for other crops too by selling them at the best remunerative prices anywhere in the country and outside, he said. The Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus announced by the Centre received an encouraging response from the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-for-uniform-power-tariff-across-states/article32048789.ece
11 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit outfits protest attack on Ambedkar’s home in Mumbai||Activists of the Kula Vivaksha Porata Sangam and the Dalit Rights Forum stated a demonstration in front of the Ambedkar Statue near the Collectorate here on Friday in protest against the vandalism of Dalit icon B.R. Ambedkar’s home ‘Rajgruha’ in Mumbai on Tuesday. The activists, led by KVPS district secretary B. Raghuram, described the attack as the handiwork of ‘RSS Manuvadis’ and pressed for stern action against the culprits who perpetrated the attack on ‘Rajgruha’, which stood as an inspiration for Ambedkarites across the world. DRF leader T. Anjaiah described the vandalism of ‘Rajgruha’, which housed Dr. Ambedkar’s books and other belongings, as an attack on the Constitution and Dalits who had been empowered by the architect of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalit-outfits-protest-attack-on-ambedkars-home-in-mumbai/article32048791.ece
11 July 2020||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja smuggling racket busted, three held||In a major haul, police seized 436 kg of ganja being smuggled from Visakhapatnam Agency area to West Godavari district, said Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) P. Nageswara Rao. Police arrested Pothuraju Seshu, Sankera Ganesh and M. Eshwara Rao, natives of Benna Bhupala Patnam, Rolukunta mandal in Visakhapatnam Rural district. Briefing newsmen here on Friday, Mr. Nageswara Rao said the police team led by Palakol Town CI Ch. Anjaneyulu took three suspects into custody on the outskirts of the town while they were moving suspiciously. During questioning, Seshu, Ganesh and Eswara Rao, reportedly confessed that they brought ganja (Cannabis) stocks, worth Rs. 22 lakh from Narsipatnam area, and were trying to hand it over to a bookie in Palakol. Ganesh reportedly told the police that one ganja cultivator, Rambabu, of Korukonda village, was supplying the contraband to P. Venkata Krishna of Narsipatnam, who, in turn, was transporting it to the smugglers across the State, the DSP said. Mr. Anjaneyulu said SIs Rehaman and J.V.N. Prasad, who made the arrests, seized two bikes, one car, two mobile phones from the accused. West Godavari Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP Kareemulla Sheriff said the call data of the accused was being verified. Modus operandi “The modus operandi of the gang is that two persons will escort the four-wheeler in which the ganja is being transported and will alert on police checks or patrolling and give clearance to the vehicle,” the ASP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-smuggling-racket-busted-three-held/article32048349.ece
11 July 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drugs scam: Peetani’s personal secretary held||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), investigating the drugs scam in Directorate of Insurance Medical Services (DIMS), arrested former Labour Minister Peetani Satyanarayana’s personal secretary D. Murali Mohan on Friday. He was produced in the ACB court which remaned him to judicial custody. Mr. Mohan was a Section Officer in the Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department in the Secretariat. He allegedly took percentages for issuing purchase orders and in clearing the pending bills. Sleuths of Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) and subsequently the ACB officials conducted an inquiry into the alleged irregularities in procuring drugs, surgical equipment, dressing material, furniture and computers in Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Hospitals and dispensaries across the State. During the inquiry, it reportedly came to light that the officials procured material worth about Rs. 988 crore without inviting open tenders. They allegedly resorted to high-level irregularities and caused about Rs. 150 crore loss to the government exchequer. The V&E and the ACB officers observed that fake companies and drug stores were allegedly floated and bills were paid to the material and drugs suppliers violating the norms from 2014 to 2019.  The ACB registered a case and arrested 11 persons, including former Labour Minister K. Atchannaidu, two directors, two joint directors, pharmacists and others in the case so far. “Some drugs, surgical equipment and furniture were not supplied to the dispensaries and were lying waste at the ESI Hospital, Vijayawada,” an investigation officer said. Meanwhile, police launched a hunt to nab Peetani’s son, P. Suresh, in the multi-crore scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drugs-scam-peetanis-personal-secretary-held/article32048347.ece
11 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Etcherla should remain in Srikakulam district’||Praja Chaitanya Vedika founder Kalisetti Appala Naidu on Friday urged the State Government to immediately withdraw its proposal to include Etcherla Assembly constituency in neighbouring Vizianagaram district. Addressing a press conference in Ranasthalam, Mr. Appala Naidu said that over 70% of the wealth of Srikakulam district comes under the jurisiction of the Etcherla-Pydibhimavaram industrial belt. “Almost all multinational companies including Aurobindo Pharma, Reddy’s Labaratory and Nagarjuna Agrichem are in Etcherla. Moreover, Etcherla's limits spread upto Srikakulam constituency. The government allocated lands to poor people of Srikakulam in Etcherla constituency. There is a proposal to merge those places in Srikakulam Municipal Corporation limits. In this backdrop, it is unfair to merge Etcherla Assembly segment with Vizianagaram district,” said Mr. Appala Naidu. He said that people from all walks of life were shocked at the proposal, adding that it posed a threat to the very existence of Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/etcherla-should-remain-in-srikakulam-district/article32048794.ece
11 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aurobindo Pharma’s ‘goodwill gesture’||Aurobindo Pharma Limited vice-president U.N.B. Raju on Friday said that the company, as a ‘goodwill gesture’, had paid Rs. 7.5 crore to the workers who had attended to their duties despite the COVID-19 and lockdown. In a press note issued here, Mr. Raju said the company was paying Rs. 43 to helpers and Rs. 51 for technicians as extra wages although it was not a part of the agreement. He said the charter of demands proposal could not be implemented due to differences between the CITU and the IFTU. “The agreement signed with the CITU in March 2015 lapsed in November 2018. The new charter of demands could not be implemented as both the CITU and the IFTU claimed majority. Against this background, we entered an agreement with Contractors’ Association which ensured manpower. We are paying Rs. 160 as night shift allowance and Rs. 340 as attendance bonus and other benefits,” said Mr. Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aurobindo-pharmas-goodwill-gesture/article32048814.ece
11 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD taking every measure to ensure safe darshan: Minister||Endowments Minister V. Srinivas has stated that the TTD is taking every step to make the ‘Srivari darshan’ “safe and corona-free” for the devotees. After having darshan of Lord Venkateswara here on Friday, the Minister also inspected the Vaikuntam queue complex, Kalyanakatta (tonsuring centre) and Tarigonda Vengamamba Annaprasadam Hall (free meal complex) to see for himself the arrangements made to keep the town safe. He found only 200 persons seated in the tonsuring and meal complex, where 1,000 persons were accommodated hitherto. Addressing the media, he said the foolproof arrangements deserved commendation. “Under the chairmanship of Y.V. Subba Reddy, the TTD authorities are taking all steps to ensure safety of the pilgrims by ensuring masks and social distancing,” he observed. He also pointed out that 10,000 devotees were opting for darshan, though 12,000 tickets were made available every day. ‘Vested interests’ On the controversial episode of literature of another faith sneaking into the TTD magazine, the Minister said it could be the handiwork of vested interests who were out to defame the institution. The TTD had already filed a police complaint, he said. The Minister later participated in the ‘Sundarakanda Parayanam’ being organised at Nada Neerajanam platform for global well-being and peace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-taking-every-measure-to-ensure-safe-darshan-minister/article32048803.ece
11 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiruchanur market yard gets new chief||The famous Tiruchanur agricultural market yard will be developed into a role model for others to emulate in the State, announced government whip and Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy. Mr. Bhaskar Reddy participated in a programme to mark the swearing in of new yard chairperson V. Sreevidya and the new members of the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiruchanur-market-yard-gets-new-chief/article32048796.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: real estate sector hit hard||Real estate projects worth about Rs. 1,000 crore in the Capital area have come to a near halt due to the dreaded coronavirus. No construction activity is seen at many of the project sites. There is a little activity even at high rise and imposing buildings, which are coming up near Kanaka Durga varadhi. The fallout of the lockdown is that a lull is prevailing in the industry. There is almost zero construction activity at the project sites. The real estate developers and builders used to run against time to finish the projects to avoid cost escalation besides likely heavy penalties in case of delays. But, the builders are apparently not worried about the schedules now as the Central government has announced that the deadline for the completion of real estate projects would be extended up to six months in the face of the COVID-19. The Centre said that it should be treated as a ‘Force Majeure’ event under the Real Estate Regulatory Act (RERA) 2016. The buyers too are not mounting pressure on builders to hand over the houses for reasons like borrowing additional loans, house warming is not possible due to coronavirus, industry sources say. According to information, 700 to 800 projects have been launched in Krishna and Guntur districts. In Vijayawada alone, about 500 projects are in different stages. On average, each project will cost more than Rs. 10 crore. There is a cascading effect of the COVID on these projects. Scarcity of sand, non- availability of labourers, rise in prices of the cement and other material etc. have impacted the construction activity, builders say. Labour shortage National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) Vijayawada chapter chairman Gadde Rajling says that the developers are facing supply-chain disruption and shortage of labour. The construction workers are staying away from work sites due to fear of coronavirus and many of them have returned to their villages. Also, the COVID guidelines relating to the construction industry are not clear and lucid. How to employ the workers, maintain social distance, sanitization etc are some of the areas that need to be addressed to, he says. “There is no pressure on the builders to stick to the schedule as the RERA will not impose any fine. The buyers are also not insisting. Hardly 15 to 20% work is going on at the project sites,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-real-estate-sector-hit-hard/article32048341.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State gearing up to handle spurt in positive cases||In all, 76 COVID Care Centres (CCCs) with a bed strength of 45,240 have been identified in all the districts in state, and at least 3,000 beds will be available in each district to treat asymptomatic and mild cases, according to M.T. Krishna Babu, State Coordinator for COVID-19. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Krishna Babu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had reviewed the facilities at the quarantine centres, the CCCs and the district / State COVID hospitals in view of the increase in the positive cases due to relaxation of the lockdown guidelines in two phases. “The State is gearing up to handle the increased number of virus cases,” he said, and added that each district was allocated Rs. 1 crore to improve toilet facilities, medical equipment, including mobile X-ray, ECG and other apparatus required for continuous monitoring of vital parameters of the patients. Medical teams, with supporting nursing and paramedical staff, would manage each centre, and so far, 2,280 people with positive symptoms were accommodated in the CCCs. Another 5,874 patients were being given treatment at 74 COVID hospitals, and around 9,421 people were accommodated in 116 quarantine centres. ‘Quality food’ Special care was taken to serve quality food to the patients and provide proper sanitation, for which adequate number of sanitation workers had been deployed, he said. The menu comprised protein-rich items, and the government was spending Rs. 500 on it per person per day, he said. Following reports on quality and quantity of food being supplied at the quarantine centres and the CCCs, a third-party check was conducted, and based on its feedback, the district Collectors and Joint Collectors were asked to improve the facilities wherever needed. Mr. Krishna Babu said the Chief Minister had given clear instruction to clear all pending bills of sanitation, food and medical equipment without delay. He said the officials were taking the patients’ feedback on a daily basis for effective supervision of the facilities. The agencies and contractors roped in to lend services were stringently warned against any attempt to neglect their work. The Joint Collector (Development, which includes the Health Department) has been asked to focus on maintenance of these centres to ensure speedy recovery of the patients, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-gearing-up-to-handle-spurt-in-positive-cases/article32048809.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 new COVID cases reported in the city||The city reported 50 fresh COVID-19 positive cases during the past 24 hours. In other parts of the district, 37 cases were reported and overall 87 fresh cases were reported. After over a month, the district administration has released the areas of the new cases reported in the district. According to the list released by District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Krishnalanka area which has been one of the COVID hotspots reported nine new cases in the city. The remaining cases were reported in Satyanarayana Puram (4), Vidyadharapuram (4), Bhavani Puram (3), Patamata (3), Vambay Colony (3) LIC Colony (2), Old RR Pet (2), Gunadala (2), Machavaram (2), Moghalrajpuram (1), Labbipet (1), Suryarao Pet (1), Madhuranagar (1), Kothapeta (1), and nine cases were reported in various other areas. Elsewhere in the district, Machilipatnam alone reported nine new cases. Other cases were reported in mandals of Gannavaram, Unguturu, Gudlavalleru, Gudivada, Vuyyuru, Kankipadu, Penamaluru, Jaggaiapeta, Challapalli, Guduru, Tiruvuru, Nuzvid, Musunuru and Vijayawada Rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-new-covid-cases-reported-in-the-city/article32048335.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drugs, ganja seized, three arrested||In a major operation, the Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) police seized 17 grams of Methylenedioxy-Methamphetamine (MDMA), a banned drug, ganja and other material from a gang that includes two foreigners at Penamaluru on the city outskirts on Friday. The arrested include Mohammad Gahel Rasul alias Kabul, a native of Sudan, Yona Liswa Shabani alisa Yona of Tanzania and Koneru Arjun, who settled in Delhi, and now staying at Kamayyatopu in Vijayawada. The gang was addicted to drugs and ganja and were supplying the banned drugs to the youth in Krishna district and the neighbouring places. On a tip-off, the CTF team, led by Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao and Assistant Commissioner of Police V.S.N. Varma, conducted the raid and arrested the three who confessed to having links with the drug mafia. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said the accused were smuggling MDMA from Bangaluru and supplying the same to the customers. The accused were arrested on similar charges earlier, he said. Vigil was stepped up in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate on drug peddlers and addicts, Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drugs-ganja-seized-three-arrested/article32048343.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. implements panel report on division of power employees||Ending the long-pending litigation between A.P. and Telangana power utilities, the State government has implemented Justice D.M. Dharmadhikari report by issuing posting orders to the staff relieved from the Telangana power utilities. As many as 536 employees from Telangana were allotted to the State early this year. Of them, the APGenco accepted 245 employees, while APTransco gave orders to 148 and the Discoms got 143 employees allocated by the one-man committee. The division of employees, pending since 2015, ended without any additional financial burden to any of the commercial entities on both the sides. Justice D.M. Dharmadhikari submitted the final report on December 26, 2019, allotting 655 of the 1157 staff relieved from Telangana utilities to A.P. However, the State opposed this and filed a petition in the Supreme Court, stating that the 655 employees were in addition to the threshold limit. According to the officials, financial neutrality on both the sides was taken as the underlying principle for the bifurcation of assets and the same is given significance in the committee’s reports when it came to allocation of employees.  In view of the lockdown and the interim orders of the Supreme Court, both the power utilities paid salaries and pensions to the employees who were on ‘order to serve’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-implements-panel-report-on-division-of-power-employees/article32048815.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State releases Rs. 15.71 crore to RTC||The government has released Rs. 15.71 crore to the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) towards payment for catering to the transport needs of the migrant workers and COVID-19 patients. In a statement, the RTC said the amount was utilised to pay salaries for the month of May and old dues to the contract employees, pay the Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme pension and Staff Benevolent Trust money to the retired employees, stipend to the ITI apprentices, medical assistance to the employees, office maintenance expenditure and to clear pending bills on purchase of diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-releases-rs-1571-crore-to-rtc/article32048342.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader slams State govt. on COVID-19 tests, treatment||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader K. Nagul Meera has expressed concern over “lack of proper preventive measures and response” from the State government to rescue the people of Andhra Pradesh from the increased threat of COVID-19. Addressing a press conference on Friday, the TDP leader deplored that there was a lot of confusion among the public regarding COVID-19 tests. There was no clarity on where the tests would be conducted and treatment given if someone suffered from high fever for more than three days.  Mr. Meera slammed the government for 'not ensuring supply of nutritious food for COVID-19 patients. The non-payment of bills to the contractors has led to crisis. On the other hand, the Government Doctors' Association was complaining of ill-treatment even though they were rendering genuine service regardless of the virus threat. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy seemed to be content with a little welfare focus and nothing else, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-slams-state-govt-on-covid-19-tests-treatment/article32048339.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Humiliation’ of doctors condemnable: Naidu||There seems to be no end to the harassment of the doctors, who are risking their own lives in treating coronavirus patients, in the State, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has observed. Referring to the doctor who succumbed to the virus at Tenali in Guntur district, Mr. Naidu, in a statement here on Friday, said, “The doctor pleaded for better treatment, but the government did not reach out to him in time.” Calling for provision of compensation to the doctors and other staff who succumb to the virus in the line of duty, Mr. Naidu demanded that PPE kits be provided to all the frontline workers. Quoting from the letter addressed to the Chief Secretary by the Government Doctors’ Association, he said doctors were being humiliated in the State. “The Prakasam DMHO was made to stand for coming late to the review meeting. Anantapur DMHO too was humiliated. The DMHOs of Srikakulam and Nellore were forced to go on leave,” Mr. Naidu added. Further quoting from the letter, Mr. Naidu said no ex gratia was paid to the next of kin of the doctors who died in Vijayawada, Tenali and Nellore. “Doctors had to stage a dharna for masks in Visakhapatnam. Lab technicians had to stage a protest in Ongole demanding personal protection kits. A Dalit doctor, Sudhakar, was thrashed on the road for demanding masks. A woman doctor in Chittoor too was humiliated,” Mr. Naidu alleged, and said that humiliation of the doctors in State was condemnable. “It is painful to see the State at the bottom in the recovery rate,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/humiliation-of-doctors-condemnable-naidu/article32048804.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special officer for monitoring COVID arrangements||The State government has posted A.V. Rajamouli as Special Officer, Hospital Preparedness and Ex-officio Secretary to Government, Health Medical and Family Welfare Department. He shall exclusively monitor the arrangements of all State and District COVID Hospitals. The government issued orders in this regard on Friday. The State government has undertaken several measures including strengthening of surveillance for prevention, containment and control of COVID-19. As part of containment, the government has set up COVID Care Centres and Quarantine Care Centers. In order to further strengthen the Health and Medical Department Mr. Rajamouli has been posted as Special Officer, according to a G.O. Mr. Rajamouli has been waiting for posting ever since the YSRCP came to power last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-officer-for-monitoring-covid-arrangements/article32048805.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to ready action plan for revival of village tanks by July 31||Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz has asked the officials to submit by July 31 an action plan for restoration of at least one tank in every village in the district and to increase the capacity of the existing tanks and other water bodies. NGT guidelines In a meeting organised by the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) at the Collector’s camp office here on Friday, Mr. Imtiaz reviewed the aspects involved in revival of the water bodies that had got polluted, as per the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The Collector also asked the officials of Irrigation and Panchayat Raj departments and Municipal Commissioners to prepare a comprehensive action plan for the purpose. Water conservation “The proposals should include the detailed development plan of tanks and other water bodies located in five acres or more. Increasing the capacity of the existing tanks will pave the way for water conservation,” said the Collector. Joint Collector (Welfare) K. Mohan Kumar, APPCB Executive Engineer Murali, Machilipatnam Municipal Commissioner S. Ramakrishna and others officials were present in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-ready-action-plan-for-revival-of-village-tanks-by-july-31/article32048816.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online chess tourney tomorrow||The Andhra Pradesh Chess Association (APCA) will organise online chess tournament in the State on July 12, said the association general secretary Y. Suman. Entry is free and a cash prize of Rs. 15,050 will be given to the winners. Consolation prizes will be presented to three best players in each district, he said. Interested players can register their names in apca.in. For details, contact ph. 9440944143. The idea of conducting the chess tournament is to help the players and make them active during the pandemic, Mr. Suman said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-chess-tourney-tomorrow/article32048344.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social media group’s gesture to jawans||A WhatsApp group, Palakarimpu, has donated Rs. 11,111 to the Army Battle Casualties Welfare Fund (ABCWF). The amount was paid online on Friday. The group comprises 200 members across the globe from different sectors, and its aim is to extend financial aid to the poor Brahmin community for education, medial, marriage and other purposes, said the group admin D. Parvathipathi. Members of the group extended financial help to many priests in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana during the global health emergency, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-media-groups-gesture-to-jawans/article32048350.ece
11 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter advanced supplementary examinations cancelled||Announcing that the conduct of Advanced Supplementary Examinations for six lakh students has practical and field-level challenges, the State Board of Intermediate Examinations decided to cancel the Intermediate Public Advanced Supplementary Examination (IPASE), July 2020, and declared that all failed candidates who appeared for IPE March 2020, as passed in view of the coronavirus spread. In a statement, Board Secretary V. Ramakrishna said Principals of all junior colleges should take note of the fact that all the candidates who appeared for the IPE March 2020 and failed would be declared as ‘pass’ by awarding pass marks in each of the failed subjects and they would be treated as compartmental pass. The passed first year students of IPE March 2020 were permitted to appear for improvement in first year subjects as per the BIE norms during IPE March/April 2021 (with second year examinations) as a special case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-advanced-supplementary-examinations-cancelled/article32048806.ece
11 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 148 new cases, district inching closer to 2,000-mark||Visakhapatnam district reported 148 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, taking its total tally to 1,955. Friday’s cases mark the biggest single-day spike in the district so far. Meanwhile, on the bright side, 101 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged from hospital on Friday after testing negative for COVID-19. This is for the fourth day in a row that more than 100 persons have been discharged in the district on a single day. In the last four days, 458 persons have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals. After a long gap, the number of discharged persons (980) surpassed the number of active cases (960) in the district. The death toll in the district remained unchanged at 15. P.V. Sudhakar, Special Officer for COVID-19, said that 27 new clusters — Garnikam, Gudivada, Yendada, Komaravolu, Korurpolu, Lankelapalem, Sabbavaram, Pattabhi Reddy Gardens 2, Vemulavalasa, Sreenivasa Nagar, Sri Ram Nagar Colony, NGGO Colony, Gokul Nagar, Durga Nagar, and Old Adavivaram, and a few other areas — have reported cases. There are 115 very active clusters, 166 active clusters and 89 dormant clusters in the district. Thirty-nine clusters have been denotified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-148-new-cases-district-inching-closer-to-2000-mark/article32048831.ece
11 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested in realtor kidnap case||The city police on Friday arrested two out of six-member gang, who reportedly kidnapped Jami Suresh, a realtor, and his advocate S.L.N Raju to extort money. The two arrested were identified as Pallapu Prasad alias Karnata Prasad, a resident of Guntur district, and P. Ramreddy alias Prathap Reddy, a resident of Chinamushidiwada, Visakhapatnam. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Police Commissioner R.K. Meena said that the two accused, habitual offenders, were kingpins in the case and had committed the offence with the help of four others from Hyderabad. Police said that Prathap Reddy is a known person to the complainant Jami Suresh. The accused Prathap and Prasad are friends and involved in several criminal activities. The duo hatched a plan to kidnap a criminal (habitual offender) and extort money from him, the Police Commissioner said. “They believe that a criminal will never dare to lodge a complaint as he had to reveal details about the stolen goods or money and sources of income,” said Mr. Meena. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police Aishwarya Rastogi, the accused Pallapu Prasad was once kidnapped and money was extorted from him in the same manner. He did not lodge any complaint. This made him to implement the idea. When Prathap informed Prasad about the idea, he suggested kidnapping of Jami Suresh, who was allegedly involved in six criminal and cheating cases, and Prathap was also one of his alleged victims.  Rewards were given to IV Town Inspector Prem Kumar and Inspector of Crime, M Avatharam and other police personnel for solving the case within 72 hours. Assistant Commissioner of Police J. Kulasekhar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-arrested-in-realtor-kidnap-case/article32048828.ece
11 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vedika underlines need to strengthen healthcare||The COVID-19 pandemic situation has exposed the weaknesses and failures of not only the healthcare system in the country but also the shortage in areas like drugs, vaccines and infrastructure. This must be an eye-opener for the government. In a letter to Jairam Ramesh, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and president M.V. Ramanayya underlined the need to strengthen the healthcare delivery system in the country. They appealed to him to go through the issues raised in the letter and discuss them in the committee and make suggestions accordingly. Apart from raising the budget for health, the government should also strengthen the existing institutions and introduce provisions to encourage the youth to work in the areas of research and technology for new innovations. There is a need to establish pharma and vaccine development in the public sector to tackle the future pandemics and epidemics. The government must allocate sufficient budget to revive and restart the public sector units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vedika-underlines-need-to-strengthen-healthcare/article32048824.ece
11 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LG plant staff not qualified to handle styrene leak: panel||The high-power committee which probed into the circumstances that lead to the leak of styrene monomer vapour at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam on May 7, has mentioned in its report that the staff of the plant were neither adequately qualified nor experienced to handle such emergency situations. “Many staff at the plant discharging the duties of engineers were just science graduates or intermediate passouts. They were running the plant which dealt with styrene, which is categorised as a hazardous chemical,” suggests the report. The committee has also pointed out that a section of the top, middle and shift managements at LG Polymers did not have the required expertise and knowledge. The plant management was also not forthcoming in divulging the complete details of the HR strength. The panel has observed that many chemical engineers employed at the plant for the last 20 to 30 years had either retired or left the company, and most of the existing shift in-charges and engineers were not qualified engineers. Many employees, who were recruited with basic science degrees or intermediate qualification, were promoted as engineers based on their experience, the panel has said. Technical evaluation The three-member committee appointed by the HPC for technical evaluation of the styrene monomer leak clearly mentioned that “these employees promoted as engineers might have followed the operating manuals and SOPs while running the plant. But their knowledge and skills would not be adequate when it comes to dealing with a challenge or an emergency,” As per the list submitted by the plant management to the HPC, among the total 26 chemical engineers, four are South Korean nationals, 17 diploma chemical engineers who are trainees and five chemical engineers who do not have the requisite experience for running a plant dealing with styrene. The technical committee has observed that a plant such as LG Polymers needed well-qualified engineers with a minimum of 20 years of experience in dealing with styrene. The panel has questioned whether it was due to cost reduction that LG polymers did not employ the right candidates, which ultimately proved fatal. The technical committee comprising IIPE Director V.S.R.K. Prasad and Andhra University professors Bala Prasad and K.V. Rao, have observed that the director (operations) should be a chemical engineer, and the person at the helm of operations at LG Polymers held an MSc degree in instrumentation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lg-plant-staff-not-qualified-to-handle-styrene-leak/article32048257.ece
11 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Refer virus patients to VIMS or district hospitals, say officials||COVID-19 positive patients should be referred to the State COVID Hospital (VIMS) or the district COVID Hospitals, GHCCD, Care-2, Pradhama, GITAM Hospital, NRI, Gayatri Medical College Hospital and Indus Hospital. This decision was taken at an emergency meeting conducted at the KGH here on Thursday. The temporary Isolation Ward will continue in KGH as usual but the number of in-patients would be restricted. CKD patients, who test COVID positive initially but later on test negative at private hospitals, who had admitted them earlier under Dr. YSR Arogyasri, should undergo dialysis there itself. The 103 staff nurses and 22 anaesthesia technicians, who have joined under COVID-19 special recruitment, were sent to VIMS. Separate isolation facility was created for COVID positive doctors and nurses, working at VIMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/refer-virus-patients-to-vims-or-district-hospitals-say-officials/article32048825.ece
11 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister lays stone for development works||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao laid the foundation stone for various development works like CC roads, drains and culverts to be taken up at estimated cost of Rs. 4.47 crore at Madhurawada on Friday. Addressing a meeting on the occasion, the Minister called upon the youth to strive to promote the city as a ‘green city’. He appealed to the youth to ensure cleanliness of their surroundings and intimate the officials , if they come across any problems. Visakhapatnam would be made the executive capital in future, he said. He advised the ward volunteers and officials to ensure that all eligible persons received the benefits under old-age pensions and Amma Vodi schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-lays-stone-for-development-works/article32048826.ece
11 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction option for CET||Convener of APPGECET-2020 P. Srinivasa Rao has said that students who applied for the test have the option to make corrections, if any, under Category II from July 10 to 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction-option-for-cet/article32048810.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. staff smuggling liquor from other States’||The recent bust of a non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) smuggling racket with the alleged involvement of a Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) circle inspector and a police SI in West Godavari district appears to the tip of the iceberg as authorities have said that many government employees have been booked in liquor and sand smuggling cases in the State. The accused include teachers, village secretariat staff, central forces, police and even the officials of the SEB which was set up by the government on May 15 to check the liquor and sand smuggling. The police and the SEB officials have set up checkposts along the inter-State border to check smuggling of liquor from Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “As many as 90 employees of various government departments have been caught while smuggling liquor from the neighbouring States so far. Most of the staff were caught red-handed while illegally transporting NDPL,” said SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal. The SEB has registered 70 cases against government employees, including 15 in Kurnool, 13 in Guntur Urban, eight in West Godavari, nine in Krishna, eight in Vijayawada city, seven in Chittoor, six in Prakasam and a few others in the remaining districts, he said. 24X7 monitoring The enforcement and police officials are monitoring the illegal movement of liquor through the inter-State border round-the-clock. The enforcement agencies have also arrested women and even minors on charges of smuggling. Mr. Vineet Brijlal said that stern action would be taken against the government employees booked in liquor and sand smuggling cases.  “As per the directions of DGP D. Gautam Sawang, who is also the SEB ex-officio Principal Secretary, people caught in smuggling cases will be booked irrespective of their cadre and position,” Mr. Brijlal told The Hindu . The SEB, since its inception, has registered 22,072 cases pertaining to smuggling liquor across the State till date and arrested 29,418 persons. The officials have seized 20,170 kgs of ganja and seized 7,766 vehicles used for the crime. The SEB sleuths have registered 2,189 cases pertaining to sand smuggling and arrested 4,041 persons, with the seizure of 2,798 vehicles. Huge quantity of liquor and sand, worth crores of rupees, have been seized in the last 55 days, the SEB Commissioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-staff-smuggling-liquor-from-other-states/article32048822.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be prepared!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-prepared/article32048352.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helping-hand/article32048834.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Setting ‘track’ record straight!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/setting-track-record-straight/article32048813.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set to sail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-to-sail/article32048820.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,278 test coronavirus-positive in Telangana||In a sign of some let-up in the COVID-19 surge, the number of novel coronavirus positive cases in Telangana was 1,278 on Friday although the State government has stepped up testing with the single-day tests crossing 10,000 samples. Of the 10,354 samples tested, 9,076 were negative. With eight more COVID deaths, the total fatalities has gone up to 339 and the number of positive cases so far has reached 32,224. As 1,013 were discharged/declared recovered after treatment during the day, the number of COVID positives recovered has also gone up to 19,205. The active cases stood at 12,680 as on Friday evening. The number of tests has also crossed the 1.5 lakh mark and were at 1,151,109 at the end of the day. In spite of this let-up, the GHMC areas continue to be at the top of the chart with 762 positive cases, followed by 171 in Rangareddy and 85 in Medchal-Malkajgiri. As the number of positive cases in the GHMC area has shown some downward trend, the cases in the district were on the rise with Sangareddy reporting 36 positive cases followed by 32 in Nalgonda, 23 in Kamareddy, 22 in Medak, 18 in Khammam, 17 in Mancherial and 14 each in Surypet, Adilabad and Mahabubnagar. In 15 other districts, positive cases reported were in single-digit. The official medical bulletin has put the percentage of recoveries among COVID cases at 60 and the fatalities at one. Among the positive cases, 4% are severely symptomatic, 13% are moderately symptomatic and the remaining 83% are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1278-test-coronavirus-positive-in-telangana/article32048614.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Building permissions extended||The State government has issued orders extending the validity of building approvals in GHMC, HMDA and all municipalities by 12 months, in view of the exceptionally difficult circumstances created by the COVID-19 pandemic. The extension will be applicable to all building permissions the expiry of which would be on or after March 25 this year, with the cap up to March 31 next year. The extension would be automatic and without any additional charges, the orders said. Through another order, the government has permitted builders and developers to pay all fees and charges in instalments up to March 31 next year, also in view of the exceptional circumstances. The charges include building permit fee, betterment charges, development charges, and capitalisation charges. As per the guidelines mentioned in the order, the fees and charges may be paid in four half yearly instalments starting with the first one at the time of obtaining permission. First instalment should be paid within 30 days of the date of receipt of intimation letter. In lieu of the remaining instalments, post dated cheques would be collected from the applicants. Any developer willing to pay the entire amount upfront would be offered 5% discount. In case of default in payment of instalments as per post-dated cheques, 12% interest would be charged for the delayed period, the orders said. Another order also included extension of payment of City Level Infrastructure Impact fee in instalments till further orders, with effect from March 7. The corresponding post-dated cheques may be obtained at the time of issuing building permissions, besides mortgage of additional 5% built-up area or 50% of the ground, first or second floor areas, whichever is less, over and above the statutory mortgage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/building-permissions-extended/article32048629.ece
11 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Smuggling of foreign cigarettes rampant||Smuggling of foreign cigarettes into Telangana, especially into the State capital, seems to be rampant, with police or other law enforcement agencies doing precious little about it. The recent bust of 503 smuggled cigarette cartons worth Rs. 1.03 crore by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team, is just the tip of the iceberg, say pan shop owners. According to officials, cigarette packs from countries like Indonesia, Malaysia, Bangladesh, China, Korea, Nepal, Myanmar, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, are being smuggled into the country via various sea ports and airports, without paying excise duty. “This results in huge profit to dealers, sellers and even customers, who don’t wish to smoke out their money to buy Indian cigarettes, which are much costlier when compared to smuggled tobacco sticks,” said a senior officer with the Customs department. The smuggled brands, which are easily available at any pan shop or grocery and popular among college-goers, include Paris Marlboro, Dunhill, Esse, Gudang Garam, Win, Mond and Black. “They are 50 % to 70 % cheaper when compared to ITC’s Gold Flake, Bristol and Classic Wills cigarette packs. Even the quantity is high. Most of the smuggled cigarettes come in 20-piece packs,” said Pan Shop Owners Association of India general secretary Mohammed Salahuddin Dakhni. He said that the smuggled foreign cigarettes were mostly made of low-grade tobacco with less shelf life, which was more harmful to the health. According to him, such cigarettes make their way to Hyderabad, mostly via Delhi, Mumbai and Goa. “One can easily find them in any kirana shop in the State. The owners sell them for a high margin, even after knowing that they are smuggled goods. Hardly, any police team raids such shops,” Mr. Salahuddin said. In the past couple of months, especially during the lockdown, the demand for those cigarettes had seen a steep rise, he said. Customs officials, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, maintain that the smuggling in Hyderabad through airports is less when compared to other major airports in the country. “Mostly, they are transported to the city by road. Local police should keep vigil on the movement of such goods,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/smuggling-of-foreign-cigarettes-rampant/article32048626.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC’s initial zeal to fight virus fades||GHMC’s proactive role seems to have ended when it comes to enforcing COVID-19 containment, though the disease is spreading its tentacles across the city without any let-up. Lack of information about patients is the reason in several cases, while staff shortage and reluctance of field workers to enter the premises of COVID-19 patients too contribute to the problem. In several instances of home isolation, neither the GHMC staff nor ASHA workers are visiting to issue necessary instructions. Sanitisation of the premises too is not being taken up in many cases. Contact tracing is practically non-existent. “We had three COVID-19 cases in our apartment complex from two different households. I was informed by the infected persons themselves, who said they had been recommended home isolation. When I called the GHMC official concerned for sanitisation of the complex, she said the workers will not enter the premises. We are also clueless about precautions to be taken by other residents,” shared Prof. Surender Adki, president of a resident welfare association in Azamabad. He says no health or GHMC worker has visited their complex to issue containment instructions, leaving the 180 residents jittery about using lifts and other public amenities in the premises. This is in stark contrast with the initial enthusiasm displayed by authorities in restraining the patients and their family members to their homes. Later on, containment was being restricted to a single household if only one or two cases surfaced. In case of more patients, containment clusters were being demarcated. A sticker would be pasted on the door of the COVID-19 patient’s house, to forewarn any entrant. The stickers are gone now, and there is no way anybody can know which house has patients. Officials are not making the customary visits twice a day to ensure that the members are adhering to isolation norms. Practically no assistance is being offered even when they make one perfunctory visit. “We are facing acute staff shortage, as several of us have tested positive. Since the disease incidence too has grown, our workers are reluctant to enter the premises,” a GHMC official informed. He also said they are not getting details of all cases from the health department. After private labs were opened, not all results are being collated “I was diagnosed through a chest scan in a private hospital, and the doctor advised me home isolation. I didn’t even inform the apartment association, for the fear of stigma. Nobody knows about my positive status till date,” informed Sarathi (name changed), a patient. Eventually, several of his family members, who stay elsewhere, too tested positive, the details of which were not shared with the health authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmcs-initial-zeal-to-fight-virus-fades/article32048618.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shamshabad airport to launch contactless car parking||Hyderabad International Airport is now offering country’s first fully contactless airport car parking for passengers and visitors by scaling up National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) FASTag car parking in collaboration with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) integrating 10 NETC FASTag issuer banks. It will go live with other banks in the next few weeks. The government had introduced ‘NETC FASTag Car Park’ in collaboration with NPCI  in November last year. This automated system entails a customer buying NETC FASTag linked to a prepaid account. The tag employs RFID technology and needs to be affixed on the vehicle’s windscreen after the tag account is active. Subscriber can use the parking without any manual intervention, such as waiting for a parking receipt at the entry or making cash/credit card payment at the exit. There is no additional cost to customers with respect to the parking fee. Dedicated NETC FASTag lanes are in place at entry and when a user arrives through this lane, the strategically placed RFID reader will capture the tag with the time stamp and store the details in the data base. While exiting, the same will be reconciled and the chargeable parking fee is automatically deducted allowing the passengers to virtually zip through the parking lot in no time. Post completion of every transaction, the user will receive SMS on the deducted amount. “This is for a safe airport experience during COVID-19 pandemic. We have tested first with ICICI Bank and now have opened up to others. While the traditional mode of transaction with digital payment over-the-counter option will also be available, one could, for more safety and contactless experience, avail oneself of the NETC FASTag option at the car parking,” CEO GHIAL Pradeep Panicker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shamshabad-airport-to-launch-contactless-car-parking/article32048622.ece
11 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Symbols of TS movement destroyed’||The Congress continued its attack on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao over the demolition of religious structures in the Secretariat complex and said the blind belief in Vaastu has led to the present demolition, hurting religious sentiments of people. In a statement, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy described the reaction of Chief Minister on the issue as “adding insult to the injury.” “If the Secretariat demolition was bad enough and a Tughlaq-like decision, the damage of the temple and mosque has hurt the sentiments of people belonging to all communities,” he said. The TPCC chief also alleged that if the mosque and temple in the Secretariat complex are not safe from illegal demolition, they are unsafe everywhere in Telangana under the TRS regime. He said that the Chief Minister has set a bad precedent and it might become a norm in future to demolish any place of worship and say sorry later. He said demolition was carried out in a haphazard manner and the impact of demolition was not analysed and no precautions were taken to protect the places of worship, which included a heritage structure. He said several laws pertaining to protection of places of worship and preservation of heritage structures were violated. Meanwhile, at a press conference, Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, former Minister Shabbir Ali and former MP Vishweshwer Reddy said the Nalla Pochamma temple in the Secretariat was the symbol of the Telangana movement while the mosque was a heritage structure. Mr. Revanth Reddy said the CM is hell bent on demolition with superstitious beliefs that his son K.T. Rama Rao cannot become the Chief Minister with the Vastu of the present Secretariat building. “Spending Rs. 500 crores for the new structure just for his blind beliefs in unacceptable,” he said. Mr. Reddy alleged that the Chief Minister also misled the court on the demolitions without obtaining necessary permissions from the agencies concerned. He said the National Green Tribunal (NGT) will not allow any structures to come up near Hussainsagar lake while the environment clearances are also yet to come. Finding fault with the MIM chief, Asaduddin Owaisi for tweeting in support of Chief Minister’s assurance that new temple and mosque would be built, he said his support is unfortunate. He also questioned the BJP’s silence on the issue stating their belief was only in religious politics, and yet they did not respond. Why is the Union Minister Kishan Reddy not responding, he asked. Mr. Shabbir Ali said if Mr. Owaisi is supporting the CM’s actions, why is he doing politics over the demolition of Babri Masjid all these years. He said the religious structures were not personal assets of individuals but belonged to the State and connected with the sentiments of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/symbols-of-ts-movement-destroyed/article32048638.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Realtors seek tax reduction||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI)-Hyderabad has appealed to the State government to provide a limited waiver of 2% stamp duty for registration, quicker electricity and water supply connections and relaxation in levy of property tax to give a boost to the industry hit hard by COVID-19. "Real estate companies all over the world are facing the challenge of stoppage of construction, shortage of labour, difficulty in sourcing raw materials, and other concerns caused by the pandemic. Further, delay in approvals for water and electricity is also causing inconvenience," said president P. Rama Krishna Rao and general secretary V. Rajashekar Reddy at a press conference on Friday. Despite issues with Unlock-I and factors like getting building permissions, tax issues, labour shortage and price escalations of raw-materials, the industry is determined to get back on track. "Hyderabad holds tremendous potential for growth with many major infrastructural developments like building of strategic flyovers and rapid transit zones. These would not only add to the convenience of travel but also impact growth and recovery in post-COVID era. With low unsold residential inventory, the city will recover faster than many other cities across the country,” said Mr. Rao. Mr. Reddy said that from 219 projects and 21,665 units registered with TS-Real Estate Regulatory Authority in 2017, the projects had increased to 448 and 31,559 units with with an estimated investment potential of Rs. 31,379 crore (March 2020), hence the outlook was very positive and would witness unprecedented growth in the next three to five years. The CREDAI team also met Minister for IT & Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao and and sought his intervention in helping resolving issues of speedier permissions, tax rebates and so on to help the industry deal with COVID-19 crisis. “The pandemic is an unprecedented occurrence, which has severely impacted business and individuals alike. The lockdown imposed to contain the spread has severely impacted the construction activity, caused delays and impacted both developers and home buyers," said Mr. Rao. The team thanked the government for permitting payment of development and impact fee in instalments, extending building permissions by 12 months without additional fee and offering to consider payment of 'nala' tax to the sanctioning authority to reduce delay and speed up registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realtors-seek-tax-reduction/article32048620.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Book those who demolished mosques’||The United Muslim Forum, a body of religious figures and politicians, including Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi, on Friday said that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressing regret over the demolitions of mosques in the Secretariat is inadequate and demanded cases be booked against those responsible. In a statement released to the media, the UMF stated that once a structure is declared a mosque, it continues to remain one till the judgment day. The Muslim panel also pointed out that the question of moving a mosque to another location does not arise. “Those who are behind the demolition of the masjids of the ‘Secretariat - be it officials, departments, contractors or any others who are responsible - must be booked and produced in courts of law,” the statement reads. The UMF also questioned the ‘silence’ of the Telangana State Waqf Board on the issue. “Firstly, the State Waqf Board has failed to protect these mosques. Secondly, after the demolition of these mosques, which is a criminal action, no action has been taken by the board. The fact is that the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen had demanded that these mosques be protected in the previous Assembly session,” the statement reads, and added that construction of new mosques be ordered immediately. Earlier in the day, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi tweeted excerpts from the CM statement on the issue and even welcomed the regret expressed by the government. Mincing no words, Majlis Bachao Tehreek leader Amjed Ullah Khan demanded that all Muslim leaders in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, including Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali, and Deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin, resign en masse. and with immediate effect. Mr Khan too held the TSWB responsible. He alleged that the TSWB is silent, under the pressure of the State government. When contacted, TSWB Chairman Mohammed Saleem said, “We wrote through the CEO to the government that mosques should be protected. The CM said that masjid will be built, as well as a mandir. I have welcomed this, everybody has welcomed this. I understand that once a waqf is always waqf, but if a new masjid is made, it will be one of the finest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-those-who-demolished-mosques/article32048640.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Need for planned development of municipalities/corporations: KTR||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has stressed the need for planned development of the municipal areas across the State and asserted that the urban local bodies, including the municipalities, should explore ways to augment resources. The ULBs should mandatorily conduct resources, power, water and sanitisation audit as part of the exercise so that they could improve their performance in line with the instructions being issued by the government. The Municipal Administration Minister, accompanied by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao conducted a day-long review meeting on the performance of the municipal bodies in the erstwhile Medak district on Friday. The Minister said the government would take steps to fill vacancies in the ULBs soon as the State Cabinet had given its consent for commencing the exercise. The Siddipet municipality had turned out to be a model in implementing reforms for improving its performance and augmenting resources and other ULBs should replicate the Siddipet model in implementing the development programmes. Since there are no elections in the coming three-and-a-half years, the officials concerned should focus on planned development of the ULBs in the coming days, he said. 42-point charter The government, at the instance of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, prepared a 42-point charter development plan for the municipalities comprising steps that should be taken to become model municipalities. The plan would be circulated among the municipal commissioners and chairpersons soon so that they could check about the issues in which they are complying with the set norms and the areas that needed attention for planning the future course of action for prioritising the works. The 42-point charter comprises issues like whether the particular ULB had a dumping yard, systems for online permissions to buildings, supply of drinking water to households among other things. Officials concerned should ensure that the Chief Minister’s instructions on “plan your village, plan your town and plan your State” are carried out in the developmental plans. Since the government was promptly releasing funds under the Pattana Pragati, the departments concerned should work with commitment in ensuring the development of their respective areas. The officials concerned should have thorough knowledge about the revenue and expenditure of the municipalities as part of the resources audit so that focus could be on augmenting the resources exploring new sources. It is mandatory to segregate dry and wet wastes as part of the sanitation audit while steps should be taken to ensure payment of salaries to sanitation staff in the first week of every month. Steps should be taken to ensure that there are toilets for every 1,000 population in all the municipalities by August 15, and 50% of them should be She toilets. The government on its part would deploy 400 old buses that could be used as She toilets in different areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/need-for-planned-development-of-municipalitiescorporations-ktr/article32048635.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC declines lunch motion on CM health||Telangana High Court on Friday declined to grant lunch motion for hearing a writ petition seeking directions on whereabouts and health of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao. A former anchor for Telugu TV news channels and journalist Teenmaar Mallanna alias Ch. Naveen Kumar approached the HC through a writ petition. He requested the court to instruct authorities to provide information on the whereabouts and health condition of Mr. Rao. When a division bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan assembled for hearing the day’s petitions, the journalist’s lawyer made a mention about the writ petition. The counsel appealed to the bench to allow the lunch motion of the writ petition. The lawyer told the court that the petition was filed two days ago but it was not numbered yet. Since the petition was about the health of the CM of the State, it needed to be heard at the earliest, the lawyer said. However, the bench declined to permit the lunch motion. It observed that the CM would have been hail and healthy. The authorities would release information, which is required to be conveyed to the public, at the appropriate time. There is no urgency for the petition to be heard, the bench said. The CJ remarked that he would not allow the court to be open for political gimmicks and hence cannot allow the petition unless it is listed. In another case, the bench of the CJ and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao to ascertain the stand of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) on usage of ethylene generated from Ethephon to ripen fruits. It also instructed the FSSAI, Telangana Food Safety Commissioner to file counter affidavits on the matter. The petitions were posted to July 16 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-declines-lunch-motion-on-cm-health/article32048632.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Degree conferred on MCEME engineers||About 23 officers of Technical Entry Scheme Course (TES-33 Course) were conferred with engineering degree by Lt. Gen. Raj Shukla, GOC-in-C at the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) on successful completion of their Bachelor of Technology programme on Friday. The GOC-in-C also awarded unit citation to MCEME, for having been adjudged one of the best training establishments of the Indian Army for 2019. MCEME functions under the aegis of Army Training Command (ARTRAC) and trains engineers of the Indian Army. Lt Gen Raj Shukla congratulated all officers including the award winners and stated that completing engineering degree with a military curriculum was a tough proposition and therefore techno warriors were a rare breed. He emphasised the need for Indian military to foray into research and development programmes to bridge the gap between military requirements developed in-house for meeting the aspirations of frontline troops. “MCEME has a well qualified and self-motivated teaching staff, state-of-the-art facilities in the form of labs, integrated classroom and IT infrastructure. Our college has also recently linked up with the National Knowledge Network and we are in the process of setting up procedures to harness the large knowledge pool existing in premier education institutions like IIsT, IIsM, ISB, JNU and JNTU Hyderabad. It was recently awarded the Golden Peacock National Training Award for 2020,” said Commandant Lt Gen TSA Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/degree-conferred-on-mceme-engineers/article32048624.ece
11 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tainted inspector was a ‘good friend’ of accused in NRI Jayaram murder case||Shabad inspector B. Shankariah, who was in ACB net for accepting a bribe of Rs. 1.20 lakh on Thursday, had had a ‘nexus’ with Rakesh Reddy, the prime accused in the sensational murder of NRI businessman Chigurupati Jayaram, the investigators said. They said that Shankariah’s alleged propensity to involve in land dispute cases had brought him in close proximity to Rakesh Reddy. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official said that Shankariah and Rakesh Reddy were ‘good friends’ and had first come in contact when the former was Dundigal inspector. “Rakesh Reddy approached him in connection with a land dispute case sometime in 2018 and since then they have used to meet frequently,” he said. He said that the inspector helped the accused in procuring Call Detail Record (CDR) of Jayaram and his niece Shrika Chowdary, a few months before the latter’s murder. “With the help of the CDR, Rakesh Reddy came to know with whom Jayaram and Shrika were in contact,” he said. Meanwhile, the ACB officials conducted simultaneous searches at the houses of Shankariah and his suspected benamis in Hyderabad and Mulkapatnam and Mothe villages in Nalgonda district and recovered gold ornaments, a four-wheeler, silver articles and documents of moveable and immovable properties worth around Rs. 4.58 crore, said to be disproportionate to his known sources of income. The investigators found that the inspector owned two houses of Rs. 1.05 crore, 11 housing plots valued at Rs. 2.28 crore, gold jewellery worth Rs. 21.14 lakh, silver articles of Rs. 81,000 and a four-wheeler of Rs. 7 lakh, apart from Rs. 17.88 lakh and household articles worth Rs. 6.13 lakh. They found that Shakariah, through benamis, owns 41 acres and three guntas of agricultural land in Renjal of Nizamabad, Mudimyal in Rangareddy and Miryalaguda valued at Rs. 77 lakh “After assessing documents and seized goods, we concluded that the accused is in possession of assets worth Rs. 4.58 crore,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tainted-inspector-was-a-good-friend-of-accused-in-nri-jayaram-murder-case/article32048627.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State seeks Centre’s support in setting up FPOs||The State government has requested the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare to consider inclusion of Nagarkurnool and Wanaparthy districts suitable for producing quality mango, paddy and groundnut in establishing farmer producer organisations (FPOs) under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) in addition to Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally and Khammam districts proposed by the ministry. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy made the request during a video conference held by Union Minister of Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar with Agriculture Ministers of States from New Delhi on Friday on the progress of RKVY and Kisan Credit Cards (KCCs) implementation. Mr. Niranjan Reddy explained to the Union Minister that the State government is encouraging establishment of at least one or two FPOs in every mandal (Tahsil), and 501 FPOs are already functioning successfully. Stating that there were 60.95 lakh landholding (pattadar) farmers in the State, Mr. Reddy said about 89% of them are getting institutional credit and KCCs are provided to about 41.61 lakh farmers who had availed crop production loans. On the contrary, the benefit under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) is being extended to only 36.79 lakh farmers, he said. However, the State government is extending investment support under Rythu Bandhu scheme to every landholding farmer and Rs. 7,253.54 crore had already been credited into the farmers’ bank accounts for the Vaanakalam (Kharif) crop season at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre to all those who had given their landholding, Aadhaar and bank account details to the officials concerned. The Union Minister stated that the Centre is planning to extend Rs. 1 lakh crore credit with interest subsidy to the States over the next four years for the development of infrastructure in agriculture sector. In response, Mr. Reddy felt that it would have been more useful had it been given as grant. He also explained about the increase in irrigation facilities with the completion of Kaleshwaram and several other pending projects, construction of storage facilities and crop drying platforms (yards). Besides, the State is also planning to set up food processing zones in every Assembly constituency in 400 acres to 1,000 acres land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-seeks-centres-support-in-setting-up-fpos/article32048643.ece
11 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State revamps COVID call centre||The State government has decided to ramp up the infrastructure of the dedicated call centre set up for coronavirus patients. Accordingly, the 104 call centre is being upgraded with 75 seats for outbound calls. Trained professionals, including 200 tele-callers and 75 doctors, are being deployed for the purpose while quality monitoring teams with built-in capacity to handle up to 20,000 follow up as well as distress calls are being formed. Cases are being followed up on a day-to-day basis for 17 days in the normal course while telemedicine for mildly symptomatic cases was being provided. Distress management through round-the-clock inbound calls had been provided as also emergency management through 108 link up and transfer facility. The capacity of the call centre, working in two shifts, has been enhanced to take 10,000 calls a day. The inbound call centre, on its part, is a 20-seater emergency care centre (18005994455) working in three shifts with an enhanced capacity to handle up to 1,500 calls a day. Precautions that should be taken, information about balanced diet are also being handled by the call centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-revamps-covid-call-centre/article32048615.ece
11 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two auto drivers found dead||A 28-year-old auto driver was found dead at his residence in Gandhi Nagar here on Friday. A Naresh committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan. His mother who works as a maid went out for work and returned home only to see her son in a shocking state. The investigators said that the reasons for his extreme step are yet to be ascertained. In LB Nagar, another auto driver committed suicide by hanging. The victim, Mallepally Vinod (40), a resident of Nagole, was addicted to alcohol. He hails from Choudhari Gudem in Kandukur Mandal of Ranga Reddy district.    (Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-auto-drivers-found-dead/article32048633.ece
11 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Date extended||Institute of Public Enterprise (IPE) has extended the last date for applications for PGDM programmes to July 15. The IPE offers PG diploma in Management – General; PGDM - Banking, Insurance and Financial Services; PGDM - Marketing Management; PGDM - International Business; PGDM - Human Resource Management and Executive PGDM. Applicants in their final year with CAT/MAT/XAT/CMAT/ATMA/GMAT scores can visit www.ipeindia.org Details can be had on 93919-32129 and 99495-07969.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/date-extended/article32048628.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clamour for COVID wing grows louder||The cry for a special COVID-19 wing in the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) Hospital grew shriller on Friday with the Staff and Workers’ Federation (SWF) joining the chorus. According to V.S. Rao of SWF, there are around 30 RTC workers who were tested positive. This, he said, makes it a fit case for the hospital in Tarnaka to have a COVID wing. “The hospital is 40 years old and has 250 beds. When there are so many people getting infected, the management should have a COVID wing. We have sent a memorandum to the management and Minister on this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clamour-for-covid-wing-grows-louder/article32048619.ece
11 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Admissions||Admission into first year Intermediate (Arts & Science streams) and vocational courses in Telangana social welfare residential junior colleges has been extended from July 10 to 17. Candidates are requested to visit TSWREIS websitewww.tswreis.infor details.  Provisionally selected students are instructed to report to their colleges on or before July 17 along with documents. Candidates who fail to report to their colleges on said dates will forego their seat, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/admissions/article32048623.ece
11 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Finally, Kotchhaguttapally youth get justice||The youth of Kotchhaguttapally in Chinnakodur mandal finally got justice. The High Court on Friday directed the State government to extend financial benefits to them. Kotchhaguttapally is the village on the border with Antagiri in Rajanna Sircilla district. These two villages got submerged under the 3.5 tmcft Annapurna reservoir that was constructed on the borders in order to benefit both the districts. The village was submerged in Godavari waters in April 2020 after Kaleshwaram water was released from Mid-Manair to Annapurna reservoir. Some of the farmers of Kotchhaguttapally approached the High Court seeking compensation as per Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act – 2013). Though the youth of submerging villages under Mallannasagar and Kondapochammasagar reservoirs were offered a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh and 250 yards of residential plot along with other oustees of these villages. However, some of the youth of the Kotchhaguttapally rejected the offer of the government demanding that they should be treated as a family and all the eligible benefits must be extended. In this regard, as many as 13 youth, including one Mr. T. Praveen, approached the High Court seeking justice. However, seven of them reportedly gave consent to the government and accepted the compensation that was offered by the government. Presently, only six persons remained in the group who have been fighting with the government and felt happy on getting justice. “Once we are treated as a family, as directed by the High Court, we will be eligible for Rs. 7.5 lakh compensation, a house constructed in 125 yards in the total 250 yards. We can get Rs. 5.04 lakh if we do not opt for house. However, we are yet to get complete details,” T. Praveen, told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/finally-kotchhaguttapally-youth-get-justice/article32048639.ece
11 July 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Ganja seized at toll plaza||The Special Operations Team of Bhongir police seized 84 kilograms of ganja at the Panthangi toll plaza near Choutuppal on Friday. According to DCP K. Narayana Reddy, the accused, three residents of Aligarh, UP., were transporting ganja concealed in mixer grinder boxes. “They have been staying in Tuni of E. Godavari, under the guise of mixer grinder salesmen. They bought 84 kilo ganja at Narsipatnam, and were on way to UP to sell the contraband at a premium,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganja-seized-at-toll-plaza/article32048644.ece
11 July 2020||Ahmedabad,||21 arrested for religious event in Gujarat||The police have arrested 21 people for organising and taking part in a religious event and procession at a village in Gandhinagar district on Friday despite a ban on gatherings due to the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said. After being alerted about the event, the police reached Paliyad village and stopped the procession midway. An offence was registered against the organisers later, an official said. Gandhinagar district collector Kuldeep Arya said around 2,500 people had gathered for the event. “The accused were also charged under the Disaster Management Act and were sent for testing as per the State guidelines,” Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kalol taluka division, V.N. Solanki, said. The organisers were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for defying the police order, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/21-arrested-for-religious-event-in-gujarat/article32048584.ece
11 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Don’t impose curbs on travel to Konkan during Ganesh festival’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday threatened to launch an agitation if the Maharashtra government imposed restrictions on travelling from Mumbai to the Konkan region during Ganesh Chaturthi in August. Narayan Rane, BJP Rajya Sabha MP and former chief minister, said the festival is of extreme importance to people hailing from the Konkan region. Mr. Rane said, “Even though the people are settled in Mumbai, their native place is in Konkan. Every year, thousands of people from Mumbai visit Konkan on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. This State government is trying to restrict their movement. If any such order is issued, then we will not sit calm. We will launch an agitation.” Mr. Rane also opposed the proposal to issue e-passes to travellers. “Those who have a house in Konkan will travel there. No one should put the barrier of an e-pass. We oppose the allotment of e-passes,” he said. ‘Increase in visitors’ Mr. Rane, who belongs to Sindhudurg district, admitted that COVID-19 cases were rising in his home district owing to an increase in visitors from Mumbai. “We will ensure that all precautions are taken and safety norms are followed,” he said. The administrations in the coastal districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have been planning to impose travel restrictions on Mumbaikars ahead of the Ganesh festival. While the Ratnagiri district administration has withdrawn its proposal to impose a complete ban on entry of outsiders, the Sindhudurg district administration is likely to allow visitors till August 7 and enforce a 14-day quarantine period before the festival begins on August 22. A final decision will be taken within a week or two. Ganesh mandals in Mumbai have already announced that the festival will be a low-key affair owing to the rise in COVID-19 cases in the city and necessary precautions will be taken. The height of the Ganesh idol has been restricted to four feet and there will be no processions for the arrival or visarjan of Ganapati this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dont-impose-curbs-on-travel-to-konkan-during-ganesh-festival/article32048575.ece
11 July 2020||Mumbai,||Plea in HC seeks disclosure of COVID-19 patients’ names||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra and Union governments to reply to a plea seeking the disclosure of names of all persons who have tested positive for COVID-19. At the same time, the judges cautioned that “privacy rights are involved”. A Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and M.S. Karnik was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a law student, Vaishnavi Gholave, and Mahesh Gadekar, an agriculturist, through advocate Vinod Sangvikar seeking disclosure of names of coronavirus-infected patients to save other people from being infected. The PIL mentioned that according to the “National Guidelines for Ethics Committees Reviewing Biomedical & Health Research during the COVID-19 pandemic in the months of April 2020 by the Indian Council for Medical Research on Privacy Confidentiality, information related to COVID-19 infection may be highly sensitive in nature with a lot of scope for stigmatisation, discrimination, violence, etc.” The PIL said maintaining confidentiality of research related data and its publication is important to protect the privacy of individuals and avoid any discrimination against them. The PIL also stated that “people have a right to protect health, and doctors can disclose information in the public interest to protect individuals or society from risks of serious harm and that patient confidentiality is not absolute.” The PIL sought an order from the court to the authorities concerned to “evolve a special system/management to declare the names of the suspected and infected people from the novel coronavirus or COVID-19”. The court said, “Authorities declare a particular place or a building as a containment zone after someone tests positive in order to make people aware so that they do not go there. Is that not enough? Why do you want to know the identity of persons who test positive for COVID-19, this involves their right to privacy?”. The court then posted the matter for hearing on July 24.  Authorities declare a place as a containment zone after someone tests positive so that people do not go there. Is that not enough? Bombay High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plea-in-hc-seeks-disclosure-of-covid-19-patients-names/article32048581.ece
11 July 2020||Mumbai,||High Court seeks info on steps taken to curb COVID-19 in Byculla jail||The Bombay High Court on Friday sought information from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Maharashtra government on the measures being implemented in the Byculla women’s jail to ensure physical distancing and curb the spread of COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Madhav Jamdar was hearing a criminal appeal filed by advocate and activist Sudha Bharadwaj (58), an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, challenging a special NIA court’s order rejecting her bail application. Ms. Bharadwaj was picked up from her house in Faridabad and arrested on August 28, 2018 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgaar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017. She was lodged at Yerwada jail in Pune before being moved to Byculla women’s jail. Ms. Bharadwaj approached the High Court after the special NIA court rejected her interim bail plea on May 29 this year. She sought bail on health grounds and cited the high risk of the spread of the novel coronavirus in prisons. Her plea said she had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and a history of pulmonary tuberculosis, making her vulnerable to contracting COVID-19 in Byculla jail, where an inmate tested positive in May. The plea also mentioned that she had “extremely painful swelling in her joints and a frozen shoulder that restricts her movement”. The High Court had earlier rejected her bail plea on October 15, 2019. According to the NIA, Ms. Bharadwaj is a member of the CPI(Maoist), a banned outfit, which has entered into a conspiracy to seize political power and overthrow the State. The NIA said the evidence against her is “typed copies of letters, which are neither dated nor signed, and are unverifiable as they were found on electronic devices of the other accused. Nothing has been seized from her devices”. The NIA said on July 1 that Ms. Bhardwaj was trying to take undue advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic to seek bail. The agency said, “The available evidence on record clearly established that Sudha Bharadwaj, along with the other accused, was involved in selecting and encouraging cadres for recruitment in the banned Maoist organisation to go underground in ‘struggle area’.” Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty had earlier said Ms. Bharadwaj “is being given the requisite medical attention in jail and need not be given bail”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/high-court-seeks-info-on-steps-taken-to-curb-covid-19-in-byculla-jail/article32048583.ece
11 July 2020||Mumbai,||Order on fake posts ends, govt. tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Friday informed the Bombay High Court that the prohibitory order against spreading of incorrect or false information through social media amid the COVID-19 pandemic has ended, and has not been extended. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and M.S. Karnik that the order, dated May 23, passed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, had been in effect only till June 8. “The same has not been extended after June 8 and there is no prohibitory order in place,” Mr. Kumbhakoni said. The court was hearing two public interest litigations challenging the legality of the order. The Bench disposed of the petitions and said nothing survives in the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/order-on-fake-posts-ends-govt-tells-hc/article32048585.ece
11 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Landslides disrupt traffic on Mumbai-Goa highway||Traffic on Mumbai-Goa highway was disrupted following landslides at Dhamandevi village near Poladpur in Raigad district. “The first landslide occurred at 9 p.m. on Thursday. While workers were removing the debris, a second landslide occurred at the same spot at 2 a.m. The road would have been cleared by Friday morning if this had not happened,” Vijay Patil, Superintendent of Police, Highway Safety Patrol, said. On Friday, Poladpur received 128 mm of rain, the highest in Raigad district. So far this monsoon, Raigad has received 16,818.20 mm of rain and Poladpur 1,139 mm.  Amar Patil, police sub-inspector, Highway Safety Patrol, Ratnagiri division, who is overlooking the road clearance work, said, “Landslides occur on the highway every year, but this is the first incident at this spot. The second landslide occurred when workers were clearing the derbis, but there were no casualties.” Fifteen Highway Safety Patrol personnel have been deployed to divert traffic. Vehicles heading from Ratnagiri are being diverted at Khed, while motorists from Mumbai are being asked to take a diversion at Ambet in Mhasla taluka. From there, the vehicles will have to head to Khed via Mhapral and Mandangad. Mr. Patil said, “The diversions will extend the travel time of two- and four-wheelers by two-and-a-half hours. Drivers of heavy vehicles have been asked to stop on the roadside as the diversion route is narrow. The vehicles will be allowed to move only after the highway is cleared.” By Friday evening, three more JCBs were pressed into service in addition to the four that had been deployed to remove the debris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/landslides-disrupt-traffic-on-mumbai-goa-highway/article32048573.ece
11 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||TikTok star uploads private video on Snapchat, gets threats||A Kharghar-based model and actor, known for her TikTok videos, has filed a complaint against two Instagram users and three men, after they allegedly threatened to make her private videos go viral on social media. The model, who lives with her cousin in Kharghar as her parents are in Nepal, also works in Hindi and Punjabi movies. She had recorded a private video with her boyfriend on June 8. According to the woman’s complaint registered with the Kharghar police on July 8, she accidentally posted the video on her Snapchat account and realised it two hours later when a friend alerted her. She claimed that she deleted the post immediately, but by then 100 people had viewed it, and at least seven of them had recorded the video. The three people she has named in the complaint — Shubham Srivastav, Asif and Shoeb Khosa — made the video viral by posting it on their YouTube channel. Two other Instagram users, who are also in possession of the video, threatened to circulate the video on WhatsApp as well. Meanwhile, another unidentified person uploaded the video on a porn site.  “We are investigating the case and are trying to locate the servers from where the videos were uploaded. The cyber cell is also assisting us. We are taking down the uploaded videos which have come to our attention,” said Police Inspector Mahesh Patil from Kharghar police station. A case has been registered under Sections 66 (E) (violation of privacy) and 67 (A) (publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act) of the Information Technology Act. Rise in cyber crime In a statement released on Friday, the Maharashtra Police Cyber Cell said during the lockdown it has registered 530 cases and arrested 274 people till July 9, of which 42 cases are non-cognisable offences. Of these, 199 are for objectionable WhatsApp forwards, 223 objectionable Facebook posts, 28 TikTok videos, 15 objectionable tweets, four Instagram posts and 61 cases for other social media mediums, including YouTube channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tiktok-star-uploads-private-video-on-snapchat-gets-threats/article32048577.ece
11 July 2020||Pune,||10-day lockdown from Monday in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad||With Pune reporting an average of 1,000 new COVID-19 cases every day for the past one week, the district administration on Friday announced a strict 10-day lockdown from July 13 to check the spread of the virus. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar declared the decision after a meeting with Ajoy Mehta, principal adviser to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, State Health Secretary Dr. Pradeep Vyas, and senior officials of the Pune district administration. Mr. Pawar said the lockdown is being imposed as people are not taking the COVID-19 situation seriously in the district. “We are forced to take this decision because rules are not being followed. A complete lockdown has been announced for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and 22 villages in the district from July 13 to 23. Only shops providing essential services, medical stores and hospitals will remain open,” he said. The district reported 1,124 new cases till Friday evening, pushing its tally to 35,528, of which 13,132 are active cases. With six more deaths, the toll has risen to 98. On Thursday, the district reported 1,803 new cases. ‘Alarming rise in cases’ Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar said, “In view of an alarming rise in cases across the district, we have decided to enforce a 10-day lockdown. The first five days of the lockdown [July 13 midnight to July 18 midnight] will be stringent. Only supply of milk will be allowed and medical stores and hospitals can remain open during this time.” Dr. Mhaisekar said a decision on keeping vegetable and grocery shops open will be taken on July 18. “People can stock up on all essential items over the next three days,” he said. Specific directives on the functioning of industries, resumption of newspapers and online deliveries, and staff capacity in government offices will be issued on Saturday evening. The administration, especially the Pune Municipal Corporation, will be ramping up its medical infrastructure and setting up a jumbo COVID-19 facility and increasing the number of COVID-19 care centres. Dr. Mhaisekar said, “While a lockdown may not be the only solution, it is certainly the best way to break the chain of transmission. Uttar Pradesh, which has only 1,200 cases, has imposed a lockdown. Even if Pune’s case fatality rate is reducing, the infection is rapidly spreading.” District Collector Naval Kishore Ram said the lockdown would not automatically reduce the number of cases. “The impact will be visible only after a fortnight. We will be utilising this time to streamline hospitals and put bed management systems in place,” he said. ‘People flouting rules’ Mr. Ram said there was nothing sudden about the lockdown and it was unfortunate that people across the district were not taking precautions. He said the frequent flouting of directives compelled the administration to impose the lockdown. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the measure was an “interim alternative” and isolating, detecting and testing of patients will be intensified during the lockdown period. ‘Essential units can open’ Mr. Hardikar said Pimpri-Chinchwad is a vital industrial hub in the State and the functioning of essential manufacturing units would be permitted. “The pass system will be started again. Besides essential manufacturing units, nothing else will be allowed to remain open. The impact will start showing by July-end,” he said. Pimpri-Chinchwad has witnessed a staggering surge of 4,500 cases after lockdown measures were gradually relaxed from May 17. “The doubling rate has increased rapidly, rendering the movement of people between Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad highly unsafe,” Mr. Hardikar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/10-day-lockdown-from-monday-in-pune-and-pimpri-chinchwad/article32048579.ece
11 July 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka sees surge in infections||Less than a month before Sri Lanka’s scheduled general election, the island nation has witnessed a sudden spike in coronavirus cases, with health authorities reporting 283 new patients on Friday and flagging the “risk of community transmission”. According to officials, the latest detection of COVID-19 cases locally — totalling 339 since Thursday — emerged from a drug rehabilitation centre in Kandakadu in Polonnaruwa district, located in Sri Lanka’s in North Central Province. “We are still investigating where the source of this infection is, but meanwhile, we are carrying out elaborate contact tracing and testing at the rehabilitation centre,” chief epidemiologist Dr. Sudath Samaraweera told The Hindu . Asked if the recent cases pointed to possible community transmission, he said: “At the moment, there is no community transmission, but the risk is there.” In a statement, Army Commander Lt. Gen. Shavendra Silva, who heads the National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID-19 Outbreak, said President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa had instructed them “to take all possible steps” to prevent any community transmission. From the time Sri Lanka detected its first local case on March 10, health authorities and the Army directed hundreds to quarantine centres, based on their travel history, exposure to patients and symptoms. One person who had been quarantined, said to be a drug addict, and had tested negative before he was shifted from the quarantine centre to the rehabilitation centre, health officials said. When he was tested again, after he was recently brought to the Welikada Prison in the capital Colombo, he was positive, prompting authorities conduct more tests at the drug rehabilitation centre he left, they added. The recent spate of infections constitutes the second live cluster in the country, apart from the ‘Navy cluster’, in which over 800 have recovered. For the past few weeks, most of the new cases were reported among Sri Lankans who returned from other countries and tested positive on arrival, and fewer locally. On Friday, 10 such new cases were reported, nine of whom arrived from India, according to local media.  Gearing up for polls As of Friday evening, Sri Lanka has reported 2,447 cases, 1,980 recoveries and 11 deaths. The figures — relatively low in the region — drew international attention, and praise for the country’s strong public health sector. However, the recent spike in cases comes even as the 21 million-strong island nation prepares to go for polls in less than a month. After two months’ near-total lockdown — when police arrested several thousand “violators” — Sri Lanka relaxed its curfew end of May, allowing inter-district travel. After remaining closed for three months, schools reopened last week, in stages, based on guidelines issued by health authorities. While authorities had initially said they would open the country’s airports for international visitors on August 1, the local business newspaper Daily FT reported the date has been postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-sees-surge-in-infections/article32048242.ece
11 July 2020||Beijing,||China, U.S. in new spat over Uighur crackdown||China said on Friday it will impose tit-for-tat measures after the U.S. slapped sanctions on Chinese officials for their involvement in a crackdown on Muslim minorities, raising tensions between the superpowers. The two countries have traded barbs and sanctions on a slew of issues since President Donald Trump took office, from trade to more recent spats over the coronavirus pandemic, a security law in Hong Kong, and Chinese policies in the far west regions of Tibet and Xinjiang. The latest Chinese response followed a U.S. announcement of visa bans and an assets freeze on three officials, including Chen Quanguo, the Communist Party chief in Xinjiang and architect of Beijing's hardline policies against restive minorities. “The U.S. actions seriously interfere in China's internal affairs, seriously violate the basic norms of international relations, and seriously damage China-U.S. relations,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in a briefing. Reciprocal measures “China has decided to impose reciprocal measures against the relevant U.S. institutions and individuals who behave badly on Xinjiang-related issues,” Mr. Zhao said, without providing details about the sanctions. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Thursday the U.S. was acting against “horrific and systematic abuses” in Xinjiang including forced labour, mass detention and involuntary population control. Visa restrictions The back-and-forth over Xinjiang comes just days after the two countries imposed visa restrictions on each other over their disagreement on Tibet. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Thursday blamed the rising tensions on “McCarthy-style paranoia” in the United States. Witnesses and human rights groups say China has rounded up more than one million Uighurs and other Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang in a vast brainwashing campaign aimed at forcibly homogenising minorities into the country's Han majority. Mr. Pompeo in a conference call with reporters Thursday called the situation “the stain of the century” and has previously drawn parallels with the Holocaust. China counters that it is providing education and vocational training in a bid to reduce the allure of Islamic radicalism following a spate of deadly violence. The Uighur Human Rights Project, an advocacy group, hailed the sanctions and urged other countries to follow suit. “At last, real consequences have begun. This comes at the 11th hour for Uighurs,” said the US-based group's executive director, Omer Kanat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-us-in-new-spat-over-uighur-crackdown/article32048234.ece
11 July 2020||Paris,||France asks Israel to drop West Bank annexation plans||Emmanuel Macron asked Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to refrain from annexing Palestinian territory in the West Bank and elsewhere during a telephone call between the two leaders, the French President’s office said on Friday. Mr. Macron “emphasised that such a move would contravene international law and jeopardise the possibility of a two-state solution as the basis of a fair and lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians”, his office said in a statement after the call on Thursday. It was the latest move by European leaders pressing Mr. Netanyahu to drop plans to annex Jewish settlements in the West Bank and the strategic Jordan Valley. The controversial move was endorsed in a Middle East plan unveiled by U.S. President Donald Trump in January. Israel’s government had set July 1 as the date when it could begin taking over the Palestinian areas, where the population of Israeli settlers has grown since the 1967 Six-Day War. The Foreign Ministries of France and Germany, along with those of Egypt and Jordan — the only Arab states to have peace deals with Israel — warned this week that any annexation could have “consequences” for relations. But Mr. Macron told Mr. Netanyahu that France remained committed to Israel’s security and “expressed his attachment to the friendship and confidence that links France and Israel”, his office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-asks-israel-to-drop-west-bank-annexation-plans/article32048237.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Major explosion rocks Iran again, third blast in three weeks||An explosion rocked western Tehran early on Friday, state media reported, causing widespread power failures in two residential areas and unnerving Iranians awakened for the third consecutive week by an early-morning blast. The precise location of Friday’s explosion was unclear, but analysts said there are several military and training facilities in the area that could be the target of sabotage. A cause was not immediately determined. “There are two underground facilities, a site associated with chemical weapons research and an unidentified military production site,” said Fabian Hinz, an Iran military expert and research associate at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. It was the third major explosion to have occurred in Iran between midnight and 3 a.m. over three consecutive weeks. The first two explosions occurred at key military and nuclear bases — in Khojir, home of the country’s largest missile production facility; and at the Natanz nuclear base, at a building that housed centrifuge assembly. Iran described the Khojir episode as a gas tank explosion. Independent analysts said it was unclear whether the cause was an accident, sabotage or something else. Iran has not publicly disclosed the results of its investigation into the Natanz explosion, citing national security concerns. But a Middle Eastern intelligence official with knowledge of the episode said Israel was responsible for the attack on the Natanz nuclear complex, using a powerful bomb. A member of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps who was briefed on the matter also said that an explosive was used. The string of explosions have Iranians on edge. “Explosion after explosion? How many security holes do you have?” one Iranian asked on Twitter.NY TIMES||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/major-explosion-rocks-iran-again-third-blast-in-three-weeks/article32048243.ece
11 July 2020||Karachi,||U.S. bans Pakistan’s PIA over pilot licence scandal||The United States has banned Pakistan International Airlines from operating chartered flights to the country after the carrier said nearly 150 of its pilots would be grounded over fake or dubious licences. It follows a similar move by European Union aviation regulators to bar the state-run carrier for six months. The U.S. Department of Transportation announced the ban after it was made aware that “nearly one-third of Pakistani pilots are not properly certificated in accordance with international standards”, it said in a statement dated July 1 and released to the AFP on Friday. 260 fake licences Pakistan’s Aviation Minister revealed in June that a government review had found around 260 of the country’s 860 active pilots hold fake licences or cheated in exams. PIA at the time said it would immediately ground about a third of its 434 pilots, just weeks after one of its planes crashed in Karachi killing 98 people — an accident blamed on pilot error. The airline confirmed in a statement that its approval had been revoked due to “recent events identified by the Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority that are of serious concern to aviation safety”. So far 17 pilots have been fired in the first phase of its investigation, a PIA spokesman said. The airline had suspended its commercial operations to the U.S. in 2017 after booking financial losses. But in April the U.S. Department of Transport granted it special permission to operate chartered flights for one year, largely to bring back stranded Pakistanis during the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-bans-pakistans-pia-over-pilot-licence-scandal/article32048229.ece
11 July 2020||Seoul,||Kim’s sister says ‘no need’ for another U.S. summit||The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said on Friday there was “no need” for another summit with the U.S. unless Washington offered a “decisive change” in approach. Mr. Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump first met in Singapore two years ago but talks over Pyongyang’s nuclear arsenal have been stalled since their Hanoi summit collapsed in 2019. Mr. Trump said this week he would “certainly” meet with Mr. Kim again “if I thought it was going to be helpful”, after speculation that he might pursue another summit if it could help his re-election chances. But in a statement carried by the Korean Central News Agency, Kim Yo Jong said: “There is no need for us to sit across with the U.S. right now.” If a summit was held, she said, “it is too obvious that it will only be used as boring boasting coming from someone’s pride”. Denuclearisation, she added, was “not possible at this point”, and could only happen alongside parallel “irreversible simultaneous major steps” by the other side — which she emphasised did not refer to sanctions lifting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kims-sister-says-no-need-for-another-us-summit/article32048239.ece
11 July 2020||La Paz,||Bolivian President tests positive||Bolivia’s interim President Jeanine Anez announced on Thursday that she has tested positive for coronavirus. “I’ve tested positive for COVID-19, I’m fine, I will work from isolation,” she tweeted. The 53-year-old said in a video on Twitter that she would remain in quarantine for 14 days before taking another test. Ms. Anez becomes the second South American President in a matter of days to contract the virus, after Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro announced his positive result on Tuesday. Another high-ranking Latin American government official to contract the virus is Venezuela’s Constitutional Assembly President Diosdado Cabello, widely considered the second-most powerful person in the country after President Nicolas Maduro. Four members of Ms. Anez’s Cabinet had tested positive in recent days, while Senate President Eva Copa went into self-isolation on Wednesday as a precaution. “Given many of them tested positive over the last week, I took the test and I was also positive,” said Ms. Anez. Her illness comes with Bolivia gearing up for a general election in less than two months, despite being in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bolivian-president-tests-positive/article32048232.ece
11 July 2020||Beijing,||China bans food imports over virus fear||China temporarily banned food imports from three Ecuadorian companies after detecting coronavirus on packaging for frozen shrimp, following fresh scrutiny on refrigerated goods after a recent disease outbreak in Beijing. Samples taken from the packaging of Whiteleg shrimp at the port cities of Dalian and Xiamen tested positive for the virus, General Administration of Customs official Bi Kexin said. Tests on samples from inside the packaging and the shrimp itself returned negative, however. The customs authority said it was temporarily blocking imports from the three companies whose products had tested positive. The emergence of a coronavirus cluster in Beijing last month has led to increased scrutiny of imported food, after the virus was found on a cutting board used to prepare imported salmon at the sprawling Xinfadi wholesale market. China has banned imports from a number of overseas food producers that have reported virus outbreaks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-bans-food-imports-over-virus-fear/article32048235.ece
11 July 2020||Sao Paulo,||Sao Paulo, July 10, 2020 (AFP) -||Deforestation of the Brazilian Amazon increased by a record 25% year-on-year in the first half of 2020, official data released on Friday showed, increasing pressure on President Jair Bolsonaro to abandon his plans to develop the region. Some 3,069 sq km were affected by deforestation, the highest figure since satellite data has been collected beginning in 2015.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sao-paulo-july-10-2020-afp/article32048231.ece
11 July 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, July 10, 2020 (AFP) -||The Mayor of Seoul, a contender to be South Korea’s next President and a former human rights lawyer, took his own life a day after he was accused of sexual harassment, authorities said on Friday. Park Won-soon, whose body was recovered on a mountain in the capital, is by far the most high-profile politician to be implicated in a harassment case in South Korea, a highly patriarchal society where the #MeToo movement has led to the fall of scores of prominent men in multiple fields.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seoul-july-10-2020-afp/article32048240.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A raid that left a bloody trail||Twenty-four hours after his arrest near a temple in Ujjain, Vikas Dubey met an abrupt and dramatic end on Friday at about 6:45 a.m. Dubey, the history-sheeter accused of shooting dead eight policemen in Kanpur’s Bikru village last week, had attempted to escape after the car transporting him back to Kanpur from Madhya Pradesh overturned, the police said. Dubey snatched a policeman’s pistol and shot at those escorting him, they claimed. As he refused to surrender, the police acted in self-defence and shot him dead, they said. Dubey is the sixth and most significant of the accused in the case to be gunned down, but questions remain over the exact sequence of events of the intervening night of July 2 and 3 in Bikru where eight policemen were killed and where Dubey enjoyed notoriety. A sudden volley of bullets On that fateful night, police teams of three stations of Kanpur approached Dubey’s house in Bikru, located 40 km from Kanpur, to conduct a raid. Dubey, who already had 60 criminal cases against him, was wanted in a new ‘attempt to murder’ case. According to police accounts, policemen from Chaubeypur, Shivajpur and Bithoor, led by Circle Officer (CO) Devendra Mishra, reached the village around 1 a.m. After parking their vehicles around 200 metres ahead of Dubey’s house, they started walking. They hadn’t been briefed, said Ajay Kashyap, a constable who survived the encounter. Bikru’s power lines had been snapped, allegedly after a phone call from the Chaubeypur police station. “We had never been to the village. We didn’t know which lane led where,” said Kashyap in a video statement. Just a few metres in front of Dubey’s house, the cops found an earthmover, unusually parked to block the road. They decided to proceed. They crawled under the machine’s front portion, one at a time. Once they were on the other side, “somebody from our staff pointed a torch at Dubey’s roof and we spotted two people,” Kashyap said. Led by Station House Officer (SHO) Bithoor Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, Kashyap and constable Ajay Sengar went towards the left side of the house. But seconds later, the entire police unit came under sudden and indiscriminate firing, allegedly even from semi-automatic weapons, from at least three sides. The assailants, whose exact number and weapons remain a mystery, enjoyed vantage points on the roofs of adjoining houses. The police called the incident a “well-planned ambush”. The policemen, taken by surprise by the sudden volley of bullets, could not see their targets in the dark. “We started taking cover at different places and then fired back. We could not see the targets but they could see us from above. Every time we moved a little, they fired at us,” Kaushalendra said to a news channel from his hospital bed. He and two constables survived bullet injuries. The assailants fired around 20-22 bullets in the first round, injuring most of the cops, he said. Archana Rajpoot, who lives 40-50 metres ahead of the point where the earthmover was parked, was sleeping on a cot outside her kutcha house that night. She was woken up by the sound of gunshots. She said she did not know what was happening since it was the middle of the night and pitch dark. As Dubey had a reputation for violence and showboating, Archana thought this was yet another episode of the henchmen going berserk or firing to scare someone away. “I could not hear anything except gunshots. So I decided to go back to sleep,” she said. Archana claimed she did not see policemen walk past her, but said she did see them when they were trying to retreat after the ambush. The tip-off and the shootout After his arrest, Dayashankar Agnihotri, Dubey’s domestic help of 25 years, told the police that Dubey had received prior information about the raid through a phone call from the local police station. That had given him enough time to set up the ambush. On Wednesday, the SHO of Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, and beat in-charge K.K Sharma were arrested on charges of tipping off Dubey. The exact nature of the conspiracy is not known. After receiving the inputs, Dubey summoned his armed associates, numbering 20-30, over phone. He even fired at the police using a gun registered in his domestic help’s name, claimed Agnihotri, who is now in jail for conspiracy, along with his wife. Locals believe Dubey orchestrated the ambush as he may have thought the police had come to shoot him dead. In the shootout, eight policemen were killed, and six policemen and a civilian injured. SHO Kaushalendra and his two men sought refuge in a trolley and a dilapidated house before escaping through a lane. Constable Sengar was shot twice in his abdomen, but the bleeding officer thought it was his priority to save his colleague’s life. The other policemen took cover near a dilapidated toilet, which still showcases dark blood stains. Five bodies were reportedly found in its proximity. CO Mishra, who had previously complained to his senior about SHO Vinay Tiwari for protecting Dubey, met a brutal end. After being shot, Mishra reportedly jumped over a brick wall and took cover in a corner of the inner courtyard of a Pandey family residence. But he was spotted by one of the assailants standing on an adjacent roof. The assailant called out to his accomplices. Soon four men jumped over the wall into the courtyard to kill the CO. Mishra was allegedly shot in the head. There was also an attempt to amputate his leg with an axe, said a policeman now stationed in the village. Dried blood stains on the floor mark the spot where Mishra was killed. The locals said the shootout lasted about 30 minutes. Remnants of a long night Locals in Bikru recalled the incident only through the loud sounds of gunshots. The episode has brought grief for Sushma Pandey, whose husband Prem Kumar Pandey was gunned down by the police hours after the policemen were killed in the ambush. The police said Pandey was one of the assailants and Dubey’s accomplice. The imperfectly plastered house of the Pandey family is located a few metres from Dubey’s mansion, now demolished. Her husband died because of “bad karma” on her part, Sushma said. “I did not open the door for them [the policemen] that night. I was scared. Now I have lost my husband. I didn’t even get to see his ashes,” said a bedridden and sobbing Sushma. At least two injured policemen banged on her door that night, begging to be let in, before they were killed by the assailants. The men were frantically searching for a place to hide outside, she recalled. It was later found that they had tried to hide under a bench and a motorbike parked in the porch. Sushma recounted their desperate pleas with regret. “They cried, ‘ Amma humko bachalo. Hamare chote chote bacche hai. Hum aapka kuch nahi karenge (Mother, please save us. We have little kids at home. We won’t harm you)’,” she said. Initially, Sushma hesitated; the firing outside had numbed her. But she gradually mustered courage and tried to crawl towards the door. By then the men had been silenced by a loud burst of firing. An SHO and a constable were later found dead in pools of blood. Following the bloodbath, Dubey and his men fled the scene. Soon after the incident, the administration exacted small revenge by demolishing Dubey’s house and crushing his vehicles in broad daylight. The official reason was that he could have hidden a huge cache of arms and ammunition in bunkers within the compound. Six illegal country-made pistols, two kilos of explosives, 15 crude bombs, 25 cartridges and bomb-making material were shown as recoveries. Dubey’s spacious house earlier boasted of CCTV cameras, big white walls and a large courtyard dotted with neem trees. Dubey, his ailing father, Agnihotri, Agnihotri’s wife and their children used to live in the house, which stood out amid the humble, run-down dwellings in the area. On Monday, when this reporter visited the house, Provincial Armed Constabulary personnel were standing on guard at the wreckage. Most locals have fled the village after the incident. Many homes remain locked. Some youths have been picked up for questioning. The power supply in the village has not been restored. The remnants of the terrible night were visible in blood stains on the ground and gunshot holes in the walls. The Pandey family Manu Pandey, Sushma Pandey’s daughter-in-law, witnessed some of the firing from the tiny gap of her window, a few yards away. Manu said she had no idea that it was the police who were being attacked. “ Unmein se ek aadmi bola,‘encounter’ karne aaya tha (One of those assailants told another that the CO had come to kill Dubey and his men in an ‘encounter’),” said Manu. In the morning, when they finally opened the door for the police, apart from the bullet marks and blood stains, the Pandey family discovered that a ladder had been put up against their main door, possibly by the assailants to set up positions. Manu said she was sleeping in her room with her husband Sashikant, who works in a detergent factory, and their two children, aged seven and three, when the firing drew them out. The couple ran out and headed to the adjoining room where Sushma was waiting for her husband Prem Kumar Pandey to return. After retiring from the detergent factory last year, Pandey was supervising the work of the earthmover, often mandated by the Zilla Panchayat member, who is Dubey’s wife, Richa. Pandey was Dubey’s distant maternal uncle. Sushma said she asked her son Sashikant to flee the scene as she feared he would be arrested without any reason and his clean record would be tarnished. “For 14 years, she did not let his [Dubey] shadow fall on him when he lived in the factory compounds,” Manu said of her husband, as she wept. Manu and Sushma claimed that Pandey and Sashikant fled the scene out of fear but had nothing to do with the incident. In official records, however, Sashikant is an ‘accused absconding’ and carries a bounty of Rs. 50,000 on his head. “Please save my husband. What a curse it has been shifting to this house [a year ago],” said Manu, clutching her two kids. She fears the police might shoot dead Sashikant. Sushma claimed her husband had no role in the violence. But on second thought, she also does not rule it out. “You can ask around, nobody will speak a word against him. Such is the fear against him. He would hang people upside down and thrash them,” said Sushma. “It’s possible that my man was also handed a gun and instructed to shoot at the cops owing to the fear he had of ‘Bhaiyaji,’” she surmised. In a hushed tone, the family said Dubey intimidated everyone, even those who were related to him. He once threatened to get Sashikant transferred to Jharkhand from the local detergent factory if he did not listen to him, claimed Sushma. Manu said she and her husband had been looking to leave the village and shift to a rented flat in Chaubeypur town because the atmosphere of fear was too much to bear. ‘A criminal mentality’ Vikas Dubey was named in 60 criminal cases in Kanpur, with several linked to murder, attempt to murder, robbery, and charges under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, the police said. After the shootout on July 2-3, the assailants fled with an AK-47, one Insas rifle, a Glock pistol, and two 9mm pistols belonging to the police. The first two are yet to be recovered. So is the CCTV recording of the house. Dubey’s story highlights the typical nexus between errant policemen, criminals and politicians in Uttar Pradesh’s hinterland. He knew politicians across parties, which earned him both adversaries and guardians. The shocking murder in 2001 of Bharatiya Janata Party leader Santosh Shukla, who then held the rank of a Minister of State, in a police station in Shivli was among the highlights of his criminal record. According to the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force, Dubey’s animosity towards Shukla started in the 1990s when Shukla and Harikishan Srivastava became political rivals. Srivastava, Dubey’s mentor, was then with the Bahujan Samaj Party. They competed for the Chaubeypur Assembly seat. In 1996, after Srivastava, who was later elected Speaker of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly, defeated Shukla, Dubey participated in a victory parade for his mentor. Both sets of supporters clashed and a case was filed against Dubey. This made him hostile towards Shukla and culminated in the BJP leader’s sensational murder. However, Dubey was acquitted in the case after the witnesses, all of them policemen, turned hostile. Dubey was known to use force and his criminal antecedents to secure votes for candidates, especially in his constituency. But he also allegedly committed crimes to grab land and indulged in extortion. In 2000, he allegedly murdered Siddheshwar Pandey, the manager of a college of which, incidentally, Dubey had been a student. He was convicted in the case but a higher court granted him bail. His name was then linked to the murder of a cable operator, Dinesh Dubey, in 2004. Lallan Bajpai, Dubey’s long-time political nemesis, said Dubey wanted to grab Pandey’s land. Bajpai, who has been chairperson of the Shivli Nagar Panchayat for 22 years, had known Dubey for years. As a young man, Dubey used to watch movies in the cinema hall run by Bajpai, the only one in town then. Bajpai said Dubey had a “criminal mentality” even when he was a teenager. Dubey faced charges of dacoity, assault and intimidation as far back as 1991-92, according to police records. The two of them were in different camps of the Kanpur political tussle. One day, Dubey allegedly shot at Bajpai’s brother, who was lucky to survive. The animosity eventually led to the murder of Santosh Shukla, whom Bajpai considered his mentor. Bajpai said Dubey had tremendous influence. He had the power to shift 10,000 votes in nearby villages to any party he wanted, he said. “But mind you, that wasn’t because of his popularity, it was because people feared him,” said Bajpai. In 2000, Dubey, while he was lodged in jail, allegedly orchestrated the murder of one Ram Babu Yadav in Shivli, in rural Kanpur, through his associates, the police alleged. Then, in October 2017, Dubey was arrested by the Special Task Force in Lucknow in connection with a murder case. Police had accused him of allegedly applying pressure on the complainant and witnesses to submit affidavits in his favour. During questioning, a video of which was widely shared on social media recently, Dubey, then carrying a reward of Rs. 25,000, disclosed his political links. He mentioned the names of two sitting MLAs, a block pramukh, a zilla panchayat head and several pradhans. The MLAs, however, distanced themselves from him. One of them even said Dubey’s strategy was to show his clout by aligning himself with political leaders of ruling parties. Recently another attempt to murder case was filed against Dubey. The complaint was filed by one Rahul Tiwari who accused Dubey of assaulting him after he refused to surrender his in-laws’ land to him. It was then that the police decided to raid Dubey’s house. Tiwari has since gone into hiding. Suman, Tiwari’s mother, said her son was married into a family which has three daughters and an adopted son. The son got married into Dubey’s family in Bikru. The son, empowered by Dubey, wanted to grab all of their six bigha land, while Tiwari was in favour of distributing the land equally among the four, she said. Days before the Bikru ambush, Tiwari was allegedly assaulted by men linked to Dubey, but the police did not file his FIR, said Suman. Then, under the pretext of an “inquiry”, a police team took Tiwari to Bikru village where he was allegedly thrashed, claimed Suman. Dubey had threatened to kill Tiwari if he tilled the land, she said. ‘He helped the poor’ Dubey carried the image of a notorious criminal in Bikru, but locals also recounted tales of how “Panditji”, as he was popularly known owing to his caste, helped families. He would give them money to get their daughters married or for medical treatment and even intervened in disputes, they said. Dubey had been a Pradhan and a Zilla Panchayat member, posts that are now held by his sister-in-law and wife, respectively. Since he enjoyed political power, he was also able to use his clout to get the poor jobs in factories, said locals. There are several plaques in the village bearing the Dubey family name. Most locals claimed that they had locked themselves up the night of the shootout and had little knowledge about the incident. When asked about Dubey’s criminal image, Paras, a caste Hindu, who was holding a Hindi language newspaper carrying news about Dubey, said: “What can I say about big people? I never interacted with him much. He never harassed me, so I can’t tell you about what the media is saying.” Questions on death Dubey, or “Panditji”, is dead, but the Uttar Pradesh police have vowed not to rest till they bring the remaining accused to justice. Twelve of the accused are still on the run. Meanwhile, Opposition parties have questioned the manner in which he was killed. The notorious criminal has been eliminated, but did the U.P. police deliver justice to the families of the slain policemen and dismantle the nexus behind the crime? The question lingers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-raid-that-left-a-bloody-trail/article32048227.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Do we need a fiscal council?||The government needs to borrow and spend more now in order to support vulnerable households and engineer economic recovery. But that will mean a steep rise in debt which will jeopardise medium-term growth prospects, an issue prominently flagged by all the rating agencies in their recent evaluations. It is possibly the fear of market penalties that is holding the government back from opening the money spigots. Many economists have faulted the government’s fiscal stance, arguing that this is no time for restraint; the government should spend more to stimulate the economy by borrowing as may be necessary, but at the same time come out with a credible plan for fiscal consolidation post-COVID-19 in order to retain market confidence. But will the market be persuaded by the government’s assurance of future good conduct? Like St. Augustine who prayed, “god, give me continence, but not yet!,” will the markets instead see the government as asking, “god, give me fiscal rectitude, but not yet?” Not necessarily, say the commentators. The government can signal its virtue by establishing some new institutional mechanism for enforcing fiscal discipline, such as for example a fiscal council. The suggestion of a fiscal council actually predates the current crisis. It was first recommended by the Thirteenth Finance Commission and was subsequently endorsed by the Fourteenth Finance Commission and then by the FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management) Review Committee headed by N.K. Singh. Present in 50 countries According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), about 50 countries around the world have established fiscal councils with varying degrees of success. Abstracting from country-level differences, a fiscal council, at its core, is a permanent agency with a mandate to independently assess the government’s fiscal plans and projections against parameters of macroeconomic sustainability, and put out its findings in the public domain. The expectation is that such an open scrutiny will keep the government on the straight and narrow path of fiscal virtue and hold it to account for any default. Do we really need a fiscal council? Sure, we do have a chronic problem of fiscal irresponsibility, but is a fiscal council the answer? Recall that back in 2003 when FRBM was enshrined into law, we thought of that as the magic cure for our fiscal ills. The FRBM enjoins the government to conform to pre-set fiscal targets, and in the event of failure to do so, to explain the reasons for deviation. The government is also required to submit to Parliament a ‘Fiscal Policy Strategy Statement’ (FPSS) to demonstrate the credibility of its fiscal stance. Yet, seldom have we heard an in-depth discussion in Parliament on the government’s fiscal stance; in fact the submission of the FPSS often passes off without even much notice. If the problem clearly is lack of demand for accountability, how will another instrumentality such as a fiscal council for supply of accountability be a solution? It can be argued that a fiscal council will in fact be a solution because it will give an independent and expert assessment of the government’s fiscal stance, and thereby aid an informed debate in Parliament. A fair point, but do we need an elaborate permanent body with an extensive mandate for this task? The council’s mandate Consider for example the model suggested by the FRBM Review Committee. As per that, the fiscal council’s mandate will include, but not be restricted to, making multi-year fiscal projections, preparing fiscal sustainability analysis, providing an independent assessment of the Central government’s fiscal performance and compliance with fiscal rules, recommending suitable changes to fiscal strategy to ensure consistency of the annual financial statement and taking steps to improve quality of fiscal data, producing an annual fiscal strategy report which will be released publicly. An institutional behemoth with such a wide job chart will likely add more to the noise than to the signal. For example, the fiscal council will give macroeconomic forecasts which the Finance Ministry is expected to use for the budget, and if the Ministry decides to differ from those estimates, it is required to explain why it has differed. As of now, both the Central Statistics Office (CSO) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) give forecasts of growth and other macroeconomic variables, as do a host of public, private and international agencies. Why should there be a presumption that the fiscal council’s forecasts are any more credible or robust than others? Why not leave it to the Finance Ministry to do its homework and defend its numbers rather than forcing it to privilege the estimates of one specific agency? Besides, forcing the Finance Ministry to use someone else’s estimates will dilute its accountability. If the estimates go awry, it will simply shift the blame to the fiscal council. Another argument made in support of a fiscal council is that in its role as a watchdog, it will prevent the government from gaming the fiscal rules through creative accounting. But there is already an institutional mechanism by way of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit to check that. If that mechanism has lost its teeth, then fix that rather than create another costly bureaucratic structure. Starting it small Let us, despite my arguments above, grant that a fiscal council will indeed add value. Then the way forward is to start small and scale it up if it proves to be a positive experience. I would suggest the following low cost and reversible start-up. A week before the scheduled budget presentation, let the CAG, a constitutional authority, appoint a three-member committee for a five-week duration with a limited mandate of scrutinising the budget after it is presented to Parliament for its fiscal stance and the integrity of the numbers, and give out a public report. The CAG’s office will provide the secretarial and logistic support to the committee from within its resources. The Finance Ministry, the RBI, the CSO and the Niti Aayog will each depute an officer to serve in the secretariat. The committee will be wound up after submitting its report leaving no scope for any mission creep. Bureaucratic expansion is a one way street. It is wise to cross the river by feeling the stones. The writer is a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/do-we-need-a-fiscal-council/article32048221.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||In the name of ‘cooperative federalism’||India is in the midst of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s decade of governance. The previous time one party dominated for nearly 10 years was four decades ago, when the Congress had brute majorities between 1980 and 1989. In that period, the tussle for the rights of States was focused on Article 356. Using pliant Governors, regional party governments were politically destabilised. There was lip service paid to the report of the Justice R.S. Sarkaria Commission on Centre-State relations, but its spirit was twisted. History is repeating itself but much more cripplingly. The principal tool of combating State governments is no longer Article 356. Once more a well-meaning report, the report of the 14th Finance Commission, is being cited, but it is also being sabotaged step by step. And all this is being done while supposedly upholding “cooperative federalism”. This began well before COVID-19, but the pandemic and its economic disruption have brought things to an edge. Delayed payments The 14th Finance Commission report was accepted in 2015 with the promise that it would devolve more finances to the States. As part of the process, States would have new responsibilities, especially in the social sector. Two years later, the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime was also justified as a grand bargain that would eventually leave all States better off. In reality, tax devolution to States has been consistently below 14th Finance Commission projections. One reason for this has been the economic slowdown, caused primarily by the Central government, and lower-than-expected GST collections. The shortfall in GST collection for 2018-2019 was 22% when compared to projections. Payments have been delayed as well. For example, Centre owed States about Rs. 35,000 crore as GST compensation for December 2019 and January 2020, which was only paid in June 2020 after a delay of more than five months. The Centre has imposed a series of cesses, which are not part of the divisible pool and not shared with the States. There are now rumours of a COVID-19 cess as well. According to a study by the Centre for Policy Research, there is a Rs. 6.84 lakh crore gap between what the 14th Finance Commission promised to States and what they have received. And while this has happened, the nature of public spending in India has undergone a massive shift. In 2014-2015, States undertook programmes and projects spending 46% more than the Central Government; today the figure is 64%. Despite this, the Centre’s fiscal deficit exceeds the consolidated State deficit by 14%! India is paying for a profligate Centre. The COVID-19 situation has deepened the crisis. According to a State Bank of India report, the collective loss to GSDP due to the pandemic is Rs. 30.3 lakh crore or 13.5% of GSDP. States are being required to spend more to help common citizens and save livelihoods. The Centre is providing almost negligible support. In West Bengal, as of June 30, the State government had spent Rs. 1,200 crore in fighting COVID-19. The Centre has given Rs. 400 crore under the National Health Mission and to the State Disaster Response Mitigation Fund, but absolutely nothing specifically for the pandemic. Cyclone Amphan, the worst cyclone in Bengali memory, devastated 2.8 million houses and 1.7 million hectares of farm land. The loss was estimated at Rs. 1.02 lakh crore. The Mamata Banerjee government in Kolkata immediately released Rs. 6,250 crore; the Centre has offered just Rs. 1,000 crore. Following the pandemic, the Ministry of Finance has asked all Union Ministries to cut expenditure. The immediate impact is being felt by States, and grants-in-aid are drying up. Crucial rural development programmes have come to a standstill. The Union Rural Development Ministry is supposed to transfer Rs. 4,900 crore to West Bengal in 2020-21 for projects to be undertaken by panchayati raj institutions. A quarter of the financial year has passed but not a single paisa has come. Around 70% of this money is meant for gram panchayats and 30% for panchayat samitis and zilla parishads. This formula came after a recommendation from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, which the Prime Minister accepted. The funds are meant for building roads, culverts and bridges, local drinking water projects and similar schemes that create jobs and help village economies. All this has come to a halt. Overall if one considers dues for Centrally-supported schemes (Rs. 36,000 crore); the cut in devolution of funds (Rs. 11,000 crore); outstanding GST receipts (Rs. 3,000 crore); and dues for food subsidies and other heads (Rs. 3,000 crore), the Centre owes West Bengal Rs. 53,000 crore. I can’t speak for all States but for West Bengal this is a huge burden, especially in a calamity-hit year such as 2020. FRBM provisions As they put more money into people’s hands, governments across the world are struggling to meet fiscal deficit targets this year. In India, even States that have maintained fiscal discipline in recent times have had to cope with needs of suffering citizens and spend more under essential, social sector heads. The fiscal deficit for States, collectively, is inevitably going to breach the projection of 2.04%. As per provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) can actually accommodate a fiscal deficit of 3%. The States have respected the limit for years and the projection for 2020-21 reflected this. Now, post-pandemic, this limit will be crossed. The FRBM has an “escape clause” that allows for a one-time relaxation of the fiscal deficit threshold upto 0.5% in a time of exigency. The escape clause has been utilised by the Centre but it has proven woefully insufficient in addressing the current crisis. Fiscal policymakers and technocrats agree that the rigidity of the FRBM has to be revisited. It should allow for greater flexibility and consultation as to when and how the “escape clause” can be applied. This goes beyond the current COVID-19 situation, but has come to light because of it — and because the Centre has gone in for subjective interpretation, imposing conditions that are outside the scope of the FRBM. In theory, the Centre has raised the fiscal deficit limit for States, under the FRBM, from 3% to 5%. But only 0.5% of this rise is unconditional. The remaining 1.5% is dependent on fulfilling certain unrealistic and impractical measures — including privatisation of power distribution,and enhancing revenues of urban local bodies. States are being set up for failure. This is the true picture of the BJP’s “cooperative federalism”. Derek O’Brien leads Trinamool Congress in the Rajya Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-the-name-of-cooperative-federalism/article32048214.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Crime as punishment||The Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) police’s account of the killing of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey on Friday, even if taken at face value, is a startling admission of serious ineptitude. But the official narrative, as it stands, stretches the bounds of credulity to an astonishing extent. The possibility that his death is officially sanctioned retribution for the murder of eight policemen who were part of the team that went to arrest him on July 3 is hard to dismiss out of hand. Without a doubt, Dubey’s death in an ‘exchange of fire’ while he was ‘trying to flee’ after the police vehicle in which he was being taken ‘met with an accident’ is also extremely convenient for many; it puts a lid on the sordid tale of his violent rise to power and influence, which was nourished by a wider network of patrons, including some in the police force. A hardened criminal, who had 62 cases against him before his gang allegedly shot dead eight policemen last week, was supposedly being transported without handcuffs; he snatched weapons from those escorting him, according to the police version of the incident. Indeed, this is no more than a self-indictment of the state police, whose conduct has raised far too many questions in the recent past. There is no good explanation for driving such a suspect through the night across more than 600 km from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh where he was arrested on Thursday. The brutal last episode of Dubey’s serial crimes should be no defence if the shooting turns out to be an extra-judicial killing. Any demand of probity and accountability in police and military is often contested on the supposed ground that it emerges from a support for criminals, terrorists or enemies of the state by influential political and public figures. There is no question that crimes such as those Dubey was involved in must be met with exemplary punishment. The process of establishing guilt and executing punishment is not an incidental part of justice, but its integral soul. A fair and transparent trial cannot be dispensed with in order to satisfy cries for vengeance. Social sanction of instant justice by state agents might have leached into institutions that are mandated to enforce the rule of law. Last year, when the Cyberabad police shot dead four people accused in a case of gang rape and murder, people celebrated in the streets. The courts and the National Human Rights Commission have also shown a lenient approach in such cases. Goading the police on to deliver instant justice, or even tolerating such behaviour, creates an atmosphere of impunity that could lead to murder of innocent people as happened with the custodial deaths in Tamil Nadu. Support for such killings by the police will not make a society more just. Mob justice is no justice at all. When law enforcers short-circuit due process, the damage to state institutions is severe and long-lasting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/crime-as-punishment/article32048215.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Reform with caution||The formation of a ‘Committee for the Reform of Criminal Laws’ by the Union Home Ministry with an apparently short time frame and limited scope for public consultation has caused considerable disquiet among jurists, lawyers and those concerned with the state of criminal justice in the country. Few would disagree with the idea that the current laws governing crime, investigation and trial require meaningful reform. There have been several attempts in recent decades to overhaul the body of criminal law, comprising the Indian Penal Code of 1860 vintage, the Code of Criminal Procedure that was rewritten in 1973, and the Indian Evidence Act that dates back to 1872. However, comprehensive legal reform is something that requires careful consideration and a good deal of deliberation. One criticism against the latest Committee is that it has begun its work in the midst of a pandemic. This may not be the ideal time for wide consultations. Activists and lawyers functioning in the hinterland may be at a particular disadvantage in formulating their opinions. The panel’s mandate appears quite broad: “to recommend reforms in the criminal laws of the country in a principled, effective, and efficient manner which ensures the safety and security of the individual, the community and the nation; and which prioritises the constitutional values of justice, dignity and the inherent worth of the individual.” This is vague and open to multiple interpretations. It is also not clear why the Law Commission has not been vested with this task. The lack of diversity in what is an all-male, Delhi-based committee has also been adversely commented upon. In 2003, the Justice V.S. Malimath Committee on reforms in the criminal justice system had come up with some far-reaching suggestions, some of which became part of changes in criminal law. However, it also attracted criticism over the suggestion that the standard of evidence be reduced from “beyond reasonable doubt” to “clear and convincing”. The Justice Verma panel came up with a comprehensive and progressive report on reforms needed in laws concerning crimes against women in 2013 in barely one month, but its speed was probably due to the limited mandate it had. If at all criminal law is to be reformed, there should be a genuine attempt to reach a wide consensus on ways to speed up trials, protect witnesses, address the travails of victims, improve investigative mechanisms and, most importantly, eliminate torture. An impression should not gain ground that wide-ranging changes are sought to be made within a short time frame and based on limited inputs from the public. Reform is best achieved through a cautious and inclusive approach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reform-with-caution/article32048218.ece
11 July 2020||SPIELBERG,||Verstappen fastest in Styrian GP practice||Red Bull’s Max Verstappen went fastest in Styrian Grand Prix practice on Friday while Australian Daniel Ricciardo crashed his Renault after locking up and hitting the tyre wall and six-time Formula One World champion Lewis Hamilton had a difficult afternoon at Mercedes. Hamilton’s teammate Valtteri Bottas, the championship leader after winning the season-opener at the same Red Bull Ring circuit, was second and a mere 0.043 slower. Mexican Sergio Perez, who put Racing Point’s ‘Pink Mercedes’ on top in the morning session at Spielberg, ended the day with the third best time. Hamilton ended the second session sixth, while Ferrari was off the pace in both sessions as it evaluated new parts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-fastest-in-styrian-gp-practice/article32048359.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Men’s seeding formula dropped||In a significant decision, Wimbledon has done away with its seeding formula for men, used to re-order the top 32 seeds in the main draw by giving extra weight to grass-court performances during a two-year period leading up to the tournament. Wimbledon, on Friday, announced that the formula, in place since 2002, “had served its time, given the quality of competition, entertainment and modern grass courts”. Seeding will now be based solely on ATP rankings, aligning the tournament with the three other Majors. The most recent example of the seeding formula’s use came last year when Roger Federer, then ranked No. 3 in the world, was elevated as the second seed in place of Rafael Nadal, the World No. 2. The move left Nadal with a tougher draw. The rationale behind the use of the formula was the limited opportunities available to gain points on grass. There are only six weeks of grass-court tennis each year, compared to the protracted build-up the other Slams have. So the seeding order was determined thus: ATP Position points + 100% points earned for all grass court tournaments in the past 12 months + 75% points earned for the best grass court tournament in the 12 months before that. Of particular concern was the stretching of the window for two years. It affected young players in particular. For example, Stefanos Tsitsipas was ranked No. 7 ahead of Wimbledon 2019 but saw Kevin Anderson, the 2018 finalist, leapfrog him in the seedings. Tsitsipas suffered because he was still a rookie in 2017 and 2018 and had no significant results on grass. There will be no changes to the women’s seeding rule, which broadly follows the WTA ranking, but can be tweaked to produce a “balanced draw”. In 2018, Serena Williams, despite being ranked 183, was given a seeding of 25. Prize-money package Also on Friday, Wimbledon announced prize money to players “whose world ranking would have enabled them to gain entry into The Championships 2020 by direct acceptance into the Main Draw or Qualifying event”. The payout per player — £25,000 for singles main draw, £6,250 for doubles and £12,500 for singles qualifying — will benefit many Indians like Ankita Raina and Prajnesh Gunneswaran, both of whom would have made the qualifying draw. “They are leading the way with regard to supporting the tennis fraternity. A class act!” Prajnesh told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mens-seeding-formula-dropped/article32048372.ece
11 July 2020||KOLKATA,||ATK Mohun Bagan to retain maroon and green jersey as well as logo||The legacy, colours and insignia of the 131-year-old Mohun Bagan will be preserved and form the identity of the recently merged entity ATK Mohun Bagan Private Limited. This was decided at the first board meeting on Friday along with a host of issues related to the functioning of the newly formed entity. “To my mind, it is the recognition of the emotion, passion, and legacy of Mohun Bagan. We have gone with the maroon and green jersey. We have gone with the existing logo and the name of the club will be ATK Mohun Bagan. When I grew up, green and maroon were very much part of my being,” said Sanjiv Goenka, the principal owner. The ATK logo will no longer exist while its red and white colours will be mixed with green and maroon in the team’s ‘away’ jersey. “The away jersey will be white and red with green and maroon stripes on it. That is not yet unveiled nor is absolutely finalised,” Goenka added. Goenka has also offered to make investments to improve the existing facilities of the club. “If I can, I would like to upgrade the facilities at the Mohun Bagan ground. It is part of the city’s history. But it needs up-gradation, modernisation, and needs to be reconstructed in a manner that is different,” Goenka said while adding that the refurbishment is aimed at making the Bagan facility suitable to host ISL and AFC home games in future. Sourav Ganguly, the Board of Control for Cricket in India president, also joined the ATK Mohun Bagan board as co-owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mohun-bagan-to-retain-maroon-and-green-jersey-as-well-as-logo/article32048508.ece
11 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Ebindas Yesudasan to attend India camp for under-16 AFC Cup||Yesudasan Manuel was a promising footballer from South Kollamcode, a fishing hamlet near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, which is also known as the Santosh Trophy village. A speedy striker for St. Mary’s Recreation Club (SMRC), Yesudasan had to abruptly give up football career to support his family and became a fisherman. Years later when Yesudasan’s youngest son Ebindas showed some talent with the ball he was given all encouragement by the family. The 15-year-old Ebindas Yesudasan is slowly climbing the echelons of representative football and has just been selected to the Indian camp for the under-16 AFC Cup. In March, Ebindas was selected to represent the India under-16 team for two friendlies against Tajikistan. However, the tour was dropped following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bringing cheer Ebindas’ selection to the National camp has brought some joy to the Yesudasan family which was struggling to come to terms with the loss of livelihood as their fishing boat was destroyed in the turbulent sea this May. Lockdown has been hard for Ebindas and his family, but he has trained hard to keep himself fit. He followed the fitness regime of the Indian team’s trainer and football was the only thing on his mind. The youngster was expecting the call-up, and so was his coach Cleofax Alex, who handpicked him for the Little Flower Football Academy. Prolific scorer Ebindas has been a prolific scorer for Kerala and for St. Vincent High School, Kaniyapuram in the last two years. The 10th standard student was the top-scorer for the State in the under-16 South Zone tournament in Bengaluru last year He also played a vital role in helping his school enter the quarterfinals of the under-14 Subroto Mukherjee tournament last year and the performance earned him an Air Force scholarship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ebindas-yesudasan-to-attend-india-camp-for-under-16-afc-cup/article32048646.ece
11 July 2020||Southampton,||Broad ‘frustrated, angry, gutted’||England paceman Stuart Broad said he felt frustrated and angry at having “my shirt” taken away after he was dropped for the first Test against the West Indies at Southampton. “I found out about 6 p.m. the night before the game,” said Broad. “Stokesy told me we were just going with extra pace in these conditions. “I'm not a particularly emotional person but I've found the last couple of days quite tough. To say I was disappointed would be an understatement.... I'm frustrated, angry, gutted. My shirt “It's difficult to understand. I've probably bowled the best I've ever bowled the last couple of years — I felt it was my shirt.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/broad-frustrated-angry-gutted/article32048354.ece
11 July 2020||Pune,||RWITC plans closed-door racing from Aug. 23 in Pune||The Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) has decided to commence closed-door racing at Pune on August 23. RWITC chairman Zavaray Poonawalla stated in a press release on Friday: “RWITC and it’s Committee Members are pleased to announce that closed-door racing has been slated to commence at the Pune Race Course from 23rd August 2020, subject to clearances from the Government of Maharashtra, for which every effort is being made.” Mr. Poonawalla said as it was the first time that racing was being held behind closed doors in India, a dress rehearsal would be held on Independence Day (Aug. 15).  “This is a revolutionary beginning to reinstating Indian horse racing amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and therefore all checks, controls and balances are of utmost importance. “The dress rehearsal will be conducted and controlled by the managing committee, Stewards and the officials through closed circuit television,” he said, adding that Stewards meetings would be conducted via video-conferencing. Mr. Poonawalla further said only Stipendiary Stewards and necessary personnel, jockeys and trainers would be allowed admission to the race course. Live telecast Also, the RWITC website could be subscribed to on a daily basis for the live telecast. Charges per race day and the subscription and login procedures would be announced later, he said. “The stakes money will be 75% of what it was in the latter part of the Mumbai season and the same as in last year’s Pune season. “We are keeping our fingers crossed on getting permissions on time from Government authorities in these difficult times,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rwitc-plans-closed-door-racing-from-aug-23-in-pune/article32048368.ece
11 July 2020||LONDON,||United eases past Villa||Manchester United kept up its impressive chase for a top-four spot with a comfortable 3-0 win at relegation-threatened Aston Villa in the Premier League on Thursday. The win means United, unbeaten in 17 matches in all competitions, becomes the first team since the formation of the Premier League to win four consecutive matches by a margin of three or more goals. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side is fifth in the table, one point behind Leicester City and two adrift of Chelsea in third with four games left. United went ahead in the 27th minute when Bruno Fernandes converted a penalty after being brought down just inside the box. There was no dispute about United’s second goal — a thundering drive from Mason Greenwood after good work from Anthony Martial — just before the break. Paul Pogba then wrapped up the win with his first league goal since April, 2019.  The results: Premier League: Aston Villa 0 lost to Manchester United 3 (Fernandes 27-pen, Greenwood 45+5, Pogba 58); Bournemouth 0 drew with Tottenham 0; Everton 1 (Richarlison 43) drew with Southampton 1 (Ings 31).   LaLiga: Eibar 0 drew with Leganes 0; Mallorca 2 (Hernandez 40, Kubo 84) bt Levante 0; Athletic Bilbao 1 (Capa 29) lost to Sevilla 2 (Banega 69, Munir 74) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-eases-past-villa/article32048360.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Daruvala to start seventh||India's Jehan Daruvala will line up seventh on the grid for the FIA F2 Championship at Spielberg on Saturday. In a closely-fought qualifying, the Indian, driving for Carlin Racing, did a best time of 1:15.063s and was just two-tenths off pole-sitter and teammate Yuki Tsunoda, who clocked 1:14.803s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daruvala-to-start-seventh/article32048356.ece
11 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Yifan vs Lagno||World No. 1 Hou Yifan of China will meet Russia’s Kateryna Lagno in the final of the third Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess on Sunday. In the semifinals on Friday, Yifan made short work of Iran’s Sarasadat Khademalsharieh 8-2 while Lagno defeated compatriot Alexandra Kosteniuk 6.5-4.5. The fourth and final leg of the tournament will be played from July 15 before the two players with the highest points — collected from the three legs which all the 22 participants get to compete — will play a Super Final on July 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yifan-vs-lagno/article32048355.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ningombam to head HI||Under pressure from the Sports Ministry, Hockey India has effected a change at the top with president Mohd. Mushtaq Ahmad resigning and Gyanendro Ningombam being nominated to the post. Mushtaq had resigned on July 7 citing ‘personal and family commitments’ which was accepted at an Emergent Executive Board meeting on Friday. Senior vice-president Ningombam was nominated as the officiating president under Rule 4.6 of the Hockey India constitution. “Due to COVID-19 and travel restrictions imposed across India, HI EB is unable to call a Congress meeting of its Member Units to conduct fresh elections for the post. HI EB has appointed Gyanendro Ningombam as Officiating President with immediate effect... until elections to this post can be called,” HI secretary Rajinder Singh wrote to the ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ningombam-to-head-hi/article32048361.ece
11 July 2020||KOLKATA,||1.2 million snakebite deaths in India in the past two decades||India recorded a staggering 1.2 million snakebite deaths in the 20-year period from 2000 to 2019 with an average of 58,000 deaths caused by snakebite annually. Around 70% of these deaths occurred in low altitude, rural areas of eight States — Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Gujarat. The study, conducted by the Centre for Global Health Research (CGHR) at the University of Toronto, Canada, with Indian and U.K. partners, also points out that half of all the snakebite deaths occurred during the monsoon period from June to September. The study said that snakebite deaths occurred mostly in rural areas (97%), were more common in males (59%) than females (41%), and peaked in the age group of 15-29 years (25%). The numbers for annual snakebite deaths were highest in the States of Uttar Pradesh (8,700), Andhra Pradesh (5,200) and Bihar (4,500), it further added. In the largest ever such survey published in 2011 and titled ‘Snakebite Mortality in India: A Nationally Representative Mortality Survey’, researchers of the Million Death Study project estimated 46,000 annual snakebite deaths in India. The World Health Organization (WHO) recognises snakebite as a top-priority neglected tropical disease. Romulus Whitaker, from the Centre for Herpetology/Madras Crocodile Bank and one of authors of the new study told The Hindu that the research revises the number of annual snakebite deaths in the country from 46,000 to 58,000. “Since deaths are restricted mainly to lower altitude, intensely agricultural areas, during a single season of each year, this should make the annual epidemics easier to manage. India’s tremendous snakebite burden is staring us in the face and we need to act now,” Mr. Whitaker said. The study also indicated that the Government of India’s data captured only 10% of the expected hospital-based deaths. Lifetime risk “We showed that the overall lifetime risk of being killed by snakebite is about 1 in 250, but in some areas, the lifetime risk reaches 1 in 100,” said Prabhat Jha, Director of the CGHR at Unity Health Toronto and one of the authors of the paper. Experts suggest that targeting certain areas and educating people with simple methods such as ‘snake-safe’ harvest practices — using rubber boots and gloves, mosquito nets and rechargeable torches (or mobile phone flashlights) — could reduce the risk of snakebites. Jose Louise, founder of the website indiansnakes.org , said that Indian anti-venoms neutralise venom from only the spectacled cobra (there are three other Indian cobra species), common krait (there are seven other krait species), Russell’s viper and saw-scaled viper, whereas there are 12 other snake species causing fatal bites in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/12-million-snakebite-deaths-in-india-in-the-past-two-decades/article32048374.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Maya, mother of ignorance||According to scriptures, ignorance is without a beginning. Then, is it to be presumed that ignorance is also endless? Is there no chance for the jivatma to get liberated? Such doubts about ignorance and its prevalence are raised and argued in the text ‘Laghu Vasudeva Mananam’ to show that it is possible to overcome ignorance, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. There are many diseases whose real cause is unknown but they can be cured by proper treatment. In the same way, even though the cause of ignorance is not known, it can be dispelled by the jnana gained by the study of Vedanta. Knowledge of Brahman as the One without a second destroys ignorance even as the illusion of the snake in the rope is gone when the nature of the rope is known. It is accepted that Maya is the mother of ignorance and easily deludes the understanding of things in proper perspective. Krishna refers to His Maya as something that is difficult to cross. The power of Maya can confuse even the most rational intellects and can make one believe what is not true as true. This is what is happening when beings identify their self with the body and not the atma. Adi Sankara warns people of this avidya that stands as a hurdle in the way of spiritual pursuit. In a verse in the ‘Viveka Chudamani,’ the acharya captures the subtle and enigmatic quality of avidya. “If one looks for its form, it cannot be stated; it is neither real nor unreal nor is it a mixture of the two. It is neither separate nor different from the atma. It is not a part of the atma nor is it not a part of it. It is not the body either. On the whole it is something wonderful, ‘Maha Adibhuta’ and inexplicable, ‘anirvachaniyam’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/maya-mother-of-ignorance/article32048300.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 08:15 IST,||Sudoku - July 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-11-2020/article32049142.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||My table overfloweth||Buffets leave me cold. There was a time when, as hungry young men, we used to save up money to have the midnight buffet at the Taj Mahal Hotel on Man Singh Road. I think the buffet in the 1970s cost Rs. 20 or so, and we used to make sure that no dish was left untried. Older and wiser now, I turn away from buffets. For one, a lot of places warm up leftovers to make the buffet table seem bigger and better. Two, when there is so much on offer, you don’t know what to eat, and what not to eat. And, three, you try and taste as much as you can — and end up not enjoying any of the dishes. So, when friends and family hold forth on some value-for-money buffet with a lavish spread, I merely sniff. But now that buffets are a thing of the past – heck, restaurants are becoming old memories — I am actually thinking of overladen tables rather nostalgically. And that is why I ordered from an eatery that is known for its unlimited buffets. Barbeque Nation — in many parts of Delhi and in other cities — used to be quite a popular place, and I had heard paeans sung about their prawns. I thought it was time to order a meal from its delivery outlet called UBQ by Barbeque Nation. One of Barbeque Nation’s USPs was the affordable rates at which it offered a buffet that included everything from fried shrimps, various kinds of kababs and tandoori vegetables to biryanis, curries and desserts. The UBQ rates are very reasonable, too. We asked for a U&BBQ seafood platter (Rs. 399), U&BBQ non-veg buddy platter (Rs. 379) and a Deluxe non-veg thaali (Rs. 299). The seafood platter consisted of four pieces of tawa fish, six crispy fried prawns, four Amritsari fried fish, fried rice with four prawns, fish in an Oriental sauce and four tiny gulab jamuns. The Buddy platter comprised six hot chilli garlic prawns, two crispy fried tangri, six pieces of chilli chicken, four fried fish, four non-veg kababs and the four small GJs. We wanted something with some gravy, too, so had asked for the thali that included four pieces of butter chicken, four fried chicken pieces, crispy corn, dal makhni, chicken tikka biryani and the GJs. Not enough grain, we thought, so we asked for two parathas (Rs. 50 each). It goes without saying that barbecued, grilled or fried food has to be eaten right off the grill, but I wasn’t unhappy with my dinner. We heated up the food, which took away some of the crispiness, but I thoroughly enjoyed the shrimps — still crunchy and juicy — and the butter chicken. The chicken gravy was thick, and sweet-tart. I tried out a bit of the prawn fried rice with the Oriental fish, and quite liked it, too. What I really enjoyed was the dal makhni, which was deliciously creamy, and did a nice waltz with the paratha. Tangri is not my favourite, so I didn’t go there. I had the fish, but didn’t think much of it. It was bland, and the batter did nothing to enhance its taste. The dessert of four tiny gulab jamuns (called angoori gulab jamun — for its size, I suppose) was a nice way to end the meal. When life returns to normal, and we venture out again, I may just visit the nearest Barbecue Nation outlet. I think I need to see what’s on the table. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-table-overfloweth/article32048545.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping kids busy||Does your little one have a green thumb? This 15-day workshop by eZone will teach them how to grow microgreens like mustard, mint, coriander and more at home. For ages four and up, from 4.30 to 5 pm, starting July 15. At Rs. 200 per child.9884851759. The iSpark Holistic preschool in Chennai has curated a Happiness Kit. This covers cognitive and language development, practical life experiences, and gross and fine motor skills. For ages 1.8 to 3.5 years. At Rs. 500 plus shipping.9884500881||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/keeping-kids-busy/article32048531.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||There’s no love like self-love||Last week, my old classmates were jabbering excitedly on a Zoom call. ‘Enough!’ I shouted over everyone else. ‘Mute your mics. Mute!’ Suitably chastised, they muted their mics while I spent the rest of the call telling them how to be silent and calm. A few classmates fell asleep. This is the calming effect of my voice. It is because I have become self-actualised of late. During this lockdown, while people were cooking, washing, going grey, I folded my legs into pretzels in front of my screen and downloaded one online course after another, on Self-healing, Psyhcobabblography, ShuttingOutShouters, DelvingDeepIntoMyself. My kids whined about being hungry and then finally ate all the packaged chips in the house for breakfast, lunch and dinner. They then whined about stomach aches. I told them to shut themselves in the bathroom and self-heal. It is the new mantra. No one should step into anyone else’s life. Do not get involved. Be strong and independent like me. Let those in pain go be in pain somewhere else. If they are near me, they bring their neediness and pain into my sphere. For example, when the neighbours call for something they need like salt or aspirin, I say, ‘No, because I’m social distancing, but I will pray that you learn to manage without it.’ My friend called in tears because her father was diagnosed positive. I told her, in my calming voice, to be positive too, and to stop dumping her negativity into my life. I then opened my screen to stare at pixelated waves and sunlit skies, to the rhythm of deep tissue healing music. ‘I am beautiful. I am kind. I am a source of love and light,’ I repeated beatifically after the online teacher. I have stopped following the news about all those poor suffering people. Instead, I wish them deep inner peace. ‘Their inners don’t want peace, they want food,’ said my spouse. I closed my eyes, covered my ears and focussed on myself. I can then shut out everyone else, especially his niggling voice, or is it my own conscience? Anyway, I do not need to help the suffering because all my online courses have assured me that it is most important to love myself and help myself. Two days back, I woke up with a fever. It was tough to keep floating on my high moral cloud when I kept coughing. My spouse had long-since taken our kids to their grandparents to be fed. My neighbours said sorry, they were social distancing. My classmates stayed silent. My friends said they were proud that I was so strong and independent, and to be positive. How selfish they all are! How will I self-heal when no one is helping me? Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/theres-no-love-like-self-love/article32048181.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Airbnb: class is in session||“Did you know kaftans were originally worn by men?” asks Narresh Kukreja, of the design label Shivan & Narresh. No, I did not. But I’m too busy attempting to replicate the sketch of a kaftan that Shivan Bhatia has just drawn for us on a croqui (that’s French for a type of skeletal design). I’m on a Zoom call along with several fashion and design enthusiasts attending the duo’s At Home with Airbnb debut. It is an hour-long virtual workshop where they take participants through the basics of fashion illustrations — how to create a swimsuit, something to cover up with, and to slip into for evening drinks. “The underlying idea is to impart our knowledge to a small batch of guests, where we can connect with them freely and take them through the whole process of sketching out a simple thought into a visually-appealing representation,” says Bhatia, speaking of the experience he co-hosts. At Home with Airbnb, launched this month as part of the platform’s Online Experiences offering, is specific to India. Each session is hosted by celebrities and influencers. Among the chosen seven is fitness trainer Nam-Wook Kang, credited with getting actor Deepika Padukone into wedding photos-ready shape. “I will show you exercises that require minimum equipment,” he promises, “or that use objects found at home.” Kang has honed his set over several months of lockdown while hosting sessions on his own social media handles. Then there’s chef Sandeep Sreedharan, of Goa’s Mahé restaurant fame, who intends to use “this as an opportunity to demystify the jargon around sustainable cooking”. He’ll approach his 60-minute sessions, one ingredient at a time.  Virtual advantage  Airbnb’s new marketing campaign hopes to capitalise on the popularity of its Online Experiences programme, where hosts the world over have found innovative ways to showcase their cities, even under lockdown. It saw a three-fold increase in the number of bookings from India in its first month (May) alone. It is important to note that 51% of Airbnb India’s business comes from Indians travelling within the country. So the aim behind the celebrity-driven approach is to boost those numbers. “The idea of Online Experiences was to bring travel to your doorstep at a time when you cannot step out,” says Simran Kodesia, Communications Lead at Airbnb India. “With At Home with Airbnb, it is another level of gratification. You get to say, ‘I learnt how to set the table from Devika Narain, the lady who worked on Virat and Anushka’s wedding’. It also helps our celebrity hosts to stay relevant and connected with their followers and fans.” True. Right through my session, despite the technical and practical hitches that seem inherent to such conference calls, there was a high degree of personal interactivity. Like a virtual classroom with the tutor calling each student by name, asking to see their work and responding to it.  Real world moves  But Airbnb is not the only player in the online experiences market. There’s an abundance of fitness, art, dance and culinary experiences online. There are also companies like Delhi-based MyScoot, and platforms such as Pytm Insider where activities are accessible. Which begs the question: are these virtual experiences — with and without celebrities hosting them — viable in the long run? “In theory, yes,” says Divia Thani, Editor, Condé Nast Traveller , India. “There’s definitely opportunity for some cool activities to emerge with long-term potential. A lot depends on the execution. But it is not an equal substitute. In the long-term, nothing compares to an immersive, first-person experience.” Bhatia agrees. “For many people, life’s passion points — be it art, fashion, cuisine, nature, relaxation — are at the heart of travel. And these points [which the virtual experiences reflect] will inspire them to book their next holiday, as and when we have the right global health ecosystem to do so.” I’m certain both Airbnb and the travel industry will be saying Amen to that.  Sign up for sessions with Devika Narain (Rs. 2,500++), Sanjana Chatlani (Rs. 2,261++) and Shivan & Narresh (Rs. 2,200++) today. Details: airbnb.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/airbnb-class-is-in-session/article32048165.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Season of global collabs||Rock icon Bruce Springsteen sounded both hopeful and despondent when he recently talked about how the pandemic was affecting him. “...Let the world open up before you and prepare yourself to accept it in its entirety, on its own terms, with a vengeance,” he said on American broadcasting company SiriusXM’s E Street Radio in May. Closer home, this is exactly what certain musicians seem to be doing — opening up their art to possibilities.  Jazzing up As Chennai remains under lockdown, guitarist Bruce Lee has been preparing for one of the biggest musical moments of his career: opening for three-time Grammy nominee and bassist Ric Fierabracci. The opportunity came by rather unexpectedly as Lee was barely active on social media and got on to Facebook because of his friends’ groups. He uploaded videos of his guitar covers featuring 90s hit songs by Bon Jovi and bands like Europe that were noticed by the international artiste. Tonight, Lee opens for Fierabracci (who has performed with celebrated jazzmen like Armando ‘Chick’ Corea and Dave Weckl) on an online show organised by the recently-launched virtual concert platform, riffbook.org. “Bruce is technically sound and knows Ric’s music so it is great to have him open along with bassist Aalaap Raju,” says Jay Manickadas, founder of Chennai-based Riffbook.  The Instagram chase Lee is among a few artistes who has had a chance to shine during the lockdown alongside international luminaries. Mumbai-based beatboxer Gaurav Gambhir had his moment when two-time Grammy winner LL Cool J, known for hits like ‘Going Back to Cali’, asked him to perform on his Instagram live sessions not once, but thrice. Gambhir, who goes by the stage name D-cypher, was noticed by the hip-hop star in May. “LL Cool J said he picked me when he saw the word ‘beatbox’ on my profile,” says Gambhir, who was part of Zoya Akhtar’s 2019 hit film Gully Boy ’s soundtrack.  Lockdown blues In mid-May bassist and Grammy winner Michael League, who leads the American instrumental group, Snarky Puppy, conducted an online masterclass organised by Mumbai vocalists Ananya Sharma and Brecilla D’Souza. “I didn’t expect Michael to consider the workshop. I’m not questioning their will, but their schedules would’ve been packed if not for the lockdown,” says Sharma, a student at Mumbai’s The True School of Music. League, along with Mark Lettieri and Sirintip, also from Snarky Puppy, were part of the Reboot Sessions organised by Sharma and D’Souza. Proceeds from the workshops (which also included Indian music industry experts), went towards providing 7,500 meals to the underprivileged in Mumbai. Next month, Pune-based vocalist Lakshya Bhatnagar is gearing up to release his new single ‘Zaroori’. It features country superstar and fiddle player, Jenee Fleenor, whom he approached on Instagram. “Fleenor loved the song. She played a morph between a fiddle and a violin which sounded so distinct, so country and yet so relatable to the feel of a Hindi composition,” he says. Surely, there’s hope yet for musicians across the world when the pandemic draws to a close. Until then, there’s Springsteen’s ‘Land of Hope and Dreams’ that can carry them through with these lines: “Tomorrow there’ll be sunshine / And all this darkness past.”   The writer is the former e ditor of Rolling Stone India .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/season-of-global-collabs/article32048172.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Turn back the clock||Marie-Cécile  Cisamolo is no stranger to exquisite craftsmanship. “I love my job, even on a Saturday,” goes an Instagram post, as she tries out a Bulgari ruby ring, a Cartier panther bangle-watch and other glittering pieces from the current Christie’s Hong Kong Magnificent Jewels sale. But the auction house’s jewellery specialist is visibly excited when she presses a tiny moonstone button on an Art Deco table clock and it chimes. Cisamolo is on a webinar about an ongoing collection of Cartier clocks, where each of the 101 pieces on sale features the French house’s mastery in enamelling, engraving and gem setting. And as she pulls out an agate and purple enamel number with a little agate door to reveal a meticulously designed clock face, or exclaims over the feminine colours or quirks of some of the clocks, Francesca Cartier Brickell, her co-host, provides the inside story. From the family album Sharing details from a decade of research spent on her recent book, The Cartiers , Brickell talks about the journey from Belle Epoque to Art Deco, mystery to prism clocks. About how Louis Cartier was surrounded by great inventors, including Edmund Jaeger. How he loved to visit Chinese antique shops in Paris to buy lacquer panels. And the trend for all things Chinese in the 1920s, as seen in vanity cases, jewellery and art. Sitting in her grandfather Jean-Jacques Cartier’s library (he ran Cartier London till the business was sold to Swiss luxury conglomerate, Richemont), Brickell points to a design aesthetic that was also inspired by the splendour of Russia’s royal House of Romanov. She reminds us of clockmaker Maurice Couet’s contribution to Cartier and presents original drawings and letters from that time. When Brickell refers to how Louis Cartier’s jewellery designs, in the Garland Style, inspired his clocks, Cisamolo picks up a 1904 creation in dark-blue opaline glass and white enamel from a shelf behind her. In the catalogue of clocks, all from a private European collector who had amassed them over three decades, the starting bid for this urn clock is CHF 40,000. The collection is estimated to sell above $5 million. Christie’s says the clocks, even if over a 100 years old, are in working condition. The mystery continues While the sale does not include a mystery clock — Cartier’s tour de force of illusion, where the hour and minute hands float free inside what appears to be a crystal ball, with no clockwork showing — they do have a few semi-mystery clocks. Cisamolo’s favourite, a day and night t made in 1913, comes with the Latin inscription: “I do not count the hours if they are not brilliant.” Previously owned by aristocrats, heiresses and politicians, these horological creations are a reminder of beauty and opulence from another era. As Cisamolo puts it, now let’s hope they find the right homes.  The sale at christies.com closes on July 21, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/turn-back-the-clock/article32048176.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding calm in chaos||“I feel like my songwriting is prophetic,” says Raja Kumari, about her latest single ‘Peace’, that was released last week. A laid back R&B number, it is a departure from the rapper-singer-songwriter’s usual hip-hop style. Recalling that she had co-written the song (with friend and collaborator Elvis Brown) in early January, she says, “I’d been going through a lot, missed my family as I’d been in India for quite some time, it was lonely… So I wanted to say something positive.” However, it is also relevant to the current state of the world, offering an escape with her smooth vocals and calming visuals. Chatting on Instagram Live earlier this week, she is impeccably turned out as always, although it is late night in California, where she has been quarantining with her family for the past few months. There is plenty of love in the comments for her work, especially the new single. Even her mum is a fan, says Raja Kumari. “It is her favourite because it is so peaceful and she can send it to all her friends. In the other songs, when I drop an F bomb, she can’t share it. So we have issues,” she laughs. The lockdown has taught her many things, including the true meaning of self-care, she says. Apart from going vegan and making other health-related changes, she explains, “I was going 20 million miles per hour and did not realise that self-love is sleeping on time, staying hydrated, choosing happiness and joy in every moment. Becoming my own support system has become the most important thing.” It is something she learnt through her career as well, getting into an industry where “no one looked like [me]”. To make Indian culture as mainstream in America as Latin culture is, she feels will take more than one artiste. “I believe we have a lot of talent. So if we keep elevating our quality, we can have a renaissance,” she says. This desire is why she partnered with Bumble’s ‘Levelling the Charts’ initiative to mentor upcoming young artistes in India. Her advice? “Perseverance, belief in self, consistency, manifestation, setting intentions, removing limiting ideas and beliefs, and having the audacity to believe in your dreams. These are the things that create superstars,” she says.  With half a million followers on Instagram, Raja Kumari has never shied away from activism on her social media page. Having grown up in the US, she says the current political situation and the Black Lives Matter movement has shaken many people “out of their slumber”. Counting herself one among them, she says, “I was affected by this idea of being a model minority, understanding my privilege and re-educating myself, and unlearning things. If I can bring in alternate information that my followers can research on their own to make a decision, I think it is my duty and responsibility to share it.” And to the haters, she simply says, “I wish them the best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/finding-calm-in-chaos/article32048179.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Guardians of food & drink||On July 20, Michael Butler, former head of F&B for Hyatt hotels in India and Europe, will start walking from Zurich to Geneva, 265 km away. It is a 54-hour trek, even without food or restroom breaks. What he hopes to do is gather contributions for Indian hospitality sinking under pandemic woes. “India is very close to my heart; I’m in awe of its rich heritage and diversity, and have been fortunate to work with great minds in food and beverage,” says Butler, who plans to make a statement by doing the journey on foot, donning a chef’s jacket. While local authorities in other countries are helping their F&B, in India, this support is largely missing. “So I decided to start a fund [on gofundme.com] to seek support from anyone across the globe willing to contribute,” adds Butler. The money collected will be distributed to laid-off hospitality workers who have had to go longest without jobs (as vetted by his local network in India). Starting off with a modest €2,228 (28 donors have contributed approximately Rs. 1,88,694), he is hoping the corpus increases dramatically as his walk grabs eyeballs via Twitter and Instagram.  Restaurants pitch in  As food and beverage and its mammoth workforce in India struggle in a Covid-hit world, a handful of individuals, companies and NGOs are trying to raise funds to help the sector. The World’s 50 Best, for instance, known for its influential restaurant rankings, is auctioning exclusive experiences. Food lovers that follow them are encouraged to either donate under its ‘50 Best for recovery’ programme (anyone who donates $10 or higher gets an e-cookbook with simple lockdown recipes from the world’s best chefs and bartenders) or bid for “once-in-a-lifetime” experiences. “We are using our relationship with restaurateurs to help the wider hospitality sector. We know that small, independent restaurants and bars have been, and still are, struggling,” says William Drew, Director of Content, The World’s 50 Best Restaurants. “We therefore asked those chefs and restaurants that are recognised as the best in the world to help by offering unique gastronomic experiences for auction.” A ‘50 Best Recovery Auction’ is currently underway. It lists 170 lots, put up by 75 restaurants, 25 bars and several luxury brands. These packages are being auctioned online (between July 3 and 12, on 50BestforRecovery.com) and include an exploration of the world of Massimo Bottura: a two-day stay in Modena at the 12-room luxury Casa Maria Luigia (owned by the chef and his wife Lara Gilmore), a private art tour by Gilmore, meals at three of Bottura’s restaurants, including dinner at the Osteria Francescana. Or a fishing, sherry-tasting and plankton-discovery expedition with Ángel León, the chef behind Aponiente in Cádiz and so on. Indian Accent New Delhi has donated a package for two that includes a morning culinary walk with chef Manish Mehrotra, a wine-paired lunch at the restaurant, a cocktail making class, dinner with drinks at Comorin (the sister restaurant and bar in Gurugram), along with a cocktail making kit and a signed Indian Accent cookbook. The package is redeemable between August 2020 and June 2021. The funds raised will go to restaurants and bars, which can apply for a direct grant of up to $5,000 later in July. A portion will also go to non-profit organisations, including the ‘Feed the Needy Programme’ run by the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), which is offering free meals through a network of soup kitchens.  MNC muscle  In the pre-Covid world, Indian restaurants employed roughly seven million people, according to NRAI. Today, all of them have been badly hit by closures and lack of patronage post lockdown. In Delhi’s Khan Market, for instance, once the most expensive restaurant hub in the country, many loved brands such as Cafe Turtle have shut; a few others that opened find they are bleeding and may shut again. And staff at all levels have been impacted; many laid off or working with varying degrees of pay cuts. FMCG major Pepsi has launched a campaign on Swiggy for them, called #PepsiSaveOurRestaurants. For every soft drink ordered (regardless of the brand) between June 25 and July 19, a certain percentage will be contributed by Pepsi to NRAI’s Covid-19 Relief fund — set up to give dry rations to families of junior restaurant workers without jobs. The aim is to contribute 2.5 million meals. Why not contribute directly to funds that can help affected employees financially? “This is an inclusive programme that provides an opportunity to the end consumers to contribute,” says a Pepsi spokesperson. “We wanted them to be involved in helping restaurant workers who have served them with much warmth for so long.” But how effective is this kind of help? Several restaurants that I spoke to had not heard of the programme, and believed that while they can take care of employees who earn the least, it is those at the mid level that are suffering more with pay cuts (especially when much of it is variable) and having to still pay rents and EMIs. In Bengaluru, MTR restaurant’s co-owner Hemamalini Maiya shared that many of their junior cooks have gone back to their villages. “We are trying to do our best for those who’ve stayed back, taking care of their lodging and food, even if we can pay them only half [they work 15 days, on rotation, at the most-affected outlets],” she says. Meanwhile, Vaibhav Singh, co-owner of Perch, says they are struggling to keep outlets open only to take care of staff. The stylish coffee and wine bar had opened its third outlet in Mumbai just before the lockdown in March. “We’ve been paying the junior-most who earned just Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 per month. The challenge is salaries where the sum is more, of mid-level people, for whom there is going to be no work for a while,” he says.  Small gestures also count  Efforts by individuals and groups such as the Indian Flair Bartenders Association (an NGO said to be taking care of Covid-hit families of restaurant staff primarily in Mumbai), are talked about by a few. In Delhi, Vidhi Puri, a self-confessed cocktail lover and founder of the group The Cocktail Story (with members from trade, consumers and brands) ran a storytelling competition for bartenders, where they had to make short videos of their life and what inspired them to take up bartending. Puri says she got 100-plus entries and the first three prizes of Rs. 10,000, Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 3,000 each were sponsored by her. “Even though we work with various brands to host events offline and online, this was my personal endeavour to help bar professionals,” she says. Small amounts like these help. In the pre-Covid world, 30% to 40% of the monthly take home for bartenders would come through variable pay (service charge and tips). Now this component is lost, even if we assume fixed salaries are being paid (which is not the case for all) after cuts to a few. Despite this, many like Cindy Lalramngaihzuali, a 27-year-old bartender from Mizoram, have not gone back home. She says she is choosing to stay on in Delhi because of competitions on social media. “Every three weeks or so, some new competition comes up [hosted by brands as part of their marketing initiatives]. I participate for the prize money. If I went back to Mizoram, it would be difficult to keep track of them,” says Lalramngaihzuali, who was one of The Cocktail Story winners, and also won Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 44,000 each in competitions sponsored by liquor brands. In Mumbai, Shreyansh Patel, a bartender with Perch, bagged a $500 prize from a Hennessy competition. “This came in handy because, though I stay with my parents, I could pay my EMI and contribute to the 50 Best Recovery programme,” he says.  Where’s the big money?  In a scenario where help is grossly inadequate, liquor companies have possibly been the biggest source of additional funds. Bacardi had announced a $3 million global corpus under its ‘RaiseYourSpirits’ fund in April, in addition to $1 million by sister company Patron. Some part of this was used to help Indian bar staff too, and was paid directly to them. Then there are initiatives such as Jack Daniel’s Tip Jar that sought to get crowd funding, partnering with Indian Flair Bartenders Association to support staff. This Wednesday, Beam Suntory and Pernod Ricard partnered with NRAI’s ‘RiseForBar’ initiative, to give 3,300 bar employees in their network Rs. 5,000 each. Now, as the industry seeks to reopen, Diageo, one of the biggest spirits companies in the world, has announced a global programme called ‘Raising The Bar’, committing a whopping $100 million of non-financial aid. This comes after the company had paid for medical insurance of hundreds of bartenders in the initial Covid-hit months. Of the present fund, the India allocation is $10 million (approximately Rs. 75 crore) — to be used to procure safety and hygiene equipment like sanitiser dispensers and PPE, for staff training and advertisements to reassure the public. “The support extends to providing enhanced safety measures when they [bars] resume operations, enabling our consumers to feel confidence once again to socialise,” says Anand Kripalu, CEO and MD, Diageo India. Any bar, not necessarily contracted to Diageo, can register for aid too. A lot more needs to be done as we look forward to bars and restaurants reopening and resuming our old lives of wining and dining. But in these tough times every bit counts, as Butler’s walk illustrates. “Everyone recognises the warmth of Indian hospitality,” he says, pointing out how employees here go out of their way for consumers, an ethos unique to India. It is time we took that extra step, too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/guardians-of-food-drink/article32048210.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Reels: This latest Instagram update hopes to fill a Tik Tok-shaped hole in the lives of Indian netizens. Users can create 15-second video clips and add music tracks, filters and AR effects. This content will be showcased on the ‘Explore’ tab and also can be shared directly to your stories and timeline. It is no surprise that ardent Tik Tokers have been the first, enthusiastic adopters of this feature!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article32048183.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Have a laugh||Comedians Arnav Rao, Arvind Vyaas and Sudarshan Ramamurthy are all set to tickle your funny bone onLaugh Out (On) Lockdown, a virtual show to support street vendors in an initiative by NGO United Way Chennai. July 17 at 7 pm. At Rs. 299 onwards on crowdwave.in. Find a mix of sports and comedy in Kvizzing with the Comedians. Featuring the likes of Anirban Dasgupta, Sorabh Pant, Aakash Gupta and Rahul Dua, among others, the show will be hosted on Zoom. July 11 at 4 pm. Tickets at Rs. 200 onwards on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/have-a-laugh/article32048185.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy rum day||The second Saturday in July has been designated World Rum Day. So this evening, whip up your favourite rum cocktail, be it a Daiquiri, Mojito, Piña colada or Cable Car. Or keep it simple with a rum and Coke. If gin is more your style, there is a cocktail workshop by Madhu and Kasturi of Tulleeho, in association with London dry gin brand, Greater Than. Along with easy-to-make recipes, you can also soak up some tricks of the bartending trade to impress guests at your next house party. Only 20 slots available, free of charge.7011702081||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/happy-rum-day/article32048187.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Add to cart||Raw Mango, the Delhi-based design house, entered the e-commerce space with the launch of their online store. The brand’s latest collections — including ‘Between’, their Spring Summer 2020 line — as well as textiles and objects will be available in India and globally on rawmango.com. With Palazzo Versace Dubai’s E-Gift Platform, gift an experience. Purchase vouchers worth AED 1,000 (approx Rs. 20,000) before July 31, for a chance to win a night's stay in the Imperial Suite, worth around Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/add-to-cart/article32048189.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Butterfly People: What is the purpose of couture in the middle of a pandemic? Rahul Mishra tried to answer the question in this AW 2020 collection, showcased at the virtual Paris Haute Couture Week. Invited as a participant for the second time, he chose to highlight the creativity of hiskarigarsand the inspiration of his garden in Noida. Plus, he has launched his e-commerce venture at rahulmishra.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article32048191.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping kids busy||Does your little one have a green thumb? This 15-day workshop by eZone will teach them how to grow microgreens like mustard, mint, coriander and more at home. For ages four and up, from 4.30 to 5 pm, starting July 15. At Rs. 200 per child.9884851759. The iSpark Holistic preschool in Chennai has curated a Happiness Kit. This covers cognitive and language development, practical life experiences, and gross and fine motor skills. For ages 1.8 to 3.5 years. At Rs. 500 plus shipping.9884500881||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/keeping-kids-busy/article32048193.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Art on track||The Kiran Nadar Museum of Art is going virtual withVisions of Interiority, a show by artist Rameshwar Broota. Watch his early experimental films, and zoom in and get a closer look at his iconic paintings in the Viewing Room. Details on knma.in. Online auction house AstaGuru presents its Modern Indian Art Auction. The collection of 50 lots features works by KK Hebbar, Amrita Sher-Gil, Rabindranath Tagore and others. Tyeb Mehta’sSituationis the star, with an estimate of Rs. 3.5 to Rs. 4.5 crore. On July 15-16 on astaguru.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-on-track/article32048195.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for talk||Farrhad Acidwalla of Rockstah Media, Yuvaa’s Nikhil Taneja, singer Sushant Divgikar, India's first Drag King Durga Gawde, and activist Reshma Valliapan talk mental health and discuss everything from self acceptance to sexuality in an interactive Zoom session. On July 11 at 4 pm . At Rs. 150 per person, on insider.in. Artistes like Papa CJ, Swapan Seth and others are raising funds for the victims of cyclone Amphan.Kolkata Callingwill feature comedy music, drama and more. On July 12 at 7 pm. Rs. 400 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/time-for-talk/article32048197.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, join author Diksha Basu live to talk about her latest book,Destination Wedding,and how the idea of such a celebration in these times is a far-off reality. Plus, her parenting humour during lockdown. In conversation with Divya Kala Bhavani ofThe Hindu, on July 11 at 9 pm. From our Instagram Live sessions earlier this week, watch actor Aditi Rao Hydari, rapper-singer-songwriter Raja Kumari and Bharatanatyam dancer couple Renjith and Vijna on our IGTV channel @thehinduweekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article32048199.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||There’s no love like self-love||Last week, my old classmates were jabbering excitedly on a Zoom call. ‘Enough!’ I shouted over everyone else. ‘Mute your mics. Mute!’ Suitably chastised, they muted their mics while I spent the rest of the call telling them how to be silent and calm. A few classmates fell asleep. This is the calming effect of my voice. It is because I have become self-actualised of late. During this lockdown, while people were cooking, washing, going grey, I folded my legs into pretzels in front of my screen and downloaded one online course after another, on Self-healing, Psyhcobabblography, ShuttingOutShouters, DelvingDeepIntoMyself. My kids whined about being hungry and then finally ate all the packaged chips in the house for breakfast, lunch and dinner. They then whined about stomach aches. I told them to shut themselves in the bathroom and self-heal. It is the new mantra. No one should step into anyone else’s life. Do not get involved. Be strong and independent like me. Let those in pain go be in pain somewhere else. If they are near me, they bring their neediness and pain into my sphere. For example, when the neighbours call for something they need like salt or aspirin, I say, ‘No, because I’m social distancing, but I will pray that you learn to manage without it.’ My friend called in tears because her father was diagnosed positive. I told her, in my calming voice, to be positive too, and to stop dumping her negativity into my life. I then opened my screen to stare at pixelated waves and sunlit skies, to the rhythm of deep tissue healing music. ‘I am beautiful. I am kind. I am a source of love and light,’ I repeated beatifically after the online teacher. I have stopped following the news about all those poor suffering people. Instead, I wish them deep inner peace. ‘Their inners don’t want peace, they want food,’ said my spouse. I closed my eyes, covered my ears and focussed on myself. I can then shut out everyone else, especially his niggling voice, or is it my own conscience? Anyway, I do not need to help the suffering because all my online courses have assured me that it is most important to love myself and help myself. Two days back, I woke up with a fever. It was tough to keep floating on my high moral cloud when I kept coughing. My spouse had long-since taken our kids to their grandparents to be fed. My neighbours said sorry, they were social distancing. My classmates stayed silent. My friends said they were proud that I was so strong and independent, and to be positive. How selfish they all are! How will I self-heal when no one is helping me? Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/theres-no-love-like-self-love/article32048525.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Airbnb: class is in session||“Did you know kaftans were originally worn by men?” asks Narresh Kukreja, of the design label Shivan & Narresh. No, I did not. But I’m too busy attempting to replicate the sketch of a kaftan that Shivan Bhatia has just drawn for us on a croqui (that’s French for a type of skeletal design). I’m on a Zoom call along with several fashion and design enthusiasts attending the duo’s At Home with Airbnb debut. It is an hour-long virtual workshop where they take participants through the basics of fashion illustrations — how to create a swimsuit, something to cover up with, and to slip into for evening drinks. “The underlying idea is to impart our knowledge to a small batch of guests, where we can connect with them freely and take them through the whole process of sketching out a simple thought into a visually-appealing representation,” says Bhatia, speaking of the experience he co-hosts. At Home with Airbnb, launched this month as part of the platform’s Online Experiences offering, is specific to India. Each session is hosted by celebrities and influencers. Among the chosen seven is fitness trainer Nam-Wook Kang, credited with getting actor Deepika Padukone into wedding photos-ready shape. “I will show you exercises that require minimum equipment,” he promises, “or that use objects found at home.” Kang has honed his set over several months of lockdown while hosting sessions on his own social media handles. Then there’s chef Sandeep Sreedharan, of Goa’s Mahé restaurant fame, who intends to use “this as an opportunity to demystify the jargon around sustainable cooking”. He’ll approach his 60-minute sessions, one ingredient at a time.  Virtual advantage  Airbnb’s new marketing campaign hopes to capitalise on the popularity of its Online Experiences programme, where hosts the world over have found innovative ways to showcase their cities, even under lockdown. It saw a three-fold increase in the number of bookings from India in its first month (May) alone. It is important to note that 51% of Airbnb India’s business comes from Indians travelling within the country. So the aim behind the celebrity-driven approach is to boost those numbers. “The idea of Online Experiences was to bring travel to your doorstep at a time when you cannot step out,” says Simran Kodesia, Communications Lead at Airbnb India. “With At Home with Airbnb, it is another level of gratification. You get to say, ‘I learnt how to set the table from Devika Narain, the lady who worked on Virat and Anushka’s wedding’. It also helps our celebrity hosts to stay relevant and connected with their followers and fans.” True. Right through my session, despite the technical and practical hitches that seem inherent to such conference calls, there was a high degree of personal interactivity. Like a virtual classroom with the tutor calling each student by name, asking to see their work and responding to it.  Real world moves  But Airbnb is not the only player in the online experiences market. There’s an abundance of fitness, art, dance and culinary experiences online. There are also companies like Delhi-based MyScoot, and platforms such as Pytm Insider where activities are accessible. Which begs the question: are these virtual experiences — with and without celebrities hosting them — viable in the long run? “In theory, yes,” says Divia Thani, Editor, Condé Nast Traveller , India. “There’s definitely opportunity for some cool activities to emerge with long-term potential. A lot depends on the execution. But it is not an equal substitute. In the long-term, nothing compares to an immersive, first-person experience.” Bhatia agrees. “For many people, life’s passion points — be it art, fashion, cuisine, nature, relaxation — are at the heart of travel. And these points [which the virtual experiences reflect] will inspire them to book their next holiday, as and when we have the right global health ecosystem to do so.” I’m certain both Airbnb and the travel industry will be saying Amen to that.  Sign up for sessions with Devika Narain (Rs. 2,500++), Sanjana Chatlani (Rs. 2,261++) and Shivan & Narresh (Rs. 2,200++) today. Details: airbnb.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/airbnb-class-is-in-session/article32048700.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Season of global collabs||Rock icon Bruce Springsteen sounded both hopeful and despondent when he recently talked about how the pandemic was affecting him. “...Let the world open up before you and prepare yourself to accept it in its entirety, on its own terms, with a vengeance,” he said on American broadcasting company SiriusXM’s E Street Radio in May. Closer home, this is exactly what certain musicians seem to be doing — opening up their art to possibilities.  Jazzing up As Chennai remains under lockdown, guitarist Bruce Lee has been preparing for one of the biggest musical moments of his career: opening for three-time Grammy nominee and bassist Ric Fierabracci. The opportunity came by rather unexpectedly as Lee was barely active on social media and got on to Facebook because of his friends’ groups. He uploaded videos of his guitar covers featuring 90s hit songs by Bon Jovi and bands like Europe that were noticed by the international artiste. Tonight, Lee opens for Fierabracci (who has performed with celebrated jazzmen like Armando ‘Chick’ Corea and Dave Weckl) on an online show organised by the recently-launched virtual concert platform, riffbook.org. “Bruce is technically sound and knows Ric’s music so it is great to have him open along with bassist Aalaap Raju,” says Jay Manickadas, founder of Chennai-based Riffbook.  The Instagram chase Lee is among a few artistes who has had a chance to shine during the lockdown alongside international luminaries. Mumbai-based beatboxer Gaurav Gambhir had his moment when two-time Grammy winner LL Cool J, known for hits like ‘Going Back to Cali’, asked him to perform on his Instagram live sessions not once, but thrice. Gambhir, who goes by the stage name D-cypher, was noticed by the hip-hop star in May. “LL Cool J said he picked me when he saw the word ‘beatbox’ on my profile,” says Gambhir, who was part of Zoya Akhtar’s 2019 hit film Gully Boy ’s soundtrack.  Lockdown blues In mid-May bassist and Grammy winner Michael League, who leads the American instrumental group, Snarky Puppy, conducted an online masterclass organised by Mumbai vocalists Ananya Sharma and Brecilla D’Souza. “I didn’t expect Michael to consider the workshop. I’m not questioning their will, but their schedules would’ve been packed if not for the lockdown,” says Sharma, a student at Mumbai’s The True School of Music. League, along with Mark Lettieri and Sirintip, also from Snarky Puppy, were part of the Reboot Sessions organised by Sharma and D’Souza. Proceeds from the workshops (which also included Indian music industry experts), went towards providing 7,500 meals to the underprivileged in Mumbai. Next month, Pune-based vocalist Lakshya Bhatnagar is gearing up to release his new single ‘Zaroori’. It features country superstar and fiddle player, Jenee Fleenor, whom he approached on Instagram. “Fleenor loved the song. She played a morph between a fiddle and a violin which sounded so distinct, so country and yet so relatable to the feel of a Hindi composition,” he says. Surely, there’s hope yet for musicians across the world when the pandemic draws to a close. Until then, there’s Springsteen’s ‘Land of Hope and Dreams’ that can carry them through with these lines: “Tomorrow there’ll be sunshine / And all this darkness past.”   The writer is the former e ditor of Rolling Stone India .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/season-of-global-collabs/article32048538.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Turn back the clock||Marie-Cécile  Cisamolo is no stranger to exquisite craftsmanship. “I love my job, even on a Saturday,” goes an Instagram post, as she tries out a Bulgari ruby ring, a Cartier panther bangle-watch and other glittering pieces from the current Christie’s Hong Kong Magnificent Jewels sale. But the auction house’s jewellery specialist is visibly excited when she presses a tiny moonstone button on an Art Deco table clock and it chimes. Cisamolo is on a webinar about an ongoing collection of Cartier clocks, where each of the 101 pieces on sale features the French house’s mastery in enamelling, engraving and gem setting. And as she pulls out an agate and purple enamel number with a little agate door to reveal a meticulously designed clock face, or exclaims over the feminine colours or quirks of some of the clocks, Francesca Cartier Brickell, her co-host, provides the inside story. From the family album Sharing details from a decade of research spent on her recent book, The Cartiers , Brickell talks about the journey from Belle Epoque to Art Deco, mystery to prism clocks. About how Louis Cartier was surrounded by great inventors, including Edmund Jaeger. How he loved to visit Chinese antique shops in Paris to buy lacquer panels. And the trend for all things Chinese in the 1920s, as seen in vanity cases, jewellery and art. Sitting in her grandfather Jean-Jacques Cartier’s library (he ran Cartier London till the business was sold to Swiss luxury conglomerate, Richemont), Brickell points to a design aesthetic that was also inspired by the splendour of Russia’s royal House of Romanov. She reminds us of clockmaker Maurice Couet’s contribution to Cartier and presents original drawings and letters from that time. When Brickell refers to how Louis Cartier’s jewellery designs, in the Garland Style, inspired his clocks, Cisamolo picks up a 1904 creation in dark-blue opaline glass and white enamel from a shelf behind her. In the catalogue of clocks, all from a private European collector who had amassed them over three decades, the starting bid for this urn clock is CHF 40,000. The collection is estimated to sell above $5 million. Christie’s says the clocks, even if over a 100 years old, are in working condition. The mystery continues While the sale does not include a mystery clock — Cartier’s tour de force of illusion, where the hour and minute hands float free inside what appears to be a crystal ball, with no clockwork showing — they do have a few semi-mystery clocks. Cisamolo’s favourite, a day and night t made in 1913, comes with the Latin inscription: “I do not count the hours if they are not brilliant.” Previously owned by aristocrats, heiresses and politicians, these horological creations are a reminder of beauty and opulence from another era. As Cisamolo puts it, now let’s hope they find the right homes.  The sale at christies.com closes on July 21, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/turn-back-the-clock/article32048523.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding calm in chaos||“I feel like my songwriting is prophetic,” says Raja Kumari, about her latest single ‘Peace’, that was released last week. A laid back R&B number, it is a departure from the rapper-singer-songwriter’s usual hip-hop style. Recalling that she had co-written the song (with friend and collaborator Elvis Brown) in early January, she says, “I’d been going through a lot, missed my family as I’d been in India for quite some time, it was lonely… So I wanted to say something positive.” However, it is also relevant to the current state of the world, offering an escape with her smooth vocals and calming visuals. Chatting on Instagram Live earlier this week, she is impeccably turned out as always, although it is late night in California, where she has been quarantining with her family for the past few months. There is plenty of love in the comments for her work, especially the new single. Even her mum is a fan, says Raja Kumari. “It is her favourite because it is so peaceful and she can send it to all her friends. In the other songs, when I drop an F bomb, she can’t share it. So we have issues,” she laughs. The lockdown has taught her many things, including the true meaning of self-care, she says. Apart from going vegan and making other health-related changes, she explains, “I was going 20 million miles per hour and did not realise that self-love is sleeping on time, staying hydrated, choosing happiness and joy in every moment. Becoming my own support system has become the most important thing.” It is something she learnt through her career as well, getting into an industry where “no one looked like [me]”. To make Indian culture as mainstream in America as Latin culture is, she feels will take more than one artiste. “I believe we have a lot of talent. So if we keep elevating our quality, we can have a renaissance,” she says. This desire is why she partnered with Bumble’s ‘Levelling the Charts’ initiative to mentor upcoming young artistes in India. Her advice? “Perseverance, belief in self, consistency, manifestation, setting intentions, removing limiting ideas and beliefs, and having the audacity to believe in your dreams. These are the things that create superstars,” she says.  With half a million followers on Instagram, Raja Kumari has never shied away from activism on her social media page. Having grown up in the US, she says the current political situation and the Black Lives Matter movement has shaken many people “out of their slumber”. Counting herself one among them, she says, “I was affected by this idea of being a model minority, understanding my privilege and re-educating myself, and unlearning things. If I can bring in alternate information that my followers can research on their own to make a decision, I think it is my duty and responsibility to share it.” And to the haters, she simply says, “I wish them the best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/finding-calm-in-chaos/article32048524.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Motor vehicle sales hit a bump in Capital||Vehicle registrations in the Capital plummeted by over 76% between April and June this year, ostensibly due to the series of national lockdowns to contain COVID-19 and factors related to these compared to the same period in 2019, according to Delhi Transport Department records. Just 37,363 vehicles across various categories were registered during the April-June quarter this year compared to 1,61,040 during the corresponding quarter last year with registrations of four-wheelers recording a decline of more than 81% and the number of two-wheelers being registered falling by over 73%. According to the Delhi Economic Survey 2019-20, the total number of motor vehicles on the road in Delhi on March 31, 2019, was over 1.13 crore. Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) Executive Director Anumita Roy Chowdhury attributed the reduced registration figures to a combination of various factors including the provisions of four successive lockdowns, the economic slowdown and curbs on the sale of BS-IV vehicles. Green recovery On the other hand, however, the trend indicated an opportunity to effect a “green recovery” for the economy, making public transport a more favourable alternative in the long run and progressively flatten the pollution curve in a city with a burgeoning vehicular population. “During this quarter, the lockdown, the economic slowdown, restrictions on the sale of BS-IV vehicles have contributed to lower registration numbers. But at the same time, during the lockdown, the Air Quality Index (AQI) and nitrogen dioxide levels were also noticed to have come down dramatically since traffic had disappeared,” she said. The question, however, was whether and how long this trend – brought about “artificially” during national lockdowns – could continue. The pollution curve, she said, had flattened but began showing an upward trend in line with easing restrictions. But, in the meantime, an encouraging shift in public perception was also noticed. According to opinion surveys, Ms. Roy Chowdhury said, people were somewhat fearful of using public transport but the preference for walking and cycling has also increased. So, she said, while the usage of personal vehicles was expected to increase in the short term, in the longer run – that is in about one to two years – public perception is expected to be more favourable towards public transport. This, however, would require enabling policy decisions. “Our economic recovery has to be a green recovery. The government’s fiscal stimulus should also go to public transportation. Sound public transportation policy, tied with a push for electric mobility and reducing incentives for those opting for the usage of personal vehicles can sustain this declining trend in vehicle registrations,” she said.  The lockdown, the economic slowdown, restrictions on the sale of BS-IV vehicles have contributed to lower registration numbers Anumita Roy Chowdhury Executive Director, CSE||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/motor-vehicle-sales-hit-a-bump-in-capital/article32048520.ece
11 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP slams SAD for ‘doublespeak’||As the BJP’s alliance partner, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention not to pursue the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and to withdraw it to ensure the federal rights of the States, the Aam Aadmi Party has accused the party of “doublespeak” on the issue. SAD chief and former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal has written to the Prime Minister, stating that the proposed Bill had become a cause of public concern because it impinges on the right of the States and was against the basic principle of federalism as enshrined in the Constitution. In his letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Badal said the proposed Bill prohibited States from giving subsidies and cross subsidies which was a direct attack on the constitutional right of the State governments to help vulnerable sections of society. “....in case the Bill was passed many ongoing welfare schemes which provide subsidised power or free power to different sections of society would be adversely affected. Besides causing administrative problems, the Bill also has the propensity to cause social unrest once it divests subsidised and free power from various sections of society, including Scheduled Castes, underprivileged sections and the farmers,” he pointed out. Mr. Badal added that consumers would also face the brunt in case the Bill was passed in its present form. He pointed out that as per the clauses of the Bill, States would have to deposit payment for purchase of power in advance following which power would be given to the buyer. This, he said, is likely to cause great hardship to the States, which are revenue deficient besides resulting in the burden being passed on to the consumers. Senior AAP leader and MLA Aman Arora accused Mr. Badal for remaining silent on the issue when the Bill was being drafted. Mr. Arora said had the Badal family really been the sympathisers of Punjab and its people, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the Union Minister, would have put up stiff resistance and stopped it from getting the Centre’ nod.  ‘Clear your stand’ “Instead of making a fuss over the matter by misleading the people, the Badals should make it clear to the people of Punjab whether they would oppose the proposed Bill inside and outside Parliament and in case the same got the final nod, would they severe ties with their alliance partner at the Centre by sacrificing Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s ministerial berth?,” quipped Mr. Arora.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-slams-sad-for-doublespeak/article32048568.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||An utterly juvenile thriller||Imagine a writers’ room ideating on an elaborate 12-episode series. They are circling a script like a group of witches on a full-moon night, throwing into a boiling pot everything they consider essential for a ‘nailing-biting’ thriller: ceramic masks, bunkers, kidnappings, torture, blackmail, media frenzy, brooding cop, sidekick constables, mind games, morality, mythology, phobias, psychiatrist, prostitute, lesbian, night shots, and haunting pasts. But it’s still not enough to fill a dozen 45-minute episodes, so they double up the portions, stretch, twist and bring in some bizarre logic. In the end, you are served, Breathe: Into The Shadows , an utterly juvenile show, desperately trying to be clever and suspenseful, knocking on the doors of every successful thriller to borrow ingredients that may have worked for them in the past.  Failed argument One could argue that thrillers by nature are contrived. They are designed to generate adrenaline. But the second season of Breathe: Into The Shadows — starring Abhishek Bachchan, Nithya Menen, Amit Sadh,  Saiyami Kher — wants to be both realistic and a creepy anomaly. The story is focused on the kidnapping of a six-year-old single child of a psychiatrist and a chef, yet it’s so hard to sympathise with the parents. The show presents a farrago of twists and rudimentary cliffhangers, akin to soap operas. You continue to watch because you want to know what happens next; though not because you are emotionally invested in the lives of these characters. Like most series on streaming platforms, Breathe: Into The Shadows is in many ways, the epitome of binge-watching content hijacking streaming platforms. Even though there is tons of melodrama and sentimentality, one is seldom allowed to engage with the characters on an emotional level. The actors are lost in the constant reveals, action, and reaction. The series is Bachchan’s foray into the digital space, and he is given (at least on paper) an enviable role. But his default expression is of stoicism, making you wonder whether he is acting or that’s just his resting face. Menen’s default mode is of concern, and Sadh is always brooding. Gimmicks galore The makers have to resort to all sorts of audiovisual gimmicks to compensate for the flatness in characters and actors. The series has a grey, smokey texture, which seems to be the de rigueur aesthetic for streaming platform thrillers. Besides manufactured suspense, there is nothing visually arresting in the show. Even the props, the body language of the evil and gory murders are trite and unimaginative. The desperation to appear unconventional is blatant when the characters keep reiterating how gruesome the killings are. If you show, you do not need to keep telling. The sequence of events is structured with an intent to throw you off, but when the incidents do begin to form a pattern, the series becomes simplistic. The visual tone and acting pretend like we are witnessing something complex, but there is no intricacy in the narrative. The answers are over-explained and facile. What could have remained haunting questions of the human psyche, are given definitive — almost authoritarian — explanations. Successful psychological thrillers leave you questioning the ordinary, but Breathe: Into The Shadows makes even the most complex phenomena seem banal and comical. No impact You spend nearly 10 hours of your life, wanting to know what happens next, and leave the experience remembering very little, and walk away with no impact, thought, or rumination. All you have done is killed time in a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/an-utterly-juvenile-thriller/article32048537.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||With 2,089 new COVID-19 cases, total cases in Delhi touch 1,09,140||In the past 24 hours, the national capital has witnessed 2,089 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number to 1,09,140, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. With 42 more deaths being reported in the past 24 hours, the death tally climbs to 3,300. Of the total cases, 84,694 people have recovered and there are 21,146 active cases. Though the total cases in Delhi have been increasing, the active cases have been decreasing since July 1. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1 and has decreased by 5,861 to reach 21,146 on Thursday. According to the bulletin, a total of 22,961 tests were done in a day. The number of tests per million stood at 39,321, one of the highest in the country. Of the total positive cases, 12,272 people are in home isolation. Out of the total 15,244 beds in hospitals, 69.7% (10,631) were vacant as on Friday, according to the bulletin. Also, the number of containment zones jumped to 633.  The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 9.09% on Friday. This is a good sign as it means that fewer people are testing positive. In June, the positivity rate was even higher. After a modified ‘Revised Delhi COVID Response Plan’ was released on Wednesday, the south west district started holding camps for testing special surveillance groups (SSGs) including, domestic workers, drivers, daily wage workers, electricians for COVID-19, in areas where they work or stay, according to officials. Wrong data A Delhi government official  said that they were facing trouble as some people were giving wrong address or phone number while giving samples for testing. “About 5-10 people out of 100 are giving wrong details and when they test positive, we are unable to trace them quickly. Then we have to go to the area and find the person and that is eating away into our resources,” a Delhi government official said. The official said that people should give correct details. “We don’t know whether they are intentionally doing it. There is no need to be afraid of the disease. We have to be just cautious,” the official added. Meanwhile, the Delhi government also said that there were reports of black marketing of COVID-19-related drugs and warned of action. “There have been some reports regarding black marketing of COVID 19 drugs. In view of the above, you are advised to kindly direct your members to refrain from dealing in these drugs in a manner which is not permitted or unauthorised and should not get indulged in what so ever manner in their black marketing,” an advisory by the government to the President of All Chemist Associations of Delhi read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/with-2089-new-covid-19-cases-total-cases-in-city-touch-109140/article32048564.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects Sharjeel’s petition||The Delhi High Court on Friday rejected a plea by former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during anti-CAA and NRC protest, challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude investigation. Justice V. Kameshwar Rao said: “The present petition filed by the petitioner [Imam] is devoid of merit and is as such dismissed”. Mr. Imam in his plea had challenged the April 25 order of the trial court here which granted three more months, beyond statutory 90 days, to the police to complete the investigation in the case filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The court remarked the contention raised by senior advocate Rebecca John, Mr. Imam’s counsel as “not convincing”. It said the filing of the application by the investigating agency on 88th day seeking extension of period was clearly malafide only to deny the statutory bail to her client. “This I say so because the addition of Section 13 of UAPA to the offences has not been contested. The UAPA provides for extension of the period of investigation for a further period of 90 days i.e. totalling 180 days,” the court said. “In any case there is no bar in law for moving the application on the 88th day, are appealing,” it said adding, “no prejudice has been caused to the petitioner in the facts”. The court also pointed out that Mr. Imam has not challenged the addition of Section 13 of UAPA to the list of offences, which is he is accused of. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad district in connection with the protests against the CAA near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last, which turned violent. He had sought default bail in the case on the ground that the investigation was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days, which concluded on April 27. The police had registered a case against Mr. Imam under IPC Sections 124A (an offence by words, either spoken or written causes disaffection against government established by law), 153A (promoting enmity between different religious groups with an intent to create disharmony) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-sharjeels-petition/article32048514.ece
11 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||First bus rolls into Swabhiman Anchal after Independence||People in Swabhiman Anchal (formerly known as the cut-off area) in Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Friday saw a passenger bus plying for the first time in their region after Independence. The Swabhiman Anchal, which was covered by water from three sides and another side by inhospitable terrain, lost its remoteness after construction of the Gurupriya Bridge which connected it with the rest of the State. The region had long been a stronghold of left-wing extremists. Motor launches and boats used to be the only mode of communication to reach ferry points and from there people were taking country boat to reach villages. People were even using horses to travel in the remote parts of Swabhiman Anchal. Chitrakonda MLA Purna Chandra Baka on Friday flagged off a bus of the Odisha State Road Transport Corporation from Chitrakonda to Jodambo, where a new police station started functioning recently.  ‘No roads’ “There was earlier no road communication to Swabhiman Anchal. After the Gurupriya Bridge was built in 2018, the area was connected by a road which is still to be completed. We require to build another 35-km-long road stretch to reach the last village of the region. This is the first passenger bus service rolled out in the region after Independence,” said Manish Agarwal, District Collector of Malkangiri. Situated along Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border, Swabhiman Anchal comprising 151 villages was considered as a liberated zone by the Left ultras. Even State police was afraid of venturing into the cut-off area. Maoits from Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh used to slip into Swabhiman Anchal to take refuge. After security forces established their area domination during the past few years, the situation took a turn for the better. Different development initiatives were taken up. At least, nine roads have been laid in the difficult Ghat areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/first-bus-rolls-into-swabhiman-anchal-after-independence/article32048569.ece
11 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Economic fascism in Haryana’||Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has accused the ruling BJP-JJP government in Haryana of resorting to “economic fascism”, saying it has been raising loans but not utilising the same for the benefit of the people. ‘No relief’ “The BJP-JJP government has been raising loans and relying on market borrowing to deal with the situation arising due to COVID-19 outbreak, but no relief is being given to the people. Be it farmers, daily wagers, small traders and the middle class, every section of society is suffering, but the government has turned a blind eye towards resolving their woes. Recently the government raised VAT on petrol and diesel, bus fare was hiked, COVID tax was imposed... this is called ‘economic fascism’, while you [government] are collecting huge money but yet not passing on any benefit to the people,” Mr. Hooda told The Hindu . The former Chief Minister said under the BJP-JJP rule, Haryana, which was the leading State in the country in growth and development, has now become infamous for its scams and rising crime. ‘Cong. will win bypoll’ Speaking on the Baroda Assembly bypoll, Mr. Hooda said the people of Haryana are suffering from ‘five C’. “While the whole world is suffering from corona and China, we additionally have been hit hard by crime, corruption and casteism. Therefore, the public will teach a lesson to the BJP in the Baroda by-election. I have no doubt that the Congress will win by a huge margin in the by-election,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/economic-fascism-in-haryana/article32048572.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police horse injured on duty, pain in limbs leads to mercy killing||Immense pain in the limbs led to the mercy killing of a horse in Delhi Mounted Police unit. The horse named Sagar, who turned 16 in March and completed his service period, was euthanised a month ago, said a senior police officer from the unit. “Ever since he was inducted, two of his limbs were not in perfect condition. He was also given fewer duties. He was used several times during the movements of the Prime Minister. A little over a month ago, while on duty, he was injured and started bleeding profusely,” the officer added. The officer said Sagar was in unbearable pain for three-four days and wasn’t even able to stand. “He would barely get up to eat and drink water,” he said. Owing to his condition, the unit contemplated mercy killing and a file was moved. Permission was sought from the Commissioner of Police, sources said. Subsequently, a team of doctors visited Sagar. “The doctors permitted euthanasia,” the officer said. Animal rights activist and trustee of People For Animals Gauri Maulekhi said in case of an animal, which is a victim of abuse where a case under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered, permission from the magistrate is required to euthanise under Section 13 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. “If no case has been registered and an animal is sick or injured, beyond any hope for recovery, and is suffering immense pain that is likely to get worse, then a qualified veterinary professional can conduct euthanasia as a clinical veterinary procedure. Euthanasia must be done humanely with an overdose of anaesthetic,” she said. Number dips to 11 With Sagar’s death, the number of horses in the mounted police unit is now 11. According to sources, the horses in the unit have not been assigned duty since the announcement of lockdown in March. They spend their day at the stables in Old Police Lines while their riders are engaged in other duties. As many as 99 riders are performing Covid-19 duty. “There are six police ambulances here in Old Police Lines that are used for COVID-19 positive police officials whenever they need to be taken from hospital to home or vice versa. The riders drive those vans,” the officer said. The riders also manage the distribution of sanitisers and other items that need to be delivered to different police units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-horse-injured-on-duty-pain-in-limbs-leads-to-mercy-killing/article32048518.ece
11 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Positivity rate in Gurugram nearly double the national average||Though Gurugram has the highest recovery rate of 83% nationwide, the positivity rate, which is the number of samples testing positive per hundred, is almost double the national average, Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav said here on Friday. He also announced that guidelines on setting up of plasma bank and plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients were expected next week. Mr. Yadav, in a weekly joint press conference with Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri and Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, said there were only 242 patients under treatment at various hospitals in the district for COVID-19, including 36 critical patients in the ICU or on ventilator support. He added the number of critical patients had come down considerably from around 100 a few days back. He attributed the high recovery rate to the fact that most of the patients in Gurugram were asymptomatic. The CMO said the positivity rate had come down from more than 13% a few days back to around 11% now, but was still above the national average of around 6%. He hoped that it would scale down to 10% by coming Monday. 30,000 samples taken Mr. Yadav informed that more than 30,000 samples were taken for testing in Gurugram over the past two weeks, probably the highest in the country after the Delhi-NCT. It included the rapid antigen tests and the samples taken by the private laboratories as well. “Around 8,000 tests have been conducted in Large Outbreak Regions alone and Patel Nagar area has the highest positivity rate. Around 1,000 tests have been conducted in Sohna, and it too had recorded a positivity rate of 10%,” said Mr. Yadav. He added the in-house capacity of Gurugram Civil Hospital for testing samples was now 500 and could be augmented to 700, if needed. Of the 16,000 rapid antigen tests done over the past two weeks, 475 have their results positive. Mr. Yadav said that success rate of rapid antigen test was around 60-70% and the RT-PCR test was recommended only in case a symptomatic patient tested negative. Mr. Khatri said the forecasts being made on the number of possible cases in Gurugram proved wrong and the pace of infection slowed down despite an increase in number. He attributed it to the joint efforts of all agencies. Mr. Singh said the strategy of the administration was three T’s: Test, Track and Treat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/positivity-rate-in-gurugram-nearly-double-the-national-average/article32048558.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Issue notice to parents of students defaulting on tuition fee payment’||The Delhi High Court has asked a private school here to issue notice to parents of students, who are on default for payment of tuition fee for more than two months, before taking a call on discontinuing their access to ID and password for online education facility. Justice Jayant Nath said in case the parents are able to convince or explain to the school their financial problems or financial inability to immediately pay the pending fees, the school shall not take any step for the time being. “Where the parents are unable to satisfy/demonstrate to the petitioner [school] regarding their financial difficulties, the petitioner is free to communicate the same to the parents and decline to provide them ID and password for online education facility for students,” the High Court said. It also clarified that in case the parents have any grievance against such an order passed by the school, they are free to approach the appropriate authority of the Delhi government. The court’s order came on a petition by Queen Mary’s School, Northend, here challenging certain clauses in Delhi government’s April 18, 2020 circular directing all schools not to deny ID and password for getting online access of educational facilities to those students who are unable to pay school fees due to financial crisis arising out of closure of business activities. Queen Mary’s School has also challenged the clause in the circular which states that nothing except tuition fee will be charged from the parents during the lockdown period. ‘School in crisis’ The school submitted that taking unfair advantage of clauses in the circular, about 40% students are defaulting in payment of tuition fee, resulting in grave financial crisis to the petitioner. Mr. Chacko also pleaded that the school was struggling to pay the salaries of teachers and staffers. The Delhi government’s counsel said an opportunity may be given to the parents to explain. In case parents are not able to explain their financial problems, steps can be taken by the school, the Delhi government said. The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on August 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/issue-notice-to-parents-of-students-defaulting-on-tuition-fee-payment/article32048555.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC gets dedicated solar energy plant||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) got an impetus after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday dedicated the Rewa Solar Energy Plant in Madhya Pradesh to it. A major source of solar energy for the DMRC, officials said that the Delhi Metro procures 345 MU of solar energy per year from Rewa. “DMRC is meeting nearly 60% of day-time energy requirements from Rewa and overall 32% of the total energy requirements from this solar plant. With this, DMRC became one of the greenest metros in the world,” read a statement issued by the Delhi Metro. Other sources Apart from the energy procured from the Rewa solar plant, the DMRC also produces 32.4 MW of solar energy from rooftop solar power plants installed on roofs of DMRC stations, depots, footover bridges, parking and staff residential colonies, officials said. “In addition, 2 MW of solar power is obtained from waste to energy plant from Ghazipur. DMRC is encouraging the use of renewable power without any regulatory obligation and is contributing towards the National Solar Mission,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-gets-dedicated-solar-energy-plant/article32048515.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Right to education is more than a right’||Development of scientific temper and spirit of enquiry by education is important and right to education is more than a right, said former Chief Justice Dipak Misra while addressing a webinar conducted by the Delhi Metropolitan Education (DME) Law School, Noida. At the webinar on — The Spirit and Quintessence of Fundamental Duties —, Justice Misra said it was important to eradicate the idea that fundamental duties were non-existent before 1976, before being introduced by the Parliament. He said the Judiciary in 1969 had stated that when one enjoys fundamental rights, duties are always related to it, which are not spelt out but cannot be ignored. Stating that fundamental duties should become an in-segregable part of every citizen and be practised as a way of life, Justice Misra also emphasised on the rich composite culture of the country, “which many have not understood” but foster a sense of fraternity and brotherhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/right-to-education-is-more-than-a-right/article32048516.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Look into pregnancy termination, AIIMS told||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed AIIMS to “immediately” constitute a team of medical experts to look into the plea of a woman seeking termination of her 23-week pregnancy due to certain abnormalities in the foetus. Medical examination A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan directed the woman to approach AIIMS between 10.30 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. on Saturday to get the examination done by the medical experts. The High Court asked the Director of AIIMS to give a report about the situation of the foetus and if it will be safe for the woman to terminate the pregnancy by evening of July 13, and posted the case for hearing on July 14. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act stipulates a ceiling of 20 weeks, for termination of pregnancy, beyond which, abortion of a foetus is statutorily impermissible. The counsel for the petitioner stated that the abnormalities in the foetus was detected only after the 20th week of her pregnancy, forcing the woman to approach the court. The counsel said that there is deformation in the skull, also defect in the heart which are co-morbidities attached to the main abnormalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/look-into-pregnancy-termination-aiims-told/article32048554.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘15-20% tested developed antibodies against virus’||At least 15-20% of the over 22,000 people tested randomly across the city as part of a serological survey have developed antibodies against COVID-19, according to officials. The survey report being prepared by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which was supposed to be submitted to the Central government and Delhi government, was not submitted till 9 p.m. on Friday. “The report is yet to be finalised and was not submitted today [Friday]. The seroprevalence could be less or more than 20%. The north-east district [one of the 11 districts] had shown around 25-30% seroprevalence and three other districts had shown above 15%,” an official source told The Hindu . The official said that higher seroprevalence is a good sign as it means that a larger part of the population has developed antibodies against the virus and chances of them again contracting the virus are very low. Thus they can break the chain of transmission of the virus and reduce the spread of the disease. “Assuming that it is actually 20% in all zones in the city and that the survey truly represents the city, the virus circulation will still continue for a couple of months more,” said Giridhara R. Babu, professor at Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru. The process The serological survey was started on June 27 and 22,823 random blood samples were collected from people of different age groups and demographics. The blood samples were then tested in about 15 labs using antibody testing kits to understand whether the person was infected by the virus and developed antibodies against it. A positive result would mean that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. So, a seroprevalence of 20% would mean that 20 out of 100 people tested have developed antibodies against the virus. The serological survey is part of a ‘Revised COVID Response Plan’ decided by the Delhi government on June 22 based on the directions of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on June 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/15-20-tested-developed-antibodies-against-virus/article32048566.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Naidu advises DU to review ECA decision||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday advised Delhi University to review its decision scrapping the extracurricular activities quota and restore the system. Mr. Naidu, also the Chancellor of the university, made the recommendation after receiving multiple requests on the issue from artists and members of the Parliament, a statement from his office read. He recommended the continuation of the present quota system by earmarking seats for talented artists at a meeting with the university’s pro-Vice-Chancellor and Dean of colleges on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/naidu-advises-du-to-review-eca-decision/article32048521.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||STF told to act on illegal construction||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday said that a Special Task Force constituted for the enforcement of various provisions, including removal of encroachments, was directed to continue taking appropriate action to remove unauthorised construction. The urban body added that between May 2018 and June 2020, an area of 400 hectares were cleared of encroachment. Between July 6 and July 8, the EDMC and SDMC carried out demolition drives in areas like Subhash Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Jungpura, Lodhi Road and Mehar Chand Market, the DDA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stf-told-to-act-on-illegal-construction/article32048557.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA launches damage assessment scheme||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday launched a self assessment scheme of 23 Nazul estates in the city for damage assessment. Private persons who have occupied government land in an unauthorised manner will be liable to pay damage charges to the urban body. Areas like Paharganj, Daryaganj North and South, Karol Bagh, Jhandewalan, Sadar Bazar South and North, Aliganj, among others, are part of the said 23 estates. Officials of the urban body said that stakeholders can access the portal online and complete the self-assessment process for damages to be paid. “Through this Self-Assessment Scheme, all the assessees can fill up the details of their properties on the said portal, that is payment of damage charges, area and date of transfer of occupancy rights and superstructure occupied by them. They can also assess damage charges,” the DDA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dda-launches-damage-assessment-scheme/article32048556.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi CM praises, thanks plasma donors||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to plasma donors on Friday and thanked them for their contribution to save the lives of COVID-19 patients by donating their plasma at the plasma bank, which has been set up by the Delhi government at ILBS Hospital. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Kejriwal shared the audio of his conversation with the donors and praised them besides appealing to them to motivate more recovered patients to come forward and donate plasma. “When I hear stories of plasma donors, I feel very proud of my fellow Delhiites. So I decided to call and congratulate some donors. Do listen in to my conversation with plasma donors Srishti and Bhumika,” he tweeted. He said such donations were an inspiration for everyone, adding that young people like them could motivate others to come forward and save lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chief-minister-praises-thanks-plasma-donors/article32048562.ece
11 July 2020||IMPHAL,||HC suspends action against Manipur MLA||A two-judge Bench of the Manipur High Court on Friday ordered the suspension of proceeding of the Speaker’s Tribunal regarding disqualification of All India Trinamool Congress lawmaker T. Robindro for more than a week. Mr. Robindro was one of nine MLAs, including three of the Bharatiya Janata Party, who had withdrawn support from the Nongtmombam Biren government on June 17. He switched his loyalty to the Congress and went to court after Assembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand disqualified him on June 19, the day of the Rajya Sabha election. The High Court suspended the disqualification proceeding till July 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-suspends-action-against-manipur-mla/article32048570.ece
11 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bindu- AIIMS suicide||A 25-year-old junior resident at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Department of Psychiatry, attempted to end his life at the hostel on Friday evening. “The patient was shifted to AIIMS Casualty. He died later this evening,” said a physician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bindu-aiims-suicide/article32048517.ece
11 July 2020||New Delhi,||IIT-D incubated start-up launches device to decontaminate N-95 masks||An IIT-Delhi incubated start-up ‘Chakr Innovation’ on Friday launched a device to decontaminate N95 masks for reuse upto 10 times as a sustainable solution to fight COVID-19. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, launched the device that can decontaminate a mask in 90 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-d-incubated-start-up-launches-device-to-decontaminate-n-95-masks/article32048561.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Reels: This latest Instagram update hopes to fill a Tik Tok-shaped hole in the lives of Indian netizens. Users can create 15-second video clips and add music tracks, filters and AR effects. This content will be showcased on the ‘Explore’ tab and also can be shared directly to your stories and timeline. It is no surprise that ardent Tik Tokers have been the first, enthusiastic adopters of this feature!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article32048526.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Have a laugh||Comedians Arnav Rao, Arvind Vyaas and Sudarshan Ramamurthy are all set to tickle your funny bone onLaugh Out (On) Lockdown, a virtual show to support street vendors in an initiative by NGO United Way Chennai. July 17 at 7 pm. At Rs. 299 onwards on crowdwave.in. Find a mix of sports and comedy in Kvizzing with the Comedians. Featuring the likes of Anirban Dasgupta, Sorabh Pant, Aakash Gupta and Rahul Dua, among others, the show will be hosted on Zoom. July 11 at 4 pm. Tickets at Rs. 200 onwards on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/have-a-laugh/article32048527.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy rum day||The second Saturday in July has been designated World Rum Day. So this evening, whip up your favourite rum cocktail, be it a Daiquiri, Mojito, Piña colada or Cable Car. Or keep it simple with a rum and Coke. If gin is more your style, there is a cocktail workshop by Madhu and Kasturi of Tulleeho, in association with London dry gin brand, Greater Than. Along with easy-to-make recipes, you can also soak up some tricks of the bartending trade to impress guests at your next house party. Only 20 slots available, free of charge.7011702081||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/happy-rum-day/article32048528.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Add to cart||Raw Mango, the Delhi-based design house, entered the e-commerce space with the launch of their online store. The brand’s latest collections — including ‘Between’, their Spring Summer 2020 line — as well as textiles and objects will be available in India and globally on rawmango.com. With Palazzo Versace Dubai’s E-Gift Platform, gift an experience. Purchase vouchers worth AED 1,000 (approx Rs. 20,000) before July 31, for a chance to win a night's stay in the Imperial Suite, worth around Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/add-to-cart/article32048529.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Butterfly People: What is the purpose of couture in the middle of a pandemic? Rahul Mishra tried to answer the question in this AW 2020 collection, showcased at the virtual Paris Haute Couture Week. Invited as a participant for the second time, he chose to highlight the creativity of hiskarigarsand the inspiration of his garden in Noida. Plus, he has launched his e-commerce venture at rahulmishra.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article32048530.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Art on track||The Kiran Nadar Museum of Art is going virtual withVisions of Interiority, a show by artist Rameshwar Broota. Watch his early experimental films, and zoom in and get a closer look at his iconic paintings in the Viewing Room. Details on knma.in. Online auction house AstaGuru presents its Modern Indian Art Auction. The collection of 50 lots features works by KK Hebbar, Amrita Sher-Gil, Rabindranath Tagore and others. Tyeb Mehta’sSituationis the star, with an estimate of Rs. 3.5 to Rs. 4.5 crore. On July 15-16 on astaguru.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-on-track/article32048532.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for talk||Farrhad Acidwalla of Rockstah Media, Yuvaa’s Nikhil Taneja, singer Sushant Divgikar, India's first Drag King Durga Gawde, and activist Reshma Valliapan talk mental health and discuss everything from self acceptance to sexuality in an interactive Zoom session. On July 11 at 4 pm . At Rs. 150 per person, on insider.in. Artistes like Papa CJ, Swapan Seth and others are raising funds for the victims of cyclone Amphan.Kolkata Callingwill feature comedy music, drama and more. On July 12 at 7 pm. Rs. 400 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/time-for-talk/article32048534.ece
11 July 2020||July 11 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, join author Diksha Basu live to talk about her latest book,Destination Wedding,and how the idea of such a celebration in these times is a far-off reality. Plus, her parenting humour during lockdown. In conversation with Divya Kala Bhavani ofThe Hindu, on July 11 at 9 pm. From our Instagram Live sessions earlier this week, watch actor Aditi Rao Hydari, rapper-singer-songwriter Raja Kumari and Bharatanatyam dancer couple Renjith and Vijna on our IGTV channel @thehinduweekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdownwithweekend/article32048535.ece
