13 July 2020||Jaipur/New Delhi,||Pilot’s rebellion with 30 MLAs puts Gehlot govt. on the edge||The power struggle between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot, that has been simmering for long, spilled out into the open on Sunday, threatening the stability of the 20-month-old Congress government in Rajasthan. In a statement released through his media adviser, Mr. Pilot said the Gehlot government was now in a minority after over 30 Congress MLAs and some independent lawmakers had pledged support to him. Mr. Pilot also said he would not attend a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party scheduled for Monday. Late night on Sunday, Congress sources said former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had had a conversation with Mr. Pilot. The outcome of the discussion was not immediately clear. ‘Moved too far’ Meanwhile, BJP sources said Mr. Pilot had moved too far from the Congress for a turnaround and the party’s next move would depend on the number of MLAs that he could rally behind him. Several MLAs who support Mr. Pilot, have moved to a hotel in Manesar on the outskirts of Delhi while others have moved in with relatives in the Gurgaon area, all in BJP-ruled Haryana, a source close to him told The Hindu . Mr. Pilot was miffed over a notice issued by the Special Operations Group of Rajasthan police seeking time from him to record his statement in a case of conspiracy and sedition registered after attempts were allegedly made by the BJP to bribe Congress MLAs to switch sides during last month's Rajya Sabha polls. “The police sending a similar notice to the Chief Minister was just a pretext to harass Mr. Pilot,” the source in his camp said. A source close to Mr. Gehlot, however, said Mr. Pilot was playing into the hands of the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pilots-rebellion-with-30-mlas-puts-gehlot-govt-on-the-edge/article32061755.ece
13 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Xi’s mobilisation order, months of planning preceded border moves||China’s moves into the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake area and several other spots along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), starting in early May, were likely planned for months and followed a new mobilisation order issued by President Xi Jinping, according to the assessments of Indian officials. Several Chinese incursions across the LAC took place almost simultaneously in locations several hundred kilometres apart — some even hours apart on the same day — leading to skirmishes in early and mid-May. The timing of the incidents suggested a high level of coordination and planning, the officials said. In Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake, the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) deployments appeared to have been aimed at pushing India back from the LAC and redrawing it to more closely align with China’s official borders. A buffer zone that both sides have temporarily agreed to in Galwan has, on China’s insistence, been structured around Beijing’s new LAC perception, shifting the line around 1 km west. In Pangong Lake, China has thinned its presence from its LAC perception at Finger 4 but moved only to Finger 5, still much deeper inside from the Indian claim line at Finger 8 which is about 8 km from Finger 4. Starting in late January and early February, the PLA began what was viewed as routine mobilisation for annual exercises in Xinjiang, which borders Ladakh. This year, however, in a major departure from the earlier annual exercises, PLA troops that used to train far inside their territory, while border frontier troops remained in forward areas, for the first time moved close to the border. Due to this, there was huge mobilisation since April and the move was very evident, officials stated. Significant new order In January 2020, President Xi signed a new Training Mobilisation Order (TMO) for strengthening military training in real combat conditions and “to maintain a high level of readiness”. The new order updated the 2019 TMO, which was the first such order to be signed by Mr. Xi, and had called for implementing new military training guidelines announced by him in 2018 to improve combat readiness. While the announcement was seen as routine at the time, Indian officials believe it dramatically altered the pattern of annual exercises and China’s forward deployments, not just with India but also in other theatres, where tensions have flared this summer with Japan, Taiwan and in the South China Sea. Government sources said the TMO called for “confrontational training” to assess the reaction of commanders in real-time combat situations and deal with “a multi-front situation”. “They are putting these to test and are war-gaming in real-time,” said one government source, who like others quoted in this article requested anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/xis-mobilisation-order-months-of-planning-preceded-border-moves/article32061753.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Bengaluru may see lockdown extension if cases do not come down||The State government that had been firm on not imposing a lockdown again after it was lifted in June, seems to now have an open mind on the matter, with the exponential rise in number of COVID-19 cases reported from the State, especially from Bengaluru. With a one-week lockdown already announced in Bengaluru, from July 14 night to July 22 morning, senior government functionaries are not ruling out its extension in the city. Revenue Minister R. Ashok briefing presspersons after a review meeting of the COVID-19 situation in the city, which was chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday, said: “As of now the lockdown is for one week. The aim is to check the speed of the spread of the virus in the city. We will review the situation a few days into the lockdown and get a report from experts as well. We shall inform the public two days prior to the conclusion of the lockdown if there will be an extension”. Meanwhile, the State government is also open about imposing a lockdown in other districts that have been severely hit by rising cases of COVID-19, if need be, sources said. When quizzed over the issue, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons on Sunday that a decision on the matter will be taken soon, probably after the Chief Minister’s review meeting on the situation in districts on Monday. Mr. Yediyurappa will hold a district-wise review of the situation in some of the high- incidence districts, such as Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Kalaburagi, Dharwad, Raichur, Gadag, Belagavi, Bidar, Bengaluru Urban and Rural on Monday morning. Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday suggested that the lockdown should be imposed in other districts hit by the virus, and also said there should be a bar on inter-district movement of vehicles, exempting essential goods. Mr. Kumaraswamy has also urged the government to enforce lockdown in Ramanagaram district too as it is also posing a health risk owing to its proximity to Bengaluru Sources in the government said they were indeed considering a ban on inter-district travel. Mr. Ashok appealed to the residents of Bengaluru to travel out of the city, if necessary, on Monday and Tuesday itself, and not ask for exemptions and travel passes during the lockdown, indicating that an inter-district travel ban, at least from those areas under lockdown, may be in the offing.  We will review the situation a few days into the lockdown and get a report from experts as well. R. Ashok, Revenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-bengaluru-may-see-lockdown-extension-if-cases-do-not-come-down/article32061798.ece
13 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. sets up judicial panel to probe killing of Dubey, aides||The killing of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey allegedly while trying to escape from police custody on July 10 will be probed by a single-member commission, led by a retired judge, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Sunday. Retired Allahabad High Court judge Sashi Kant Agarwal will head the commission, which will be based out of Kanpur, and have two months to submit its report. Petitions in SC The decision comes a day after a series of petitions were filed in the Supreme Court seeking an independent probe into the killing of Dubey and his associates by the police following the Bikru ambush. The commission will also investigate ‘intensively’ the Bikru ambush as well as all the cases of ‘encounters’ between the police and Dubey’s associates, a government spokesperson said. The incidents had become a “matter of public importance,” making a probe necessary, the spokesperson added. Eight policemen were killed in the Bikru ambush while five associates linked to Dubey were killed later by the police in different parts of Kanpur and Etawah in alleged exchange of fire. The commission has been formed barely a day after the State government set up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the Bikru incident, the financial and criminal background of the accused and the role of the Kanpur police. The SIT has been mandated to investigate the involvement of policemen in the incident, examine a full-year’s call records of Dubey and his associates and recommend “suitable and tough” action against policemen they were in touch with, if evidence was found against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-sets-up-judicial-panel-to-probe-killing-of-dubey-aides/article32061762.ece
13 July 2020||Chennai,||DMK MLA arrested over firing incident||The Thiruporur police on Sunday arrested DMK legislator L. Idhayavarman in connection with a firing incident that took place during a clash between his group and that of a real estate businessman over a land dispute on Saturday. Three FIRs were registered in connection with the incident. Twelve persons, including Mr. Idhayavarman, were arrested. The MLA’s father was injured in the clash, and is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Mr. Idhayavarman has been remanded in custody till July 24. A pistol, which the MLA was said to have fired at the rival gang, and a single-barrel breech-loading gun were seized. The police found that the licences for the weapons had already expired. Two live rounds were also recovered. Tension gripped Sengadu in Thiruporur on Saturday in the wake of the clash between Mr. Idhayavarman’s group and that of Imayam Kumar, the real estate businessman. The police said the two had been locked in a land dispute for several years. Mr. Imayam Kumar and a few of his aides had visited the disputed plot on Saturday and found that the pathway had been dug up. “He then lodged a complaint with the Thiruporur police,” a police officer said. When Mr. Imayam Kumar visited Sengadu again, he encountered Mr. Idhayavarman, his father Lakshmipathy and a few villagers. A clash ensued. A senior police officer said that in the melee, the MLA was suspected to have fired two rounds at the rival group, injuring a pedestrian identified as Srinivasan. “There were injuries on both sides, and the injured were admitted to a hospital,” the officer said. “Mr. Srinivasan was discharged. But when the police went to his house to conduct an inquiry, he was not there. We suspect that someone involved in the case may be trying to influence him to withdraw the complaint,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-mla-arrested-over-firing-incident/article32061859.ece
13 July 2020||MADAN HERI,||Punjab farmers find a better way to grow paddy||Labour shortage after the exodus of pandemic-struck migrant labourers forced Gurteg Singh in Punjab to plant paddy using the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique in the kharif season, rather than do traditional transplanting. A month later, he is upbeat about his crop yield, and relieved at being spared of a major problem: handling crop residue after harvest. Farmers and agricultural experts say that large scale use of DSR to plant paddy could solve the staggering problem of stubble burning, a key cause of air pollution across the northern region. “I have used direct seeding for the first time. The growth looks good. I have saved on labour. Last year, I spent Rs. 30,000 on labour to sow and transplant. This year, I have spent only Rs. 10,000 on paddy planting in eight acres.” Another benefit is less water needed for irrigation. Most importantly, there will be very little post-harvest stubble,” said 48-year-old Gurteg of Madan Heri village. “As my crop will mature around 10-11 days earlier, I’ll have more time to prepare the field for the next winter crop,” he said. With sufficient time available, farmers need not burn the stubble. After harvest, the farmers usually burn the stubble to get rid of it. A short window of 20-25 days is the key reason for stubble burning, rather than opt for other ways of disposal. This year, the Punjab government relaxed sowing schedules, and many farmers chose direct seeding. Harjap Singh at Sotal also direct-seeded his paddy. “The DSR crop gets mature 7-10 days faster than with transplantation,” he says. In Punjab and Haryana, the harvesting of paddy is usually done between October first week and month end. The sowing of wheat normally starts in November and continues for over a month and a half. Punjab could see paddy crop in 27 lakh hectares this season, with DSR used in about six lakh hectares, said K.S. Pannu, Agriculture Secretary. DSR was employed in some 60,000 hectares last year. In Haryana’s, Raipur Jataan village of Karnal, Ravinder Kajal too opted for direct seeding of paddy in his 5-acre farm. He says, “I had sown paddy in April this year and it would be ready for harvesting in August. After that, I’ll be cultivating vegetables in the field as I have plenty of time before I sow wheat in November. With DSR, there would be very little stubble, and lack of time would no more be an issue in managing the residue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-farmers-find-a-better-way-to-grow-paddy/article32061756.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Highest single-day spike in deaths, cases in State||The State witnessed 19 new COVID-19 deaths and 1,933 new cases in the past 24 hours as of Sunday morning, taking the toll to 328 and the tally to 29,168. The number of new cases and deaths are the biggest single-day spikes so far. With the discharge of over 1,019 patients in the past 24 hours, 15,412 patients have recovered so far, and the number of active cases stands at 13,428. Of the total cases, 26,336 patients are locals while 2,403 are people from other States and 429 are foreign returnees. The new deaths were reported from Kurnool (4), Srikakulam (4), Krishna (3), Visakhapatnam (3), Chittoor (2), Anantapur (1), Nellore (1) and West Godavari (1). Of the new cases, 1,914 are locals and 18 are from other States and one is of a foreign returnee. East Godavari reported 268 new local cases, while Kurnool reported 237 and Krishna 206. They are followed by Chittoor (159), Guntur (152), Srikakulam (145), Vizianagaram (138), Prakasam (134), Anantapur (129), Nellore (124), Kadapa (94), West Godavari (79) and Visakhapatnam (49). With cases crossing the 3,000-mark, Guntur joined the ranks of Kurnool and Anantapur districts. The three districts account for 37% of the total local cases. While Kurnool’s tally is 3,405, the tallies of Anantapur and Guntur are 3,290 and 3,019 respectively. The tallies of other districts are as follows: Chittoor (2,668), E.G. (2,642), Krishna (2,504), Kadapa (1,786), W.G. (1,690), Visakhapatnam (1,377), Prakasam (1,172), Nellore (1,155), Srikakulam (995) and Vizianagaram (633).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-single-day-spike-in-deaths-cases-in-state/article32061760.ece
13 July 2020||Srinagar,||Pak. militant among 3 killed in Kashmir||Three militants were killed in an operation in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Sunday. “Three unidentified militants were killed in the Sopore encounter. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, was recovered from the encounter site,” Inspector General of Police Kashmir Vijay Kumar said. Pakistani militant Usman of the Lashkar-e-Taiba was among the killed militants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pak-militant-among-3-killed-in-kashmir/article32061976.ece
13 July 2020||MANGALURU,||Booth-level panels to be set up to trace those with COVID-19 symptoms||In the wake of a notification by the State government, Dakshina Kannada district administration has initiated steps to set up booth/ward-level committees for tracing, tracking and testing those with COVID-19 symptoms and also attending to the needs of vulnerable people in the community. The initiative will be launched on Monday in the limits of the Ullal City Municipal Council which is among those places where a number of COVID-19 positive cases has been reported. Subsequently, it will be taken up in six wards in the Mangaluru City Corporation limits and also areas in Puttur City Municipal Council and Bantwal Town Municipal Council limits. The government on July 9 notified setting up of ward-level and booth-level committees to involve people in effectively tackling COVID-19 and other viral diseases at the grassroots level. Additional Deputy Commissioner M.J. Roopa said that each booth-level committee will consist of four representatives from the respective area, an Accredited Social Health Activist, an anganwadi worker and a police beat constable. The booth-level team will, wearing gloves and face masks, visit identified areas to check the body temperature of residents and also to note down their oxygen levels. It will refer those with symptoms to the nearest fever clinic. The team will identify young children and senior citizens who are vulnerable to infection and arrange for necessary treatment for those among them found sick. In addition, it will keep track of those in home isolation who are now being monitored by the district administration. “As many as 300 persons have volunteered to be part of such committees in Ullal. They will undergo training on Monday and start work the same evening,” Ms. Roopa said and added that Ullal with 174 positive cases was among those places in the district that have reported a number of cases. A similar exercise will be carried out in Ward Nos 30, 40, 41, 45, 47 and 57 in the Mangaluru City Corporation limits and in wards of Bantwal Town Municipal Council and Puttur City Municipal Council limits. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said: “The booth-level committees will strengthen our efforts in reaching out to the needy.” Ms. Rupesh said that staff from all government departments have been roped in to keep a watch on those in home isolation. Teachers and block-level officers are involved in door-to-door survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/booth-level-panels-to-be-set-up-to-trace-those-with-covid-19-symptoms/article32062015.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||NATGRID gets access to data from 14,000 police stations||The National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID) has signed a memorandum of understanding with the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to access the centralised online database on FIRs and stolen vehicles. First conceptualised in 2009, NATGRID seeks to become the one-stop destination for security and intelligence agencies to access database related to immigration entry and exit, banking and telephone details of a suspect on a “secured platform”. The project aims to go live by December 31. The MoU, signed in March, will give NATGRID access to the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) database, a platform that links around 14,000 police stations. All State police are mandated to file FIRs in the CCTNS. “At present, security agencies directly contact an airline or a telephone company if they are on a suspect’s trail. The data is shared through international servers such as Google etc. The NATGRID will ensure that such information is shared through a secure platform, safeguarding it from leaks,” said a senior government official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/natgrid-gets-access-to-data-from-14000-police-stations/article32061757.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||NATGRID gets access to data from 14,000 police stations||The National Intelligence Grid has signed an MoU with the National Crime Records Bureau to access the centralised online database on FIRs and stolen vehicles. First conceptualised in 2009, NATGRID seeks to become the one-stop destination for security and intelligence agencies to access database related to immigration entry and exit, banking and telephone details of a suspect on a “secured platform”. The project aims to go live by December 31. The MoU, signed in March, will give NATGRID access to the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems database, a platform that links around 14,000 police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/natgrid-gets-access-to-data-from-14000-police-stations/article32061975.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka reports 71 deaths, 2,627 cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 71 fatalities taking the toll owing to COVID-19 to 684. This is apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. With 45 of Sunday’s deaths from Bengaluru Urban alone, the total number of fatalities in the district has now touched 274. With 2,627 new cases, the total number of positive cases touched 38,843. Of these, Bengaluru Urban reported 1,525 cases taking the total number to 18,387.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-reports-71-deaths-2627-cases/article32061800.ece
13 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Markets in U.P. to remain shut on weekends||All markets and establish-ments in Uttar Pradesh will remain closed on weekends as part of the State’s efforts to check the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/markets-in-up-to-remain-shut-on-weekends/article32061974.ece
13 July 2020||new delhi,||New cases below 2,000 for second day in a row||The Capital on Sunday reported 1,573 new COVID-19 cases in a single day, taking the total to 1,12,494. A total of 1,781 fresh cases were reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-cases-below-2000-for-second-day-in-a-row/article32061973.ece
13 July 2020||Kolkata,||Surge in COVID-19 cases in Bengal despite strict lockdown in 434 containment zones||West Bengal recorded yet another highest single-day surge in COVID-19 cases on Sunday with 1,560 new cases in 24 hours, taking its tally to 30,013. The spurt in new cases comes amidst a strict lockdown being enforced in 434 containment zones, since July 9. The State’s death toll rose to 932, with 26 more fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-bengal-despite-strict-lockdown-in-434-containment-zones/article32062160.ece
13 July 2020||Kolkata,||Flood-like situation in parts of north Bengal, met office issues ‘red’ alert||Heavy rains lashed Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and Darjeeling in the past 24 hours, resulting in flooding. The Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Kolkata has issued a “red warning” of heavy to very heavy rainfall in some areas of these districts. Parts of Siliguri were waterlogged due to incessant rains. Tea gardens in Mainaguri were inundated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-like-situation-in-parts-of-north-bengal-met-office-issues-red-alert/article32062159.ece
13 July 2020||Belagavi,||Belagavi sees 10th death||A 58-year-old man died of COVID-19 in Belagavi on Sunday taking the number of such deaths to 10. His 80-year-old mother died of COVID-19 a few days ago. The deceased was a tailor in Chavat Galli in the old city. He lived in Rakshak Colony in Hindalaga. City corporation officers sanitised his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-sees-10th-death/article32062012.ece
13 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalyana Karnataka reports 399 new cases||Kalyana Karnataka region reported 399 positive cases and one death of COVID-19 on Sunday. As per a media bulletin, a 42-year-old man (P-35,486) who was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) was the fifth COVID-19 fatality in Koppal. He was admitted on July 9 after he developed fever, cough and breathlessness and died the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalyana-karnataka-reports-399-new-cases/article32062013.ece
13 July 2020||BENGALURU,||CM to hold district-wise meeting today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will hold a district-wise review of the COVID-19 situation in some of the high-incidence districts such as Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Kalaburagi, Dharwad, Raichur, Gadag, Belagavi, Bidar, Bengaluru Urban and Rural and Mysuru, on Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-hold-district-wise-meeting-today/article32062016.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||16 employees contract COVID-19 at Raj Bhavan||Sixteen personnel at Raj Bhavan have contracted COVID-19, while Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has tested negative for the virus. Mr. Koshyari has denied reports that he is in self-isolation. “I am perfectly alright,” Mr. Koshyari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-employees-contract-covid-19-at-raj-bhavan/article32062212.ece
13 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally surges past 2.5 lakh||With 7,827 new COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally touched 2,54,427 on Sunday. The State also recorded 173 more deaths, pushing its toll to 10,289. With 1,243 new cases, Mumbai’s tally has now reached 92,988. The city also recorded 44 deaths, taking its total toll to 5,288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-tally-surges-past-25-lakh/article32062213.ece
13 July 2020||Chennai,||Education Dept. to telecast lessons on TV||The School Education Department is currently designing and shooting video lessons, to be telecast on television channels, for students of government schools. An official from the department said video lessons were being shot for Classes II to X.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/education-dept-to-telecast-lessons-on-tv/article32061860.ece
13 July 2020||Chennai,||4,244 new cases of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||The State recorded 4,244 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 1,38,470. Sixty-eight persons died of the infection, while 3,617 people were discharged. Chennai recorded 1,168 new cases, taking its tally to 77,338.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4244-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article32061862.ece
13 July 2020||Madurai,||Lockdown in Madurai extended by two days||The State government has extended the complete lockdown in several areas of Madurai by another two days, to enable intensive testing for COVID-19. After July 14, these areas will come under lockdown guidelines prevalent until June 24 in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-in-madurai-extended-by-two-days/article32061864.ece
13 July 2020||Chennai,||Fishermen stranded in Iran look to return home||A total of 65 fishermen, including 40 from Tamil Nadu, 19 from Kerala and one from Puducherry, stranded in Iran, are waiting for help from the Central and State governments to return home. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said that steps were being taken to bring them back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fishermen-stranded-in-iran-look-to-return-home/article32061863.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Panel suggests 21-day lockdown for Bengaluru||With Bengaluru reporting 1,525 out of 2,627 cases and 45 of 71 deaths in Karnataka on Sunday, members of the State’s COVID-19 expert and technical advisory committees recommended a minimum three-week lockdown. Andhra Pradesh witnessed 19 new deaths and 1,933 new cases, taking the toll to 328 and the tally to 29,168. With the discharge of over 1,019 patients in 24 hours, 15,412 patients had recovered, and active cases stood at 13,428. Of the total cases, 26,336 patients were locals while 2,403 were people from other States and 429 foreign returnees. New deaths were reported from Kurnool (4), Srikakulam (4), Krishna (3), Visakhapatnam (3), Chittoor (2), Anantapur (1), Nellore (1) and West Godavari (1). Among new cases, 1,914 were locals and 18 were from other States and one a foreign returnee. East Godavari reported 268 new local cases, Kurnool 237 and Krishna 206. They were followed by Chittoor (159), Guntur (152), Srikakulam (145), Vizianagaram (138), Prakasam (134), Anantapur (129), Nellore (124), Kadapa (94), West Godavari (79) and Visakhapatnam (49).  The number of cases in Telangana touched 34,671 as 1,269 samples tested positive on Sunday. On the same day, eight more patients died, taking the toll to 356. The State Health department said there were 11,883 active cases, 22,482 were discharged and 356 died till July 12. However, adding the numbers totalled 34,721 while total cases were mentioned as 34,671. The 1,269 new cases included 800 from Greater Hyderabad, 132 from Rangareddy and 94 from Medchal.   Kerala’s COVID-19 burden continued to rise with increase in local transmission. For the third consecutive day on Sunday, community-acquired cases exceeded imported ones. The State reported 435 new cases, of which, 215 were imported cases of people with travel, while cases of local transmission stood at 218. In Thiruvananthapuram, 31 out of 40 new cases were through local transmission, as were 35 of 57 cases in Alappuzha, 41 out of the 50 cases in Ernakulam, 41 out of 56 cases in Kasaragod and 24 out of 39 cases in Pathanamthitta. Ten health-care workers and two paramilitary force personnel contracted the disease through local transmission. Local transmission raised the patient load. Thiruvananthapuram with 548 patients had the highest active cases, followed by Malappuram, 521, Alappuzha, 372, Kannur, 334, Ernakulam, 329, and Palakkad, 328.  Two more deaths were recorded on Sunday, raising the tally to 31. Two persons who died on July 5 and July 7 in Thrissur and Alappuzha were found to have tested positive.  In Karnataka with 2,627 new cases, the total touched 38,843. As many as 274 of the total 684 deaths in the State were from Bengaluru.  Dr. V. Ravi, Head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is on the State’s COVID-19 expert committee said: “Scientifically, a minimum three-week lockdown is essential to cut down the level of transmission.”  Prof. Giridhara K Babu, member of Karnataka’s COVID-19 technical advisory committee was also of the view that a three-week lockdown was required for any “meaningful” effect. This would be an opportunity for the BBMP to gear up and prepare for the worst, he said.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-suggests-21-day-lockdown-for-bengaluru/article32061719.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Maken, Surjewala rush to Jaipur||Congress communications in-charge Randeep Surjewala and senior leader Ajay Maken were dispatched by the party to resolve the explosive political situation in Jaipur, while deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot continues to remain in Delhi.  The Hindu has learnt that both Mr. Surjewala and Mr. Maken tried to reach out to Mr. Pilot but he did not respond to either calls or text messages. Grim prognosis According to sources, Mr. Surjewala, who had earlier been sent by the party as an observer during the Rajya Sabha elections for a week, had reported back to the leadership that if the issues are not resolved between Mr. Pilot and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, there could be a split in the State unit of the party. Following this, Mr. Pilot had a one-on-one meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. He clearly conveyed to Mr. Gandhi that it was getting uncomfortable for him working with Mr. Gehlot. “He complained that even in his own constituency, he was unable to get any work done because of Mr. Gehlot’s intervention,” a senior party official said. Last week Mr. Pilot once again spoke to Congress treasurer Ahmed Patel. It is also reliably learnt that Mr. Patel tried to broker peace between Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot but with little success. Party insiders claim that the situation is grim, with at least 20 legislators including Mr. Pilot likely to walk away. Silence prevails As the uncertainty continued, a majority of senior leaders refused to comment about the events in Rajasthan barring Rajya Sabha MPs Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi. Mr. Singhvi said both Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot are seasoned leaders and have to demonstrate the “perspicacity and maturity” and that the turbulence should be shortlived and solutions lasting and deep. “Time for sobriety, restraint & balance in all quarters. Rajasthan, apart from being my home State, is jewel of Congress crown,” he tweeted. He said that there were no issues that were not solvable across the table. He also advised the BJP to stop fishing in troubled waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maken-surjewala-rush-to-jaipur/article32061729.ece
13 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Experts question basis of COVID-19 drug||Biocon Ltd’s psoriasis drug, Itolizumab, re-purposed for COVID-19 and headlined as a “breakthrough drug” for treating the moderately sick and the severely ill, appears to have been tested on too few patients to reliably conclude on its benefits, according to a review by The Hindu of data presented by the company to the Drug Controller General and comments by independent experts who have seen the data. To test the drug’s efficacy at preventing deaths or improving health outcome, the company recruited 30 patients across four hospitals, 20 of whom were given it along with the “standard of care treatment” and 10 were given only standard of care. In the set of patients that got the drug, nobody died. Of the 10 who didn’t get the drug, three died. That nobody on the drug died was significant proof of the its success, said company officials.  On July 11, Biocon announced that it had received the regulator’s approval to use the drug for emergency use in cases where the infection caused a cytokine storm, namely an uncontrolled attempt by the immune system to neutralise the virus that often ended up damaging the lungs and other organs and even death. With such a small sample size it would be “unwise” to conclude that it was indeed the drug that was saving the patients, said S.P. Kalantri, a physician at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram. “Given that it’s such a small sample, 10 here and 20 there, even if one patient had died in the set that got the drug, it would have changed the picture. So it isn’t yet valid to call the results statistically significant. We can’t rule out the effect of chance [basis this study].” An official from Biocon said the trial was designed employing a method called the Simon’s Two-Stage Design, an approach in executing phase-2 clinical trials (where the efficacy of a drug is tested). “If we were able to show two or more deaths in the control arm [the group without the drug], then a trial as small as 30 patients could yield results that were clinically significant,” said Dr. Sandeep Athalye, chief medical officer, Biocon Biologics. Given that the drug had been in use since 2013 and tested on at least 500 for psoriasis, its safety was not in doubt. “The 20 who got the drug have been discharged and are at home today within 30 days. We reported this level of improvement to the regulator and that’s probably why this drug has been approved for emergency use.” Other criteria such as improvement in oxygen levels and reduced inflammation were also much significantly convincing to several doctors who used the drug on their patients, he said. The evaluation also rests on Itolizumab being added to the “best standard of care” which Dr. Athalye said “slightly varied” across hospitals. “In general this consisted of hydroxychloroquine, ritonavir (antivirals), oxygen therapy, antibiotics, heparin [to avoid clotting] and some got methylpredisarone [a corticosteroid].” Dr. Kalantri said given that HCQ and antivirals had been conclusively shown to not benefit patients with moderate or severe manifestations of the disease, and dexamethasone (a steroid) was conclusively shown to improve patient mortality in the recovery trial conducted in the U.K., the latter should have been used as comparator. “Given that the benefits of dexamethasone are now proven, it would be unethical to not give it to someone who needs it.” Dr. Athalye countered that when the trial began, in May, the benefits of dexamethosone hadn’t been demonstrated (the results were published on June 16). Secondly, the said drug interacted with HCQ on which most patients were on. “So people avoided giving those two together. Because of this interaction, it’s generally employed in the later stages when on ventilator and not early.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experts-question-basis-of-covid-19-drug/article32061738.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Diplomatic baggage to come under the scanner||With ‘diplomatic bags’ turning a safe route to smuggle gold into the country, baggage arriving from abroad through the diplomatic channel will be subjected to increased surveillance by law enforcers. The seizure of 30 kg of gold sent through diplomatic channel to an officer of the Consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) via the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport and the presence of the Consulates of the UAE, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Russia, and Germany in Kerala have put the authorities on further alert. The diplomatic channel was reportedly used for gold smuggling six times this year via the airport by the same team that imported gold from Dubai and landed in Customs net. The inquiry by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will reveal if the diplomatic channel was misused for smuggling gold through other airports too, sources said. Diplomatic bags reach only the Consulates of the UAE and Maldives in Thiruvananthapuram through the scheduled airlines. The protocols of the Union Ministry of External Affairs and procedures of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) are followed for handling such bags. In the case of the Honorary Consulates of Germany and Russia in the State capital, sources said the needs are taken care of by the Consulates of the respective countries in Bengaluru and Chennai. Laid-out procedures Diplomatic bags should have visible external marks of their character and may contain only diplomatic documents or articles intended for official use. These bags should also bear the name and address of the consignee and that of the sender. Heavier diplomatic bags are carried as baggage on the aircraft while the diplomatic mail of the missions abroad is taken in the cabin as ‘Diplock’. In case an aircraft meets with an accident, there are laid-out procedures to destroy them as they may contain classified and sensitive documents. The diplomatic bags are sealed at the embassies and missions and will have to be collected from the designated Customs officer by the designated embassy officer. Mails are sent in advance on the diplomatic bag and there will be no clearing agent, sources said. A diplomatic bag of any classification, whether it is carried by a courier or sent as cargo, cannot be opened under any circumstances by security personnel. “Misusing the diplomatic channel for smuggling is the work of orchestrated minds and a serious look is needed to plug the loopholes,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diplomatic-baggage-to-come-under-the-scanner/article32061715.ece
13 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||4 dead in Assam flood, landslips||Floods and rain-induced landslips killed four people in Assam on Sunday, taking the death toll to 70 since May 22. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said the fresh wave of flood had affected 12.97 lakh — more than double the figure 24 hours ago — across 24 of the State’s 33 districts. “Two people drowned in Kampur and Kaliabor areas of central Assam’s Nagaon district while two more, both males, were buried alive by landslide in Sonapur area of Kamrup (Metropolitan) district early morning,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. So far, 44 people have drowned or were washed away and 26 died in landslides. Officials said 2,101 people had taken shelter in 118 relief camps across 12 of the worst-affected districts. Rescue workers evacuated 2,339 of them to safety. Western Assam’s Barpeta district was the worst affected with 3.84 lakh people displaced, followed by Dhemaji (1.31 lakh) and Golaghat (1.08 lakh). An overflowing Brahmaputra inundated 125 of Kaziranga National Park’s 223 anti-poaching camps, but officials said the water level was manageable and necessary for the natural cleansing of the one-horn rhino habitat’s water bodies. There was no addition to the 41 animals that died over a month. In Tinsukia district, operations to douse the flame atop a natural gas well of Oil India Limited were affected by the flooding of the site at Baghjan. The operations had resumed after the water level subsided a week ago, and the fire-fighters are expected to kill the fire by July 15. Heavy rain lashed several parts of Arunachal Pradesh during the last 24 hours, causing landslides and flash floods. Officials said there was no loss of life but many places have been cut off and some vital bridges were under threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-dead-in-assam-flood-landslips/article32061721.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||I am worried for our party, says Kapil Sibal||Against the backdrop of the political turmoil going on in Rajasthan, Rajya Sabha member and Congress spokesperson Kapil Sibal tweeted on Sunday that he was worried for the party. So far, the Congress has been maintaining a radio silence even as speculation is going on about a possible rebellion led by Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has called for a meeting of party MLAs and Independent legislators who are supporting his government. Mr. Sibal tweeted, “Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables?” He refused to elaborate. “I do not wish to add anything more,” Mr. Sibal told The Hindu . The differences between Mr. Pilot and Mr. Gehlot have been brewing for a while now, but sources say the tipping point for Mr. Pilot was the investigation ordered by the Rajasthan police into “poaching” of MLAs and a notice sent to him to record his statement. The police have sent a notice to Mr. Gehlot too. Last week, Mr. Pilot reached out to Congress treasurer and senior leader Ahmed Patel to sort out the issues and some efforts were made but they remained inconclusive. “His [Mr. Pilot]’s main grouse is that the Congress had won in Rajasthan due to his efforts but he was not rewarded for it. Instead, the bureaucracy doesn’t pay heed to him even in his own constituency,” a senior Congress leader said.  Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables? Kapil Sibal Congress spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-am-worried-for-our-party-says-kapil-sibal/article32061725.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||Aishwarya, daughter have tested positive: Abhishek||A day after veteran Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan and son Abhishek tested positive for COVID-19, the latter’s wife and actor Aishwarya Rai-Bachchan and their daughter, too, have tested positive. In a tweet on Sunday evening, Mr. Abhishek Bachchan said: “Aishwarya and Aaradhya have also tested COVID-19 positive. They will be self quarantining at home. The BMC has been updated of their situation and are doing the needful. The rest of the family including my mother have tested negative. Thank you all for your wishes and prayers.” Updating the health status of his father and himself, he said: “My father and I remain in hospital till the doctors decide otherwise. Everyone please remain cautious and safe. Please follow all rules!” On Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) declared all four bungalows of the Bachchan family — Jalsa, Pratiksha, Janak and Vatsa — as containment zones. Those were sanitised and all maids and employees tested for COVID-19. “A team of 30 civic workers was deployed for testing and sanitisation of four bungalows. It was completed on Sunday morning. Four bungalows namely, Jalsa, Pratiksha, Janak and Vatsa, have been declared as containment zones,” said an official release from the BMC. The civic body said as per the guidelines, the process of collecting data on people who had come in contact with the Bachchan family and testing them or directing them to go in to quarantine has begun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aishwarya-daughter-have-tested-positive-abhishek/article32061741.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Monitor illegal transport of cattle’||The Union government has alerted States to intensify vigil and curb the illegal transport/slaughter of cow progeny. Pointing to instances where cow vigilantes intercepted vehicles transporting cattle leading to communal violence, the Centre also called for extensive monitoring of communally provocative content on social media and action against them. In a note based on intelligence inputs sent last week, the Centre said there was a spurt in instances relating to illegal transport/slaughter of cow progeny in May and June. There were instance of cow vigilantes intercepting the vehicles leading to communal incidents in some States. Besides, cattle smugglers had attacked police teams during interception or routine vehicular check, the note said. Communal ambience Apprehending an increase in illegal transportation in view of an “upcoming religious festival” next month, the Centre said cow being highly emotive to one religion, any instance of interception and resultant violence would aggravate the communal ambience already stressed over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and COVID-19.  Though the police were taking prompt action against hate mongers and blocking or deleting provocative social media posts, there was a need for extensive monitoring of such posts and immediate legal action against the perpetrators, it said. Pro-active involvement of Community Liaison Groups to pacify the passions on such occasions would also be beneficial, it was suggested. Cow slaughter has been banned in many States and Karnataka recently said it plans to impose a blanket ban on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monitor-illegal-transport-of-cattle/article32061748.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. against virtual meetings of House panels||The government has refused to allow virtual meetings of parliamentary standing committees despite repeated demands from the Opposition parties, citing confidentiality norms. In 2008, during Congress-led UPA-1, then Rajya Sabha Chairman Hamid Ansari had also weighed in in favour of maintaining secrecy of these meetings. The latest demand came from Congress leader and Chairman of the standing committee on science and technology Jairam Ramesh last Tuesday. The committee met on Friday. The question that Mr. Ansari dealt with, was whether there should be a public telecast of the standing committee meetings, just the way Parliamentary sessions are broadcast. The matter came up before the General Purpose Committee (GPC) that is headed by Rajya Sabha Chairman. It consists of Deputy Chairman, chairman of all committees that are headed by Rajya Sabha members, leaders of political parties with five or more members each in the Rajya Sabha. The GPC had opposed dispensing with the confidentiality of the committee meetings on the ground that in-camera meetings give members freedom to speak outside their party lines. Other than Mr. Ramesh, three chairpersons of department related standing committees — Shashi Tharoor (Information and Technology), Anand Sharma (Home Affairs) and B. Mahtab (Labour) — have earlier made similar demands but were declined. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ansari said, “In circumstances of today there is no option but to embrace technology. The British Parliament is just one of the Parliaments around the world, Mr. Ansari said, which has been meeting regularly via the video conferencing. “There is no point of saying that what happened 12 years back is relevant today. Under present circumstances and compulsions imposed by the Coronavirus pandemic, there is no option but to use the virtual medium,” he said. From the first week of July, physical meetings of the standing committees have begun. Last week alone, three meetings of standing committees were held in Parliament premises adhering to social distancing norms. Presently, there are no provisions in the Rules of Procedure for holding virtual sittings of the parliamentary committees or allowing the committees to take evidence of official or non-official witnesses or experts through virtual meeting. The government has maintained that the rules have to be amended by the Rules Committee of both Houses of Parliament. This however, can be done only when Parliament meets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-against-virtual-meetings-of-house-panels/article32061727.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||48 at TS Raj Bhavan test positive, Governor negative||At least 48 security personnel, staff and family members of those working at the Raj Bhavan tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. “Rapid antigen tests were conducted over the weekend since a few of the special police battalion personnel had tested positive in RT-PCR test as a part of contact tracing with the help of Director Public Health. In all, 395 tests were conducted out of which 347 were negative. Twenty police personnel tested positive and were sent for isolation immediately. Ten Raj Bhavan staff and 10 family members also tested positive, all of whom have been admitted to Government Ayurveda Hospital at S.R. Nagar for further treatment,” a Raj Bhavan press communique issued on Sunday night said. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan led from the front by not only arranging for the tests to be conducted for the staff and police personnel but also volunteered for getting herself tested. Her result turned up negative. The Governor took to Twitter on Sunday evening to say, “I got tested for COVID-19 and negative. I appeal people who are in Red Zones or with contact history kindly get it done at the earliest. Early diagnosis not only to protect us but also others. Don’t hesitate! Test yourself motive others! Follow 4Ts Test Trace Treat Teach (sic).” “You will find sanitisers at every nook and corner of the sprawling Raj Bhavan,” sources said, adding that they were not taking any risk. Additional DGP (TSSP Battalions) Abhilasha Bisht confirmed that 12 constables deployed at Raj Bhavan tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “While a few were admitted at Gandhi Hospital for treatment, some of them are under isolation at the special facility provided in Battalion 1, Yousufguda, and others are under home quarantine,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/48-at-raj-bhavan-test-positive-governor-negative/article32062050.ece
13 July 2020||Srinagar,||Separatist leader held in Kashmir||Separatist Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH) chairman Muhammad Ashraf Sehrai and a leader of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) leader were arrested in Kashmir on Sunday morning. Mr. Sehrai, who is the second senior Hurriyat leader after Syed Ali Geelani who resigned recently, was arrested from his residence at Barzulla Baghat here around 6 a.m. “A police party from the Saddar Police Station, Srinagar, took him along in the morning,” a family member said. Booked under PSA Mr. Sehrai has been booked under the Public Safety Act, news agency PTI quoted the Director-General of Police as saying. According to the family, Mr. Sehrai had been under house arrest since August 5, 2019. Mr. Sehrai, close to Mr. Geelani, was likely to play a significant role in the Hurriyat Conference that is battling a leadership crisis. Mr. Sehrai’s son Junaid Sehrai, who was a ‘commander’ of the Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed in May this year in an encounter in Srinagar. Police sources said that a banned Jamaat-e-Islami (Je) leader, Mushtaq Ahmad Soaf, from Anantnag's Kokernag has also been arrested. He was earlier arrested in February 2019 and released this year. The JeI was banned last year in J&K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/separatist-leader-held-in-kashmir/article32061733.ece
13 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Disabled are entitled to same benefits of SC/ST quota: SC||The Supreme Court, in a significant decision, confirmed that persons with disabilities are also socially backward and entitled to the same benefits of relaxation as Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates in public employment and education. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman upheld a 2012 judgment of the Delhi High Court in Anamol Bhandari (minor) through his father/Natural Guardian v. Delhi Technological University. “In Anamol Bhandari, the High Court has correctly held that people suffering from disabilities are also socially backward, and are therefore, at the very least, entitled to the same benefits as given to the Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe candidates,” the Supreme Court held in a judgment on July 8. The decision by the Justice Nariman Bench came on a petition by Aryan Raj, a special needs person represented by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, and advocate Rajan Mani, against the Government College of Arts, Chandigarh. The college denied Mr. Raj relaxation in minimum arks in the Painting and Applied Art course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disabled-are-entitled-to-same-benefits-of-scst-quota-sc/article32061743.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Varavara Rao’s health a concern’||Family members of poet and writer Varavara Rao have raised grave concerns about his failing health and appealed to the Maharashtra State government and the Central government to provide him immediate medical treatment at a super-speciality hospital. Addressing an online press meet on Sunday, Mr. Varavara Rao’s nephew and writer N. Venugopal Rao said their concern now was not about his false implication in Bhima-Koregaon case or him being repeatedly denied bail, but about his tottering health. “We make only one demand: Don’t kill him in jail,” Mr. Venugopal Rao appealed. Hemalatha, Mr. Varavara Rao’s 72-year old wife, said the poet’s health has been a cause of worry for over one month now. His latest call from Taloja Jail in Mumbai, where he had been held as an undertrial since February, has only increased the fears of family members. “We have lost our courage with yesterday’s call. He was incoherent, and talking about the death of his long gone parents,” she shared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varavara-raos-health-a-concern/article32061750.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||NATGRID to get info of suspects from FIRs||The MoU between the National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID) and the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to access the centralised online database on FIRs and stolen vehicles, will enable the NATGRID get information about details of a suspect as mentioned in the FIR such as his/her father’s name, telephone number and other details, officials said. Asked if the MoU infringes on the federal system of the Constitution, since the NCRB under the Union government is only a repository and the data pertaining to FIRs of a particular police station are a State subject, the official said, “It does not violate any legal provisions as FIRs are shared with all the police stations.” Airline concerns Earlier the Civil Aviation Ministry and airline companies had raised concerns in providing information to yet another agency — NATGRID. The airlines contended that they already provide information to the Bureau of Immigration and the Customs authorities. “The deliberations with the airlines are still on and once NATGRID is operational, all agencies will have to route their requests through the secured platform,” said the official. However, the State police will not be part of NATGRID and they could directly contact the airlines or railways for information, the official said. The project in the pipeline for a decade and envisaged first under then Home Minister P. Chidambaram in 2009, has got a renewed push under Home Minister Amit Shah. Initiated at a budget of Rs. 2,800 crore, it will be a medium for at least 10 Central agencies such as the Intelligence Bureau and the Research and Analysis Wing to access data on a secured platform. The data will be procured by NATGRID from 21 organisations such as the telecom, tax records, bank, immigration etc. Autmated system Another official claimed that the information accessed by one agency through the grid will not be accessible to any other agency. “It will be an automated system and the request will land directly with the concerned department. No two agencies would know about the request generated by the other.” The official said NATGRID will act as a link between intelligence and investigation agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/natgrid-to-get-info-of-suspects-from-firs/article32061731.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,||30 more undertrials test positive at Bengaluru prison||Thirty more undertrials at the Bengaluru Central Prison in Parappana Agrahara have tested positive for COVID-19. Over a week ago, 20 undertrials and six prison staffers were diagnosed with the infection. “Luckily, this time too, all the 30 are asymptomatic and have been shifted to the COVID Care Centre at Haj Bhavan. The 30 undertrials were lodged in the same barrack as the 20 who tested positive over a week ago and are their primary contacts,” a senior prison official said.  Most overcrowded Over 400 undertrials were lodged in the prison during May-June period, of whom 50 have now tested positive. “We tested 150 in the first batch and 188 in the last few days. There are a handful of them left to be tested. We have ensured the newly lodged undertrials don’t come into contact with other inmates,” the official said. Being the most overcrowded prison in the State, there are over 5,000 inmates here. Prison officials said they were now facing a shortage of personnel as many guards, who were primary contacts of the six staffers who contracted COVID-19, were under home quarantine. “Their quarantine period will end in a few days and we hope that will solve the issue,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/30-more-undertrials-test-positive-at-central-prison/article32061828.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||NATGRID gets access to data from police stations||All State police are mandated to file FIRs in the CCTNS. “At present, security agencies directly contact an airline or a telephone company if they are on a suspect’s trail. The data is shared through international servers. The NATGRID will ensure that such information is shared through a secure platform,” said a senior government official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/natgrid-gets-access-to-data-from-police-stations/article32061977.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,||No need for physical presence of surety: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has waived the legal requirement of physical presence of surety giver for the execution of conditions of bail for the time being, given the restrictions imposed on the entry of people on to the court premises because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The court said that advocates representing the accused can produce the bail bonds and an affidavit signed by the surety giver, along with true copies of authentic ID documents such as PAN and Aadhaar cards, aside from address proof, a recent photo, and documents with details of property held by the surety giver. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on a PIL petition, initiated suo motu by the court for finding a solution to legal and technical difficulties faced in the conduct of proceedings on account of the COVID-19 restrictions. Also, the advocates will have identify the signature of the surety giver by signing below it, mentioning their registration/enrolment number issued by the Karnataka State Bar Council. While verifying such documents on behalf of the surety giver, if the jurisdiction magistrate finds any serious doubt about the identity of the surety giver or the authenticity of the documents, then the magistrate can procure the attendance of the person by videoconferencing by following the Video Conference Hearing Rules framed by the High Court, the Bench said. “As repeatedly held by us, it is the duty and responsibility of every court and of all the stakeholders to ensure that the functioning of the court does not become a source of spread of COVID-19,” the Benchobserved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-need-for-physical-presence-of-surety-hc/article32061703.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Pilot’s rebellion puts Gehlot govt. on edge||“The police sending a similar notice to the Chief Minister was just a pretext to harass Mr. Pilot,” the source in his camp said. A source close to Mr. Gehlot, however, said Mr. Pilot was playing into the hands of the BJP’. The source said there has been no communication between Mr Gehlot and Mr Pilot for months. “Mr. Gehlot is very accommodative but gave up on Mr. Pilot after a while,” the source said. Other sources said efforts by senior Congress leader Ahmad Patel to broker peace did not succeed. The central leadership despatched party communications chief Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken to Jaipur on Sunday. In the 200-member State Assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs, while the BJP has 72. The ruling party has the support of one Rashtriya Lok Dal, two CPI(M) and two Bharatiya Tribal party MLAs. All 13 Independents earlier supported the Congress, but three of them are now accused of being part of the conspiracy to topple the government. Mr. Gehlot, who had earlier accused the BJP of trying to topple the State government, said in a tweet on Sunday that the police notices, which had been issued to several persons in the case registered on Friday, had been interpreted in a wrong way. Mr. Gehlot called a meeting of Congress MLAs and independent legislators supporting his government on Sunday night in an apparent show of strength, while the Opposition BJP questioned his claim that huge sums of money were being offered to the ruling party MLAs. Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khacharyawas, at an interaction of some MLAs with journalists at the Chief Minister's residence, said Mr. Pilot would attend Monday's CLP meeting. Mr. Pilot was likely to meet the MLAs loyal to him before deciding on a course of action, the source close to him said. The probe has been initiated against MLAs Om Prakash Hudla, Suresh Tak and Khushveer Singh, who supported the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilots-rebellion-puts-gehlot-govt-on-edge/article32061705.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Xi’s order, long planning ahead of border moves||With the TMO likely to be in place till at least 2021, India is preparing for a new normal along the border, and is considering the possibility of positioning an additional division under its Leh-based 14 Corps, which sources said was likely to happen. The PLA’s mobilisations began in January after the order was signed, a government source said, and was initially focused on the more than 200 km-long axis stretching from Galwan Valley to Pangong Lake. On the night of May 5, skirmishes or confrontations simultaneously took place in the Galwan Valley and on the north bank of Pangong Lake, as has been confirmed in Indian and Chinese official statements. China has blamed the tensions in Galwan Valley, which culminated in a clash on June 15 that claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers, on India’s construction activities transgressing the LAC. The LAC along the India-China border has never been demarcated. In Ladakh, it broadly aligns with China’s perceived border, while in Arunachal Pradesh it broadly aligns with India’s perceived border. There are around 11 spots in Ladakh where there are differing perceptions of the LAC. There are also areas where the LAC differs from China’s claimed border, and the Galwan Valley is one of them. While China’s official maps show the border passing through the bend in the Galwan river where it turns sharply to meet the Shyok river, known as the Y-nallah, the LAC lies around 1 km east of it. India has been routinely patrolling up to Patrolling Point 14, which is a few hundred metres east of the bend, and was the site of the June 15 clash, which took place around 1 km inside India. ‘Exaggerated’ claim The LAC is broadly in alignment with the coordinates China provided India in 1960 regarding its territorial claims in Galwan, although Chinese maps now show its border further west, at the bend, which China calls the ‘estuary’. Since May, China has referred to the LAC as running at the estuary in line with its territorial claims, which India has said was an “exaggerated and untenable” claim. Starting in late April, China began objecting to India crossing the Y-nallah and reaching PP14. On July 7, Chinese State media released images, thought to be from early May, purporting to show Indian troops carrying out construction, such as foot bridges across the narrow river, in the area that falls in between the Y-nallah and the LAC. The images have not been authenticated. In a statement on June 19, the Chinese government accused Indian troops of “crossing the LAC” on the night of May 5 and said Chinese troops “have been forced to take necessary measures to respond to the situation on the ground and strengthen management and control in the border areas”. According to Indian officials, China had never previously patrolled up to the Y-nallah bend. On the same night of May 5, another skirmish unfolded more than 200 km away near Finger 4 on the north bank of Pangong Lake. Here, the difference in perception of the LAC was mutually recognised. China’s maps claim up to Finger 4, while India has been patrolling up to Finger 8. The Fingers 1-8 refer to mountain spurs running from west to east, towards the lake. China has previously dominated up to Finger 4 and built a road there in 1999, while the terrain means India can only patrol on foot from Finger 3 to 4. Since May, China has objected to India crossing Finger 4 and built a road to the top of the spur, occupying the ridgeline. Buildup of forces Throughout May, there were simultaneous Chinese deployments at other areas along the LAC as well as a buildup of Chinese forces in depth areas. A week after the Galwan and Pangong skirmishes, the PLA bolstered deployments both in the far north, from Dahongliutan near the Xinjiang-Tibet border starting May 12, and in the eastern sector of the India-China border near Naku La in North Sikkim from May 13, where a skirmish took place on May 9. Chinese troops also made ingresses at Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra and built up at Chip Chap, Spanggur gap and Changlung La. The rear areas were all occupied by mid June, officials said. With the disengagements currently under way, the concern in Delhi is the PLA’s strategy might be a “many steps forward and a few steps back” approach. With the new PLA training module in place until 2021, officials believe this summer’s events may not be the last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/xis-order-long-planning-ahead-of-border-moves/article32061704.ece
13 July 2020||Alappuzha,||KPAC artistes don role of mask-makers for a living||The Kerala People’s Arts Club, better known as KPAC, is synonymous with the long-term legacy of popular Malayalam theatre. Its revolutionary plays helped create social awareness and popularised communist ideology in Kerala. But, with COVID-19 bringing the curtain down on stage performances, albeit temporarily, artists and staff of the drama company have turned to mask-making to eke out a living. Until March, the KPAC auditorium at Kayamkulam used to witness intense drama practice by 45 artists of two troupes under the KPAC. However, the hum of sewing machines now fills the air at the auditorium with some of the artists and staff taking up tailoring, thus in a sense joining the fight against the pandemic. Profits distributed A. Shahjahan, secretary, KPAC says that they have turned to mask-making for sustenance. “Back-to-back floods in 2018 and 2019 dealt a major blow to the professional theatre sector in the State as drama groups lost several venues. The COVID-19 has deepened the crisis and pushed artists and troupes into dire straits. As the majority of the plays are performed between December and May in line with the festival season, we lost a good number of venues this year. The profit from the sale of masks will be distributed to the artists, staff and former artists in need of financial assistance before Onam,” Mr. Shahjahan says. Of the artists and staff of the KPAC, 12 living in and around Kayamkulam are engaged in mask-making. They have produced around 12,000 masks of different types in the first two weeks. Rates of masks range from Rs. 7 to Rs. 25. Less than market rate “We are not doing it as a business enterprise. We have a policy not to sell masks to shops and middlemen. They are sold directly to consumers below market rates. We have received a lot of orders, including 50,000 from a local body. Apart from different types of masks being produced, we are also planning to stitch designer masks for children,” Mr. Shahjahan adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kpac-artistes-don-role-of-mask-makers-for-a-living/article32061707.ece
13 July 2020||Kochi,||NIA court remands Swapna, Sandeep||Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, the two accused in the smuggling of 30 kg of gold through diplomatic baggage which arrived at the Thiruvanathapuram international airport, were remanded in three-day custody by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Special Court here on Sunday. The court remanded them after holding a special sitting here. Special Judge P. Krishnakumar arrived at the court complex by evening. The judicial officer was provided high security. Earlier, there were reports that the court may hold videoconferencing to consider the case. The accused will be sent to observation facilities till their COVID-19 test results are available. The two were earlier subjected to COVID screening tests. High drama High drama marked the day's development. The accused were brought here by road. TV cameras followed the vehicles in which they were brought to the State. By afternoon, they reached the office of the NIA here. Political activists, who gathered at different points along the National Highway, shouted slogans against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the LDF government. Some waved black flags in protest. The police had a tough time keeping the activists under control as some attempted to break the police barricade and force their way into the office of the investigation agency. They were taken into custody. Some of them were also injured in the melee. The accused were arrested by the agency from Bengaluru on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-court-remands-swapna-sandeep/article32061716.ece
13 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police officer arrested in Dubey case moves SC||A police officer, who was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh STF for tipping off Vikas Dubey about the July 3 police raid, has moved the Supreme Court for security and transfer of investigation of the case to the CBI. Eight policemen were killed by Dubey and his henchmen at Bikru village. Dubey was shot dead a week later by the STF on July 10.  Sub-inspector K.K. Sharma and his wife apprehend that the STF may “eliminate” him. Mr. Sharma pointed to the spate of police encounters.“The petitioner and his wife apprehend danger to their life and liberty in view of the extra-judicial killing of Vikas Dubey and other alleged accused persons after being arrested by numerous teams of police of State of U.P.,” the petition said. It said the petitioners are of the “firm view that the investigation would not be conducted in a lawful, fair, reasonable and transparent manner since the offences include the alleged killing of eight police personnel”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-officer-arrested-in-dubey-case-moves-sc/article32061744.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Romila Thapar, others write to Maharashtra govt., NIA||Five eminent persons, including Historian Romila Thapar, have appealed to the Maharashtra government and the National Investigation Agency to ensure that Telugu poet P. Varavara Rao, who is lodged in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail in connection with the Elagaar Parishad case, gets immediate medical care. “To knowingly risk the life of a person in state custody by refusing medical treatment would amount to encounter,” they said in a statement. Mr. Rao, now 81, was arrested in 2018. In a petition signed by Ms. Thapar, economists Prabhat Patnaik and Devaki Jain, sociologist Satish Deshpande and activist Maja Daruwala said that his treatment was abruptly terminated and he was taken to jail. It is a life threatening situation at his age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/romila-thapar-others-write-to-maharashtra-govt-nia/article32061745.ece
13 July 2020||Surat,||Gujarat Minister’s son held for lockdown violations||The son of a Gujarat Minister and his two friends were arrested on Sunday for allegedly violating the lockdown and the night curfew orders in Surat, a senior police official said. The arrests came a day after audio clips of a heated exchange of Prakash Kanani, son of Minister of State for Health Kumar Kanani, and his friends, with constable Sunita Yadav, who tried to stop them, surfaced on social media. Ms. Yadav stopped Prakash Kanani’s friends around 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The friends then called Prakash Kanani, who arrived in his father’s car and allegedly picked up an argument with Ms. Yadav, the audio clips of which went viral on Saturday. Prakash Kanani and two of his friends were arrested under various sections of the IPC. They were later released on bail, police said. An inquiry was ordered into the incident, after the constable alleged that she was threatened by the men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-ministers-son-held-for-lockdown-violations/article32061739.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||T-Hub, MeitY tie up to create opportunities for start-ups||Telangana’s famous technology start-up incubator T-Hub and Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) have joined hands to launch Digital India Scale-up Programme to create scale up opportunities for Hardware/IoT start-ups in India The call for applications from the start-ups is open. From among the hundreds of start-ups that are expected to apply, 10-15 with leading-edge solutions in mobility, energy, agriculture, aerospace, manufacturing, consumer, healthtech, medtech, smart cities and logistics and supply chain sectors will be short-listed. Those selected, after an extensive screening process, will get access to a six-month acceleration programme. They will go through regular interventions through boot camps and dedicated mentoring organised by T-Hub. The programme is designed for Internet of Things (IoT) and Hardware start-ups and will provide them with mentorship as well as exposure to the domestic and global innovation ecosystem. During the programme, the start-ups will get exposure to design/enhance their hardware. In addition, they will receive mentorship in areas such as pricing, go-to-market strategies, and fund raising. The short-listed start-ups will also get equity-free grants, a release from T-Hub on the launch said. T-Hub CEO and Chief Innovation Officer of Telangana Ravi Narayan said, “Towards fuelling the growth of hardware and IoT start-ups in India, T-Hub has partnered with MeitY to take the ecosystem.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/t-hub-meity-tie-up-to-create-opportunities-for-start-ups/article32062043.ece
13 July 2020||Chandigarh,||FIR against banned outfit member||The Haryana Police on Sunday registered a second FIR against Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, a U.S.-based member of the banned pro-Khalistan outfit ‘Sikhs for Justice’, on charges of sedition and secession. The Ministry of Home Affairs has designated Pannun a terrorist for actively running a secessionist campaign against India and motivating Sikh youth from Punjab to join militancy. A Haryana Police spokesperson said they have got blocked all the websites allegedly created by Pannun and launched in the past one week. The FIR has been registered at Kurukshetra. The complainant has alleged that Pannun has been blaming the State government and people for being inimical to the interests of Sikhs and Punjabis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-against-banned-outfit-member/article32061978.ece
13 July 2020||Srinagar,||Neutralise killers of Bari, says BJP||Top BJP leadership, including national general secretary Ram Madhav, vice-president Avinash Rai Khanna and Union Minister Jitender Singh, on Sunday visited the residence of slain BJP leader Wasim Bari, who was killed by militants along with his father and brother on July 8. “The party is extremely grieved over the killing of BJP youth leader Bari. The nation in general and the BJP in particular stand with the family members of Bari in this hour of grief. I demand that the government of J&K trace the killers and neutralise them soon,” Mr. Madhav said, interacting with the media in Bandipora. Mr. Madhav also demanded adequate security cover to all the political workers in the Kashmir Valley.  ‘NC, PDP hesitant’ Taking a dig at the regional parties, Mr. Madhav said the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had failed to represent the aspirations of people in the current situation. “Though political activities have resumed in the Valley, the NC and PDP are hesitating to come forward to represent the people. These parties are enjoying themselves on Twitter and are shying away to address the daily issues of common people,” Mr. Madhav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neutralise-killers-of-bari-says-bjp/article32061722.ece
13 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. Congress MLA quits, joins BJP||A Congress MLA from the Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh resigned on Sunday and joined the BJP, dealing another jolt to the Congress. Kunwar Pradyumna Singh Lodhi, MLA from Malhara in Chhatarpur district, joined the BJP in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and State party president V.D. Sharma here. Later, he was appointed chairman of the M.P. State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. “He will have the status of a Cabinet Minister,” the Chief Minister’s Office said. “This is important for the development of Bundelkhand. I have come as a soldier of the BJP...” said Mr. Lodhi. With his exit, the Congress numbers in the Assembly have dropped to 91.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-congress-mla-quits-joins-bjp/article32061723.ece
13 July 2020||Srinagar,||Militant among 3 killed in Kashmir||Three militants were killed in a day-long operation in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Sunday. “Three unidentified militants were killed in the Sopore encounter. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, was recovered from the encounter site,” Inspector General of Police Kashmir Vijay Kumar said. “ Pakistani militant Usman of the Lashkar-e-Taiba was among the killed militants. He was involved in a recent attack at Sopore, in which one CRPF jawan and one civilian were killed. It’s a big success for police and the security forces,” the IGP said later. The gunfight between the hiding militants and the security forces erupted early Sunday morning when a team of the Army, the police and the CRPF cordoned off the Reban area of Sopore. The police said the hiding militants opened fire on the search party. While one militant was killed earlier in the day, two more were killed in the afternoon, the police said. A civilian’s house also got damaged during the operation, locals said. An Army spokesman said some militants attacked a Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) patrol on Sunday evening. Attack on CAPF patrol “Terrorists made an abortive bid to attack CAPF around 4:45 p.m. at Chersoo, Awantipora [in south Kashmir]. Suspects moving on a bike threw two grenades on the CAPF. However, the grenades did not explode. Efforts are on to nab the terrorists,” the spokesman said. Over 127 militants have been killed in Kashmir in operations so far this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistani-militant-among-3-killed-in-kashmir/article32061735.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||16 Raj Bhavan staffers positive||Sixteen personnel at Raj Bhavan in south Mumbai have contracted COVID-19, a civic official said on Sunday. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari tested negative. “I am perfectly alright, and not in self-isolation,” he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16-raj-bhavan-staffers-positive/article32061751.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||2 Dubey aides remanded in judicial custody||Two aides of slain Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey were remanded in judicial custody till July 21 by the Thane magistrate court on Sunday. Arvind, alias Guddan Ramvilas Trivedi, and Sushilkumar, alias Sonu Suresh Tiwari, were detained by the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad on Saturday from Thane. An ATS official said the Kanpur police have reached Maharashtra and would move court tomorrow for their transit bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-dubey-aides-remanded-in-judicial-custody/article32061746.ece
13 July 2020||Vijayawada,||Gollapudi market to observe lockdown||The wholesale market in Gollapudi is going to observe lockdown for a week starting from Monday in view of increasing cases of COVID-19. The market body and traders took the decision following the spurt in cases in and around the market area. The market houses over 500 wholesale shops which supply a variety of goods to the shops in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gollapudi-market-to-observe-lockdown/article32062262.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Teenmaar Mallanna allegedly attacked by ‘TRS goons’||Television show presenter Naveen Kumar Chintapandu, popularly known as Teenmaar Mallanna, on Sunday alleged that he was attacked by the supporters of Armoor TRS MLA A. Jeevan Reddy while he was going to Armoor police station in compliance of the notice served on him. Mr. Mallanna said that around 1.30 p.m. when his vehicle stopped near Indalwai toll plaza, a group of men attacked his vehicle and abused him in filthy language. “My advocate Umesh Chandra and I were in the car when they (alleged TRS activists) intercepted my car and started attacking. We locked ourselves inside the vehicle,” he told The Hindu . The political critic and independent journalist, who also runs a YouTube channel called Q News , said that police were ‘well-informed’ and were mute spectators when the ‘TRS workers’ were threatening and attacking him. “A few minutes later, police came to our rescue and restrained the alleged perpetrators. They were aware of the attack but did little to prevent it,” Mr. Mallanna alleged. The police escorted the TV presenter to Indalwai police station and served him notice in connection with a case registered against him in Armoor police station. Further, he also lodged a complaint against MLA Jeevan Reddy, and his supporters for attacking him. “It was a act of cowardice, which is equally illegal and unlawful. The TRS party is harassing me for criticising the Chief Minister for his wrong-doings. The Constitution and free speech cannot be choked or muzzled by indulging in violence against those who speak for the people,” Mr. Mallanna said. Meanwhile, repeated attempts by The Hindu to contact Nizamabad Commissioner of Police Karthikeya, on allegations levelled by Mr. Mallanna that police were ‘mute spectators’, failed. Recently, Mr. Mallanna filed a writ petition in the High Court seeking information about the whereabouts of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his health condition, as his last public appearance was on June 28. Various political parties across the State condemned the attack on Mr. Mallanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teenmaar-mallanna-allegedly-attacked-by-trs-goons/article32061708.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lower intake in engg. colleges||The intake in engineering colleges in the State this academic year will be at least 16,000 seats lower than last year. This year, the State may have 2,65,724 seats as against 2,81,607 last year. According to data on the website of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), 506 private colleges will admit students this academic year. Anna University sources said that the number of seats could further come down after colleges completed the affiliation process. The last date for affiliation was extended to July 15 from June 30. Affiliation fee P. Selvaraj, secretary, Consortium of Self-Financing Professional, Arts and Science Colleges in Tamil Nadu, said many colleges were finding it difficult to pay the affiliation fee that the university had fixed. “The government is against us collecting fees from students. Yet we have to pay salaries, and now the affiliation fee. Colleges are already struggling, and now the government is also planning to conduct exams,” he said. The number of institutions had fallen as those that consistently admitted less than 30% students in the last five years were bound to be shut down as per the AICTE norms. The AICTE data on the number of faculty members have thrown up a surprise. During the academic year 2019-20, there were 85,842 teachers in engineering colleges. This academic year, the number has grown to 88,213. Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa said colleges that offered programmes approved by the AICTE had automatically been approved by the university. There were some courses that the AICTE did not approve, and the university had also rejected the requests for such courses. The Directorate of Technical Education will conduct counselling for engineering admission after the Class 12 results are published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lower-intake-in-engineering-colleges/article32061909.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily case tally surges past 4,000 again||After staying relatively low for two days, Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 case tally breached the 4,000-mark yet again on Sunday. As many as 4,244 fresh cases were recorded in the State, taking the total number of persons who have tested positive to 1,38,470*. At the same time, 3,617 persons were discharged from various facilities after treatment, bringing their overall tally to 89,532. According to the daily health bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health, the number of active cases in Tamil Nadu stood at 46,969. The State also recorded 68 deaths on Sunday, including 25 at private hospitals and 43 at government facilities. The overall death toll stands at 1,966. Among the deaths recorded in Sunday’s bulletin, eight persons had no co-morbid conditions. Five of them had died at government hospitals and three at private hospitals. In Chennai, 1,168 patients tested positive for the infection, while 1,668 persons were discharged. A total of 17,469 persons were undergoing treatment, including those at home, health officials said. The city has recorded a total of 77,338 cases, and 58,615 persons have been discharged. On Sunday, Chennai recorded 32 deaths, taking the total number of people who have died in the State capital to 1,253.  Spike in districts Thirteen districts in the State recorded cases in triple digits. Kancheepuram led the pack with 385 cases, followed by Madurai with 319. Virudhunagar posted 246 cases, Chengalpattu 245, and Tiruvallur 232. Tiruvallur and Madurai accounted for five deaths each, while Chengalpattu and Virudhunagar recorded four deaths each. As many as 16,09,448 samples have been tested, including the 42,531 samples tested on Sunday. A total of 15,42,234 persons have been tested in the State so far. The State government has approved three private laboratories in Tiruchi for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are 105 approved laboratories in the State, including 53 in the government sector and 52 in the private sector.  Pulse oximeters The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation has procured 43,000 units of pulse oximeter to test the oxygen saturation level in the blood, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said in a press release. Already, 23,000 units of the device had been distributed for use in fever clinics and COVID care centres, and to check patients in home settings. The remaining units would be distributed in a couple of days, Mr. Vijayabaskar said.  (Two deaths were cross-notified to other States and one patient died after testing negative for the infection).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-case-tally-surges-past-4000-again/article32061885.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary cracks the whip on latecomers in Secretariat||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam has directed all department secretaries to produce the attendance of all secretariat staff to him on a daily basis from Monday. The development comes amid complaints that some employees, including IAS officers, report to work late or leave early. In a two-page note, Mr. Shanmugam asked the Secretaries to send the attendance particulars daily in a specified format to the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms, whose Secretary would compile the information and present it to him every day. The Secretaries could coordinate with the Transport Secretary for arranging buses for daily commute of the staff, he said. “This monitoring will be done by me for the Secretariat from July 13. Similarly, monitoring should be done by the Secretaries concerned with respect to the offices under their control,” the Chief Secretary added. Mr. Shanmugam pointed out that all government offices were functioning with half of the workforce now (due to COVID-19 lockdown) but all Group “A” officers and heads of departments should compulsorily attend the office, except in the case of pregnant women and persons with disabilities. A Section Officer posted in the Secretariat said that although most employees turned up in time, some were regularly late. “Even a few IAS officers come to office by afternoon and leave office by 4.30 p.m. daily,” he alleged. However, he said there were quite a few departments that worked round-the-clock with the government machinery focussing on combating COVID-19. While some staff attended office by afternoon and left early, some of them took leave for every three days as an adjustment within their department, he said. This, he felt, could have been the reason behind the Chief Secretary’s action.  Even a few IAS officers come to office by afternoon and leave office by 4.30 p.m. Daily Section Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-secretary-cracks-the-whip-on-latecomers-at-secretariat/article32061893.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant labourers throng Ripon Buildings||Migrants gathered near Ripon Buildings on Saturday and Sunday to request officials for transportation to reach their homes in other States. The Greater Chennai Corporation has already helped 1.35 lakh migrants reach their homes in Bihar, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Nagaland, and Punjab. The civic body, police and other line agencies have assisted in the operation of 100 ‘Shramik Specials’ so far, with the government paying the rail fare. For a fortnight, there were no trains from Chennai as they were stopped on June 23 and only resumed on July 8. However, just three trains have been operated till July 9. Police personnel had to help disperse migrant workers after they gathered near the Ripon Buildings over the weekend. Some said they had applied online and waited for two months to catch a train back home. ‘Help on the way’ Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy said officials have started identifying migrant labourers who visited Ripon Buildings to help them. “We have provided shelter for 60 persons. We will make arrangements to send them home in buses or trains,” he said. Volunteers helped supply food, ration kits and snacks to the migrant labourers ahead of their journey. “The volunteers helped a great deal. A few migrant workers, who came to the Central railway station hoping for a train, came to the Ripon Buildings to enquire about services,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-labourers-throng-ripon-buildings/article32061867.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private news channel lodges complaint against YouTuber||The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai police is examining a complaint submitted by News18 Tamil Nadu, a private television news channel, against Maridhas, a YouTuber, accusing him of defaming its editor and journalists and trying to incite communal disturbance. In the complaint filed with Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, the channel said that on July 5, he sent an e-mail to the media house falsely accusing its journalists of running an anti-Hindu campaign for the past four years. He also claimed that the channel was operated by Dravida Kazhagam and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam supporters. He posted a video mentioning the same allegation on his YouTube channel, following which many others sent similar e-mails to the channel, besides abusing its journalists. The complaint added that he also posted fake e-mails on his Twitter handle as if the company management had endorsed his allegations. Denying allegations of being anti-Hindu, the channel, in its complaint, said it had not sent any e-mail to him and sought action against him.  On July 5, Maridhas sent an e-mail to the media house falsely accusing its journalists of running an anti-Hindu campaign for the past four years NEWS18 tamil nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-news-channel-lodges-complaint-against-youtuber/article32061905.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aadi sales to be a low-key affair this year||Retailers in Chennai have decided to stay away from the traditional Aadi sale this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, a handful are trying innovative methods to sell their products but are not calling it an Aadi sale. Many said they didn’t even publicise the offers fearing crowds and social distancing issues. The other big challenge is that if another lockdown is announced, consignments could get stuck mid-way. Ramesh Pothy, managing director of Pothys, said that the Aadi sale would happen online but sales would not be promising this year. ‘Online live sale’ “We plan to have an online live sale through WhatsApp. A toll free number will be given to customers and once they call they will be directed to the shop (across all branches in Tamil Nadu). The salesperson will show the product they are looking for on video. Once they choose the item, they can make online payment. We have cash on delivery option too,” he added. Another popular retailer on Ranganathan Street said, “This place is usually decked up for Aadi sale from the first week of July. Every year around this time, you will see boards everywhere saying 20% off, 50% off — you will not find anything like that now,” he said. “Those who are visiting T. Nagar now are purchasing only essentials. Also with no public transport, footfalls have fallen drastically.”  Sundari Silks in T. Nagar said that they will not have any Aadi sale this year. But the firm will be experimenting with the traditional format, where the salesperson will be sent to the customers’ homes with a variety of options for them to choose from. R. Manmohan Ram clarified that this is not being done for Aadi and said, “We will also have a video call service where the salesman will help with purchasing.” He added, “There are options to shop online too and we will deliver in 48 hours.” Consumer durable firms have decided to keep shops open but are not making any noise. B.S. Vishal, vice-president, marketing, Viveks, said, “ Aadi sale may not happen this time in consumer durables — market sentiment is very low for any sale during this pandemic. “Customers stepping out is very uncertain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aadi-sales-to-be-a-low-key-affair-this-year/article32061911.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School Education Dept. gears up for televised classes||Having announced that video lessons will be telecast for students of government schools on television channels, the School Education Department is currently designing and shooting them. An official from the Department said that video lessons for Classes 2-10 were being designed and shot. “We have roped in senior teachers for videos that are being recorded, following which they will also be vetted by the subject teachers before being telecast. Apart from Kalvi TV, we are also tying up with a few private channels to telecast the lessons,” he said. A schedule for the telecast of the lessons will be announced after the Chief Minister inaugurates the initiative. A teacher from a government school said that they had been informed that the lessons would be telecast from 9 a.m. till around 5 p.m. in different slots. “Since students of Class 12 have laptops, pre-recorded video lessons, already available with the Department, will be given to them. The lessons will be transferred to our school servers in the hi-tech labs and when students come to collect their books, they have been instructed to download the videos on their laptops,” the official said.  P.K. Ilamaran, president, the Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association, said that while they welcomed the telecast of classes on television channels, the government should soon make an announcement on the reduction of syllabus. “With schools not reopening any time soon, at least a 40% syllabus reduction should be considered,” he said. While the CBSE has announced a 30% syllabus reduction for Classes 9 to 12, teachers are hoping that a similar reduction will be announced for State board students as well, since the distribution of textbooks is set to begin next week. Schools are planning to distribute the textbooks for Class 12 and Class 10 students first, and then go on to the other classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-education-dept-gears-up-for-televised-classes/article32061874.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic leaves them with no income, forces them to foray into new businesses||The COVID-19 pandemic has turned the lives of many people around by forcing them to foray into business ventures they never dreamed of entering. But it has also provided them an opportunity to identify an additional occupation to augment their income. Take R. Rajesh Kumar, a photographer, running a state-of-the-art photo studio with equipment for making niche albums in Kanniyakumari district, who has now become a fish seller. “Weddings are our main source of income, but unfortunately COVID-19 broke out around the marriage season. It affected not only me, but seven others working in my studio. I was under compulsion to find an alternative livelihood. So I ventured into selling fish,” he said. As Kanniyakumari is a coastal district, Mr. Kumar has a regular supply of fish from fishing hamlets. “I have launched a website, Kadal Meenkal , and provide door-delivery to customers,” he said. Asked whether he had adequate customers since there were a lot of fish markets in the district, he said that he created a database of customers before taking a plunge. “We are doing well and the experience has taught me the advantage of having another business. I will sell fish even after the pandemic is over,” he said. Equally hit by COVID-19 is M. Sheikh, a manpower supplier for catering, who is now running a juice shop in Nagercoil. He had over 120 people working for him, but cancellation of marriages and families turning them into a low-key affair closed all avenues of income for him and his employees. “In our new shop, we are offering what others are not. Our shop offers 20 types of juices and sherbet, and the tender coconut sherbet is our speciality,” said Mr. Sheikh, who has plans to open another branch once the pandemic ends. Tailor sells biscuits But Nataraj, a tailor from Chennai, never thought he would be forced to sell biscuits and cakes on the streets. “Reopening of schools and weddings would have brought many customers. Today, I am left with no source of income. I am buying biscuits and cakes from a baker and selling them on the street. I have a family to feed,” he said.  We are doing well and the experience has taught me the advantage of having another business. R. Rajesh Kumar Photographer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-leaves-them-with-no-income-forces-them-to-foray-into-new-businesses/article32061899.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s a hands-on learning experience||Wearing an orange coat, 20-year-old J. Abirami, who has a Diploma in Operation Theatre and Anaesthesia Technology, goes door-to-door every morning, checking if residents of Nallan Kuppam in West Mambalam, Chennai, have fever. For her, COVID-19 has provided hands-on training in serving the people, before she even started work at a hospital. “I finished the course recently and was waiting to get my transfer certificate to apply for a job at a hospital. But due to COVID-19, this got delayed,” she said, adding that her father was a conservancy worker with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). She grabbed the opportunity to work as a ‘fever surveyor’ with the GCC as it would give her a chance to serve the people. “I have been given a certain number of streets to cover. I go to every house daily and check the temperatures of residents and take note of other symptoms as well. The notes are then handed over to GCC officials to take necessary action,” she said. The Rs. 12,000 she gets from the GCC helps her support her family. However, the treatment meted out to her by certain residents disappoints her sometimes. “Most of them [residents] are very cordial, but a few treat me with disregard. They ask me why I come every day,” she said. Unmindful of this, she continues to do her job. “My parents are worried, but I pacify them by explaining that I would have had to anyway work with patients at a hospital,” she added, before ringing the doorbell of a house to get on with her work.  Most of the residents are very cordial, but a few treat me with disregard||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-a-hands-on-learning-experience/article32061878.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When serving the community is priority||It was the lack of employment that made 35-year-old Kumaresan (name changed) take up a temporary job, as a ‘focus volunteer’, with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to monitor and help COVID-19 patients. But now, the job for him is a way to serve his community. Mr. Kumaresan, a resident of Saidapet, Chennai, holds a Diploma in Mechanical Engineering, and was doing odd jobs to support his family, which includes his wife and parents. “I was working as an Aadhaar enrollment staff at a bank. It was a temporary job, and I lost it during the lockdown,” he said. When he got to know that the GCC was calling for focus volunteers, as part of its Home Quarantine and Isolation Management System (HQIMS), he eagerly took up the job, despite the health risks involved. “My wife did not want me to go, but since it would fetch me Rs. 15,000, I took it up,” he added. His main work is to ensure that people under home quarantine stay indoors. He also has to provide them with everything they need. In the morning, he gets a list of people who have undergone the COVID-19 test. He sticks green stickers outside their houses and monitors them for three days till their results arrive. “I have been assigned six streets. I work from 7.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. We have to update the status of each patient on the GCC Corona Monitoring App,” explained Mr. Kumaresan. The GCC has provided him with a mask, gloves, sanitisers and glasses. “The patients message me a list of the things they need and I make the purchases for them. I have been doing the job for the past month,” he added. At the end of the day, he disinfects himself before entering his house. “To me, this job is now a form of service. Many people thank me over text messages,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-serving-the-community-is-priority/article32061880.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1% of civic workers test positive in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Corporation has found that 1% of conservancy workers, who were visiting residential neighbourhoods, have tested positive for COVID-19. Now, it has launched initiatives to contain the spread of the virus from Corporation workers to residents. In addition to the 220 conservancy workers among the 22,000 in the city, the civic body also identified 375 civic staff, including assistant health officers, assistant engineers, revenue officers and others among those who tested positive. The Corporation has now decided to send home workers who fail to wear masks and gloves at work. “We will not pay wages to workers who do not wear masks at work on any particular day. The workers should not spread the disease,” Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said. All workers of the Corporation get food, transportation and PPE kits for free during the pandemic. This is expected to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the city, officials said.  “As many as 120 workers have recovered. Unfortunately, some of the front line workers have lost their lives. We sent a proposal for compensation of Rs. 50 lakh for such workers. Their families will be compensated properly,” Mr. Prakash said. About 3,500 people with influenza-like illness were being identified everyday. The civic body has posted doctors in each of the 200 wards for COVID-19 containment. They will get support from nurses and technicians in each ward. Waste incineration Conservancy workers have been directed to request the 4.39 lakh residents under 14-day quarantine to collect biomedical waste generated in yellow bags. The waste will be transported to Manali for incineration. The Corporation will commission mobile incineration units in 10 days for safe disposal of PPE kits, masks and biomedical waste from those in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1-of-civic-workers-test-positive/article32061870.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen stranded in Iran look to head back home||It has been 18 months since Kanniyakumari-native Maria Gildas left home for work in Iran. He has been stuck there since, waiting for a seat on a return flight. A total of 65 fishermen, including 40 from Tamil Nadu, 19 from Kerala and one from Puducherry, are holed up in a room in Iran, waiting for help from the Central and State governments. “A ship brought many home... He did not get a seat on it. We don’t have money for a ticket. The last time too, when he tried coming home before the COVID-19 outbreak, he did not have money for a ticket and had to work for two months to earn the money. They now have found a sponsor for the tickets,” said Jeeva, wife of Mr. Gildas. Ms. Jeeva has now pinned her hopes on the kindness and compassion of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “He has been kind enough to bring back many fishermen. He has written to the Union government asking them to expedite the return of those stranded in Iran,” she said. Mr. Gildas said that they were waiting for details about a flight to Delhi on July 16. The struggle “We struggled for a seat on that ship. It had a capacity of only 700 persons, so we were left behind. People here are from several districts, including Nagapattinam and Cuddalore,” said Mr. Gildas, the captain of a boat, speaking over the phone to The Hindu . “We are not bothered about eating or sleeping. We just want to return home,” he said. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said that steps were being taken to bring back the men. “They will be brought back at the earliest,” he said.  We struggled for a seat on that ship. It had a capacity of only 700 persons, so we were left behind Maria Gildas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-stranded-in-iran-look-to-head-back-home/article32061888.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown in Madurai extended by two days||The State government has extended the complete lockdown in several areas of Madurai by another two days to enable officials to undertake intensive testing and treatment of COVID-19 patients. The current total lockdown, which was supposed to end on July 12, has now been extended till July 14. According to an official release, the Madurai Municipal Corporation area, Paravai panchayat, Madurai East, Madurai West and village panchayats in Tiruparankundram Panchayat Union, will now be under a complete lockdown until midnight, July 14. After July 14, these areas will come under lockdown guidelines that were prevalent until June 24 in the region. These guidelines will be in force until July 31, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-in-madurai-extended-by-two-days/article32061876.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw changes to FMGE rules: Anbumani||PMK Rajya Sabha member Anbumani Ramadoss on Sunday urged Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to reconsider changes made to the Foreign Medical Graduates Examination conducted by the National Board of Examinations (NBE). In a letter, he said the changes would affect Indian students studying medicine in countries such as Russia and China. According to him, around 9,000 to 10,000 students study medicine abroad every year. After returning to India, they have to pass the FMGE, conducted by the NBE, to be eligible to practice. Until last year, it was enough for these students to submit a Provisional Certificate to write the FMGE. However, for the forthcoming examination, “It is mandatory to have the primary medical qualification degree certificate attested by the embassies in the respective countries.” This new rule is “ruining the dreams of thousands of students”. While the duration of undergraduate medical courses in many countries is six years, the provisional certificate is issued at the end of the fifth year. “Those studying abroad can take the examination with the provisional certificate and after passing the examination, they can go back to the countries where they studied, complete the compulsory internship and get the permanent degree certificate. This will save them a year’s time. The new amendment means that these students cannot take the examination after completion of 5-year education,” he said. Therefore, he appealed to the Minister to withdraw the new directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-changes-to-fmge-rules-anbumani/article32061896.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineering entrance exam cancelled||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology has cancelled its Joint Engineering Entrance Exam for B.Tech admissions for the academic year 2020-21. The admissions will be based on Class 12 or Pre-University or other equivalent marks in physics, chemistry and mathematics or biology. Candidates who have taken the JEE Main and SAT exams may also apply. Application forms are available at www.srmist.edu.in. Candidates whose results are yet to be declared may upload them later. For details, call +91 (044) 27455510, 47437500 or email admissions.india@srmist.edu.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-cancels-engineering-entrance-examination/article32061868.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on allocating funds for COVID-19, instead of road tenders, Alagiri says||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Sunday urged the State government to drop its Rs. 12,000 crore tenders for road widening, building of bridges, flyovers and other projects, and instead use those funds for building health infrastructure to treat COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-allocating-funds-for-covid-19-instead-of-road-tenders-alagiri-says/article32061891.ece
13 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Next big wave of innovation will come from Coimbatore’||Manufacturing industries in Tamil Nadu should adopt Industry 4.0 in a big way as they move forward, said Hans Raj Verma, Additional Chief Secretary, IT Department. He spoke at the virtual meet of “Connect Coimbatore” on “Digital Disruption – A Business Advantage”, organised by Confederation of Indian Industry, Coimbatore (CII). The future of IT was in tier-two and tier-three cities. Coimbatore was a pioneer in the MSME sector and the next big wave of innovation would come from here, he said. The State Government’s project to provide low cost, high speed internet connectivity to more than 12,000 panchayats would be completed by the end of next March. This would give a boost to IT infrastructure in the State. The IT Department had joined hands with NASSCOM to ensure the well-being of IT employees who were working from home, he added. The need for Information Technology (IT) services had expanded with COVID-19 restrictions and it was essential to improve the IT infrastructure. When low cost, high speed internet connectivity was available across the State, healthcare and education services would be available online even in remote areas, said RB Udhayakumar, Minister for Revenue, Disaster Management, and Information Technology, who inaugurated the conference. M. Vijayakumar, Managing Director of Elcot, said the IT/ITES special economic zone in Coimbatore on 62 acre had 26 acre available for allocation to interested industries. The land cost would be fixed shortly. Sanjay Tyagi, Director of Software Technology Parks of India, Chennai, said Tamil Nadu was next only to Maharashtra in its contribution to the country’s economy. Hence, the State played a significant role for the development of Indian economy. The State led in implementing the India BPO scheme. It had created 8000 seats in the BPO sector in secondary cities. The success rate of the scheme was also high here. Hari K. Thiagarajan, chairman of CII – Tamil Nadu State council, spoke on the possibilities of digital tools in the manufacturing sector. J. Ganesh Kumar, chairman of CII – Coimbatore zone, said the Connect events aimed at promoting Coimbatore as an ICT destination. Senthil Ramalingam, convenor of the ICT Panel of CII – Coimbatore, explained the details of the theme for the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/next-big-wave-of-innovation-will-come-from-coimbatore/article32061951.ece
13 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No major violations reported during total lockdown||Complete lockdown on Sunday, which is the second Sunday this month, passed off in Coimbatore district with no major violation. Retail outlets, offices, hotels, and markets remained closed. There were hardly any vehicles on the roads. Food delivery apps and taxis did not operate. The State government had said that there will be complete lockdown in the State on all the Sundays this month. Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani said the lockdown was total this week too across the district, including the rural areas. Coimbatore city police on Sunday registered cases against 12 persons for violating regulations of the complete lockdown. Special teams of the police conducted patrols and vehicle checks in various parts of the city. Vehicles were checked at 12 entry points of the city. Coimbatore rural police said that the number of cases registered for lockdown violation on Sunday were being collated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-major-violations-reported-during-total-lockdown/article32061921.ece
13 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to hold medical camps today||Coimbatore Corporation will be conducting medical camps at following places on Monday – North Zone: Balan Nagar in Peelamedu, Vinayagar Nagar and Poonga Nagar in Vilankurichi, Sivalingapuram in Neelikonampalayam, opp. petrol bunk in Ganapathy Managar, Gandhi Managar, Kulalar Mandram in Ganapathy, Ambedkar Road, Thirupathi Nagar in Thudiyalur, Visuvasapuram in Vellakinar and Saravanampatty. South Zone: S.A. Nagar in Telugupalayam, N.S.K. Street in Selvapuram, Kulathupalayam in Kuniamuthur, Gokulam Colony, Gandhi Nagar in Podanur, Machampalayam in Kurichi and B.K. Pudur ICDS Centre in Thondamuthur. West Zone: Ponnaiahrajapuram, CMC Colony Mattasalai, Palani Konar Street ICDS Centre in K.K. Pudur, S.K.R. Nagar in Kavundampalayam, Anna Street in Seeranaickenpalayam, Maruthapuram in Kalveerampalayam and Sundapalayam in Vadavalli. East Zone: Krishna Naidu Street in Singanallur, Ondipudur, Salamath Nagar in Nanjundapuram, Thottichiamman Kovil Street in Sowripalayam, Ganguwar Street in Uppilipalayam, Karunanidhi Nagar in Ramanathapuram and Varadharajapuram. Central Zone: Devanga Wedding Hall on R.G. Street, Kandasamy Layout, Shastri Street in Rathinapuri, Sowcar Street near Raja Street and Corporation middle school in Big Bazaar Street. Besides asking people to make use of the opportunity, a Corporation release said people would also do well to reach out to the Corporation on 0422-2302323 or 97505-54321 if they have fever or phlegm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-to-hold-medical-camps-today/article32061917.ece
13 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable prices drop in Coimbatore||With transport facilities, especially bus services, limited because of the spread of COVID-19 in the district, vegetable markets are seeing relatively less crowd, say traders at the markets. Traders at Thyagi Kumaran market and Anna market say that though the markets in the district are closed on Sunday, there was not much crowd on Saturday. Further, since the lockdown was implemented in March, there are several vendors who buy vegetables from the farmers nearby and sell in vehicles. This had reduced the sales at retail shops. The demand is subdued at MGR market too, which is the main wholesale vegetable market here, say the traders. With rain in some of the vegetable cultivation areas in Karnataka and even in Tamil Nadu, and lack of demand, the prices of vegetables have dropped. Except for tomatoes, drum stick, and broad beans (avarai), wholesale prices of other vegetables are less than Rs. 25 a kg. The prices of big onion is Rs. 12 a kg and that of small onion is between Rs. 10 and Rs. 30 a kg, the sources pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-prices-drop-in-coimbatore/article32061919.ece
13 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. seals gold smithy||Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday sealed a gold smithy on Sullivan Street and lodged complaint against nine persons who worked there in violation of the State government’s order enforcing total shutdown on Sundays. A release from the civic body said that during a routine check, a team led by Central Zone Assistant Commissioner M.M. Kanagaraj found the smithy with nine persons inside and the aforementioned action followed. The Corporation lodged the complaint with the Big Bazaar Street Police Station, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-seals-gold-smithy/article32061918.ece
13 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on July 14||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Seeranaickenpalayam, Madhampatty, Devarayapuram and Thondamuthur sub-stations on July 14, there will be no power supply in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Seeranaickenpalaam, PN Pudur, Vadavalli, Vedapatty, Veerakeralam, Telungupalayam, Velandipalayam, Saibaba Colony, part of Sundapalayam, Selvapuram. Madampatty, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondi, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Devarayapuram, Pooluvampatti, Viraliyur, Narasipuram, Jahirnaickenpalayam, Kaliannanpudur, Puthur, Thennamanallur, Thendral Nagar, Kondayampalayam, Thondamuthur, Kembanur, Muthipalayam, Kalikkanaickenpalayam, Poochiyur, Puthupalayam, Dheenampalayam, Uliyampalayam,, Dhaliyur, Kulathupalayam and West Chithirai Chavady.  Kavundampalayam sub-station on July 14 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.: Nallampalayam, Housing Board, AR Nagar, Thamami Nagar, Driver Colony, Samundeswari Nagar, Suguna Nagar, Union Road, Ashok Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Dhayal Street, Fire Service area, Nallampalayam Road, TVS Nagar Road, Gen Nagar, Ohm Nagar, Amritha Nagar, Ganesh Layout, Sabari Garden, Ranga Layout and part of Maniyakarampalayam area, 24 hours Athikadavu water supply scheme station Kavundampalayam, Lenin Nagar, Subbathal Layout, Sastri Street, Marudhukutty lay out, Sampat Street, Periyar Street, VOC Street, CG Layout, Nedunchezhian street and Dheivanai Nagar, Sanganoor, Pudu Thottam, Kannappa Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Karupparayan Koilk, Thayir Itteri Road, Balusamy Nagar, Sai Baba Colony, Indira Nagar, Kaveri Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Kamaraj Street, KK Pudur 6th Street, State Bank Colony, Krishna Nagar, Ganapathy Layout, KG Layout, Giri Nagar, Sri Devi Nagar, Ammasai Konar Street, Krishnammal Street, NGR Street and part of Chinnammal Street, Edayarpalayam, P&T Colony, EB Colony, Poompuhar Nagar, TVS Nagar, Arun Nagar, Annai Amirdhantha Nagar, Ramalakshmi Nagar, Valli Nagar, Siva Nagar, Sri Nagar and Thatehanthottam, Cheran Nagar, ITI Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Balan Nagar, Saravana Nagar, Railway Mens Colony and Ranga Majestic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-july-14/article32061934.ece
13 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Couple with disability finds Rs. 24,000 savings ‘demonetised’||A visually challenged man and his wife living with a physical disability in Anthiyur Taluk in Erode district has learnt the hard way that their life savings of Rs. 24,000 has zero value as it is in demonetised currency. The couple has no children and had earned a livelihood selling incense sticks and camphor. Visually-challenged Somu (58) and his wife Palaniyammal (49) live in Pothiya Moopanur village. A few years ago, he gave Rs. 24,000 to his mother, Rasamma, who is an illiterate. She kept the money in a container at their house. When the going got tough due to COVID-19 lockdown, on July 10, they opened the container and found nine notes of the face value Rs. 1,000 and 30 old notes of Rs. 500. However, they had the shock of their life when they learnt that the money was worthless. They took it to a nationalised bank where officials pointed out that the notes were demonetised on November 8, 2016. Mr. Somu told The Hindu that he and his family was unaware of the demonetisation announcement as no villager had told them or discussed about it with them. “Except for the monthly old-age pension, we have no income and hence we need financial assistance for survival,” he said. He has to take care of his 80-year-mother. The money was saved over a period of 10 years prior to demonetisation. G. Karthikeyan, a villager, said Mr. Somu cannot move out of his house due to complete loss of vision. “The couple is in desperate need of assistance as they have no source of income,” he added. Erode Collector C. Kathiravan said he had asked the couple to come to the Collectorate on July 13. He will hand over Rs. 25,000 from his personal account to the couple as the currencies cannot be exchanged now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-with-disability-finds-rs-24000-savings-demonetised/article32061954.ece
13 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Visually challenged man and his wife find Rs. 24,000 savings ‘demonetised’||A visually challenged man and his wife with a physical disability in Anthiyur taluk of Erode district learned the hard way that Rs. 24,000 of their life savings has no value as all the notes had been demonetised. The couple have no children and made a living by selling incense sticks and camphor. Somu, 58, and his wife Palaniyammal, 49, live at Pothiya Moopanur. A few years ago, he gave the sum — saved over 10 years — to his mother Rasamma, 80, who kept it in a container at their home. When the going got tough because of the COVID-19 lockdown, they opened the container on July 10 and found nine notes with a face value of Rs. 1,000 and 30 notes with a face value of Rs. 500. But they were shocked to learn that the money was worthless. They took it to a nationalised bank where officials said the currency notes were demonetised on November 8, 2016. Mr. Somu told The Hindu that he and his family were unaware of demonetisation as no villager had told them about it. “Except for the monthly old-age pension, we have no income, and hence we need assistance for survival,” he said. He has to take care of his mother, too. G. Karthikeyan, a villager, said the couple were in desperate need of help. Collector C. Kathiravan said he had asked the couple to come to the Collectorate on Monday. He would hand over to them Rs. 25,000 from his personal savings as the currency notes could not be exchanged now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-with-disability-find-rs-24000-savings-demonetised/article32061901.ece
13 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bannari Amman Institute faculty come up with self-testing kiosk to check temperature||Two faculty at the Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam, have come up with a self-testing kiosk that prevents persons with high temperature from entering a room or premises R. Gokul Raj and S. Karthik, faculty at the Special Labs at the institute, under the guidance of Assistant Professor L. Rajasekar have created a low-cost device that can be installed at places like educational institutions, railway stations, bus stands and industries, where people gather in large numbers. “The kiosk should be installed at the entrance of the room or premises and it will automatically measure the body temperature when a person comes in contact with it,” they say. The kiosk is designed to screen a large number of people in a minimum time, they claim. Explaining the functioning of the kiosk, the team members say the blue LED blink indicates that the system is ready for measuring temperature and the LED will blink continuously until the optimum distance is reached between the person’s face and the temperature sensor. “The controller will automatically trigger the temperature sensor and the non-contact type infra-red temperature sensor will record the body temperature and process it. If the measured temperature is below 99°F, which is considered normal, a green LED will blink. “If the temperature exceeds 99°F, a red LED will blink,” they add. The alert mechanism can be monitored by officials and the person with high fever can be subjected to further test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bannari-amman-institute-faculty-come-up-with-self-testing-kiosk-to-check-temperature/article32061933.ece
13 July 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Restriction eased||The Karaikal district administration eased restriction on public movement along the Beach Road with effect from Sunday. The Beach Road will be opened for the public for walking purpose from 5 a.m. to 12 noon, subject to certain conditions, District Collector Arjun Sharma said. There should be no events or congregation of people on the road, and the national directives on COVID-19 management in public places should be strictly adhered to. Also, the wearing of masks and maintaining of social distancing were compulsory. The number of active COVID 19 positive cases increased to 51 with the addition of 10 new patients whose swab samples were taken on July 10 along with 116 others. Eight new locations were made into containment zones. So far, Karaikal district has accounted for 96 COVID 19 positive patients of whom 41 were sent home after recovery. The pandemic has claimed two lives so far in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restriction-eased/article32062252.ece
13 July 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||New SP for Karur assumes office||P. Pagalavan, new Superintendent of Police of Karur district, assumed office on Sunday. He has replaced R. Pandiarajan, who was transferred to Chennai. Earlier Mr. Pagalavan was Deputy Commissioner, Adyar, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-for-karur-assumes-office/article32062257.ece
13 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors taking care of delivery of babies too||The labour ward of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has been seeing a minimum of 45 deliveries every day apart from births at the COVID-19 speciality hospital since March. Doctors had to take care of not only complicated deliveries redirected from Primary Health Centres (PHCs) across the district but also be cautious in ensuring that mothers and newborns are safe from COVID-19. N. Sumathi, Head, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, GRH, said the department saw around 1,100 to 1,200 deliveries in the Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (CEmONC) block in January and February. When COVID-19 began, assistant professors and postgraduate doctors had to be divided so as to attend antenatal mothers who had tested positive for COVID-19 too. “It was decided that six assistant professors in three shifts would take charge in the CEmONC building and four in the COVID-19 speciality hospital. During this period of division of labour, we saw a surge in the number of referrals from private hospitals and PHCs. Now, we conduct around 50 deliveries every day. It is a lot of pressure but our assistant professors are doing tremendous work,” she says. In the last week since the beginning of July, they took care of 47 deliveries in COVID-19 speciality block apart from usual deliveries in CEmONC block. A doctor says all health workers, should wear personal protection equipment in CEmONC building as anyone could be a carrier of the disease. “If they test positive, mothers are directly sent to COVID-19 speciality hospital. If they have symptoms at the labour ward, they are tested and kept in isolation,” he adds. Dr. Sumathi says the number of attendants for each patient is restricted to one or two. Anyone who steps into the hospital should wear masks. Disinfection is done aggressively. Despite a few number of staff who are regularly on COVID-19 duty and tend to the labour ward also, there is no place for fatigue. Paediatricians who are present at the labour ward take charge of the newborn immediately after it is born and either hand it over to the mother or admit it to the newborn intensive care unit in case of complications and life goes on. “It is a lot of work but it has been great to see everyone rise up to the occasion,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-taking-care-of-delivery-of-babies-too/article32062197.ece
13 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Lockdown extension, a necessity’||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said that they have covered around 90% of all areas in the district, known as COVID-19 ‘priority spots,’ by establishing fever camps. Inspecting a COVID-19 Care Centre at Vadapalanji here on Sunday, he said an extension of lockdown by two more days would be useful to establish more such camps. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had issued a press statement regarding extension of the lockdown till June 14. The RevenueMinister said although major COVID-19 hotspots were covered under the purview of fever camps within the Corporation limit, they are continuing to establish more such facilities in rural areas. With more fever camps, people with symptoms can be tested without much difficulty, he said and added that health workers were testing anyone with symptoms. Fewer cases had been registered during the last three days and expressed the hope that the trend would continue. He said the intensified lockdown in Madurai district was successful on Sunday and requested the public not to step out of their homes unless absolutely essential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extension-a-necessity/article32062199.ece
13 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Refugee camp residents sore over water stagnation||Residents of Sri Lankan refugee camp at Anaiyur here complain that even a short spell of rain leads to water stagnation in their camp. K. Suresh Kumar, who moved to the camp three decades ago, said the issue had been prevailing for many years. “Madurai Corporation officials had said the vacant ground would be converted into a children’s park, but no action has been taken,” he said. The stagnant water posed a serious health hazard to residents, said Bala, a long-time resident of the camp. “We are worried that the unhygienic condition may spread the COVID-19 infection. Our camp was a hotspot for dengue and malaria earlier,” he said. Besides, shortage in water supply for domestic use had deeply affected the residents, he added. There are around 500 families in the camp. “No houses has individual water connection. All of us have to collect water from common taps. The water supplied once in four days is sufficient to meet needs of only 150 families in the camp,” he said. “Others have to pay Rs. 60 for each drum of water, which is unaffordable in the case of many residents,” said Y. Mayuran, another resident. A Corporation engineer said that they would take steps to level the ground by dumping debris to avoid any water stagnation in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/refugee-camp-residents-sore-over-water-stagnation/article32062211.ece
13 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Video classes getting ready||The education department has started shooting videos since classes for government school students would be conducted through a television channel. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said that Madurai district had been asked to shoot video lessons for Classes 2, 4 and 7. “Videos are being shot for the past couple of weeks,” he added. J. Stanly Jones, a government school teacher who is the district coordinator for the classes, said that each video lesson would last for 30 minutes. Teachers from both private and government schools were roped in for shooting videos, which was going on at Sethupathi Higher Secondary School here. “As a teacher speaks, a power-point presentation will keep scrolling on the TV screen, which is a replacement for the blackboard,” said T. Saravanan, a government-aided school principal, who participates in the video classes. However, there is no clarity yet on when the video classes would begin, said Mr. Stanly Jones. The CEO said that textbooks for Classes 10 and 12 have been given to all government schools in the district. “Notebooks have been given for Class 10. We will start distributing books to students by adhering to the Standard Operating Procedure after an announcement from the government,” he said. He said video lessons would be downloaded in laptops of Class 12 students. Though TV classes would help students quite a lot, lack of option to clarify doubts is a point of concern, said a government school teacher. R. Shiva, a teacher of Madura College Higher Secondary School, said that the State government should reduce the syllabus like the CBSE. “It is important to ensure that examinations are not conducted after schools reopen saying that TV classes were held,” he said. Shorter duration classes would be more efficient, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-classes-getting-ready/article32062204.ece
13 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New SP, DC for Madurai city||Sujit Kumar assumed office as new Superintendent of Police of Madurai Rural District on Sunday. He succeeds N. Manivannan, who as been transferred as SP, Tirunelveli rural district. A 2013-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, he was hitherto SP of Coimbatore district. After serving in Madurai District as Assistant Superintendent of Police (Training) in Madurai district, his first independent posting was as ASP in Salem Rural Sub-division. Upon getting promoted as SP, he had served as Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Coimbatore. R. Shiva Prasad took over as Deputy Commissioner of Police, (Law and Order) Madurai City. He succeeds E. Karthik, who has been transferred to Chennai. Mr. Prasad, who was till now Assistant Superintendent of Police, Virudhunagar, on being promoted as SP, has been transferred to Madurai City. A 2016-batch IPS officer, Mr. Prasad, is an an engineering graduate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-dc-for-madurai-city/article32062202.ece
13 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Fear of starvation takes precedence over the virus’||Since April, Gowtham*, a 15-year-old student from a government-aided school residing in Madurai city, has been waking up at 4 a.m. Wearing a mask, he rides his bicycle for 4 km to pick up newspapers and milk packets from his agent. After riding several kilometres, he completes delivering the newspapers by 7.30 a.m. “I earn a daily wage of Rs. 40. When I collect the monthly newspaper charges from the customers, I get an additional Rs. 200 every month,” said Gowtham. His mother, who used to work as a conservancy worker at a private school, has been jobless since the lockdown began. His father, a daily wage labourer, rarely gets work these days. “With school shut, I thought I should do my bit to financially support my family,” he said. Like Gowtham, several other students of government schools in Madurai have taken up odd jobs during the lockdown to support their families. Dinesh*, a 16-year-old from a village in Madurai, has been working with a confectionery manufacturing company for three weeks. “As chocolates keep coming on the conveyor belt, I pick them up and wrap them. They are then placed in a big container. My job is as simple as that,” he said. Dinesh works for eight hours, from 6 a.m., for a daily wage of Rs. 200. “The income from my father’s petty shop has dropped drastically. Having two square meals is becoming tougher for my family. So a few friends from my village and I started working at this company as our schools too are shut,” he said. He said he had no fear of contracting the COVID-19 infection while at work. “The fear of starvation takes precedence over the virus,” he added. Dinesh’s friend Gopal* has also been busy during the lockdown. He has been working as a conservancy worker with a rural local body in the district. He is temporarily working on behalf of his father, who fell sick last month due to alcohol-related illness. “Since my father is a permanent employee, the authorities said that either a family member or someone else had to temporarily take up my father’s role. We cannot afford to pay someone else to take up the job. So I took it up myself as we have no other family member,” he said. His work involves collecting garbage from households and spraying disinfectants at the houses of COVID-19 patients. “I always secure the highest marks in my class. I want to study well and get a well-paying job. But I really wish things change for the better in the coming months,” he said.  *(All names have been changed)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fear-of-starvation-takes-precedence-over-the-virus/article32061882.ece
13 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s Rs. 10 eatery owner is dead||S. Ramu, fondly known as Ramu Thatha to everyone frequenting his bustling eight-seater eatery that serves food for Rs. 10 at Anna Bus Stand here, died on Saturday. The 91-year-old, who made sumptuous south Indian breakfast items, includingidli,dosaandpongal, as well as wholesome lunch, with the sole intention of making meals affordable, will be dearly missed by his customers and relatives, say members of his family. M. Alagu Murugan, his 35-year-old grandson, says he learnt the concept of kindness at the eatery. “When I was going to school, the meals were priced at Rs. 2 and later at Rs. 5. I would always wonder how we managed at home, given that we were never particularly affluent,” he recalls. “One day, I asked my grandfather, and he patiently explained to me the need to give to those who have less than us. The lesson stuck,” he says. Mr. Alagu Murugan recalls several moments when his grandfather, besides providing free meals to those who could not afford to pay for their lunch, gave them money for their bus fare. “My grandfather was shaken when his wife Poornathammal died in 2015. It was very painful for him. Ever since, he would frequent his village Villoor in T. Kallupatti block and come back on other days to run the shop. In the beginning of 2020, he began falling seriously ill. His health took a turn for the worse during the lockdown starting March,” he said. Mr. Ramu is survived by a son and daughter. His grandson says the family will begin another such hotel once the lockdown ends. “My grandfather wanted this hotel to be his legacy. We will carry on his work. We are confident that people will line up just like they did in front of his shop,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nonagenarian-who-ran-a-rs-10-eatery-is-dead/article32061903.ece
13 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||District administration comes to physically challenged worker’s aid||With the extension of COVID-19 induced lockdown, life has become extremely difficult for J.G. Raja, a person with disabilities, and his family from Koodal Nagar in Madurai. The lockdown has robbed the livelihood of Mr. Raja, a welder, and his wife, a tailor. With six children to feed, three girls and three boys, the couple has been struggling for the past three months. They were unable to pay house rent and asked to vacate the house. “‘We felt completely helpless on July 8 and sought the Collector’s help,” says Mr. Raja. The district administration intervened and the house owner was asked to provide an extension of three months to repay the pending rent. “Based on the Collector’s order, rice, oil and wheat flour were provided to the family,” says M. Gopalakrishnan, secretary, District Red Cross Society, which helped the family. Mr. Raja met with an accident 15 years back. He could not walk without any support. He said that orders started declining since last December and there has been no order for the past three months. “Recently, a client placed an order but cancelled it later fearing that I have to travel from Madurai, which has become a COVID-19 hotspot,” he adds. With closure of schools, his wife also did not get orders to stitch dress materials. With no source of income, the family could not pay rent for the past three months. “We understand the plight of owners when they ask us to vacate. But we cannot afford to pay a huge advance to owner of a new house,” says Mr. Raja. “We are making arrangements to get help and move out to a new house in two months,” he adds. Suresh Fedrick Clement, Madurai North Tahsildar, who intervened in the issue, says that both tenants as well as house owners have been affected by the lockdown. “While Mr. Raja had no income, house owners were also dependent on rent to run their families. On humanitarian grounds, they extended time to pay rent. The lockdown has invariably affected every family.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-comes-to-physically-challenged-workers-aid/article32062181.ece
13 July 2020||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||319 test positive in Madurai district||A total of 319 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 6,078. The day marked the highest number of single day discharges, 787, from different hospitals and treatment facilities. Five deaths were recorded and they pushed the district’s toll to 116. The district has 3,372 active cases. Madurai district slipped to third place in the number of active cases after Chengalpattu recorded 3,434 active cases on Sunday. Pregnant women and frontline health workers were among the new cases. Virudhunagar reported four COVID-19-related deaths – the highest single day toll in the district. With this, the total number of deaths in the district went up to 16. All the four latest victims – men aged between 59 and 75 years – had co-morbidities, and the deaths were recorded between July 4 and July 11. The district recorded 246 fresh cases, which took its tally to 2,073. With 92 patients having been discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases stands at 1,138. Thoothukudi There were 137 new cases reported in Thoothukudi, which took the total number of positive cases to 2,261. There were 31 discharges. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli reported 129 fresh cases on Sunday which took the district’s total case count to 1,758. Thirty-two people were discharged from hospitals. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari district recorded 103 fresh cases, with which its tally went up to 1,306. There were no discharges from the hospitals in the district. Tenkasi Eighteen people tested positive in Tenkasi district, taking its case count to 683. As many as 26 people were discharged from hospitals. Theni Theni recorded 115 new cases which took the total number of positive cases in the district to 1,729. The number of people discharged from hospitals in the district on Sunday stood at 76. Dindigul Dindigul had 31 fresh cases which pushed its tally to 787. Thirty-eight people were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram district reported 75 new cases on Sunday and the total number of positive cases rose to 1,849. There were 44 discharges in the district. Sivaganga Sivaganga recorded 76 fresh cases which took its tally to 862. A total of 41 people were discharged from hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/319-test-positive-in-madurai-district/article32062186.ece
13 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC outlets do better business in Nagapattinam||TASMAC outlets in Nagapattinam district are doing better business over the last two months following the levy of 50% extra tax on Indian Made Foreign Liquor by the Puducherry Government. A substantial price difference prior to the tax hike by Puducherry government used to be an enticing factor for tipplers from Nagapattinam district to visit Karaikal often. Liquor smuggling from the enclave into Nagapattinam district also used to keep personnel of Prohibition Enforcement Wing of Tamil Nadu Police Department on their toes. Of course, the tough screening at border checkposts and restriction on movement of vehicles have also made things easier for the PEW personnel in Nagapattinam. The daily turnover of TASMAC outlets has increased in Nagapattinam district by as much as Rs. 40 lakh per day, according to official sources. As against the daily business of Rs. 2.3 crore to Rs. 2.5 crore, the extent of daily sales account has gone up to Rs. 2.7 crore to Rs. 2.9 crore, a senior official said. The Puducherry government had levied as much as 50% extra tax on alcohol when the Indian Made Foreign Liquor outlets resumed functioning during May, after closure for about 60 days. The tax was levied to offset loss of revenue as the Puducherry government was in the midst of a fiscal crisis. Excise revenue was a major source of income, official sources in Karaikal administration said. Though the Tamil Nadu government had also effected a hike in cost of IMFL liquor, the steep increase in price of the product implemented by the Puducherry government had brought about a parity in prices. At least until Puducherry government rolls back the prices, there will be no incentive for liquor smugglers in Tamil Nadu, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-outlets-do-better-business-in-nagapattinam/article32062242.ece
13 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Shops allowed to function till 8 p.m. in Namakkal||District Collector K. Megraj said that shops would be opened till 8 p.m in the district according to State government guidelines. Speaking to reporters after holding discussions with traders recently, Mr. Megraj said: “traders here earlier came forward and offered to shut shops by 5 p.m. However, considering their request for time extension, shops would now operate till 8 p.m. All shop owners have been advised to ensure physical distancing and to sell products only those who visit shop wearing masks.” Mr. Megraj said that shops must ensure availability of hand sanitation facilities outside their spaces and only five persons should be allowed at a time in bigger shops and maximum of two persons in smaller shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-allowed-to-function-till-8-pm-in-namakkal/article32061927.ece
13 July 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||‘Crowded marriages causing spread in U.T.’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday said marriage ceremonies with many people in attendance were among the reasons for the continuing spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. In a video address, Mr. Narayanasamy said though it had been stipulated that the number of guests should not exceed 50 to facilitate physical distancing, flouting of this norm was causing the infection to spread, as between 200 and 300 people were massing at these functions. He pointed out that a cluster of 17 cases had been traced to a marriage at a temple in Vythikuppam. The Chief Minister appealed to the public to either resort to a simple marriage ceremony at their homes or curtail the number of invitees if the wedding was being conducted at a temple. The other main reason for the increase in cases was the thronging at markets. æHe urged the public to avoid crowding and to ensure distancing and to wear masks while going out. While Puducherry had a relatively better recovery rate of 65% and mortality rate of 1.4%, containment of spread rests with the public, Mr. Narayanasamy said. Pointing to the UGC guidelines mandating all educational institutions across the country to conduct exams by September 30 for the final semester students, Mr. Narayanasamy wanted the plan to be dropped. “The Centre should ensure that universities and colleges cancel all schedules to conduct the final semester examinations as candidates would run the risk of contracting the infection.” He said he had already written to HRD Ministry on this. On the delayed presentation of a full budget for 2020-21, the Chief Minister said he was yet to receive written communication from the Union Home Ministry approving the proposals though he had been orally assured of clearance by an official there.  A cluster of 17 cases had been traced to a marriage at a temple in Vythikuppam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crowded-marriages-causing-spread-in-ut/article32061907.ece
13 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||81 new COVID-19 cases in Puducherry on Sunday||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao advocated total lockdown on Sundays as Puducherry witnessed a 24-hour spike of 81 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The Health Minister told a press conference that he had reiterated his appeal to Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy for implementing a full shutdown on Sundays to arrest the spread of the virus. He also noted that several people across the Union Territory were seen flouting social distancing norms and other precautionary measures. He warned that if cases continued to rise, Puducherry’s health infrastructure may soon be overburdened. While 71 of the new admissions are in Puducherry, 10 are in the Karaikal region. Of the 661 undergoing treatment, 581 are in Puducherry, 52 in Karaikal GH, 25 in Yanam GH and three in Mahe GH. In all, 739 patients have been discharged after recovery, including 49 on Sunday. Till now, 25,342 samples have been tested, of which 23,697 came out negative. The test results of 195 swabs are awaited. The death toll is 18 and active cases 661 and the cumulative total of cases is 1,418 with the number of discharged 739.  While 71 of the new admissions are in Puducherry, 10 are in the Karaikal region. Of the 661 undergoing treatment, 581 are in Puducherry, 52 in Karaikal GH, 25 in Yanam GH and three in Mahe GH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81-new-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry-on-sunday/article32061914.ece
13 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi’s appeal to public||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Sunday appealed to the people to report to the nearest PHC at the earliest if they have any symptoms of COVID-19 as this would help prevent the spread of the infection. In a message, Ms. Bedi said though people could choose to visit a private clinic, they need to inform the respective PHCs if they test positive for COVID-19 to evaluate the plan of treatment. She also appealed to those in quarantine or in containment zones to abide by rules and regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedis-appeal-to-public/article32061912.ece
13 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Ponnamaravathi bus stop gets a makeover||Officials at the Ponnamaravathi panchayat have utilised the lockdown period to give a makeover to the bus stop in the town, and provide new facilities when bus services begin to ply again. A local artist has been roped in to paint the walls of the bus stand to prevent pasting of posters and to public urination. The bus stand, frequented by people from nearby villages to buy or sell goods, has been shut since the Tamil Nadu government announced the suspension of bus services. The officials decided to utilise the time to beautify the otherwise rarely empty bus stand. “When notices and posters were pasted, people used to spit or urinate on them. Now, with these paintings, we hope that they will think many times over before defacing the walls,” says V. Dhanushkodi, Executive Engineer, Ponnamaravathi. As many as 30 individual pictures are being painted on nearly 2,900 square feet of space, said V. Perumal, the artist who has been roped in to paint the murals on the wall. “I reached out to at least 10 of my artist friends who have been struggling to make a living during the lockdown and involved them in this work. Together, we began the work last week and the entire task will be completed within four or five days,” he said. Mr. Perumal was approached by the Executive Engineer to paint COVID-19 awareness messages in the town and after seeing his work, offered the walls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ponnamaravathi-bus-stop-gets-a-makeover/article32062248.ece
13 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||New SP for Pudukottai takes charge||L. Balaji Saravanan assumed office as Superintendent of Police of Pudukottai district on Sunday. He succeeds Superintendent of Police P.Ve. Arun Sakthikumar who has taken up a new assignment as Joint Deputy Director in Intelligence Bureau on deputation. Mr. Balaji Saravanan was earlier the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Coimbatore city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-for-pudukottai-takes-charge/article32062259.ece
13 July 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector’s appeal to residents||Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao has appealed to residents to stay indoors in view of the pandemic. He distributed free multi-vitamin and zinc sulphate tablets in containment zones on Saturday. Accompanied by a team of doctors and revenue and health officials, he visited Maduraiyaar Street and Muthu Korangi Street in Ramanathapuram Town and urged the residents to wear face masks, use hand sanitisers and adhere to physical distancing all the time. He advised gargling with hot water containing a little turmeric powder and rock salt at least twice a day. “Unless it is essential, do not step out of your dwellings. The district administration is making all-out efforts to deliver essential commodities on your street/doorstep. Hence, stay indoors,” he told them repeatedly. Frequent steam inhalation would keep respiratory organs free from congestion even if they experienced cold or cough, he said. He also suggested that they consume fruits and nutritious items such as sprouts and eggs. Drinking lukewarm water at regular intervals would keep the body free from dehydration. The doctors suggested that the residents approach the nearest PHC in the event of any ailment rather than buying tablets from pharmacies. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Rao said the demands of nurses at the government hospital had been looked into. The transfer of two male nurses to Tiruvadanai and Rameswaram had been revoked after government nod. The quality of food served to patients, nurses and other staff at the GH were tested before they were served. There would be no compromise on the care of patients in isolation ward. He said 1,691 positive cases were reported in the district till Friday, with 674 patients discharged. Joint Director (Health) A Sahaya Stephen Raj and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-appeal-to-residents/article32062195.ece
13 July 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Police examine role of three film producers in cheating case||The Ramanathapuram police are examining the suspected role of three film producers in a cheating case with elements of multi-level marketing (MLM) operations. Neethimani, the main accused in the case in which investors were allegedly cheated out of several crores of rupees, has told the Ramanathapuram Bazaar police that he had lured people into investing in his finance company, based on the idea given by the producers. One of them heads a leading production house. Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar told The Hindu that according to Neethimani’s confession, the producers had benefited from his racket. An estimated Rs. 7 crore, collected from the public, had been invested in production and distribution of films. Digital evidence “We have digital evidence of his conversation with the film producers,” Mr. Kumar said. Based on the inputs and the bank transactions, the police would consider arraigning the producers, he said. Last month, Mr. Kumar directed the police to register a case on a complaint from Thulasi Manikandan, a resident of TNHB Colony. For an incentive The complainant had alleged that Neethimani, his wife Menaka, of Chennai, and Anand, a school teacher in Ramanathapuram, had lured him into investing in their finance company. Similar to the MLM operation, investors were asked to bring in other depositors for an incentive. Many investors received returns for six to nine months; thereafter, the three vanished. Last month, the police arrested Neethimani and, based on his confession, widened the investigation that revealed that the key accused had collected huge deposits, amounting to Rs. 12 crore, from people in Madurai, Sivaganga, Coimbatore and Chennai and even from those in Singapore and Malaysia. The investors were either given a receipt for the money deposited or post-dated cheques in the name of the company. However, the company reneged on its commitment, leading to the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramnad-police-examining-role-of-three-film-producers-in-cheating-case/article32061898.ece
13 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Eateries in Salem warned against violating norms||The Salem Corporation has warned of stern action against businesses operating beyond timings permitted by State government. According to a release, eateries can operate between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. and other businesses can operate between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. except on complete lockdown days.  Safety protocols The Corporation advised businesses here to operate only on timings permitted by the State government following all COVID-19 safety protocols. Corporation officials said that facilities for hand sanitation should be available outside the shop and all staff should wear masks during work and maintain physical distance. According to Corporation officials, 40 teams have been deployed in Corporation limits to monitor whether businesses are adhering to the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eateries-in-salem-warned-against-violating-norms/article32061922.ece
13 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal art on Salem prison walls to create awareness on environment||The tall walls that guard the Central Prison in Salem have become the canvas for tribal art to create awareness on the importance of conserving environment. The plain walls that evoke curiosity among the passers-by here have been transformed into canvas for Gond art paintings on themes related to conservation and wildlife protection. The paintings are based on Gond art, a tribal art form practised in tribal communities in north India, say the organisers who have taken up the art work project. The paintings are done under Aakkam-Centre for Alternate and Sustainable Development Studies at Golden Gates and Emerald Valley Schools here. Meena Sethu, correspondent of the schools, said, “The paintings are done to create awareness among the public that the world is for all living beings and not just humans. Gond art is primarily based on animals. About 48 small and large size paintings will be done on the prison walls here,” she said. Awareness slogans on protecting the environment would be written on the walls in both English and Tamil. While children were also generally involved in these activities, due to COVID-19 restrictions only art teachers had been involved in the project, she said. Jail Superintendent Thangatamilselvan said the artworks would help create awareness among people as the prison was located in one of the important areas in the district. The prison inmates and jail personnel had done artworks of national leaders and Tamil culture inside the prison premises, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-art-on-salem-prison-walls-to-create-awareness-on-environment/article32061956.ece
13 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Two die in Salem||Two persons, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, died during the early hours of Sunday. According to health department officials, the deceased, a 52-year-old pharmacist at a primary health centre was suffering from blood pressure. Similarly, a 47-year-old female patient from Kadayampatti was suffering from heart ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-salem/article32061923.ece
13 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners call for strike||Members of the Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Association has called for a strike on July 22 condemning the fuel price hike and for various other demands. In a release, the members said diesel and petrol price hike had severely affected their business. They urged the governments to reduce fuel prices and remove toll booths operating beyond the contract period. They said they would stage protests in front of all Regional Transport Offices here and hoist black flags on their vehicles on July 14. On July 22, they would strike work condemning the fuel price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-call-for-strike/article32061958.ece
13 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||AICTE approves Periyar varsity’s MBA, M.Tech programmes||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has approved two master programmes offered by Periyar University in energy technology, a release from the University said. P. Kolandaivel, Vice-Chancellor, said the AICTE had approved MBA and M.Tech Energy Technology programmes. The Department of Management Studies and Energy Science Department applied for the approval for courses offered by the respective departments and a team of experts from AICTE inspected the facilities. Grants Mr. Kolandaivel stated that the students and the faculty members could avail themselves of various grants and funds offered by the AICTE following the approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aicte-approves-periyar-varsitys-mba-mtech-programmes/article32061957.ece
13 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners announce strike on July 22||Members of the Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Association have announced a strike on July 22 condemning the fuel price hike and to highlight various other demands. In a press release, the association said that the hike in diesel and petrol prices had severely hit the business and truck operators. They were already affected because of lockdown restrictions to control the spread of COVID-19. The association demanded that the government reduce fuel prices and remove toll booths operating beyond the contract period. The association members will protest in front of all Regional Transport Offices here and hoist black flags on their vehicles on July 14. On July 22, they will go on a one-day strike, condemning the fuel price hike and pressing other demands, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-announce-strike-on-july-22/article32061897.ece
13 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||NABARD launches two projects||National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has launched two watershed management projects near Kalugumalai in Thoothukudi district to mark its 39th Formation Day. The projects aim to conserve soil and water and strengthen waterbodies. The water conservation schemes will be implemented in 100 hectares. Vidiyel Trust, an NGO, is implementing the projects at an estimated cost of Rs. 8 lakh each. NABARD District Development Manager R.K. Suresh Ramalingam inaugurated K. Venkateswarapuram Watershed Project through video conferencing. S. Vijaikumar, Deputy Manager, Lead Bank, Thoothukudi, and V. Manimaran, DGM, TMB, Thoothukudi also participated. K. Jothimony, Director of Vidiyel Trust, presided. Face masks and kabasura kudineer were distributed to participants, a press release said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nabard-launches-two-projects/article32062193.ece
13 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Awareness created in interior Ariyalur||Police personnel in neighbouring Ariyalur district having been reaching out to the general public residing in interior rural pockets creating awareness of the precautionary measures to be taken to check the spread of COVID-19. The initiative is being done station-wise in Ariyalur district amid spurt in COVID-19 cases across the State. The law enforcers who are at the frontline battling to curb the spread of the viral disease along with health and revenue officials have been involving the local body representative and the village vigilance committee while conducting the awareness campaigns. The police drove home the precautionary messages to the public by using a hand-held public address system. The initiative was being carried out on the instruction of the Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur V. R. Srinivasan. The way novel coronavirus spreads and the simple precautionary steps to be followed by every one to protect themselves from getting infected such as wearing a mask, ensuring personal distancing, washing hands by using soap frequently and maintaining personal distancing were being explained to the villagers, say police sources. In addition to this, the importance of maintaining personal hygiene was also being emphasised during the awareness campaigns. Police personnel of the respective station would identify the interior villages in their jurisdiction concerned and decide the time for carrying out the awareness campaigns, Mr. Srinivasan said. The initiative was also being used by the police personnel to sensitise the public to women and child safety, crimes against children and the need to wear helmet while riding a two-wheeler, said the sources. The campaigns were conducted on Thursday by police personnel of Andimadam and Kairlabad stations by visiting a few villages in their respective jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-created-in-interior-ariyalur/article32062244.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 deaths, 211 new cases in one day||The central region recorded three co-morbidity deaths — two in Tiruchi and one in Thanjavur — and witnessed an addition of 211 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday. A 60-year-old woman of Srirangam zone in Tiruchi city who was admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital on July 10 died early on Sunday morning of COVID-19 related complications. She was a known case of diabetes and suffered from pneumonia. A 68-year-old man from Anna Nagar who was admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH on July 4 also died on Sunday. He suffered from diabetes and hypertension and died of respiratory failure, official sources here said. In Thanjavur, a 64-year-old woman diagnosed with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease died of comorbid conditions which worsened her health when she was diagnosed with COVID-19 on July 10. She underwent treatment until July 12 but doctors were unable to resuscitate her, sources said. Among the 211 cases, Tiruchi accounted for a large share with 103 cases. There were 45 new cases in Pudukottai, 36 in Thanjavur, 11 in Tiruvarur, six in Nagapattinam, five in Karur, four in Ariyalur and one in Perambalur district. Many patients who tested positive in Tiruchi hailed from Musiri, Manapparai, Thuraiyur, and from many localities within the city limits including Thillai Nagar, Woraiyur, E.B. Road, and Palakkarai, official sources here said. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district is now 1,504. Meanwhile, as many as 12 patients were discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Sunday. Of them, 10 hailed from Tiruchi, while two were from Karur and Kallakurichi districts. A total of 70 patients were also discharged from the COVID Care in Khajamalai. Of them, 58 hailed from Tiruchi, three from Ramanathapuram, two from Tenkasi, and one each from Pudukottai, Karur, Karaikudi, Nagapattinam, Thiruvallur, Thoothukudi, and Kanyakumari. The patients were sent home in ‘108’ ambulances and asked to stay in home quarantine for a period of 14 days before venturing outdoors. In Pudukottai, the 45 COVID 19 patients were admitted to the Ranee’s Government Hospital for treatment. Of the six COVID 19 positive cases in Nagapattinam district, a 30-year-old man serving in the army in Assam was infected on return to his hometown. He is currently undergoing treatment at the Sirkazhi Government Hospital. Another patient is a doctor who travelled to Chennai to be part of the frontline workforce in the city. Two patients returned to the district from Chennai while two patients are local residents who tested positive after coming in contact with patients who tested positive earlier. In Karur, five patients tested positive for the viral infection and have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, three patients from Dindigul and one man from Karur were discharged from the hospital after recovering from the infection on Sunday. Four patients tested positive in Ariyalur. Of them, one returned to the district from Chennai and another from Kumbakonam. The third patient hails from Ariyalur and has no travel history, while another patient was in contact with an individual who tested positive earlier. Three of the patients have been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital for treatment, while one patient is undergoing treatment in Chennai. As on Sunday, 513 patients have tested positive in Ariyalur. So far, 463 have recovered and returned home. Throat swabs have been lifted for 394 people at the Ariyalur Medical College, Ariyalur GH and at various Primary Healthcare Centres and have been sent to the lab for testing. The sole patient who tested positive in Perambalur is a 61-year-old man from Kunnam. The man has pre-existing conditions of diabetes and has undergone a coronary bypass. He was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi on July 6 and the swab returned positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-deaths-211-new-cases-in-one-day/article32062235.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railways sets up business development unit in Tiruchi||The railways has set up a business development unit in Tiruchi Division towards attracting more freight traffic. The unit has been set up as per the directions of Railway Board to sustain the focus on increasing the freight business. Similar units are being set up at all Divisions over Southern Railway. The focus is to double the freight carried by railways by 2024, and in particular, explore ways to attract non-bulk goods traffic which is now being moved by road. Ajay Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager, Tiruchi, approved setting up of a multi disciplinary business development unit at the divisional level comprising junior administrative grade officers from all relevant fields. M. Boopathiraja, Senior Divisional Operations Manager, would be the convener of the unit which will have Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Senior Divisional Finance Manager and Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer as members. The unit will have regular interaction with both existing and new customers to appraise them of all the new initiatives and the transportation benefits offered by the railways. The unit will also serve as a nodal point to facilitate industry and trade representatives as well as rail freight customers to get in touch with Railways and expedite clearances for freight movement. The Tiruchi Division has been making continuous efforts to move essential commodities post the nation-wide lockdown enforced to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. In the first quarter of the current financial year 2020-21 (April to June), the division has moved 3,11,967 tonnes of food grains to various destinations. It has also loaded 18,20,507 tonnes of Coal, 48,252 tonnes of cement, 57,287 tonnes of fertilizers, 12,145 tonnes of iron ore and 12,487 tonnes of other commodities, a railway press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-sets-up-business-development-unit-in-tiruchi/article32062255.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Some transwomen are yet to receive welfare aid in Tiruchi||A section of transgender women in Tiruchi claims that it is yet to receive the Rs. 1000 sanctioned by the TN government as COVID-19 relief. Some allege foul-play, claiming that a few transwomen have taken the money on behalf of at least 50 of them. P. Kajol, member, Tamil Nadu Transgender Welfare Board said that Selvi, a 63-year-old transwoman had approached her as she had not received the welfare assistance both the times the Tamil Nadu government announced it for transgenders. “She is old and requires funds for treatment of her ailments. When we asked the Social Welfare Office, the staff said that they had handed it over to another woman,” said Ms. Kajol. Selvi then raised a complaint through the Commissionerate of Social Welfare, who ordered an investigation and to ensure that Ms. Selvi receives the Rs. 2000, Ms. Kajol said. “Now, Ms. Selvi has received Rs. 1000, but another Rs. 1000 is pending,” she added. A transwoman residing in Tiruverumbur has claimed to be the caretaker of 58 transwomen and has taken Rs. 58,000 from the District Social Welfare Office, Ms. Kajol alleged. “When each of us have to show our identity cards issued by the Social Welfare Department to get this money, how are they special? Is it not wrong to handover all the money to one person?” she asked. Ms. Kajol on Thursday submitted a petition to the Collector demanding an enquiry into the matter. She claimed she had so far found 12 women whose money was taken by someone else, she said. “In the letter, I have written the names, telephone numbers and details of all those who have not received the welfare assistance. In these dire times, we need money badly ” she said. Whoever took their money has also forged signatures of acceptance from all of them, she charged Geetha, one of the 12 transwomen whom Ms. Kajol names in her letter currently resides in New Delhi. “Although we have heard about the welfare assistance from the Tamil Nadu government, we have not been able to receive it as we cannot travel to Tiruchi immediately,” she said. Another transwoman, Laila Amma, says that although she had returned to Tiruchi nearly one month ago, she is yet to receive the money. “I was told that one transwoman has collected it for all of us. I am unable to take it from her due to the lack of public transportation,” she said. The Tiruchi District Social Welfare Officer, M. Thameemunisa, however, denied the allegations. “We have ensured the distribution ofthe relief to all the registered transgender women in Tiruchi. In Selvi’s case, a mix-up occurred and another woman with the same name took her welfare assistance too. However, we have now given Selvi Rs. 1000,” she said. Collector S. Sivarasu said that a total of 132 transwomen were given the assistance after verification of ID cards were done by the Social Welfare Department. “There are 183 transwomen who are registered in Tiruchi, but excluding those who have died, left the district, etc., the remaining have received the relief fund,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-transwomen-are-yet-to-receive-welfare-aid-in-tiruchi/article32062231.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fort crime police file chargesheet in Lalithaa Jewellery heist case||Chargesheet has been filed in the Lalithaa Jewellery heist case reported here in October last. Police sources said the chargesheet was filed recently in the Judicial Magistrate Court -I by the Fort crime police which had registered a burglary case and investigated the offence. Special teams of the Tiruchi city police had arrested Murugan - the prime accused in the sensational heist, besides his close relative Suresh, Ganesan, Manikandan and Kanakavalli - the mother of Suresh. The teams had recovered over 20 kg of stolen valuables looted from the jewellery shop following the arrest of the accused. Murugan is also the prime accused in the Punjab National Bank's Bikshandarkoil branch burglary reported in January 2019. The bank burglary case is being probed separately by the Kollidam police coming under the Tiruchi rural police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-police-file-chargesheet-in-lalithaa-jewellery-heist-case/article32062182.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ROB on Salai Road develops crack after heavy rain||The road overbridge on Salai road suffered damage due to the impact of the heavy rain that lasted the city for more than 90 minutes on Saturday, hindering movement of vehicular traffic. The damage has surfaced at a time when the Tiruchi Corporation is contemplating the closure of the road for traffic. A crack has been noticed on a portion of the road closer to the parapet wall. As the crack was a few inches wide, apprehensions arose about the sturdiness of the road for passage of heavy vehicles. Erosion of gravel underneath the top surface of the road through cavities due the impact of heavy rain was stated to be the main reason for the damage. The damage came to the notice of passers by as dawn set in on Sunday. On information, the workers of the Tiruchi Corporation rushed to the spot and put up barricades along the damaged portion of the road. Vehicles were allowed on the road after barricades were put up. Though there was no immediate danger to the vehicles that pass on the road, some expressed apprehension over the strength of the road when heavily loaded vehicle pass by. The road, which is popularly known as Maris theatre road, connects Main guard gate and Chathiram Bus Stand with Thillai Nagar and Woraiyur. It was a highly congested stretch up to the junction where the Karur Bypass Road intersects. After the formation of the Karur Bypass Road many years ago, the volume of traffic on Salai road came down to a substantial extent as most of the vehicles from Chathiram Bus Stand, Chinthamani, Thiruvanaikoil and Srirangam bound travellers preferred to use the alternative route. Yet, over the years, the traffic has gone up gradually on Salai road due to the exponent growth of vehicles in the city. It has been observed that it has already matched the volume of traffic that the road carried about 20 years ago. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that there was a need to carry out remedial measures to strengthen the damaged portion of the road. The services of National Institute of Technology (NIT) - Tiruchi would be sought to find out ways and means for strengthening it. Based on its report, the road would be repaired, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rob-on-salai-road-develops-crack-after-heavy-rain/article32062234.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police issue guidelines for traders at G Corner temporary market||Amid the latest spike in number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, the city police have issued guidelines for strict adherence by wholesale and retail vegetable traders coming to the temporary market functioning at the Ponmalai G Corner ground here. The measures have been put in place keeping in mind interest of the general public and prevent the spread of the viral disease. As per the measures, the city police personnel would conduct checks at various entrances to the temporary market from Monday. The city police authorities have asked wholesale and retail vegetable traders besides loadmen to extend their cooperation to the checks by the police personnel. A press release issued by the city police on Sunday said vehicles transporting vegetables brought by the wholesale traders would be allowed in batches to ensure distancing. Vehicles would be allowed in batches of 10 to unload vegetables. The release made it clear that retail traders would be allowed inside the market only to purchase vegetables from wholesale traders. Retail traders would not be permitted to sell at the place. Vehicles of retail traders would be allowed only in batches of 10 vehicles. Retail traders coming to the market by mini goods carriers and two-wheelers could come via G corner railway station road, Assistant Commissioner of Police Office, Ponmalai, St. Peter Church and officer club to reach the market. After purchase, they should go out via G Corner service road. All two-wheelers coming to the market should be parked at the designated spot identified at the left side of G Corner. Public were not allowed to come to the market. Cases would be registered against those found violating the directive and their vehicle would be confiscated. Wholesale and retail traders besides loadmen should necessarily wear mask. The City Corporation would impose spot fine on those found without a mask. Only those wearing mask would be allowed entry into the market. Traders and loadmen should ensure personal distancing and wholesale traders should provide hand sanitisers to loadmen before they commence their work and after completion, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-issue-guidelines-for-traders-at-g-corner-temporary-market/article32062251.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Electrification project gets under way||Preliminary works connected with electrifying the Tiruchi -Karaikudi broad gauge section via Pudukottai, Tirumayam and Chettinad have been initiated during the lockdown by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE). The overhead electrification works have commenced both from the Tiruchi end as well as on the Karaikudi side simultaneously to cover the nearly 93-km single line broad gauge stretch. The Tiruchi-Karaikudi stretch is a major broad gauge section sanctioned by the Railway Board, New Delhi, for carrying out the overhead electrification project. A senior railway officer told The Hindu that the foundation works along the stretch commenced a few days ago at identified locations for erection of overhead electrical masts. The preliminary works have begun notwithstanding the lockdown by adhering to necessary safety precautions at the work sites in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Field-level officials involved in the project were wearing masks and ensuring personal distancing at the work site. The overhead electrification work has been awarded to Larsen & Toubro Limited under the EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) mode for faster execution of the project. Although the overhead electrification project would not require any additional land, foundation works would take substantial time due to the different soil conditions along the stretch ahead of laying of electrical masts and portals, the officer further said. The project is being executed as part of the Indian Railways’ thrust to electrify all railway sections over the course of time. The officer said the electrification project on the Tiruchi - Karaikudi BG stretch which has begun in right earnest has been targeted for completion by June next year. As part of the project, the CORE would be establishing a 110 kv power substation at Karaikudi which comes under the jurisdiction of the Madurai railway division. The CORE has submitted an application to theTangedco for supply of power. The plan was also to electrify the stretches from Karaikudi to Manamadurai and from Manamadurai to Virudhunagar. The Chennai - Karaikudi - Chennai Pallavan expresses via Tiruchi and Pudukottai; Tiruchi - Rameswaram - Tiruchi passengers; Mannargudi - Manamadurai - Mannargudi passengers were some of the daily train services that were in operation on the Tiruchi - Karaikudi BG section till the lockdown was clamped in late - March due to COVID-19 pandemic leading to complete suspension of passenger trains. The CORE had already energised the Tiruchi - Thanjavur-Tiruvarur-Nagapattinam - Nagore -Karaikal BG stretch and has taken up overhead electrification works on the Nagapattinam - Velankanni separate railway line covering a distance of about 10 k.m The project is expected to be completed by August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electrification-project-gets-under-way/article32062250.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Affiliated colleges race against time to submit internal marks to varsity||With the University Grants Commission making the 'final term examinations' mandatory, affiliated colleges are racing against time to submit the internal marks of final year students to Bharathidasan University (BDU) by July 15. While autonomous colleges have, by and large, arrived at the internal scores of students at all levels based on the Continuous Internal Assessment and assignments, teachers of affiliated colleges are in the process of compiling the data. “Though we have asked for more time, the idea of readying the internal scores well in time seems reasonable,” Zonal Secretary of Government College Teachers' Association P. David Livingston, said. The guidelines of the UGC for mandatory conduct of final term exams by September 30 have been announced coinciding with formation of the 11-member committee formed by the Tamil Nadu Higher Education Department to make recommendations regarding the conduct of University semester exams. UGC's emphasis on conduct of exams for final term students has seemingly earned appreciation from the teachers. “Exams are necessary, but the possibility for online assessment does not exist,” State General Secretary of Aided College Teachers' Association S. Sahaya Satish said. According to BDU sources, the time is too short for conducting online exams. In the absence of scope for effective monitoring, the concept of online exams will never take off, at least for one more year. A specific duration of transition time is required, sources said. In its latest guidelines, UGC has said educational institutions can be kept open for the purpose of holding exams and undertaking evaluation work for final year exams. As per the Standard Operating Procedure, 'Work from Home' is not applicable to officers, faculty and non-teaching staff who are involved in exam, evaluation and admission work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/affiliated-colleges-race-against-time-to-submit-internal-marks-to-varsity/article32062254.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||13-year-old boy trapped between rocks rescued||A 13-year-old boy, who got trapped between three rocks at Akilandampatti, a few kilometres away from Thuraiyur town along the Musiri Road, was rescued by a team of firefighters with assistance from locals on Sunday. V. Aditya of Melakothampatti village got trapped while trying to reach out to his mobile phone that had slipped into the gap in an upside down position. He was grazing goats, along with a few other boys, when the incident happened. The other boys informed the villagers, who, in turn, sounded an alert to the firefighters of Thuraiyur station. On receipt of information, a team of firefighters rushed to the spot. A firefighter said villagers had by then rushed in to lend their help to rescue the trapped boy. The firefighters with help from the public carefully pulled the rocks using ropes one after the other to rescue the minor. He was rescued without any injury in the operation that lasted nearly one-and-a -half hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-year-old-boy-trapped-between-rocks-rescued/article32062209.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today||Power supply will be be suspended to the following areas from 9.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Monday in view of maintenance works to be taken up by Tangedco at the Thiruvanaikovil sub-station: Thiruvanaikovil Sannidhi Street, North and South Inner Streets, Othatheru, Srinivasa Nagar, Nariyan Street, Nelson Road, Ambedkar Nagar, Panchakarai Road, Arul Murugan Garden, AUT Nagar, Raghavendra Garden, Gandhi Road, Trunk Road, Kumbakonam Salai, Sivaram Nagar, M.K.Pettai, Chennai By-pass Road, Kallanai Road, Keezh Kondayampettai, Nadu Kondayampettai, Jambukeswarar Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Venkateswara Nagar, Tagore Street, Thiruvennainallur, Ponnurangapuram, Thiruvalarsolai, Panaiyapuram, Uttamarseeli, Killikoodu, Tollgate, Bikshandarkovil, Maruthi Nagar, Gokulam Colony, V.N.Nagar, Raja Nagar, Anand Nagar, Rayar Thoppu and Thalakudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-today/article32062232.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 76.85 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 294 cusecs and the discharge 13,002 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32062236.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boy electrocuted||A 10-year-old boy died of electric shock in Palakkarai area here on Sunday. The minor was playing with a few others in an open site where a motor pump set fixed in a house close by. Police said he accidentally touched the pump and suffered an electric shock and died on the spot. Police believe electric leak in the pump could have been due to the heavy rains on Saturday night. The body has been sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-electrocuted/article32062241.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Anti-socials, tipplers unleash fear, panic in residential area||Residents, especially women, of Bharani Nagar in Vannarpet are living in fear for the past few months as drunkards and anti-socials gather near their houses at night to consume liquor and narcotic substances. The area mostly comprises middle class families and the residents do not venture out of their homes after 7 p.m. The intruders make their way into the area from North Bypass Road in bikes and cars and take refuge amid the thick thorny bushes. Some of the cars carry flags of either political parties or caste outfits. “After consuming liquor, they scream, dance and fight until 1 a.m., especially during weekends. A few residents who objected were threatened. In one case, the drunkards pelted stones on the house of a government employee and broke the windows,” said a resident who did not want to be identified. An old ragpicker visits the area every morning and collects the empty liquor bottles, said a government employee who lives close to the bushes. In the event of any threat to their safety or any problem in their locality, residents may call City Intelligence Section 0462 – 2970057 or 0462 – 2571028 round the clock for immediate assistance, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-socials-tipplers-unleash-fear-panic-in-residential-area/article32062192.ece
13 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death||A 32-year-old man was found hacked to death near Mangalam Road on Saturday night. Police identified the deceased as Pechimuthu from Thoothukudi district. Preliminary investigations revealed that he came to Tiruppur in search of work in June. Three special teams formed to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death/article32061952.ece
13 July 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Over 20,000 undergo COVID-19 test in the Nilgiris||Over 20,000 people have been tested for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris. Speaking to reporters after the inauguration of the RT-PCR laboratory at the Government Headquarters Hospital in Udhagamandalam, District Collector J. Innocent Divya said that the lab has the capacity to process up to 270 samples to test for COVID-19 each day. The Collector said that on average, anywhere between 600 and 700 samples are being collected in the district, so the samples are being sent to Coimbatore as well for testing. “The positivity rate in the Nilgiris is 0.9 %,” said the Collector, adding that the number of tests conducted in the district was among the highest in Tamil Nadu. The district administration was also ramping up COVID care facilities for asymptomatic patients, with a 120-bed facility being set up in a private school in Udhagamandalam. “We have been asked to ramp up COVID care facilities, as it is expected that the number of novel coronavirus infections could increase, so we are even ramping up Primary Health Centres to be capable of treating patients,” said the Collector. People employed in a private company in Yellanalli, as well as their family, friends and contacts are being tested, after a cluster emerged from the company which has contributed to around half the total infections recorded in the district so far.  The positivity rate in the Nilgiris is 0.9 % J. Innocent Divya  The Nilgiris District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-20000-undergo-covid-19-test-in-the-nilgiris/article32061924.ece
13 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Three fined for consuming deer meat||Three persons, including a mahout who takes care of captive elephants at the Theppakadu elephant camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, were fined Rs. 75,000 for consuming the meat of a spotted deer. The three were identified as V. Maruthan (29), A. Ramesh (28) and G. Arun Kumar (36). Maruthan was a mahout, while the other two were assistants to mahouts at the elephant camp. They were caught after footage from a camera trap placed to capture images of wildlife in the reserve recorded one of the men taking the meat from the carcass. The three were fined a cumulative amount of Rs. 75,000, forest officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-fined-for-consuming-deer-meat/article32061959.ece
13 July 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Man tries to end life after police seize his bike||A man attempted to end his life minutes after the police seized his two-wheeler for violating lockdown rules in Ambur on Sunday. Police stopped the vehicle of Mugilan, of Anna Nagar, and found that he was not travelling for any emergency and hence they seized his vehicle and let him go. He attempted to end his life. The police rushed him to the Ambur Government Hospital and then to CMC hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-tries-to-end-life-after-police-seize-his-bike/article32061906.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees highest single day spike||Among the over 250 cases reported in western districts on Sunday, Coimbatore recorded the highest number of cases on a single day. Of the 117 new cases, 20 cases were from Selvapuram and 10 from Ukkadam. The highest number of cases reported in a day so far was 74 on July 4. On Sunday, Sulur police station was closed for fumigation after a constable tested positive. Swab samples of police personnel were collected for examination. Thudiyalur police station was also closed on Sunday after five police personnel contracted the disease. The station was fumigated and swab samples of the family members of the five patients and other police personnel were collected. The station was closed earlier in April. In Salem, 98 cases were reported and all cases were indigenous. Among them, 60 were from Corporation limits. Namakkal district saw 12 cases, of which seven were contacts of previous patients. In Krishnagiri, 12 cases were reported and five of them were identified during influenza-like illness surveillance in the district. Two of them are SARI patients and two have returned from Kashmir and Bengaluru. In Dharmapuri, 17 cases were reported. Among the patients was a SETC driver. Tiruppur district reported three cases- a 55-year-old man from an apartment on Tiruppur-Avinashi Road, a 56-year-old man from Anupparpalayam in Corporation limits and a 28-year-old woman from Cheyur Road in Avinashi Block, Health Department sources said. In the Nilgiris, five tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of infections recorded in the district now stands at 183, with 95 people having recovered. The district administration said that 88 people are being treated at the ESI hospital in Coimbatore, the Coonoor GH and the government headquarters hospital in Udhagamandalam. A total of 20 new cases were reported in Erode district. Health officials said that 11 cases were reported in corporation limits, four cases at Perundurai, two in Modakurichi and one case each at Puliyampatti, Nambiyur and Chithode. Officials added that while nine cases were contact of positive cases, 10 cases were unlinked and one case is a frontline worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-sees-highest-single-day-spike/article32061930.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Government gives a breather to registered societies||The State Government that has been advising people to observe physical distancing norms and extending concessions to people to do so, has done something similar for registered societies. To prevent gathering of people for annual general body meeting to go through the previous financial year’s financial statement and submit the same during this COVID-19 pandemic period the State Government has said that registered societies, including housing (residential welfare association) societies could now do so before December 2020. Secretary to the Commercial Taxes and Registration Department, Beela Rajesh, in a G.O. issued a fortnight ago had said, “In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government have … decided to extend the time limit prescribed under rule 22 of the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Rules, 1978 by a further period of three months… up to December 2020 for placing the receipts and expenditure account and the balance sheet before the general body meeting, for the financial year 2019-2020.” As per the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act,1975 and Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Rules, 1978 every registered society should place before the general body meeting the receipts and expenditure account and the balance sheet of account of the previous financial year before September 30. The G.O. also said that it took the decision to extend the time based on a representation from The Planters Association of Tamil Nadu, Coimbatore. Welcoming the decision, K. Senthil Kumar of Federation of Apartments’ Owners Welfare Association said what the Government did was right as it would be wrong to mobilise people at a place to conduct the meeting. Cast votes There was no provision to conduct the meeting through any online platform because the Rules stipulated that members had to be present in person at the annual general body meeting and cast votes. He suggested that using the opportunity provided by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government should reframe the Rules to include online participation and exercise of vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-gives-a-breather-to-registered-societies/article32061938.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traders at V.O.C. Park Ground demand concrete flooring||With the premises of newly established vegetable shops at the V.O.C. Park Ground turning slushy due to rains, traders wanted concrete flooring to be done on the premises. Over 800 wholesale and retail shops that functioned at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market premises on R.K.V. Road was shifted to the Corporation Central Bus Stand and later to the park ground where the civic body established the shops. Later, shops were allotted to the traders and started functioning on the new premises from last week. Rains for the past two days led to the soil turning slushy affecting the movement of vehicles and the visitors to the market on Friday. Traders said that their business was affected as shopkeepers and people were facing hardship in moving inside the market. They said that the corporation had spent over Rs. 1.5 crore for establishing the new market premises, but without concrete flooring, works were incomplete, they added. P.P.K. Palanisamy, president, Nethaji Wholesale Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market Association said that trucks carrying vegetables got stuck in the slush and they faced difficulty in unloading the produce. Since the rainy season will begin soon, the corporation should take steps to apply concrete to the floor, he said and wanted the work to be taken up at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-at-voc-park-ground-demand-concrete-flooring/article32061937.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat presidents seek release of pending funds||Panchayat presidents under the association Uratchi Mandra Thalaivaragal Kuttamaippu petitioned with the District Collector demanding release of pending funds. The village panchayat presidents from Attur Panchayat Union sought release of pending funds for the panchayats and inclusion of desilting works in water bodies at panchayats here under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. They demanded that steps must be taken for release of pending funds to carry out works in the panchayats. They said in the petition that they haven’t received funds for the months of March, April, May and June and even basic works have been affected due to this. They requested authorities to release the second instalment of funds under the 14th Finance Commission and urged officials to provide administrative sanction to works planned to handle water scarcity. The panchayat presidents also requested officials to include desilting works of water bodies under the MGNREGA scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-presidents-seek-release-of-pending-funds/article32061942.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Student attempts Limca record with wall painting||A first-year student at NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion, Tiruppur attempted to enter the Limca Book of Records by finishing a wall painting in 25 days. R. Sanjay Kumar, a first year student at Costume Design and Fashion, said that he started the painting on June 17 and finished it on July 11. Painted on a 504 sq.ft. wall on the college premises, the art pays tribute to 14 famous personalities from the world of art, music and fashion, he said. This wall painting depicts a map of the world and recreates the works of these personalities, said G. Boopathi Vijay, a lecturer from the Department of Apparel Fashion Design who was the mentor of this project. “The works were done on the map on either the artist’s home country or the country where they died,” he explained. For instance, Michelangelo’s ‘The Creation of Adam’ was painted on Italy where he was born and Leonardo da Vinci’s ‘The Last Supper’ was painted on France, where he died. The college provided accommodation to the student for 25 days to finish thie painting, said 18-year-old Mr. Kumar. “I would wake up at around 5.30 a.m. and finish the work at around 2 a.m. the next day,” he recalled, noting that he slept for less than four hours every day. As the college was closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it was easy for him to focus on the painting. NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion has submitted this attempt to Limca Book of Records and the results are awaited, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-attempts-limca-record-with-wall-painting/article32061940.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Committee plea on Pilloor III headworks||Bhavani River Water and Ground Water Protection Committee has urged the district administration to move downstream in the river the Pilloor III headworks. In its petition, the committee president T.T. Rangasamy said that the organisation had for the past three years been placing the demand to protect the existing 16 combined drinking water supply schemes and also the Pilloor III scheme, which the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board had taken up to supply 295 million litres a day to Coimbatore city. It had sent representations to the Board, the Chief Ministers and others concerned. In its response the Board had said that the limited flow in River Bhavani in a particular year and that too for a particular period should not be taken into account to move the headworks and the Board did not formulate water supply schemes taking into account such data. The committee, Mr. Rangasamy said, then filed a petition under the Right to Information Act and got to know that the maximum water flow the river saw was 21,376 litres in July 2009 and the minimum was 74.09 litres in April 2000. In between the Pilloor and Bhavani Sagar reservoirs, the Board had headworks for 16 combined drinking water schemes, which drew 106 million litres a day. If the Board were to commission the Pilloor III scheme that would add another 295 million litres to the 106 million litres water drawn every day. This would put Mettupalayam and neighbouring areas at a disadvantage. The committee based on the reply to the RTI petition had moved the Madras High Court, which on November 21, 2019 had issued notices to officials concerned asking for their response. At this juncture it would not be proper for the district administration to grant the go-ahead to the Board to implement the project, he said. Now, if the Tiruppur fourth drinking water scheme were to be implemented, it would push things from bad to worse, he said and reiterated his demand for the headworks to be pushed downstream of the river, preferably at Alangcombu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-plea-on-pilloor-iii-headworks/article32061949.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Toronto University institutes Nedunchezhiyan award||The University of Toronto Scarborough has announced a lecture series and a Tamil literary award in the name of late AIADMK leader and former Minister V.R. Nedunchezhiyan popularly known as ‘Navalar’. Wisdom Tettey, principal, University of Toronto Scarborough and Vice-President, University of Toronto, said The Navalar Nedunchezhiyan Lecture Series and the Navalar Nedunchezhiyan Tamil Literary Prize had been instituted with the help of two endowed funds gifted by a donor, who preferred to remain anonymous. “Both funds are named after Tamil scholar and political figure V.R. Navalar Nedunchezhiyan, who would have celebrated his 100th birthday on July 11. Nedunchezhiyan was known for his oratory skills and speeches, which earned him the sobriquet Navalar, a reference to his rhetorical nature,” said Mr.Tettey. He said that The Navalar Nedunchezhiyan Tamil Literary Prize would be awarded annually to an outstanding local or international scholar in the field of Tamil Studies. The inaugural award would be given after the completion of the Tamil Chair fund-raising initiative to create the first Chair in Tamil Studies at the University of Toronto Scarborough. The Lecture Series will promote conversations around pluralism, multiculturalism, and inclusive global societies. The series would bring the brightest in their fields to share their ideas on how inclusive and resilient communities can help address contemporary issues that we face throughout the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toronto-university-institutes-nedunchezhiyan-award/article32061895.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flyover work nearing completion||The flyover construction at Kandhampatti junction here is expected to be completed in a week, officials said. The flyover located on the busy Salem-Kochi national highway is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 33 crore and is expected to ease vehicle movement at the junction, one of the busiest points on the Salem-Kochi highway. According to officials from national highways department, improvement works are being carried out at the junction and approach road works and painting are progress at the flyover. The works are progressing at a fast pace, they said. Villagers and motorists here have been demanding for steps to ease traffic movement in the junction. Besides highway motorists, villagers on both sides of the highway who travel towards Salem were also dependent on this stretch of the highway and severe traffic congestion used to occur at this point. According to officials, the major structural works of the flyover are over. Besides traffic, since gaps on the median to make U-turns were almost a km away, those living on both sides of the highway make unauthorised cuts on the median to criss-cross the highway often leading to fatal accidents. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had laid the foundation stone for the project in February 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flyover-work-nearing-completion/article32061944.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New SPs take charge||Ara. Arularasu, who took charge as the Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore District (Rural) Police, on Sunday said that all efforts will be taken to maintain peace in his jurisdiction apart from crime prevention. Mr. Arularasu assumed office in the presence of senior officials of the rural police. He replaced Sujit Kumar, who took charge as SP of Madurai District Police.  ERODE  P. Thangadurai assumed office as Superintendent of Police for Erode district on Sunday. He replaces S. Sakthi Ganesan, who had been transferred as Superintendent of Police, Namakkal district. Prior to assuming office here, Mr. Thangadurai was the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Salem City.  SALEM/NAMAKKAL  S. Sakthi Ganesan, the newly-appointed Superintendent of Police for Namakkal district assumed charge on Sunday. Assuming charge, Mr. Ganesan said that the SP’s mobile number would be made available in all police stations and public can contact him any time. He added that immediate action would be taken on public plaints. M. Chandrasekaran assumed charge as Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Salem City Police. Mr. Chandrasekaran earlier served as Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police for Crime against Women and Children in Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sps-take-charge/article32061947.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CREDAI seeks faster approvals for building plans||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Coimbatore Chapter, has appealed to the Chief Minister to ensure that building plan approvals are provided without much delay. Surender Vittel, president of CREDAI, Coimbatore, said in a press release that the current approval process takes six months to one year. “CREDAI has been requesting for specified time of clearance along with a ‘one time only’ query. Files can be cleared through an automatic route, on lapse of specified time, since the plans are loaded on to a software with sufficient checks on adherence to rules,” he said. Further, with the spread of COVID-19, travel restrictions are in place and people cannot travel to Chennai. At present, every file for buildings of 15,000 sq.ft or above built up area needs to be approved in Chennai. This should be relaxed so that approvals for buildings up to two lakh sq.ft are provided in Coimbatore. The government should permit an online, single window system to file and track applications at LPA, DTCP or Corporation and all other departments concerned. All approvals should be linked online. “Currently, we face delays at each department, making the real estate industry opaque with incremental cost of compliance,” he said. With several migrant workers returning home in the recent weeks, the industry faces non-availability of workforce. The State government should provide labour data that is available with it so that the construction sector can recruit workers from within the State. Completion certificate The introduction of the completion certificate should remove the necessity for collection of security deposit. Currently, the builders are not receiving the refund of the security deposit even after complying with all the norms and completing the projects, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/credai-seeks-faster-approvals-for-building-plans/article32061939.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Role of three film producers in cheating case under police scanner||Ramanathapuram Bazaar police are examining the suspected role of three film producers in a cheating case involving multi-level marketing (MLM) operations. Neethimani, main accused in the case in which investors have been allegedly duped of several crore of rupees, has told investigators that he lured people to invest in his finance compnay based on an idea given by the film producers. One of them heads a leading production house. According to Neethimani's confession, the producers benefitted from the racket, Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar toldThe Hindu. An estimated Rs. 7 crore collected from the public has been invested in production and distribution of films. “We have digital evidence of his conversation with the film producers,” he said. Based on inputs and bank transactions, police will examine arraigning the producers in the case, he added. Last month, Mr. Kumar directed local police to register a case on a complaint from Thulasi Manikandan, a resident of TNHB Colony. The complainant alleged that Neethimani, his wife Menaka of Chennai and Anand, a school teacher in Ramanathapuram, lured him to invest in their finance company. Similar to an MLM, investors, including Mr. Manikandan, were asked to bring in other depositors for an incentive. Many investors received returns for about six to nine months, but the three vanished after that. Neethimani was arrested last month. Based on his confession, police widened the scope of investigation, which revealed that the key accused collected huge deposits from people in Madurai, Sivaganga, Coimbatore, Chennai and through their relatives and also from people from Singapore and Malaysia, which was around Rs. 12 crore. The investors were either given a receipt for the money deposited or post-dated cheques in the name of the finance company. However, the company reneged on its commitment leading to the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/role-of-three-film-producers-in-cheating-case-under-police-scanner/article32062189.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove encroachers’||Members of Kanirowther Lake Retrieval Movement have alleged that the corporation has resumed work to construct pathways on the lake to protect the encroachers and buildings that were constructed in violation of rules. Nilavan, coordinator of the movement, said that the civic body had recently resumed construction activity and they had opposed it after which works were halted.  Meeting held During a meeting with corporation officials they have put forth the demands. It includes halting works to construct a compound wall for the lake as it prevents rain water from entering the water body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachers/article32061935.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Disruption in water supply||Water supply would be disrupted on July 14 in Corporation limits due to maintenance works, a release said. Drinking water supply through the dedicated scheme would be affected on the day due to maintenance works at Thotilpatti, Mettur by TNEB. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh advised public to use water cautiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disruption-in-water-supply/article32061941.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Garbage adds to woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-adds-to-woes/article32062240.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grassroots checks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grassroots-checks/article32061887.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Medicine vending machine launched||Coimbatore-based Thulasi Pharmacies India Private Limited launched a fully automated medicine vending machine recently. The automated medicine vending machine was introduced at Sri Ganapathy Silks showroom at Oppanakara Street. Ganesh, joint director of Sri Ganapathy Silks, launched the machine in the presence of P. Radhakrishnan, director of Thulasi Pharmacies India Private Limited and M. Ramakrishnan, managing director of the pharmacy retailer. The vending machine will dispense medicines and toiletries. The medicines stored in the machine are for common diseases that require no prescription, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medicine-vending-machine-launched/article32061948.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 UPDATE||Coimbatore district  No. of persons tested +ve so far: 1,261 Indigenous cases: 1,229 Imported cases: 32 No. of active cases: 930 No. of persons died: 9  Tiruppur district  House quarantined: 2,871 Positive: 297 (Three fresh cases on Sunday) Discharged: 177 Active cases: 118 Deaths: 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article32061931.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The condition of the drainage canal near Palakkarai Road in Thuraiyur area is deteriorating with continuous dumping of garbage. The flow of sewerage gets blocked quite often by overgrowth of weeds, garbage and accumulating waste materials. The public have been looking for long for clearing of the accumulation. M. Periyamalaiyan, Karattampatti.    A two-kilometre stretch of road from Murugur to Thuraiyur that also serves the travelling need of the public in Puliyancholai, Thanganagar, Nettavelampatti, Alaththudaiyaanpatti, Meyyampatti, Sakkampatti, Eragudi and konapathai is in a dilapidated condition. Villagers and school students who make frequent to and fro trips on motorcycles and bicycles along the damaged stretch every day face hardship due to the presence of several potholes. Tourists bound for Puliancholai also use this stretch as a shortcut. It will be in the best interests of all, if the road is black-topped as a long-time measure. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    Residents of apartments are not doing enough to comply with Standard operating Procedure for preventing spread of COVID 19. They are not providing hand sanitisers at the security gate, or insist on face masks being worn by people delivering newspapers, milk, postal materials, cylinders and food items; as also others who use the lift. M. Raja, Tiruchi.       While enforcing social distancing, it is also important to make sure that face masks worn by the people are made of quality cloth material. The absence in awareness among the public of disposal of the face masks is worrisome. It is not uncommon to find face masks scattered here and there by the roadsides. The very purpose behind wearing face masks will be defied if the authorities fail to sensitise the public to proper way of disposing the face masks. S. Raghavan, Cantonment.   As the COVID-19 pandemic is gradually percolating to smaller towns and villages in Tamil Nadu, a necessity has arisen for the government to strengthen response mechanism in taluk hospitals. The paraphernalia and manpower must be adequate in taluk hospitals so that the people in rural parts can shed their fear psychosis about the pandemic. S. Krishnan, Thippirajapuram.      No sooner did the UGC come out with guidelines on evaluating UG and PG students than a demand surfaced in certain quarters for cancellation of exams. As the pandemic is not going to end any time soon, it is time we started getting on with life taking all precautions. College students should be mature enough to look after their safety and it will be in their own interest to be awarded degrees after taking terminal examination for career progression. R. Ganesan, Tiruvanaikoil.      Since Tiruchi is on its way to becoming a Smart City, works pertaining to laying of power lines and underground cables, and clearing of illegal structures along the Mainguard-Marakkadai stretch need to be inevitably carried out. While doing so, it is necessary for the authorities to make sure there is no vehicular congestion. The bus stops must be planned accordingly. Dimple R. Mohan, Sangiliyandapuram.    While people living in and around Karumandapam are satisfied with the Highways Department's construction of dividers along the Dindigul Road, they are also concerned by the obstructions caused to movement of vehicles due to haphazard parking. Prompt action by the authorities will be appreciated. S.R. Dasarathan, Karumandapam.      Senior citizens are struggling to pay property tax to the city corporation. It would be helpful for them if the civic body arranged mobile offices for collection of the tax at the doorstep.  S. Sivaraman, Srirangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32062246.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Tiruchi  National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi: National workshop via video-conferencing on ‘Perspectives and Challenges in Outcome-based Research’ under AICTE-Margadarshan scheme, Nitin Kanwade, General Manager - Manufacturing, TATA Motors, inaugurates; chief guest address by Padma Shri T. Ramasami, former Secretary, Department of Science and Technology; NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas, presides, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article32062237.ece
13 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lockdown near-total in Belagavi district||The COVID-19 lockdown was nearly complete in Belagavi on Sunday. All government and private offices were closed. Most of the shops and markets remained shut. This is significant as Tuesday is the holiday and Sunday is a working day in Belagavi. Schools and colleges are yet to start. Police were stationed in most major road inter-sections and traffic signals, stopping commuters and asking them to go back home. Though the press release issued by Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath on Saturday said that the supply of essentials will not be disrupted, some milk vendors faced problems transporting milk to different areas on their motorcycles. Maruti Gowli, who sells milk in Tilakwadi after procuring it from farmers in Yallur, said that he was stopped at two places and had to get himself free after telling the police that he sold milk to senior police officers. The lockdown was observed strictly across the district. However, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi held a meeting with officials in the Taluk Panchayat office in Gokak. He asked officers about COVID-19 preparedness and checked on the progress of development works. Officers informed him that around 50 beds were being readied for COVID-19 positive persons in the Gokak taluk hospital. Mr. Jarkiholi asked traders and officials to observe a voluntary lockdown for eight to 10 days, to contain the spread of the virus. When asked about holding the meeting during the lockdown, the Minister said that it was an emergency meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-near-total-in-belagavi-district/article32062019.ece
13 July 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||People told not to worry too much over pandemic||Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi on Sunday asked people not to panic over the spread of coronavirus in Athani. “COVID-19 is not a serious epidemic. We have to learn to live with it. We should not worry too much about it. We should go on with our lives in a routine fashion,” he told a meeting of traders and officers. “It is possible that even I contracted the virus but was cured of it without my knowledge. I have travelled across the State for official visits and meetings. I have met numerous people. I might have easily contracted the infection. It must have left my body as easily as it had entered. I have got myself tested. If I get tested (for anti-bodies) now, it will show that I had got the infection some time ago. Therefore, there is no need to panic,” he said. However, the traders association decided to extend the voluntary lockdown in the city for another week. The crowd expressed serious concerns about the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Athani taluk. Some traders demanded action against private clinics that were not treating non- COVID-19 patients. An Indian Medical Association member Mallikarjun Hanji, who spoke on behalf of doctors, said that clinics would start working if the government gave an assurance that they [clinics] would not be sealed or the staff quarantined if positive cases were found there. Mr. Savadi said that he would discuss this issue with the Chief Minister and try to fulfil their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-told-not-to-worry-too-much-over-pandemic/article32062020.ece
13 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Near-total in Dharwad too||The COVID-19- induced lockdown was near-total in Dharwad on Sunday. There were very few commuters on the roads. Most shops and establishments were closed and most people stayed indoors. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil enforced prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Cr.PC. The otherwise busy areas such as Subhas Road, Nehru Market and Super Market were nearly empty. The APMC remained closed. The police stopped movement of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/near-total-in-dharwad-too/article32062033.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Discontent over lack of adequate facilities triggers protests||Any success in stemming the tide of COVID-19 rests on the shoulders of not just the government and a robust healthcare system, but also on the police, waste management workers, the paramedics, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), and others. Discontent, however, is brewing among the rank and file of frontline workers. Over the last week alone, ASHA workers, pourakarmikas, medical students, link workers, and contract doctors have expressed their unhappiness with the provisions made for them by the government. A look at who is protesting, and what their demands are.  ‘A long-standing demand’ For over two months, ASHA workers have been surveying communities, spending hours in containment zones and sometimes even facing the brunt of public anger. However, since July 10, over 40,000 workers, who have played a vital role in the battle against COVID-19, have been boycotting work. They are asking for a fixed monthly honorarium of Rs. 12,000 and adequate personal protection equipment (PPE). In January, even before the pandemic reached India’s shores, ASHAs had launched a massive protest in Bengaluru. “We receive an honorarium of Rs. 4,000 from the State and Rs. 2,000 from the Central government. We lead a hand-to-mouth existence,” D. Nagalakshmi, State secretary of the Karnataka Rajya Samyuktha Asha Karyakarteyara Sangha, said. They have also asked for PPE kits. “We are not trying to arm-twist the government in the midst of the pandemic. Ours is a long-standing demand. We all have been working day and night, but we have still not got justice,” Ms. Nagalakshmi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discontent-over-lack-of-adequate-facilities-triggers-protests/article32061817.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM unhappy over centralised bed allocation system being a non-starter||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is learnt to be unhappy with officials over certain aspects in COVID-19 management in Bengaluru, which has seen rapid increase in the number of cases over the last couple of weeks. On Sunday, he expressed his ire at BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar after being informed that the centralised bed allocation system was yet to be implemented, sources in Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said. They said while the centralised bed allocation system that would provide information about vacant beds in hospitals across the city and help the planners to allot beds has been spoken about for over a week now, it is still not operational. “The Chief Minister wanted to know the status of the proposed software for the centralised bed system. He was upset when he heard that it still had not been done. He has directed the officials to operationalise the system in two days,” sources said. Sources said that the Chief Minister conveyed his displeasure to the delegation that included Revenue Minister R. Ashok that had met him at his residence on Sunday morning. The Chief Minister had not discussed the COVID-19 issue pertaining to Bengaluru for the past three days, and wanted to understand the developments since he had last met officials. He also took stock of the availability of ambulances in the city.   Meanwhile, sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa told the officials that they will be held accountable if the situation in Bengaluru does not come under control. This is especially after priority was given to micromanage the situation with senior officials being given responsibility of each zone, sources said, and added that strict directions have been issued to control the pandemic at micro-level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-unhappy-over-centralised-bed-allocation-system-being-a-non-starter/article32061832.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||As cases continue to surge in Bengaluru, experts suggest three-week lockdown||With Bengaluru Urban reporting a whopping 1,525 of the total 2,627 cases and 45 of the 71 deaths reported on Sunday, members of the State’s COVID-19 expert and technical advisory committees have now recommended that Karnataka go in for a lockdown of at least three weeks. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced a week’s lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts from Tuesday. With 2,627 new cases reported on Sunday, the total number of positive cases in the State touched 38,843. Bengaluru Urban, which has been witnessing a surge day by day, recorded 45 of the 71 deaths on Sunday. As many as 274 of the total 684 deaths so far in Karnataka have been from Bengaluru. Saying that the numbers could go up further in the coming days if measures are not initiated on a war footing, experts are now of the view that a week’s lockdown will not serve any purpose. V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neurovirology at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, who is part of the COVID-19 expert committee, said, “Scientifically, a minimum three-week lockdown is essential to cut down the level of transmission.” “Actually, a total lockdown of six weeks is what is recommended, like what happened during lockdown 1.0 wherein three incubation cycles were cut off. We cannot achieve anything with a week’s lockdown,” he said. Giridhara K. Babu, member of the COVID-19 technical advisory committee, who is also of the view that a three-week lockdown is required for any meaningful effect, said this would be an opportunity for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to gear up and prepare for the worst. “There were several systematic problems with surveillance, testing, contact tracing, and tracking, which resulted in several missed cases and the virus’ continued spread. This opportunity [lockdown] should be used for case identification of every symptomatic person by appropriate testing and timely isolation. Systems of contact tracing and quarantining should also be strengthened by decentralising and supporting urban health centres with additional manpower, logistics and autonomy,” he said. Sources said based on the recommendation of experts, the government would take a call on lockdown extension by the end of the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/as-cases-continue-to-surge-in-bengaluru-experts-suggest-three-week-lockdown/article32061841.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More COVID Care Centres planned in hotels and apartment complexes||The government is in the process of setting up COVID Care Centres in hotels for people who have contracted the virus but are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Some apartment complexes have also come forward to set up similar centres on their premises for residents. With the city reporting over 1,000 cases a day on most days in the recent past, the need for more COVID Care Centres has become a priority to ensure that those who have contracted it do not unknowingly spread it to others. The government had approached various residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations, companies, and hotels. The commissionerate of Health and Family Services has also issued guidelines for establishing the centres. In a circular issued recently, the commissionerate has stated that private medical establishments may be allowed to manage COVID Care Centres in collaboration with hotels and other staying facilities. While separate registration or permission for such hotels may not be required, the district health officer or BBMP’s Chief Health Officer will have to be informed of such arrangements. These centres, the circular noted, will be the joint responsibility of the private medical establishment and hotel. The Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels Association and various hospitals have already set up a few centres. According to P.C. Rao, association president, a few hospitals, such as Sparsh and Aster, have tied up with nearby hotels. “Though it is a risky business, we have taken up as part of our social responsibility. We will follow all precautions and SOP issued by the government,” he said and added that the cost sharing would be between the private medical establishment and hotels. A number of RWAs and apartment owners associations have come forward to facilitate home isolation and management of COVID-19 patients on their premises for the benefit of residents and members of the community. The circular also listed out the facilities that need to be put in place, the eligibility criteria, required amenities and medical care, and ancillary services.  Groundwork Vikram Rai from the Bangalore Apartments’ Federation said the federation has been doing groundwork for the setting up of COVID Care Centres for the past 10 days. “We even had a videoconference to discuss the issue with the department officials. We are also preparing an Apartment COVID Treatment Plan,” he said. Some apartments had also put in place a preliminary infrastructure, apart from tying up with local hospitals. There are five COVID Care Centres with a bed capacity of 2,088 that are already operational. In a few days, the largest facility with 10,100 bed capacity at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) will be opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-covid-care-centres-planned-in-hotels-and-apartment-complexes/article32061820.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Physical court hearings in lockdown areas cancelled||The facility of physical hearing of limited cases in all the courts in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts, including the Principal Bench of the High Court of Karnataka in the city, stands cancelled till the COVID-19 lockdown is withdrawn, stated a notice issued by the Registrar-General of the High Court on Sunday. Though only a few HC staff members will be able to reach the court because of the fresh lockdown, efforts will be made to list all the cases for videoconferencing, for which dates have been fixed on the basis of memos filed by e-mail. But the sittings of few a judges may be cancelled, the notice stated. The e-filing facility, as provided in the Standard Operating Procedure already notified, will continue with the modification that only exceptionally urgent matters that cannot wait until the lockdown is withdrawn will be permitted. While the appointments already given for physical filing of cases from July 15 will not be disturbed, fresh appointments will not be allowed till the lockdown is lifted. However, appointments will be given for physical filing of caveat petitions, paying court fees and process fees, and to file documents in cases already listed for hearing, the notice said. The High Court has also appealed to advocates not to apply for listing of cases unless an exceptional urgency is involved and the case cannot wait till the lockdown is withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/physical-court-hearings-in-lockdown-areas-cancelled/article32061838.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teams at polling booths to trace contacts, enforce quarantine norms||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to double down on its efforts at contact tracing and enforcing home quarantine norms. Days after volunteer teams were formed at the ward level, they are now deemed insufficient and to achieve more granularity in monitoring, the BBMP has decided to form multi-disciplinary monitoring teams at the polling booth level. A team of nearly 10 people, including volunteers and ward-level officers, led by booth-level officers (BLO), generally tasked with electoral roll upgradation, will be in-charge of testing, contact tracing, containment zone management and enforcement of home quarantine measures in the particular booth. There are 8,154 polling booths in the city. “This will increase the level of micromanagement in the city and achieve a holistic response on the ground. These BLOs will be trained by Wednesday and will begin work soon after,” said BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar. The decision came after a review meeting with the data analysis team and other officials on comprehensive contact tracing and testing through data integration and analysis. Slips in contact tracing and enforcement of home quarantine are some of the reasons why Bengaluru is seeing an exponential rise in the number of cases. Strict lockdown Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday deliberated on the guidelines for the upcoming one-week lockdown in the city. Revenue Minister R. Ashok, briefing media after the meeting, said a detailed set of guidelines would be issued by the Chief Secretary on Monday. “Industries in the medical sector will be exempted from lockdown. The rest will have to shut down,” he said. Senior civic officials said the guidelines would be very similar to the Sunday lockdown already in place. Only essential services such as sale of groceries, medicine, milk, and meat will be allowed. Malls and places of worship will remain closed. Mr. Ashok appealed to residents to travel out if necessary on Monday, and not ask for exemptions or travel passes during the lockdown, indicating the movement of vehicles will likely be severely restricted and the city police are unlikely to issue travel passes liberally. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai also said lockdown in the city will be strict and a decision on travel passes would be taken on Monday.  This will increase the level of micromanagement in the city and achieve a holistic response on the ground. These BLOs will be trained by Wednesday and will begin work soon after.B.H. Anil KumarBBMP Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teams-at-polling-booths-to-trace-contacts-enforce-quarantine-norms/article32061829.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Universities told to take a call on their exam timetables||Universities will be asked to take a call and frame their own examination timetables, keeping the safety of students in mind given the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. This was one of the decisions taken at a meeting convened by Karnataka State Higher Education Council last week. Vice-Chancellors and Higher Education Department officials were part of the online meeting to discuss the modalities of the order issued by the University Grants Commission which stated that exams should be completed by the end of September. During the meeting, most of the stakeholders stated that exams could be conducted only after physical contact classes were held for a minimum of two weeks. “Many of our students in rural areas have been unable to access the online classes we conducted. They will not be able to perform if we do not hold physical classes,” said the Vice-Chancellor of a State-run university. However, sources said the department was not very keen on allowing classes to be conducted as there has been a surge in COVID-19 cases in the State. “We are confident of conducting the exams while following physical distancing norms as the students will not have to interact with each other, but classes might be a challenge,” a senior official said. The exams were supposed to be held in June/July. Many student organisations have submitted memorandums stating that many students were unable to grasp the online lessons and would not be able to appear for the exam without physical contact classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/universities-told-to-take-a-call-on-their-exam-timetables/article32061847.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exam results bring cheer to THiS institutions||The excellent results obtained in the ICSE Class 10 and ISC Class 12 examinations brought cheer in schools that are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme. Presidency School, Nandini Layout achieved 100% pass results, with 122 of the 131 students securing distinction and nine passing with first class marks. Sanjana Suresh, by securing 98.7%, emerged the school topper. Cent percent results Students of Bishop Cotton Girls’ High School, St. Mark’s Road, brought laurels to the institution in both Class 10 and 12 examinations. The school achieved 100% pass results. Samridhi Badra and Aishani Tiwari, both 98.2%, emerged toppers in Class 10. In Class 12, Zoya Naaz Rehaman (96.5%) in Science and Priya Sadhwani (95.25%) in Commerce were the school toppers. Ryan International School, Bannerghatta, boasted achieving 100% pass results. Kamya Jha secured 98.33% and emerged as the school topper. In SEA International School, K.R. Puram, all 35 students passed, with 15 students securing distinction. M. Nithyashree, by securing 98.4%, is the school topper. All the 67 students in Sri Vani Education Centre, Basaveshwaranagar, passed. In all, 28 students scored 90% and above marks. Aditya V. Bhagwat (97.83%) is the school topper. Students of two branches of BGS World School excelled in the board exams. In BGS World School, Nagarur, Bengaluru North, 24 of the 29 students secured distinction. Likith Gowda B.S., (95.2%) is the school topper. BGS World School, Chickballapur, too achieved 100% pass results, with 25 students securing distinction. Tanyeem Wafa M., with 99.27%, is the topper. Toppers  Students of the National Academy for Learning, Basaveshwaranagar, performed well in both ICSE and ISC exams. Sathvik S. Shankar (99%) is the topper in Class 10. In Class 12 Science stream, Ganesh Bannur and Shwetha Ullala, both with 96.3% marks, are the toppers, while in the Commerce stream, Simran Sharma (94.8%) topped the school. Vishwa Vidyapeeth, Singanayakanahalli, achieved 100% pass results. Khushi Pai, by securing 98.2%, emerged school topper. Students of St. Francis Xavier Girls’ High School, Fraser Town, excelled in board exams. The school achieved 100% pass results. Sidrah Saif (98.67%) emerged school topper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exam-results-bring-cheer-to-this-institutions/article32061814.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP staff to work on all Saturdays||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is providing essential and emergency services, will remain open on Saturdays too. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, in a circular, has directed all groups of employees to report to work on all Saturdays till August 8. The State government had recently stated that all government offices, boards, and corporations, except those providing essential and emergency services, would remain closed on all Saturdays this month. Earlier, government offices were closed only on the second and fourth Saturdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-staff-to-work-on-all-saturdays/article32061813.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Why did cost of pilgrim complex on Tirumala escalate to Rs. 210 crore?’||Is the State government’s plan to construct a pilgrim complex on Tirumala for Rs. 210 crore an inflated estimate? Yes, according to former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, who said the cost had escalated from Rs. 26 crore in just a year. Urging the government to stop the project forthwith, he said on Sunday that in less than a year’s time, the cost of the project under Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s governance had gone up to Rs. 210 crore. “The same project was estimated to cost Rs. 26 crore when I was Chief Minister,” he said in a tweet. Mr. Kumaraswamy was replaced by Mr. Yediyurappa at the helm in July 2019, and a delegation of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) officials met the latter inJuly 2020. “Let us support the State government in its effort to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. However, this is not the time to loot. The government should stop the project immediately,” he said, adding that supporting the government did not mean agreeing with corruption. The State government’s plan for a modern pilgrim complex is to replace the existing old structures in Tirumala, and the 7.5-acre property currently in the government’s custody is a leased property situated behind the Lord Venkateshwara Temple. Furthermore, he said the government was going to pay Rs. 200 crore to the TTD board for undertaking the construction and was paying Rs. 10 crore, at the rate of 5% of the total amount, to a private firm for design and architecture consultancy. “Is the Public Works Department not strong enough to take up this work? Is there no one in the department capable of designing? What is the need for this project in the times of COVID-19?” the JD(S) leader asked. He also said the JD(S)-Congress coalition government had approved the project for Rs. 26 crore and had entrusted the construction to the PWD. The Yediyurappa government has entrusted the management of the building to the TTD, which means the complex may not be of any help to pilgrims from the State. “The government will have to pay maintenance cost to the TTD. It is like handing over its property to someone else,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-did-cost-of-pilgrim-complex-on-tirumala-escalate-to-rs-210-crore/article32061840.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai issues directions to police||In an effort to protect police personnel from COVID-19, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday issued directions to the police top brass on matters such as the supply of Ayurvedic medicines to boost immunity and the wearing of adequate protective gear by those deployed at hospitals and burial grounds/crematoriums. While he has directed that the work from home option be given to those aged above 50, he has also asked the police to receive complaints online. In a note to the media, he said that he had received several suggestions from experts on protecting the police force from the virus. He said that the top brass have been directed to provide masks, head gear, gloves, and PPE kits to the frontline personnel and to build a glass cabinet in each police station for personnel to sit while receiving complaints. Police stations have to be cleaned and enough financial assistance has to be given, he stated in the note. Besides allocating beds for police personnel in all COVID-19 hospitals, he has said that constables should be deployed in shifts. Since police stations are among the places vulnerable to the spread of the virus, only essential personnel should be deployed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-issues-directions-to-police/article32061839.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No trace of girl; final attempt to be made today||The search for the six-year-old girl, who is suspected to have drowned and washed away in a storm-water drain (SWD) at Kariyammana Agrahara near Bellandur on Friday, was not successful on Sunday too. According to the police, the search on Saturday was discontinued late in the evening owing to poor light. Senior Fire and Emergency Services Department officials said a final attempt would be made on Monday to trace the girl. “Over 50 personnel from Fire and Emergency Services Department, National Disaster Response Force, local police, and Civil Defence have searched for more than 6 km from the spot where the girl is suspected to have drowned,” a police officer said. Personnel suspect that the body must have been either washed away or stuck in bushes or silt. The girl, Bhumika, is suspected to have drowned in the SWD while playing. The parents of the girl hail from Assam and work as housekeeping staff at a commercial establishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-trace-of-girl-final-attempt-to-be-made-today/article32061805.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown is not the panacea, says BCIC||Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) on Sunday asked the State government to desist from imposing a lockdown again. Devesh Agarwal, president, Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, said in a statement that the latest lockdown was an “extremely regressive step”. He said the government should allow industries to function with adequate precautions in place. He also urged the government not to bring industries under the scope of the lockdown and expressed confidence that like in other cities such as Chennai, Pune, and Delhi, the government would allow industrial units to work. Industries have put in a lot of effort and resources to recover from the previous lockdowns and green shoots are slowly surfacing with GST collections nearly back to pre-lockdown levels, he said. The trade body warned that a second lockdown could paralyse the morale of both management and workforce, and impose back-breaking losses on the vulnerable MSM sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-is-not-the-panacea-says-bcic/article32061848.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KAT to remain closed till July 21||The Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal will remain closed from Monday till July 21 in view of the lockdown announced by the State government in Bengaluru. A notification issued by KSAT said that the tribunal will remain closed as one of the security personnel deputed here has been admitted to the hospital with COVID-19 symptoms. The cases that have been listed from July 13 to July 21 will be taken up on July 22. No fresh cause list will be issued, the notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kat-to-remain-closed-till-july-21/article32061851.ece
13 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||B.C. Patil goes into self-quarantine||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil has gone into self-quarantine. “I’m going into self-quarantine for one week along with family members and staff in the wake of one of my relatives, with whom I had contact, testing positive,” the Minister tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bc-patil-goes-into-self-quarantine/article32061833.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Resolve stipend issue: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday directed Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar to resolve the issue of internship allowance to be given to postgraduate students of JJM Medical College in Davangere. A note said that the Chief Minister has asked the Medical Education Minister to speak to the management once again on the issue, and if the issue cannot be resolved the Minister should write to the Medical Council of India. The Chief Minister said that the government was in favour of the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resolve-stipend-issue-cm/article32061831.ece
13 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hakki-Pikki families in distress||Around 150 Hakki-Pikki families, settled at Angadihalli in Belur taluk, have been struggling hard to get basic needs fulfilled as they had no income for the past three months. Many of them staying put in thatched huts earn their livelihood by selling forest produces with medicinal value and decorative items made of plastic. With the lockdown in place, they could not step out for two months. Even after the lockdown was lifted, they hardly had any business. Whenever they went out to sell the products, the public forced them to return without doing business. “We don’t know what to do and how to feed our families”, said a member of the community, Lalesh. Fearing the spread of COVID-19 infection, people did not entertain them. These families, who moved out of the forests in recent decades, do not possess agriculture land. A majority of them never studied in a school. With no other sources of income, they spent all their savings during the lockdown for daily expenses. “Now they are taking rice and other essential items from my shop on loan. Every day each family purchases a kilo of rice. I too cannot run my shop like this for long”, said Kunnisa, who runs a grocery shop at Angadihalli. The residents have demanded the district administration and elected representatives to provide them relief. A couple of them have also made videos of their statements and circulated them in the district, to attract the attention of the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hakki-pikki-families-in-distress/article32061822.ece
13 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tension after assault||There was tension at Pension Mohalla in Hassan on Saturday night after two youths were stabbed by a group of people. An argument between the two groups turned violent, leaving the two injured. Jaman and his friend Irshad were allegedly attacked by a group of eight people at 11 p.m. The group picked up an argument with Jaman while he was on his way towards the Idgah Maidan with Irshad and assaulted both with a knife. They have been admitted to a private hospital in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tension-after-assault/article32062022.ece
13 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minister in quarantine sends sample for test||Minister for Tourism and Kannada and Culture C.T. Ravi, who is in home quarantine in his farmhouse on the outskirts of Chikkamagaluru, has said that he gave his throat swab sample for the third time this week for test. In his tweet posted on Sunday, he said that he was found negative in one previous test and positive in the other. “Today, I gave the third sample and I am waiting for the result,” he said in his tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-in-quarantine-sends-sample-for-test/article32062021.ece
13 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three die of COVID-19||Three people died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Sunday, taking the total number of such deaths to 20 in the district. District Health Officer K.H. Sathish Kumar on Sunday told the media that 32 fresh cases were reported taking the total number of confirmed cases to 687. Of these, 455 have been discharged and 212 are undergoing treatment. As many as 11 are being treated in intensive care units. Meanwhile, the lockdown was total.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-die-of-covid-19/article32062037.ece
13 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Now, a farmers’ seed company in Navalgund||Often we see farmers doubling up as seed growers for companies which in turn sell the seeds back to the farmers. For the first time in Karnataka, farmers of Navalgund in Dharwad district have come together to form a company which has now taken the first step towards mass seed production. The story is of Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) from Navalgund, which has now initiated mass seed production by taking up seed cultivation across 50 acres, with the help of its member farmers. To facilitate the same, it has now taken the shape of Kalmeshwara Farmer Producer Company Ltd., the first FPO in Karnataka to become a Certified Seed Producer. In this experiment, the FPO is being supported by Hubballi-based Deshpande Foundation and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and with technical support and basic quality seed supply from the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad. “This is an initiative to produce good quality seeds by farmers to supply other farmers. It will also facilitate seed growers to earn more and to meet the quality seed demand even to unreached areas,” Chandrashekharaswamy M.T., Programme Manager, Deshpande Foundation told The Hindu. Unlike before, when the farmers used to store best seeds for the next sowing, today they are dependent on private seed companies and farm universities for seeds, which is not a good for the sector. Recently, at a meeting held at UAS-Dharwad, Special Officer (Seeds) of UAS-D J.S. Hilli, Seed Production Officer Vijayakumar, Deputy Director (Seed Certification) Laxmanamurthy of KSSOCA, District Development Manager of NABARD Sheela Bandarkar, Agriculture Initiatives Director Innus Khan, and others discussed the strategic planning on seed production under the initiative. “In the pilot, green gram (variety DGGV-2) is being grown for seed production on 50 acres. Through the initiative we want to make farmers self-dependent in terms of quality seeds,” Mr. Chandrashekharaswamy said. The Kalmeshwara FPCL has 1,034 shareholders. After purchasing certified seed from UAS Dharwad, the same was been to farmers for seed production and sowing was completed. The plan is to produce around 200 quintals of green gram seeds in the first attempt. As per the present arrangement, scientists from UAS-D and officials of the Karnataka State Seed and Organic Certification Agency (KSSOCA) will visit the fields three to four times for assistance and guidance. Subsequently, quality testing will be done. “Long back we used to produce seeds on our own. But gradually it stopped. Now, through our own company, we are set to produce seeds for ourselves,” 60-year-old farmer Nagappa Yavagal, who is also director of KFPCL, told The Hindu.  Initially, 17 farmers have been given foundation and breeder seeds for cultivation. Foundation seeds were sown on 30 acres and breeder seeds on 20. Manjunath Yankappa Dibbad, 53, has been getting seeds and fertilisers through the Kalmeshwara FPO for three years and is one of the shareholders. “This is the first time that I have taken up seed production which will take around 100 days. It’s our company and we are hopeful of a better price,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-a-farmers-seed-company-in-navalgund/article32061853.ece
13 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Good response in Kalyana Karnataka||The curfew imposed on Sunday as a step to contain the spread of COVID-19 received good response in most of the districts of Kalyana Karnataka region. Cities and towns across the region wore a deserted look throughout the day as almost all establishments, barring shops and those that offered essential services such as hospitals, pharmacies, grocery shops and petrol pumps remained closed. North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) buses did not come out of their depots and even autorickshaws were not seen on the roads. With a few private vehicles running, the roads remained almost empty. Business in market areas, including the Supermarket area in Kalaburagi, and those in Raichur that see heavy crowds on normal days came to a standstill with complete closure of all business establishments and trading units. During the morning hours, people were found buying milk at road corners and pavements near their residential areas. As the day passed, cities and towns got more deserted. In many places, even grocery shops that were categorised as essential services and exempted from mandatory closure during the curfew also remained closed. In Kalaburagi city, teams of police personnel were seen marching on the major streets convincing the people of the need to remain indoors and, in certain instances, thrashing people on two-wheelers who were unnecessarily roaming on the streets, and chasing them back to their homes. There was a mixed response to curfew in Ballari city. Though most of the business establishments were closed, a considerable movement of people was seen in parts of the city. Personnel of the Durga Force, a special police team formed for the protection of women, took out a bicycle ride on the major roads of the city. They were seen at Royal Circle and Bengaluru Road convincing the people of the need to remain indoors. During the curfew last Sunday, Ballari Superintendent of Police C.K. Baba took out a bicycle ride to inculcate COVID-19 awareness among the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-in-kalyana-karnataka/article32062024.ece
13 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi admn. seeks permission to impose week-long lockdown||With an increase in COVID-19 positive cases in Kalaburagi city, the Kalaburagi district administration has sought the permission of the State government to impose complete lockdown in Kalaburagi city for one week from July 13. As COVID-19 cases are increasing in the district day-by-day, the district administration has, based on the advice of experts and public representatives, sought permission of the government to impose lockdown for a week from July 13 in Kalaburagi city. The district-level officers at a meeting in Kalaburagi on Friday said that a week-long lockdown was necessary in the city to contain the spread of the pandemic. Of the 2,024 total COVID-19 positive cases (as on July 11) reported in the district, 510 cases have been reported in Kalaburagi city. There are 528 active cases in district, of which 269 patients are from city. Of the total 36 COVID-19 deaths in the district, 23 such fatalities were reported in Kalaburgi city. Two-week lockdown Meanwhile, vice-president of Kalaburagi BJP Rural district unit and former Zilla Panchayat president Ambaraya Ashtagi demanded that the government impose a complete lockdown in Kalaburagi city for two weeks starting on July 13 as a step to contain the spread of COVID-19. In a release, Mr. Ashtagi said: “It is necessary to restrict the movement of people and their assembly to prevent the deadly virus from spreading within and outside the city.”  ‘It is necessary to restrict the movement of people and their assembly to prevent the spread of the virus’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-admn-seeks-permission-to-impose-week-long-lockdown/article32062026.ece
13 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Semi-urban and urban areas in Dakshina Kannada opt for partial self-lockdown; Udupi to follow suit||With COVID-19 cases increasing, people in some semi-urban and urban areas in Dakshina Kannada have voluntarily opted for partial self-lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus. Prompted by this, people in more areas in the district and also in Udupi district have decided to adopt this on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. MLA from Mulky-Moodbidri constituency Umanath A. Kotian said that people in Moodbdiri, Mulky, Bajpe, Haleyangady, Kinnigoli, Shirthady, Borugudde and Aliyuru have opted for partial lockdown for 10 days from July 8. All business establishments, hotels, public transport in these areas remain closed daily from 2 p.m. “It is a collective decision taken by the representatives of different bodies, organisations and unions. People have unanimously decided to adhere to the decision. There is no directive from the government. However, emergency and some essential services remain open,” he said. A meeting called by MLA from Belthangady Harish Poonja and attended by representatives from 46 gram panchayats in Belthangady on Saturday voluntarily decided to opt for partial lockdown in Belthangady taluk from July 14 to July 31. Excepting emergency services, the meeting decided to close down all establishments at 2 p.m. It decided that out-patient services in seven hospitals in the taluk too will remain closed in the afternoon during the period. Merchants in Kundapur in Udupi district who held a meeting on Saturday also decided to close down their establishments in the jurisdiction of Kundapur Town Municipality for half-a-day from July 13 to July 31. They decided to close down their shops at 2 p.m. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary said on Sunday that a decision on whether lockdown should be re-imposed on the entire Dakshina Kannada will be taken on Monday. Mr. Poojary said in a statement that Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada Nalin Kumar Kateel, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh and himself will hold a video conference with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday. An appropriate decision will be taken later. Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada has crossed 1,200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/semi-urban-and-urban-areas-in-dakshina-kannada-opt-for-partial-self-lockdown-udupi-to-follow-suit/article32062036.ece
13 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Delay in release of crop insurance claims unsettles farmers||Farmers in the State who are reeling under successive disasters of drought followed by flood and now impacted by COVID-19, are yet to receive insurance claims for crop loss for 2019-20. This was stated by Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar who said that nearly 12 lakh farmers had availed crop insurance under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and had coughed up premiums despite financial duress last year. “The total amount due to the farmers in the State is around Rs. 600 crore of which not a single paisa has been released so far,” said Mr. Shanthakumar. He told The Hindu that the claims arising out of crop damage are to be released within two months of completion of the assessment. It is more than six months since the assessment was completed and there are no signs of the insurance amount being released, he added. What is disconcerting the farmers is that they are already under pressure from the authorities to opt for crop insurance for the forthcoming season despite the failure to honour last year’s claims due to them. “Farmers availing institutional finance are forced to avail the PMFBY as the loan component is linked to crop insurance and there is no escape. But when the crops fail, neither do the banks offer them relief by waiving off interest nor does the insurance company pay them in a time-bound manner,” said Mr. Shanthakumar. The PMFBY was introduced to provide insurance coverage and financial support to farmers in case of the failure of any notified crops due to natural calamities. This was described as an initiative to help farmers continue with agricultural activities by providing a safety net in the event of crop failure. The association members said though the monsoon has covered the entire State, COVID-19 was having a negative bearing on agricultural activity. “Agriculture is labour intensive but this year farmers are averse to hiring workers from other villages and regions due to fear of the pandemic, The impact – of low output due to lower crop coverage area - will be felt during the harvest season,” said Attahali Devaraj, association secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-release-of-crop-insurance-claims-unsettles-farmers/article32061850.ece
13 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cocoon price fall: Sericulture farmers to protest||Notwithstanding Sericulture Minister Narayana Gowda’s announcement to extend a protective price upto Rs. 50 for every kg of cocoon in the wake of the downward spiral of cocoon prices over the last three months, sericulture farmers are planning to go ahead with their decision to launch an agitation seeking appropriate financial assistance from the government. Gautham Gowda, president, Sericulture Farmers’ Welfare Association of Ramanagaram, said there was no change in their plan to launch an indefinite fast unto death in front of the Ramanagaram cocoon market on Bengaluru-Mysuru highway from July 15. The average price of cocoons, which used to be around Rs. 480 to Rs. 500 for every kg of crossbreed cocoons and Rs. 600 to Rs. 700 for a kg of the superior quality bivoltine cocoons during January and February this year, saw a free fall ever since the COVID-19 scare hit the silk market in March. “Now, the crossbreed varieties are fetching barely Rs. 130 to Rs. 150 per kg while the bivoltine cocoons are going for no more than Rs. 170 to Rs. 220 per kg,” he lamented. The protective price of Rs. 50 per kg in addition to the market price announced by the government is linked to the quality of cocoons. A similar scheme announced when the prices fell last time did not help the farmers. “We are demanding a minimum support price of Rs. 150 per kg over and above the market price,” Mr. Gowda said, clarifying that they will be going ahead with their agitation by maintaining social distancing in front of the cocoon market in Ramanagaram. After Mr. Narayana Gowda convened a meeting of department officials to decide on the protective price for cocoons, Rs. 10 crore had been released for the purpose. The officials will fix a price for the cocoons on the basis of their quality and when the market rate dips below the price fixed by the authorities, the protective price will be offered, subject to a maximum of Rs. 50, said a statement by the government. In view of the low prices prevailing since the last few weeks, the protective price will be introduced with retrospective effect from April 1. Also, the protective price will be transferred directly to the bank accounts of the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cocoon-price-fall-sericulture-farmers-to-protest/article32061854.ece
13 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Greens see red over construction close to Kabini backwaters||Controversy has broken out over the construction of a mansion close to the Kabini backwaters which is in the Eco Sensitive Zone of the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. The residential unit speculated to be on a farm belongs to a member of the State Wildlife Board who is also a mining baron and hence his appointment had come under a cloud. Building of resort suspected Environmentalists suspect it could be a resort and have raised the question of who granted permission to construct a house within the ESZ though such clearances have not been given for any new construction around Kabini backwaters in the recent past. Sources said the local gram panchayat of N. Bellathur village issued the permission. They also indicated that construction was on the private land of the individual concerned and hence he was well within his rights to build a dwelling unit for residential purposes. However, activists suspected it could be a ruse to start a resort and wanted the district administration and the Forest Department to ensure that the building plan complied with certain ESZ norms which imposes a restriction of 4,000 sq.ft. on any construction. Mahesh Kumar, DCF, Nagarahole said the issue had been brought to his notice and he would get into the details of the case on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/greens-see-red-over-construction-close-to-kabini-backwaters/article32061855.ece
13 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||48 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 48 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Raichur district on Sunday. Of these, 25 are from Sindhanur taluk followed by 13 from Raichur taluk, five from Sirwar taluk, four from Lingsugur taluk and one from Manvi taluk. With this, the total number of positive cases in Raichur district went up to 718 of which 466 patients have been discharged. There are 244 active cases. All those who tested positive have been shifted to RIMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/48-new-covid-19-cases/article32062028.ece
13 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Man killed on the spot, three injured in road accident||In a road accident between a car and tractor, a 28-year-old man was killed on the spot and three were injured near Devatkal village in Shorapur taluk of Yadgir district on Sunday. The victim was identified as Sushil Lamani (28), a native of Saidapur in Yadgir taluk. The driver of the tractor and two passengers who were travelling in the car have suffered injuries. They were shifted to the local hospital and later referred to Kalaburagi for further medical treatment. It was suspected that the incident may have occurred due to poor visibility owing to rain as the drivers may have failed to spot the vehicle coming from the opposite direction. A case has been registered in the Shorapur police station. Circle Inspector of Police S.M. Patil visited the spot of the road accident.  The driver of the tractor and two passengers who were travelling in the car suffered injuries and have been referred to a Kalaburagi hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-on-the-spot-three-injured-in-road-accident/article32062032.ece
13 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Toll in Sindhanur murder case goes up to five||Toll in Saturday’s brutal attack in which four people were killed in Sukalapet area in Sindhanur city of Raichur district reached five as an injured Erappa (60) died on his way to hospital, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy said in a release on Sunday. The police have arrested five accused in connection with the murder. The names of the arrested persons were given as Sannapakirappa (48), Ambanna (58), Somashekhar (21), Rekha (25) and Gangamma (50). On Saturday, Nagaraj (38), Sumitra (55), Sridevi (30), Hanumesh (35) and Erappa (60) were attacked by the accused with lethal weapons. In the horrific incident, four persons were killed on the spot and Erappa died on his way to hospital. A love marriage against the wish of a girl’s family led to the crime. Mounesh, son of Erappa, and Manjula, daughter of Sannapakirappa, both from the same caste, got married a few months ago against the wish of the girl’s father. Thereafter, enmity developed between the two families and as a result, the accused persons attacked the boy’s family and killed the five with lethal weapons. Meanwhile, Mounesh and Manjula escaped and sought protection from the police. Deputy Superintendent of Police Vishwanath Kulkarni, Circle Inspector of Police Balachandra Lakkam, Sub-Inspectors of Police Vijay Krishna and Hullappa Rathod visited the spot for further investigation. A case has been registered in the Sindhanur Town Police Station.  Erappa, father of the boy, who was injured in the brutal attack, dies on the way to hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/toll-in-sindhanur-murder-case-goes-up-to-five/article32062029.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmikas: Give us PPE kits, insurance cover||The government has often referred to pourakarmikas as ‘Corona Warriors’. But this acknowledgement of their services has not translated into any real gains, said pourakarmikas, who staged a 30-minute protest last week at mustering centres. The nearly 18,000-strong pourakarmika workforce wants protective gear, regular medical check-ups, and insurance coverage. Nirmala M. from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha said since the lockdown, the pourakarmikas havebeen given masks, gloves, and sanitisers just once, twice in some areas. Many have not been made aware of the risks involved, especially since used masks and gloves are routinely being discarded indiscriminately. Medical check-up They are also asking for medical check-up and coverage under the Rs. 50 lakh insurance scheme as well as for vulnerable pourakarmikas be identified and given paid leave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pourakarmikas-give-us-ppe-kits-insurance-cover/article32061810.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Medical students want parity in stipend||Final year MBBS students in private colleges, who have been roped in to assist in COVID Care Centres (CCC) and fever clinics, claim that they have been asked to make their own arrangements for accommodation and pay for their treatment if they contract the virus. Students claim they are not given adequate safety kits even when they are posted at fever clinics and quarantine facility centres. “I am getting paid a stipend of Rs. 5,000 or less per month, despite working for over 10 hours a day risking lives. Students in government colleges get over Rs. 30,000,” said a medical student. Others claimed they were receiving no stipend. At the time when students aired their grievances, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said if colleges did not pay interns a stipend, the State would write to the Medical Council of India to initiate action against managements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-students-want-parity-in-stipend/article32061809.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Contract doctors want their services regularised||As many as 507 contract doctors in Karnataka have been working in various PHCs in rural areas. Amid the pandemic, their role in healthcare is particularly important in rural areas. For years, they heve been demanding regularisation of their services. On July 8, they arrived in Bengaluru, threatening to resign if their demands were not immediately met. Contract doctors contend that while they have been working on a par with permanent doctors, their salaries are lesser. The government has now issued a notification calling for the appointment of 2,000 doctors, which provides a window to regularise them. They did not go ahead with their threat after Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy announced that weightage of marks would be considered during the selection process. He said that 2.5 marks for six months’ service and maximum marks of up to 30 would be given for each doctor.  (With inputs from Afshan Yasmeen, Chitra Ramani, and Jayasimha K.R.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contract-doctors-want-their-services-regularised/article32061806.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Boycott threat||Demanding enhanced salary and matching grants to their fixed honorarium from the State government, as many as 1,802 contract employees at the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Societyhave threatened to boycott work from July 20. “Although we have been working for over 18 years, our salaries have continued to remain in the range of Rs. 13,000 to Rs. 16,200. Moreover, the government has deputed only contract workers under the NHM and the KSAPS for COVID-19 duty,” said Fayaz Ahmed, president of the KSAPS Contract Workers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boycott-threat/article32061818.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||At a standstill||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/at-a-standstill/article32061827.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Company of words||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/company-of-words/article32061843.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||16-day baby on fatality list||The health bulletin on Sunday recorded the death of a 16-day-old baby girl because of COVID-19 on July 1. This is the youngest COVID-19 fatality in Karnataka. However, the age of the baby (P-11,884) was shown as two years in the bulletin dated June 27. Although two patients ended their lives atVictoria and K.C. general hospitals,takingthe non-COVID-19 toll to six, the health bulletin continued to have that number at four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/16-day-baby-on-fatality-list/article32061845.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Link workers: Overworked, understaffed||Link workers at the BBMP have been tasked with multiple COVID-19 duties. “Our day begins at 8 a.m. as we follow autorickshaws that collect waste from households. After 10.30 a.m., we are assigned COVID-19-related duties,” said B.K. Shashikala, president of the BBMP Health Link Workers’ Association, affiliated to the AITUC. Last week, link workers staged a protest at the BBMP head office demanding immediate disbursal of pending salary and protective gear. “Link workers were roped in for survey purposes around 25 years ago. There were once 8,000 link workers; only around 290 now remain,” Ms. Shashikala said and added that the workers still were not recognised by the civic body. Link workers get Rs. 6,459 a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/link-workers-overworked-understaffed/article32061808.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||A difference of opinion between MLA for Tiptur and BJP leader B.C. Nagesh and Tiptur City Municipal Council (CMC) member Yogesh of the Congress over an alleged violation of protocol while inaugurating development works in a ward escalated into a physical fight recently. When Mr. Yogesh questioned the MLA as to why he was not invited to the function as protocol demanded, the MLA allegedly not only abused him in foul language but also manhandled him. This irked the Congress leaders, who filed a complaint with the police against the MLA. The police, however, instead of registering a case against the legislator, were apparently more interested in “resolving” the dispute without getting the MLA into trouble. This forced the Congress to submit a petition to the higher police authorities in Bengaluru. The Congress workers also staged a protest (in picture) against the alleged “goonda behaviour” of the BJP leader. Earlier, Congress had staged a protest against the same MLA when he allegedly sought a “20% commission” with contractors during lockdown.   More than a year after the results of the last general elections, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah(in picture)seems to be still reflecting on the poll outcome in Karnataka and regretting the Congress’ alliance with the JD(S). Speaking to the media in Mysuru last week, he said the party’s high command did not give much weight to his suggestion of going alone in the polls because his was the “lone voice”. He claimed that the party would have won a minimum of seven or eight Lok Sabha seats if it had not tied up with the JD(S). While the past is the past, one hopes the Leader of Opposition is giving enough time and thought to the way ahead.   Apparently relieved by the smooth conduct of the recent SSCL examination, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar(in picture)was on a temple run in Dakshina Kannada district last Friday and Saturday. Accompanied by his wife Savithri Suresh Kumar, on whose advice he reportedly undertook the temple tour, the Minister first visited the recently renovated Rajarajeshwari Temple near Bantwal on Friday. Thereafter, his visit was to Manjunatha Temple at Dharmasthala. On Saturday, he visited the temple town Kukke Subrahmanya. Though it was a private visit, Mr. Kumar interacted with presspersons and said it was a “thanksgiving visit” during which he prayed for the well-being of the student community and their parents who made the examination process a success. The Minister had received appreciation from BJP national general secretary B.L. Santhosh for the successful conduct of the examination, though parents and students were worried about the dangers of holding it during a pandemic. Nagesh Prabhu Anil Kumar Sastry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article32061837.ece
13 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||57 persons test positive in Alappuzha||The COVID-19 cases continue to spiral in the district with 57 people testing positive on Sunday. Among the fresh cases, 39, including four health employees, contracted the disease through contact (local transmission). Ten people had arrived from abroad, while seven came from other States. A Pulinkunnu native who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 posthumously last week was added to the list of COVID-19 deaths in the State. Of the people who contracted the disease through local transmission include eight persons on the contact list of a vegetable vendor from Kayamkulam who tested positive last week. So far, 45 people directly or indirectly associated with the Kayamkulam market have been diagnosed with the disease. This includes the vegetable vendor, two fish vendors, and persons on their contact lists. Another 18 people on the contact list of an employee at a seafood company at Ezhupunna, who was diagnosed with COVID-19 a few days ago, were found to have contracted the disease on Sunday. Between July 9 and July 11, 13 employees of the company were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of contact cases related to a pregnant woman — a native of Pallithode in the Kuthiathode grama panchayat who was diagnosed with the disease on July 4 — is increasing, with six more people on her contact list being tested positive for the infection. A boy hailing from Venmony; a 49-year-old woman from Punnapra; a young man from Thamarakulam; and four health staff too contracted the disease through local transmission. Of the cases from foreign countries, three had come from Kuwait, three from Saudi Arabia, two from Qatar, and one each from the UAE and Oman. Patients from other States include two from Delhi, two from Tamil Nadu, and one each from Maharashtra, Hyderabad, and Goa. ITBP unit District Collector A. Alexander said samples would be collected from all the personnel at the Nooranad unit of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and sent for SARS-CoV-2 testing. Earlier, three grama panchayats — Nooranad, Palamel, and Thamarakulam — were declared as large cluster/containment zones after 54 ITBP personnel tested positive for COVID-19. However, no fresh cases were reported from the unit on Sunday. According to officials, the unit houses more than 350 personnel. So far, swab samples from 210 have been sent for testing. Following a surge in COVID-19 cases in parts of Alappuzha, the District Collector has issued an order appointing teachers under the Education Department to various primary health centres in the district. The teachers will be entrusted with COVID-19 prevention work, said an official. Ward 9 in the Ramankary grama panchayat has been declared as containment zone.  The ITBP Nooranad unit houses more than 350 personnel. So far, swab samples from 210 have been sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/57-persons-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32062218.ece
13 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Triple lockdown at many villages||With the reporting of several COVID-19 cases through local transmission being reported from the coastal areas here, especially the Cherthala taluk, the State government on Sunday imposed triple lockdown at Pattanakkad, Kadakkarapally, Cherthala South, Mararikulam North, Kodamthuruth, Kuthiathode, and Thuravoor grama panchayats in Cherthala till July 23. A triple lockdown has also been declared in the Arattupuzha grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/triple-lockdown-at-many-villages/article32062226.ece
13 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Edamalakkudy on guard||As threat of local transmission surges, tribespeople of Edamalakkuy inside the Munnar Forest Division have announced a self lockdown to prevent the virus infection. The lockdown came into effect from July 1 onwards. Following COVID-19 precautionary measures is not a task for the people of the locality, as social distancing is a way of life here as each settlement is away from another one. So, while people elsewhere feel the pinch of the new routine, for the residents of Edamalakkudy, it is life as usual. The lockdown has not changed much for most of the people here, as they rarely venture out of the hamlet. Their only link to the world outside is with Munnar town, where they go to purchase essential items, says Georgekutty, a former staff at the grama panchayat. Majority of the womenfolk are yet to even step out of the hamlet. Though the grama panchayat has an office at Societykudy, Edamalakudy’s remoteness and lack of proper communication facilities have led to a panchayat camp office being set up at Devikulam. Radio is the main mode of media in the village. As news of cases increasing elsewhere trickled in, people at Edamalakkdudy decided to tighten the curbs and went on a self lockdown, says Edamalakkdudy Vana Samrakshana Samithy secretary Ramesh. Outsiders They denied outsiders entry into the locality, and if any one from the hamlet had an emergency to travel Munnar or any other town, they will have to undergo 14 days of home quarantine on return, he says. With Eravikulam National Park also closed, movement of people has totally stopped. Only vehicles carrying ration and other essential items are allowed into Edamalakkudy. The Forest Department officials have extended all support to the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/edamalakkudy-on-guard/article32062219.ece
13 July 2020||Idukki,KERALA||16 test positive in Idukki||With 16 more persons testing positive on Sunday, the total number of COVID-19 active cases in the district rose to 114. Those who tested positive include 10 persons who came from other States and four from Gulf countries. The new patients include a 49-year-old from Kamakshi who got the disease through local transmission. Her daughter and grandson, who came from Delhi on June 5, tested positive earlier. Patients who came from outside the State include a 63-year-old man from Ayyappancovil panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16-test-positive-in-idukki/article32062216.ece
13 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Pact for poultry feed production||In a bid to provide quality poultry feed to farmers, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) has inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), a farmer initiative in the district. Hailed as the first poultry feed initiative in the cooperative sector, the tie-up came into effect on a war footing, as hundreds of farms were hit due to shortage of poultry feed. BDS will bring out the feed in tie-up with a private firm in Mangalore, while scientists of KVASU will ensure its quality. KVASU Registrar N. Ashok and P.S. Baburaj, CEO, BDS, signed the MoU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pact-for-poultry-feed-production/article32062104.ece
13 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||41 cases of local transmission in district||The district recorded 41 COVID-19 cases through local transmission on Sunday. Of them, 21 people who tested positive are either Chellanam residents or primary contacts of patients from Chellanam. Chellanam panchayat president Mercy Josy said that most people who had tested positive in Chellanam were fish workers and their families from Ward 15 of the panchayat. A health worker at the Ernakulam General Hospital, who was on the primary contact list of a 64-year-old patient from Chellanam who had sought treatment there before she tested positive, has turned positive. A 31-year-old sanitation worker at the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, has also tested positive. A 23-year-old sanitation worker in Aluva has contracted the disease. The patient is the third sanitation worker in the area to test positive. A 43-year-old of Chengamanad who used to work as a driver at the Aluva market, a 40-year-old native of Choornikkara who was an autorickshaw driver in the Aluva market area, and a 43-year-old worker in the area have all turned positive. A 65-year-old relative of a prepaid taxi counter staff member at the airport, who had tested positive last week, has contracted the disease. A 44-year-old and a 39-year-old on the contact list of a patient from Kadungalloor have tested positive. Three people on the contact list of a Mulavukad patient have tested positive. She had been an employee of a shop on T. D. Road where the owner and other employees had also tested positive. A 25-year-old of Vengola and a 27-year-old of Chalikkavattom have been infected, besides a 10-year-old from Edathala whose mother had tested positive earlier, a 19-year-old from Nedumbassery and a 21-year-old from Koovappady. A 50-year-old priest from Thrissur and a 60-year-old from Kochi have turned positive. Two people on the contact list of a Kavalangad native who tested positive on Saturday have also turned positive. Of the 50 positive cases on Sunday, nine people had returned to the district from outside the State. Two patients admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, are in critical condition. One of them, a 59-year-old from Edathala, is being administered plasma therapy. New facility A new 40-bedded ICU facility has been readied at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, to deal with any exigencies amidst the growing number of COVID-19 cases in the district. For critical patients, each of the 40 beds is accompanied by a ventilator, taking the total number of ventilators at the hospital to 75. It is equipped with two dialysis units, two blood gas analysers, three video laryngoscopes, ultrasound and digital X-ray facilities. The modern facility was equipped using Rs. 1 crore each from the development funds of MLA John Fernandez and Member of Parliament Hibi Eden, besides an additional Rs. 1 crore as part of BPCL’s corporate social responsibility scheme. Containment zones Five new containment zones were declared on Sunday. They are Division 33 (Madathil Parambil Lane, Kennedy Mukku) of Thrikkakara municipality, Division 34 of Kalamassery municipality, Ward 7 of Cheranalloor panchayat (Palli Road area), Ward 15 of Choornikkara panchayat and Ward 12 of Chengamanad panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/41-cases-of-local-transmission-in-district/article32062114.ece
13 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Potholed city roads make commuting a nightmare||There seems to be no end in sight to the woes of commuters and pedestrians in the city, as numerous arterial roads are in a dilapidated state, despite a lull in rain and a steep fall in the number of vehicles owing to COVID-19 curbs. The worst such stretch is the Maradu-Kundannoor NH corridor which is maintained by the PWD (NH Wing). The agency has done little despite people risking their life by commuting through the narrow but busy stretch. Allegation is now rife that the PWD had not taken proactive measures to restore the road into safe and motorable condition, after the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) dug it up for pipeline work early this year. “The horrible condition of the NH corridor has resulted in motorists shunning the stretch and instead opting to travel many kilometres extra, through Pettah and Vyttila to reach their destinations,” said Boby Gomas, a resident of Maradu. “It turns extremely unsafe at night since heavy vehicles, including container and tanker lorries, frequent the narrow two-lane corridor. which is relied on by thousands of commuters, including those going to the airport, to avoid congestion at Vyttila and Palarivattom,” he added. A senior PWD official said the restoration work done by the KWA after filling trenches on the NH stretch too was damaged. “Rectification work is being done using wet-mix macadam as part of a Rs. 17.73-crore road-strengthening work. Resurfacing can be done only the after rains,” he added. The PWD (Roads Wing) is under fire for the formation of potholes at several places on Banerjee Road and at High Court Junction, especially at places where tarred roads take off from the carriageway that has been covered using concrete paver blocks. A high-ranking official of the department said funds had been allotted in June for emergency repair of potholed corridors, taking note of the fact that two engineers were suspended after a two-wheeler rider was killed in a pothole-related accident near Palarivattom, during the 2019 monsoon. “Adequate quantity of cold-mix bitumen too was made available to carry out patch work even in rainy weather,” he added. Goshree bridges Alarmed at accidents caused by potholes that have developed over the trio of Goshree Bridges, Johney Vypeen, social activist and an office-bearer of Fort Vypeen Janakeeya Kootayma warned that he would file a writ before the High Court if the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) failed to repair them. “The inordinate delay in repairing the bridges and their approach roads is unpardonable. This is causing accidents. A case filed by me regarding dysfunctional street lights over the bridges is pending before the court. On its part, the PWD has not repaired damaged portions of the Vypeen-Munambam Road,” Mr. Johney said. Meanwhile, GIDA sources said the PWD had submitted a draft estimate of the repair work. “A final estimate will be readied in a day or two. Most potholes have formed near expansion joints. The roads sinking at the entry and exit of bridges due to settlement of huge layer of mud beneath, is another issue,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/potholed-city-roads-make-commuting-a-nightmare/article32062111.ece
13 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant workers being denied a fair deal yet again||Having lived in the State for over 15 years, Mahiful Islam from West Bengal never felt as much an outcast as he did post-lockdown. A fish vendor near Bengali Colony, a place that derived its name from the large migrant presence, in Perumbavoor, he chose to stay back for the online education of his six-year-old daughter. A local resident, however, could not digest the fact that the family had chosen to stay back unlike majority of others in the colony. Since then, Islam had filed a petition with the Perumbavoor police, who have registered a case invoking IPC 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means). After being reasonably well sheltered and fed unlike their counterparts elsewhere in the country during the lockdown, the everyday reality of being looked down upon as an outsider seems to have returned for migrant workers in the State. With a section of migrants in Palakkad and Thrissur testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, they are now being seen as carriers of the virus. “While the anxiety of local people is not completely unfounded, the fact is that migrant workers are being stigmatised disproportionately. They were already seen as unhygienic and as criminals, and the pandemic has only compounded that stigma,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. The incident was not isolated either. Recently, the Muvattupuzha police arrested three local youngsters who physically assaulted migrant workers and even attacked the police who intervened in the issue, not to mention random audio clippings being circulated via social media urging people to be ‘alert’ to the presence of migrant workers in their locality. “For migrants from States like West Bengal, Assam, and Odisha who account for the largest migrant workforce in the State, returning home is not an option either, as there were hardly any trains to these States unlike to Mumbai and Delhi,” said Mr. Peter. However, a senior Labour Department official said no incident targeting migrants had come to the department’s notice while also shooting down allegations about shortage of trains. “So far, over 3.07 lakh migrants have left the State in over 250 trains,” he said. The targeting of migrants is depsite trade and industry in the State reeling under the shortage of cheap and previously ubiquitous migrant workforce. “There has been at least a 25% rise in cost ever since migrant workers became unavailable. For instance, a major builder in Kochi recently incurred more than two-fold increase in labour cost for completing a 500 sq ft space after replacing migrant workers with local labourers,” said Joji Mathews, a contractor. George Mathew, coordinator of Progressive Workers Organisation, said while many migrant workers were willing to return, the hostile attitude kept them away. “Even previously, people were not receptive to accommodation of migrant workers in their immediate neighbourhood, and in the wake of the pandemic they are even more hostile,” he said. Meanwhile, the local economy here and back at the home villages of migrants sustained by remittances from migrants continue to struggle. “We now hardly have 10% of business that we used to have prior to COVID-19,” said K.K. Anas, a shopkeeper at Bhai Bazaar, which catered predominantly to migrants.  While the anxiety of local people is not completely unfounded, the fact is that migrant workers are being stigmatised disproportionately. They were already seen as unhygienic and as criminals, and the pandemic has only compounded that stigma Benoy Peter Executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-workers-being-denied-a-fair-deal-yet-again/article32062112.ece
13 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court to assess terrorism angle||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Special Court here will look into the ‘terrorism angle’ in the gold smuggling case on Monday though the National Investigation Agency, which is probing the case, has invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against the accused. The agency has invoked Sections 16 and 17 of the UAPA, which deals with ‘punishment for terrorist act and raising funds for terrorist act.’ The court will look into the question whether the funds raised through the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case has been used for funding any terrorism act. The special court could exercise its jurisdiction only if there were materials on record to show that a terrorist act had been committed or intended to have committed, judicial sources said. The relevant offences charged against the accused would hold good only if the accused committed the act ‘with the intent to threaten the economic security of the country.’ Economic offence In the absence of evidence to prove the intent to threaten the economic security, the case could be considered only as an economic offence and the NIA court may not have jurisdiction to try the case, sources said. The NIA court posted the application for custody of the accused for Monday for detailed hearing. The court felt that it ‘has to get satisfied that there are prima facie grounds for believing that accusation is well-founded, and also that the special court has the jurisdiction.’ The NIA was also directed to clarify the materials it had collected so far in the case, according to an order issued by the NIA court on Sunday. Case diary sought The court also directed the NIA to produce the case diary on Monday to find out whether any material to prove that the accused carried out the smuggling with an intent to threaten the economic security of the country. The court has also asked the investigation agency to produce the COVID-19 results of the two accused in the case.  NIA court can try case only if proof of threat to economic security of country is available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-to-assess-terrorism-angle/article32062145.ece
13 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Biomedical waste mounting in State||Swamped with waste from COVID care centres, the only common biomedical waste treatment facility in the State in Palakkad is struggling to deal with waste nearly 10 tonnes above its daily processing capacity. The plant at Pudussery, operated by the Indian Medical Association Goes Ecofriendly (IMAGE) has an installed capacity of 42 tonnes, officials associated with its management said. With the surge in testing and the number of patients, COVID waste alone hovers between 10 and 12 tonnes per day for the past week — a giant leap from the 0.6 tonnes of waste collected from COVID centres in the third week of March. This is in addition to the roughly 40 tonnes of biomedical waste collected from other facilities including primary health centres, dental clinics, dialysis centres, palliative care centres, and private labs and hospitals. Testing and doffing of personal protective equipment at airports have also added to the amount of waste generated, with around 0.4 tonnes (400 kg) of biomedical waste generated at the Calicut airport, in addition to over 0.44 tonnes from the Thiruvananthapuram airport, collected on two separate days earlier this week. The Thiruvananthapuram central railway station adds another 14 kg to the total. The Government Medical College Hospital in Ernakulam now generates around 548 kg in 26 barrels daily, as opposed to around five barrels of wasted collected daily in March. Waste is segregated into yellow (organs, cotton swabs, face masks), red (plastic equipment), blue (glass vials and equipment) and white (metal) bags. Waste from the yellow bag is incinerated, while the others go through autoclaves where they are disinfected, and then shredded or recycled. The facility is having to take in waste well over its capacity, said Dr. Abraham Varghese, State president, IMA. IMAGE has been allotted 3 acres at Brahmapuram in Ernakulam for another biomedical waste treatment facility, which could treat around 15 to 20 tonnes of waste daily from Ernakulam and nearby districts like Kottayam and Alappuzha, once it comes up. But the lease agreement for the land is yet to be obtained, after which other clearances, including environmental clearance and one from the Pollution Control Board, will have to be sought, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biomedical-waste-mounting-in-state/article32062103.ece
13 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A helping hand for NRIs to start life anew||The Pravasi Sahakarana Sangham, a cooperative, is providing opportunities and support to people who have returned from different parts of the world to build a new life, both in terms of enterprises as well as human relations. V.R. Anilkumar, president of the cooperative in North Paravoor, said those who needed support to start an enterprise would be helped. There were also those who needed emotional support because they were unable to adjust to the new surroundings, he said. It is estimated that there are around 2,000 people in every panchayat in Kerala who have returned from their jobs outside Kerala. The Paravoor cooperative, the first such established to help expatriates, has about 165 members. . The cooperative is also engaged in providing a pool of skilled workers from different parts of the world. “Our aim is to make sure that there is a pool of workers who are ready to provide the skill needed for different tasks,” said Mr. Anilkumar. The cooperative launched its second branch in Kothamangalam last week and will inaugurate branches in Moovattupuzha, Kavalangad and Angamaly soon. The group is contemplating ventures such as dairy and poultry farming, organic cultivation of vegetables and fruits, aquaculture, waste management, food outlets, maintenance works as well as small enterprises in the long run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-helping-hand-for-nris-to-start-life-anew/article32062116.ece
13 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||As projects lag, call to give more teeth to GIDA||With development not kicking in as expected in the thickly-populated Goshree islands, demand is gaining ground to either give teeth to Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) or to merge it with the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) in order to hasten long-pending infrastructure projects in the isles. GIDA has never been proactive, although it has obtained around Rs. 300 crore from the sale of land reclaimed from the backwaters. The situation is such that it is not even able to maintain roads and bridges under its jurisdiction, said Ebenzer Chullikkat, member, Greater Cochin Development Watch (GCDW), an NGO. “GIDA needs a full-time working chairman who knows the area well, since its chairman, the Chief Minister, hardly gets time to look at the development needs of the region. The situation is such that the agency’s council does not meet even once a year,” he said. On the flip side, it has invested in water transport, placing orders to build a ferry, although there are other players like the SWTD and KSINC. The ferry has not seen the light of the day, Mr. Chullikkat said. Similar view was echoed by Francis Dianish, vice chairman of Pizhala Karamuttikal Samara Samiti. “GIDA can function effectively if it explores alternative revenue sources, including CSR funds, ” he said. Official sources said GIDA was ineffective, since it had not readied a comprehensive development plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-projects-lag-call-to-give-more-teeth-to-gida/article32062115.ece
13 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rs. 352 cr. spent on COVID-19 equipment||From March, Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd. (KMSCL) has spent over Rs. 352 crore on COVID-19-related purchase of medical equipment ranging from personal protective gear to ventilators. Even with an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, the State currently has enough stock of RNA extraction kits, PPE kits and masks to last for over a month, and the procurement process to meet the additional requirement is under way, according to KMSCL Managing Director Ajayakumar A.R. The target was to keep stock available for 45 days at least, calculated based on average daily usage of the protective equipment or laboratory reagents, said KMSCL General Manager Dileepkumar S.R. Since there were more cases being reported daily, additional stocks were in transit and were set to arrive in a staggered manner soon, he added. An average of over 6,000 PPE kits were used daily, up from about 2,000 per day in March, he said. Ninety per cent of the stock of PPE kits is procured from four manufacturers based in Kerala. The rest is from companies in Rajasthan, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. A stock of over 3.57 lakh PPE kits is available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-352-cr-spent-on-covid-19-equipment/article32062124.ece
13 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam registers five more fresh cases||Five persons from the district, including three members of a family, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. One of the COVID-19 patients is a 62-year-old Sasthamcotta Manakkara resident who works in a petrol pump at Ezham Mile. The person has no travel history and he last appeared for work on July 9. He lives with his wife, son, daughter-in-law, and granddaughter. He tested positive in the antigen test conducted on July 11. The other patients are a 24-year-old Sasthamcotta Rajagiri resident and two children aged three and one. They are the wife and sons of the fish vendor who tested positive on July 11. Another 60-year-old from the same place is also a fish vendor at the Anjilimoodu market. 74-year-old dies A 74-year-old COVID-19 patient died of cardiac arrest on Sunday at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kollam, where he has been undergoing treatment since July 9. The Valathungal resident had a history of chronic kidney disease, cholecystectomy, and recurrent UTI according to the hospital authorities. He was under treatment at a local hospital from July 6 for fever with chills, headache, and body pain. He had a history of visitors from Chennai at his home and he developed cough and persistent fever on July 8, following which his swab samples were collected. He was shifted to a COVID-19 ICU at the MCH on July 9 and the patient was given antibiotics and other supportive medicines. He was later intubated and mechanically ventilated on July 10. “The Institutional Medical Board, after consultation with State Medical Board, decided to give convalescent plasma therapy and haemodialysis on July 11 in view of renal shutdown. On July 12, the condition of the patient deteriorated and at 1.05 p.m. he went into cardiac arrest. In spite of all resuscitative measures, he succumbed to death at 1.35 p.m.,” said a bulletin issued by the hospital. Ward 4 and 5 of the Nedumbana grama panchayt have been declared as containment zones after a 75-year-old woman, who drowned in the Kallada river on Friday, tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-registers-five-more-fresh-cases/article32062220.ece
13 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ride-sharing catching up among train commuters||All of a sudden, the thought of every day travel to office seemed a far-fetched idea for Sojo. Till then for the past few years, she took the shuttle train on all working days to cover the long distance from her home in Kollam to her workplace at the Civil Supplies office at Mallappally. But the stoppage of train services since the lockdown has overturned her travel plans. After struggling for a while, Sojo offered to share her car with three of her fellow members in the Whatsapp network ‘Friends on Rail (FOR)’. The group now shares fuel costs and spends the one-and-half-hour-long journey in her car talking about politics, favourite movies, and home-making tips. The 40-year-old is one among the hundreds of rail commuters who has used FOR—a network of about 6,000 rail commuters comprising students to government employees—to connect with drivers or fellow riders and make such alternate arrangements during the lockdown period. A voluntary non-profit organisation that operates through about 30-odd WhatsApp groups, FOR used to provide passengers with all essential information regarding train timings, schedule changes, and cancellations. Liyons J., administrator of FOR, says the network decided to promote car pooling to address the pressure on public transportation in the changed scenario. “Several ride-sharing groups have been formed along the Parassala-Kottayam-Alappuzha sector with FOR facilitating their rides to different destinations. It is helping people to save money and tackle congestion,” he says. According to Mr. Liyons, FOR has evolved into a ride-sharing network after serving initially as a platform to share inputs on medicine dispatches or helping the stranded members during the lockdown days. P. Krishnakumar, general secretary of the Thrissur Railway Passengers Association, says the trend of ride-shares is catching up among the rail users across the State in a big way. “Even as the restrictions on travel ease, the daily struggle to commute has prompted formation of such groups that share rides.” Taking note of the plight of rail commuters post the lockdown, the association has moved a couple of petitions to Railways seeking steps to resume at least the shuttle train services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ride-sharing-catching-up-among-train-commuters/article32062221.ece
13 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Count in Kottayam goes up by 12||As many as 12 persons, including five persons who were in the primary contact list of a medical doctor in Pathanamthitta who was confirmed of contracting COVID-19, tested positive for the virus here on Sunday. According to Health officials, seven persons contracted the virus through local transmission while the remaining persons came from destinations outside the state. Five of a family The five persons in a family who contracted the virus through local transmission were identified as the 33-year-old wife of the doctor, their four-year-old son, his 34-year-old brother, 65-year-old mother-in-law and 38-year-old brother-in-law. Currently, 145 people are being treated for the disease in Kottayam while 183 persons recovered in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/count-in-kottayam-goes-up-by-12/article32062222.ece
13 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Health staff in Kozhikode on alert||The lockdown and other restrictions being imposed on Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram has led the health staff of the Kozhikode Corporation to be on alert against the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases through local transmission and those without a known source of infection. According to sources, close to 40 people have been infected through local transmission so far, after they came into contact with already infected persons. The number of those whose source of infection is unknown is learnt to be five. Officials are now drawing parallels with Broadway in Kochi and the areas in Thiruvananthapuram, where cases whose sources of infection are unknown is going up. The corporation is reportedly foreseeing declaration of some more areas in Kozhikode city as containment zones. Officials claim that if the infection spreads in a city, it might affect the nearby villages too as people from other places also visit the urban areas. In villages, where such floating population is comparatively less, things could be under control more easily. Focus on the elderly The authorities are now setting up more rapid response teams (RRT) to address any eventuality. A senior official said that the RRTs would focus on people who are vulnerable to the infection — senior citizens, children aged below 10, pregnant women. Another section is those who have returned from abroad and from other States. The third section is migrant labourers and the fourth section is lorry drivers and cleaners who visit the city and return. The RRTs should have details of all these people, including their location, as the first group was easily prone to the infection and the others could be its carriers, he said. Volunteers should ensure that people belonging to the vulnerable population do not venture out into the open. The RRTs should also identify spots such as markets and playgrounds where crowding could be possible and the corporation would impose restrictions there, including sealing such places, the sources added. Curbs on sports Following incidents of spread of COVID-19 among those engaged in sports activities, the Kozhikode District Collector under the capacity of the Chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority has imposed severe restrictions on all playgrounds including football turfs in the district until further notice. The order is based on Section 34 (a,b) of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and prohibits any form of sports activities, training and competitions in the district. However, the Sports Council and other similar government institutions can continue their ongoing training sessions under severe restrictions, ensuring zero chance of spread of COVID-19. Non-compliance of the order is punishable under IPC sections 188, 269 and Section 4 of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-staff-in-kozhikode-on-alert/article32062107.ece
13 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Harbours to remain closed on Sundays||As part of COVID-19 preventive measures, all the four fishing harbours and fish landing centres remained closed in Kozhikode district on Sunday. The entry of public was not allowed into harbour areas following an order issued by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao to this effect. Until further orders, fishing harbours will not be allowed to function on Sundays. The harbours at Beypore, Puthiyappa, Koyilandy and Chombal have also been declared as restricted areas for the public. Only those who hold identity cards or passes and badges issued by the Harbour Management Committee will be able to enter fishing harbours and fish landing centres. The Deputy Director of Fisheries has been asked to streamline the process of issuing identity cards. The police will take steps to manage visitors to harbours and fish landing centres. The Fisheries Department has intensified checking around Beypore harbour and Chaliyam fish landing centre to crackdown on the unauthorised entry of fishers from other States. Health Department sources say coastal areas are under the threat of easy spread of COVID-19 because of the alleged casual approach of fishers and other workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harbours-to-remain-closed-on-sundays/article32062106.ece
13 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hyperlinks to Chinese apps spell trouble||The cyber cell has asked Internet users to be wary of malicious hyperlinks that promise access to banned Chinese apps. Warning has also been issued against the widespread use of an embedded link promising TikTok Pro installation, created for promoting scams, cyberattacks, and money fraud. Cyberdome experts say the attackers can create malicious domains using such links, avoiding legitimate websites. Personal information, banking details, and other confidential data can be easily accessed through such embedded links. The attempt to use Virtual Private Network (VPN) for downloading such banned apps too can be risky. According to officials, some of the half-baked online classes on the use of VPN have landed many users in trouble. Same is the case with the attempt to open or operate banned personal apps with the support of people outside the country. Phishing instances Online cyber awareness programmes too have been intensified in the wake of an increase in the number of phishing instances through spoofed websites. In Kozhikode district alone, six new cases have already been reported to the cyber cell by people who lost their money during online purchases. An official attached to the cyber cell says the safest method now is to avoid clicking on all suspicious links received as SMS and on email. Downloading unknown files too should be avoided. A recent webinar in Kozhikode explained the types of social engineering scams that prompt users to download malicious files.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hyperlinks-to-chinese-apps-spell-trouble/article32062119.ece
13 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Fighting a virus named stigma||At a time when the number of COVID-19 patients is rising rapidly, the stigma associated with the disease calls for a closer look. A short film, Stigma , produced by the National Health Mission (Kannur), the District Medical Office and the District Mental Health Programme tries to do that. K.V. Latheesh, District Project Manager of the National Health Mission, felt the need for such a film when he came across several instances of patients being stigmatised. “A young man was asked by his wife not to visit her or her parents even after he had recovered from COVID-19,” he told The Hindu . “We need to educate people about the novel coronavirus.” Serious social issue Dr. Latheesh said the stigma was becoming a serious social issue. “Society is becoming paranoiac,” he said. “Not just the COVID-19 patients, but their caregivers too are being treated harshly. I know health workers who have been asked by neighbours not to return to their apartments.” He said there had been suicide attempts when patients were made to feel unwelcome by the community. “I thought a short film could convey the message. I got in touch with Santhosh Keezhattoor and he has come up with a fine film, which we hope will help dispel misconceptions about COVID-19.” Strong message The actor has directed the film, and played six characters too. “It was a challenge essaying six characters,” he said. “I am playing the father of a man who goes back from his commitment to marry a girl who recovered from COVID-19, a youngster who is quarantined on his return from the Gulf, an IT professional, a man who refuses to cremate a COVID-19 victim, a man who flouts guidelines during the lockdown and a female nurse.” The script is by Suresh Babu Sreestha, a playwright who is working as a Health Inspector at the Family Health Centre, Kalliasseri. Stigma would soon be released on various platforms, including social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighting-a-virus-named-stigma/article32062123.ece
13 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||House of accused raided||Customs officers raided the house of Ramees, an accused in the gold-smuggling case, at Vettathur, near Perinthalmanna, in the district on Sunday. The raid continued for several hours. The Customs raid team was supported by the district police. Ramees had been apprehended earlier and taken to Kochi for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-of-accused-raided/article32062144.ece
13 July 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||59 test positive in Palakkad; cases touch 1,000 in Malappuram||Fifty-nine persons, including three children, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Sunday. As many as 24 of them had returned from the United Arab Emirates. However, the infection of a 24-year-old pregnant woman at Elappully could not be traced to any contacts. While 24 of the new cases returned from the UAE, six had returned from Kuwait, four from Qatar, five from Saudi Arabia, two from Oman, one each from Japan and England, eight from Tamil Nadu, four from Maharashtra, and three from Karnataka. The district has 328 COVID-19 cases currently under treatment. Besides, four persons from the district were being treated in Malappuram, two in Idukki, three in Ernakulam and one in Kannur districts. In Kasaragod With more cases of local transmission getting reported, the district administration and the Health Department are on high alert in Kasaragod. Of the 56 cases reported on Sunday, 42 got infected through contact. Among them, sources of infection of eight patients have not been identified yet. Eight persons had come from abroad and six from Karnataka. Those tested positive were residents of Chengala, Madhur, Muliyar, Pullur Periya, Manjeswaram, Kumbala, Mogral Puthur, Kasaragod, Chemnad, Mangalpady, Panathady, Meenja and Pallikkara. All except three who tested positive were in home quarantine. A total of 6,513 persons are under observation in the district. In Malappuram Forty-two persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Sunday. As many as 17 of them were found to have been infected through local transmission. Thirteen of them were detected during a special drive held in Ponnani taluk as part of checking the spread of the virus there. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 22 of the newly confirmed cases had come back from abroad and three from other States. Apart from the 13 positive cases in Ponnani, where local transmission is feared, the others who got the disease through local contacts were a 22-year-old man from Munniyoor, a 37-year-old man from Vazhayoor, a 42-year-old man from Palemad, Edakkara, and a 27-year-old man from Oorngattiri. Among those tested positive in Ponnani were a 10-year-old girl and a 19-year-old boy. Most others were in their 40s and 50s. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena requested those who had come in contact with the infected persons to go into home quarantine. She said they should not leave their homes and interact with anyone outside. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in the district rose to 524 on Sunday. The number of persons who recovered from the disease on the day was 15. Malappuram became the first district to record 1,000 COVID-19 cases in the State since March. More than 41,000 persons are currently in quarantine. In Thrissur There were 19 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Thrissur on Sunday. Among them, 10 were tested positive during the random sample testing from various parts of the district as part of sentinel surveillance. In all, 14,238 persons are under observation. Restrictions in the district have been made strict. Identity cards have been made compulsory for workers in shops. People above the age of 60 years will not be allowed to work in shops. Meanwhile, all persons who had attended the funeral function of a woman at Arimbur, who tested positive, have been sent into quarantine. In Wayanad Nineteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Sunday. All of them were returnees from abroad and other States. District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared 27 wards in four grama panchayats as containment zones after the areas reported COVID-19 cases. They include all wards (17) of the Thirunelly grama panchayat, wards 15 and 16 of Meenangadi; wards 12,10 and 15 of Thondarnadu and wards 3, 6, 7, 8 and 15 of Poothadi grama panchayat. Of the 171 cases reported in the district so far, 83 had been cured, District Health Department officials said. In Kannur Kannur district reported 17 new COVID-19 cases. Among the cases, three arrived from abroad, 12 from other States, and one each are Defence Security Corps (DSC) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel. Meanwhile, 19 patients were cured of the disease on Sunday. Those who arrived from abroad were residents of Thalassery, Kuttiyattoor and Munderi. Those who came from other States were residents of Munderi, Chokli, Thripangottur, New Mahi, Panoor, Iritty, Taliparamba and Vengadu. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 704. There are currently 24,833 persons under observation in the district. In Kozhikode It was a day of reprieve for Kozhikode on Sunday when only four new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district while 18 others recovered from the infection. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that they had returned from Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Bengaluru in Karnataka, and belonged to Ramanattukara, Unnikulam, Kakkodi and Chelavoor. Those recovered belonged to Vellayil, Nanmanda, Koorachund, Ernakulam, Olavanna, Chekkiyad, Karassery, Puthuppady, Atholy, Ayanchery, Eramala, Koduvally, Chakkittapara, Kakkoor, Kuttiyadi and Thooneri. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district is 162.  (With inputs from Kasaragod, Malappuram, Kannur, Thrissur, Wayanad, and Kozhikode bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/59-test-positive-in-palakkad-cases-touch-1000-in-malappuram/article32062109.ece
13 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Vallasadya, Vallamkali in troubled waters||COVID-19 is likely to affect this year’s Vallasadya as well as the annual snakeboat regatta Uthrittathi Vallamkali at Aranmula. The two-month annual season of Vallasadya, a feast served to the snakeboat crew by devotees as their offering to the presiding deity at the Sree Parthasarathy temple at Aranmula, is expected to start on August 4. The Ashtami Rohini Vallasadya, a mega feast attended by around 75,000 people on Sree Krishna Janmashtami, is scheduled to be held on the temple premises on September 10. The fate of this year’s a snakeboat regatta in the Pampa river, held in the last lap of the Onam festival, too hangs in the balance owing to the restrictions imposed on people’s movement as part of the drive to check the spread of the infection. The Palliyoda Seva Sanghom (PSS), an apex body of 52 Palliyoda karayogams with their own snakeboats (palliyodams), organises these annual events in association with the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB). 103 bookings PSS secretary P.R. Radhakrishnan said the sanghom had started bookings for the Vallasadya at its office in Aranmula much earlier. A total of 103 bookings had been made till March 18 when it was stopped in the wake of a lockdown declared in the district following detection of five COVID-19 cases in Ranni. Mr. Radhakrishnan said at least 100 people were required for launching a snakeboat from the boat shed into the river. Moreover, 70-odd oarsmen wearing masks while singing the rhythmic Vanchippattu (songs in praise of Lord Krishna) as its main accompaniment, complying with the two-metre physical distancing norm, would be grossly impractical. Likely exception However, the PSS would explore the possibility of conducting the legendary Thiruvonathoni Varavu, a procession carrying articles for the Onasadya (feast) at the Aranmula temple from the Kattoor Maha Vishnu temple ghats on the eve of Thiruvonam, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vallasadya-vallamkali-in-troubled-waters/article32062167.ece
13 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Deva Harithom project launched at Thiruvalla||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) and the Harita Keralam Mission have launched their unique greening project Deva Harithom on the Sreevallabha temple premises at Thiruvalla on Sunday. The TDB member, K.S. Hari, inaugurated the project being executed by the Sreevallabhesa Annadana Samiti at a function held on the temple premises in the forenoon. The samiti president, N. Sreekumara Pillai, presided over the function. According to G. Sreekumar Kongarettu, samiti general secretary, flower and fruit plants will be grown in five acres of land attached to the temple complex. The flowers and fruits harvested at the temple land will be used for the temple rituals, he says. The kadali and padatti varieties of plantains, different types of thulsi , njavara rice etc. will be grown on the temple land, Mr Sreekumar says. R. Jayakumar, municipal chairman, delivered the keynote address. V. Krishnakumar Warrier, deputy devaswom commissioner; R. Rajesh, Harita Keralam mission district coordinator; Radhakrishnan Venattu and Jijeesh Kumar, municipal councillors, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deva-harithom-project-launched-at-thiruvalla/article32062224.ece
13 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||39 new cases in Pathanamthitta||A total of 39 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta, raising the total number of active COVID-19 patients in the district to 237, on Sunday. According to an official bulletin released here on Sunday evening, 14 of the 39 new COVID patients are Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who returned to their home villages in the district from abroad and various other States in the past two weeks. Newly infected As many as 12 persons among the newly infected are from Thukalassery, near Thiruvalla, Kumbazha, Pathanamthitta, Kulashekharapathi, Mele-Vettipram, and Kadammanitta who have been identified as contacts of the already infected people, the bulletin says. Containment zone Thirteen others among the 39 new COVID-19 patients in the district tested positive for the virus infection through the Rapid Antigen Test conducted in the municipal containment zone in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Contacts All these people are contacts of those who already tested positive earlier in the municipal limits. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district since March 7 is 534 as on Sunday. Of these cases, 296 persons were cured of the disease and one person succumbed to the ailment. Quarantine As per an official bulletin, 5,880 persons were placed in quarantine at various Corona Care Centres as well as houses in different parts of the district as on Sunday. Of this, 2,617 people came from various other States, 1,841 persons are those who came from abroad, and 1,422 others are contacts of the infected persons.  The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district since March 7 is 534 as on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/39-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32062225.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Drastic fall in cases in capital||Marking a drastic fall in the daily tally of COVID-19 cases, the capital district reported 40 cases, including two health workers, on Sunday. Notably, no fresh cases emerged from the critical containment zones including Poonthura, Manikyavilakam and Puthenpally wards. The single-day caseload has seen a gradual fall from 129 and 69 during the last two days. However, findings could not be construed as befitting a withdrawal of the triple lockdown restrictions in the region. The slump in the number of people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 could be attributed to the lesser number of samples that were collected from the area over the last two days. Official sources pointed out that sample collection did not take place in at least one of the four centres here after five health workers, who bore the brunt of protests from the local community, went into quarantine. However, six cases were reported from Vallakadavu and Beemapally which were among the buffer wards to the critical containment zones. Among 31 people who contracted the infection through contact transmission, the authorities were yet to identify the sources of infection in 12 cases. These included cases detected in Fort, Vazhayila near Peroorkada, Kaliyakavikla, Mannam Nagar near Pachalloor, Parassala, Kumarapuram, Varkala, Pulluvila and Karipur near Nedumangad, suggesting a COVID-19 spread to various parts of the district. Raising another dimension of concern, coastal areas other than those that were currently under stringent curbs have also begun to report fresh cases. Besides new cases that appeared to enlarge the existing cluster in Vizhinjam, Venganoor and Kottapuram, other places including Varkala and Pulluvila also witnessed new cases. While three people including a Pathanamthitta native have recovered from the illness, the number of people being treated for the infection in the district stood at 548. Takes stock Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran and District Collector Navjot Khosa visited the containment zones and took stock of the facilities that were in place. Meanwhile, the Congress has accused the government and Thiruvananthapuram Corporation of ignoring the needs of people who reside in containment zones. In a statement, District Congress Committee president Neyyattinkara Sanal said that the residents of Manacaud, Attukal, Kuriathy, Ambalathara, Kamaleswaram and Kalippankulam wards that have been containment zones for over 20 days have faced a shortage of essential supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drastic-fall-in-cases-in-capital/article32062171.ece
13 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Local transmission tops in 435 new cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 burden continues to rise with an exponential increase in cases of local transmission. For the third consecutive day on Sunday, the number of cases acquired by people from the community through local transmission exceeded the number of imported cases of infection. The State reported 435 new cases, of which, 215 were imported cases of infection brought in by people who had returned from abroad and from other parts of the country, while the cases that occurred through local transmission stood at 218. This trend of local transmission cases exceeding that of imported cases is being seen across many districts since the past three days. Ominous signs In Thiruvananthapuram, 31 out of the 40 new cases reported on Sunday were cases that occurred through local transmission, 35 of the 57 cases in Alappuzha, 41 out of the 50 cases in Ernakulam, 41 out of the 56 cases in Kasaragod and 24 out of the 39 cases in Pathanamthitta were cases of local transmission. Going by the uniform manner in which the increase in local transmission has been happening across all districts, this caseload is bound to increase steadily. 10 health-care workers Ten health-care workers and two paramilitary force personnel also contracted the disease through local transmission. The increase in local transmission has resulted in a sudden surge in the patient load in many districts. The capital district of Thiruvananthapuram with 548 patients has the highest number of active cases, followed by Malappuram, 521, Alappuzha, 372, Kannur, 334, Ernakulam, 329, and Palakkad, 328. With 132 recoveries on Sunday, the number cases undergoing treatment in hospitals in various districts is 3,743. Of the 7,873 cases reported so far, recoveries have been reported in 4,095 cases. Two deaths With two more deaths on Sunday, the tally touched 31. Two persons who died on July 5 and July 7 in Thrissur and Alappuzha respectively were found to have tested positive. The State has put over 1.81 lakh people on surveillance and quarantine, of whom, 3,990 persons with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The number of routine sample tests done in the past 24 hours is 13,478. Till date, over 3.47 lakh tests have been done in various categories, apart from the sentinel surveillance sample tests numbering 76,075. 30 new hotspots In tune with the increase in local transmission, more areas in the State have been designated as hotspots. With the addition of 30 new areas in the list, the current number of hotspots in the State is 222.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-transmission-tops-in-435-new-cases/article32062128.ece
13 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe might shine light on grey market for gold||The Customs Department probe into the smuggling of gold via air-cargo shipments to the UAE Consulate here could lead investigators to major grey-market operators who regularly supply the contraband at discounted rates and in trade quantities to lawbreakers in the jewellery trade. Officials pointed out that the sale of gold ornaments had abounded over the years. However, there appeared to be no corresponding increase in the purchase of legal bullion from banks by jewellers whose annual turnover was estimated, conservatively, at Rs. 35,000 crore. Investigators also have little clue about where the jewellers convert gold into ornaments, though some claim that they source them from traditional artisans spread across the country. Enforcers suspect that a portion of the gold smuggled into the country through airports in Kerala was converted into machine-crafted jewellery in unregistered backyard factories that operated secretly in residential neighbourhoods. The manufacturers sold the ornaments in bulk to jewellers at a relatively concessionary rate and without a bill or any other record of the transaction. Flight suspension Customs officials said the suspension of international flights due to the pandemic had dented gold smuggling operations in a significant way since March-end. It had also spurred a slight increase in the sale of legal bullion in the country. The situation might have prompted gold smugglers in the Gulf to send the contraband through cargo shipments, including at least one as air freight addressed to a diplomatic mission here. Officials said the National Investigation Agency, which was conducting a parallel probe into the gold smuggling operation that spanned international borders, had reasons to believe that a part of the profits from the racket was diverted to finance terrorism. They said the fraud also had elements of money laundering and use of hawala channels to plough back the profits into the pockets of smugglers in the Gulf. Low tax remittance V.D. Satheeshan, MLA, of the Congress had pointed out that the gold businesses in Kerala owed the treasury Rs. 3,000 crore annually. However, their tax remittance was less than Rs. 300 crore. Kerala had the highest per capita spending on gold. Yet, it had purportedly not reflected in the State’s tax collection. The Finance Department has reportedly initiated an enforcement exercise to audit the manufacture and sale of gold ornaments and check stock to detect the presence of contraband. Officials have stressed the need to audit the considerable amount of gold in the custody of non-banking loan companies, valued at an estimated Rs. 1 lakh crore by some accounts, which accepted gold as a collateral for lending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-might-shine-light-on-grey-market-for-gold/article32062139.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown restrictions relaxed in many areas||The district administration has announced relaxations in the lockdown restrictions that have been extended in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits for another week from 6 a.m. on Monday. The existing areas in critical containment zones (Poonthura, Manikyavilakom and Puthenpally) and its buffer zones (Valiyathura, Vallakadavu, Muttathara, Beemapally and Beemapally East) will continue to remain under strict and complete lockdown. Single entry Well-defined perimeter control will remain in the region with single entry and exit points. Among the exemptions that have been permitted in other areas of the city limits, shops selling essential items, bakeries and milk booths can remain open from 7 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. for customers, and from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. for stockists and wholesalers. The ban on door delivery will continue, except for medicines as well as food only from Janakeeya Hotels run jointly by the Kudumbashree and Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. However, restaurants and hotels will remain closed. Public examinations in all educational institutions within the city limit will also remain suspended until further orders. Taxis and autorickshaws can be operated with strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. While transit through National Highways will be permitted, provided the motorists did not stop anywhere in containment zones, the movement of persons in or out or within city limits will not be permitted except for medical emergencies, essential supplies and to maintain supply of essential goods and services. Night curfew will remain in force from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. Besides government offices that will reopen in a phased manner, other activities that have been permitted include construction activities of basic infrastructure, IT services in Technopark with essential staff, banking services except NBFCs with a maximum of 50% staff. Media offices,data centre operators and telecom operators with minimum staff are allowed to be open. ATMs will remain open. Hospitals Hospitals, medical shops and all related medical establishments will continue to remain functional. The transportation of all medical personnel, nurses, para medical staff and other hospital support services will also be permitted. In the critical containment zones, groceries, bakeries and milk booths will function from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. While medical and essential services will function round-the-clock, banking institutions will remain closed. Mobile Maveli stores will function in the three wards. Night curfew will remain in force from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in these areas. The Incident Commander and Tahsildar, concerned taluks shall ensure that strict containment activities are implemented as per government instructions.  The ban on door delivery will continue, except for medicines and food from Janakeeya Hotels||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-restrictions-relaxed-in-many-areas/article32062172.ece
13 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three months on, Central spinning mills still in slumber||The 23 spinning mills of the National Textile Corporation, under the Union Textile Ministry, have remained closed since March, despite the Centre granting permission for factories and industries to open in May. This includes the five spinning mills in Kerala — Vijayamohini Mills in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala Lekshmi Mill and Alagappa Textiles in Thrissur, and the CS&W Mills in Kannur and Mahe. The salaries of the more than 7,000 employees countrywide have not been paid in June, after progressive salary cuts since March. The large pile of unsold yarn stock is being pointed out as a reason for the mills remaining closed. Employees’ unions convened an online conference on Sunday to decide on protests. From 1970s Many of these mills which began under private ownership in the 19th or early 20th century, were brought under the public sector in the early 1970s. The Vijayamohini Mills, which was taken over in 1973, now has 450 workers under the permanent and casual categories. Around 150 casual workers from this mill alone lost their jobs much before the lockdown. Post the lockdown, the salary was first cut by 25%, by 40% the next month and by 60% in May. According to the union leaders, an employee of the Mahe mill committed suicide on June 15. “The usual response of the management is that there are no sales and that no funds are coming from the Centre. Every year, close to Rs. 40 lakh is paid as taxes by Vijayamohini Mills alone, but the NTC has been working without any economic aid from the Central government. The spinning mills owned by the State governments have resumed operations. If the mills remain closed for a few more months, we can expect a loss of crores worth in machineries,” says M.T. Antony, secretary of the Trivandrum Textile Workers’ Union, affiliated to the CITU. The Mumbai factor According to Pradeep, Manager of Vijayamohini Mills, there has been no movement of yarn in Mumbai, which is the main market for the produce of mills in the State. “As long as the yarn movement in the Mumbai market does not pick up, we cannot start production,” he says. Some of the suggestions from trade unions to cut costs include procurement of raw materials from the Cotton Corporation of India, a Central public sector enterprise, which can supply cotton at a discount. Yarn produced by NTC mills can be exempted from GST or given a reduction in the percentage of GST. Strict control should be kept on the import of yarn and cloth materials, and indigenously made products of NTC should be promoted instead, say the unions. The unions see a ploy to push the textile corporation into a loss-making enterprise and privatise it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-months-on-central-spinning-mills-still-in-slumber/article32062131.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poonthura says sorry with flowers||The Poonthura residents had a Sunday surprise in store for health workers as they arrived for the day’s COVID-19 testing in the coastal locality. Flower petals rained on their cars from either side as the vehicles moved towards the Ayush hospital in Poonthura, one of the four swab collection centres here. The claps and the flower petal showers, from a small group of people following all physical distancing protocols, were a far cry from the scenes in Poonthura two days back. On Friday, Poonthura witnessed strong protests, fuelled partly by lack of access to essential items and partly by false rumours regarding testing. Messages were shared through Whatsapp that the Antigen tests were ineffective and more number of positives were being reported from Poonthura to tarnish the place’s name. There were also reports of lack of facilities in some of the hospitals to which those who tested positive were taken to. A group of people had surrounded one of the vehicles in which the health workers’ were travelling, banging on the vehicle and shouting at the health workers. As the driver rolled down the windows to explain to the crowd, one of them had put their head inside the head inside the car and coughed. Due to the super spread situation in Ponnthura, with close to 300 cases, the five health workers had to go into quarantine. No swab collection was done at the Ayush hospital over the past two days due to the prevailing situation. For the past two days, the district administration, local political leaders and church representatives have been communicating with the local population to allay their fears. All this led to the welcome that the health workers received on Sunday. Lack of awareness Father Bevinson, Vicar of the Poonthura Church, spoke to the health workers soon after the reception. “Today, all the people of Poonthura are with you, as one. We all know what led to the unfortunate situation two days back. It is something that could never be tolerated. It happened due to the lack of awareness of one or two persons. We all recognise the efforts that you have put in and the risks that you have taken to help us out in this hour of crisis. All our volunteers and the public here will co-operate with you. The government has also taken positive steps now, although some of these could have been avoided if these steps were taken earlier,” he told the health workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poonthura-says-sorry-with-flowers/article32062174.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 threat looms large over tribal hamlets||As it grapples with alarming spread of COVID-19 along the coastal belt, the State faced the looming threat of a similar proliferation in densely populated tribal areas. Wanton disregard for home quarantine norms and lack of institutional quarantine facilities hampered containment efforts in such areas. Few days after a doctor of a government-run health centre in Aryanad, his family members, two ASHA workers, and a KSRTC station master tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, many people in Aryanad and Kuttichal grama panchayats have been sent into quarantine. Those who figure in the doctor’s contact list include many tribespeople in the settlements of Kottoor, situated on the foothills of Agasthyarkoodam hill range in the Western Ghats. Lockdown was imposed in the Aryanad grama panchayat after eight people belonging to the same cluster contracted the infection. In Kuttichal grama panchayat alone, 141 people who sought medical attention at the Aryanad primary health centre have been directed to go into quarantine. Among them, 23 people including 19 tribespeople reside in areas that come under the Kottoor forest section. They include a ‘kavadi’ (mahout’s assistant) and four eco-development committee (EDC) members who have been working in the Elephant Rehabilitation Centre in Kappukadu, near Kottoor. Surveillance intensified Pointing out that the employees turned up for work until Wednesday, Agasthyavanam Biological Park Deputy Wildlife Warden Satheesan N.V. said surveillance had been intensified in the rehabilitation centre. He, however, raised concern over the inability of residents in the six tribal settlements in Kottoor to facilitate home quarantine in tribal hamlets that mostly had two-room houses. The scenario could potentially expose the community to a wave of local transmission. Kuttichal grama panchayat president G. Manikandan said there were no institutional quarantine centre in the panchayat. While a college had been earlier used for the purpose, the resumption of classes coupled with the absence of an alternative arrangement had left the local body without a quarantine facility. Officials involved in the containment activities also said youths often refused to pay heed to directives on physical distancing and other COVID-19 norms. The situation existed when the tribal community as such must be considered a vulnerable section owing to malnutrition and low immunity levels, according to an official.  Disregard for home quarantine and lack of institutional quarantine facilities hit containment efforts in tribal areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-threat-looms-large-over-tribal-hamlets/article32062168.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KAU research unit launches vegetable cultivation kits||Planning to give vegetable farming a try at home? The Integrated Farming Systems Research Station (IFSRS) here at Nedumcaud, Karamana, may be able to help you out. The IFSRS, a station under the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), has introduced vegetable cultivation kits which could prove useful for city residents who have developed a passion for vegetable farming during the COVID-19 pandemic. IFSRS, had brought out the kits in response to a growing demand and the Agriculture Department’s initiative to encourage vegetable cultivation at the household-level. Each kit, priced Rs. 125 contains vegetable seeds, 250 ml of cow urine, cow dung slurry and bio-control agents such as pseudomonas. The public response has been good, Jacob John, Professor and Head, IFSRS, said. “The kits contain the seeds of tomato, amaranthus, lady's finger, chilli and brinjal. The kit costing Rs. 125 plus five empty grow bags are available for Rs. 200,'' he said. The station is also selling seedlings and ready-for-planting filled grow bags which contain a mixture of soil, cow dung and coir pith for Rs. 80. Recently, IFSRS, in collaboration with the Students Police Cadet (SPC) unit of the Government Girls’ High School, Chalai, launched a venture for the conversion of a portion of the fallow land in the school campus for banana cultivation. The research station is providing technical support for the programme. Govt. initiative The State government has called upon the public to grow vegetables in their homes to ensure food security during the pandemic. The Agriculture Department has announced plans to distribute 70 lakh seed packets to households across the State for the ‘Onathinorumuram Pachchakkari’ initiative this year.  Each kit contains vegetable seeds, 250 ml of cow urine, cow dung slurry and bio-control agents such as pseudomonas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-research-unit-launches-vegetable-cultivation-kits/article32062175.ece
13 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Triple lockdown in critical coastal zones||Triple lockdown will be imposed in the critical containment zones in the coastal areas in the State for a week, from 6 p.m. on July 13 till 6 p.m. on July 23, to stem the intense transmission of COVID 19. The containment zones include Manikyavilakam, Poonthura and Puthenpalli wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Chavara and Panmana in Kollam, Pattanakkad, Kadakkarapalli, Cherthala South, Mararikulam North, Kodamthuruthu, Kuthiyathodu, Thuravoor and Aarattupuzha in Alappuzha; Chellanam in Ernakulam; Veliyamcode, Perumbadappa, Ponnani municipality and Tanur municipality in Malappuram. Some are already under triple lockdown. The government will give five kg of rice to every family in such zones. Shops selling provisions will remain open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. for re-stocking and from 10 a.m. till 6 p.m. for customers. Milk booths can remain open from 5 a.m. till 10 a.m. and from 4 p.m. till 6 p.m. Night curfew will be from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. Health, Revenue and Police officials will be available for service in these zones round-the-clock. Dispensaries, chemist shops, medical equipment and consumables shops, laboratories, clinics, nursing homes and ambulances will be allowed to function. Transportation services for health care workers and other travels for hospital or medical requirements will be allowed. Transport services will be allowed along the national highways provided the vehicles do not stop inside the containment zones. ATMs will function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/triple-lockdown-in-critical-coastal-zones/article32062129.ece
13 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong., BJP protest across State as NIA brings accused to Kochi||Workers of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) shouted slogans against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as the motorcade of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) escorting the accused in the gold-smuggling case swept past them as it sped from Palakkad to Kochi on Sunday. The anti-government protests that violated physical- distancing strictures and threw caution against the transmission of COVID-19 to the wind unfolded across the State for the third consecutive day. The Opposition parties attempted to convert the optics of the televised daytime spectacle of the accused being brought to court into a damning indictment of the alleged links of Mr. Vijayan’s office with Swapna Suresh, an accused in the case. Attack on government Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala escalated his attack on the government. In an open letter, Mr. Chennithala asked Mr. Vijayan how Swapna and her alleged accomplice Sandeep Nair could move unchallenged from Kerala to Bengaluru when the pandemic-impelled travel restrictions remained in place. He wondered whether the State police helped the suspects flee Kerala. Mr. Chennithala asked Mr. Vijayan why M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, remained in service though hard evidence about his close association with Swapna had emerged in the public domain. Mr. Chennithala reiterated his demand to bring the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) under the ambit of the ongoing probe. He demanded a police inquiry into how Swapna gained “government employment” by “faking” her academic credentials. In an article in the Veekshanam newspaper, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran described the CMO as a den of anti-nationals. BJP State president K. Surendran also levelled comparable charges against the CMO. The parties are expected to unleash more street protests in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-bjp-protest-across-state-as-nia-brings-accused-to-kochi/article32062141.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sahithi’s Marquez award for Perumbadavam||Writer Perumbadavam Sreedharan has been selected for the second Gabriel Marquez award instituted by Sahithi. The award acknowledged his sweeping contributions to literature as a novelist and short story writer, said Palliyara Sreedharan, award committee chairman and director of the State Institute of Children’s Literature. Mr. Sreedharan’s novel Oru Sankeerthanam Pole had run into 110 editions and saw translations in 10 Indian languages, winning national acclaim for the author, the judges’ panel noted. Other novels by Mr. Sreedharan, the former president of the Kerala Sahithya Akademi, include Abhayam , Ashtapadi , Anthiveylile Ponnu , Kalvariyilekku Veendum, and Pradakshinavazhi . He has also written numerous short stories. The judges’ panel included S. Ramesh Kumar, Fr. Saji Mekattu, Binny Sahithi, and K.K. Pallassana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sahithis-marquez-award-for-perumbadavam/article32062143.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Directive to govt. offices||The government on Sunday issued a fresh set of guidelines in view of the extension of lockdown for a week in the city. The heads of departments providing essential services have been instructed to ensure the unhindered functioning of the public utilities. The Chief Secretary’s office and those of the Health, Home, Disaster Management, Local Self Government and NoRKA Departments in the State Secretariat will function with 50% attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-to-govt-offices/article32062169.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New buildings for 6 sub-registrar offices||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the new buildings of the sub-registrar offices at Mararikulam, Udambanchola, Thoppamkudi, and Naduvannur and launch the work for the new sub-registrar office buildings at Mananthavady and Thriprayar on July 14 through videoconference from the State capital, Minister for Public Works and Registration G. Sudhakaran said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-buildings-for-6-sub-registrar-offices/article32062134.ece
13 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC interviews postponed||Interviews scheduled at the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) headquarters at Pattom from July 15 to July 17 have been postponed as the COVID-19 lockdown has been extended in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits. Interviews scheduled in the other districts will be held as planned, the Kerala Public Service Commission said in a press release issued on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-interviews-postponed/article32062132.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Far from the madding crowd||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/far-from-the-madding-crowd/article32062118.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Blues from the virus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blues-from-the-virus/article32062136.ece
13 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Super-speciality hospital progresses at a snail’s pace in Anantapur||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Anantapur district crossed the 3,000-mark on Saturday from just 280 cases by June 8 ,and that left the district administration looking for more number of hospital beds. While the district badly needs good hospital infrastructure, a Union government-sponsored super-speciality hospital is being constructed for the past four years, while it should have been handed over by early 2019. Lack of coordination When the first COVID-19 case was detected on March 12 in the district, everyone eyed this facility, but due to sheer lack of coordination between the executing agency HLL Infratech Services Ltd (HITES), Haigreeva Infratech Projects Ltd., Government General Hospital & Medical College and the district administration, four months of valuable time was lost. Now even to operationalise at least one floor of the five planned floors near JNTU Campus, it will take another 15 days, according to the executing agency. At every COVID review meeting since mid-April, the district administration had been assuring people that work would be completed within a week.  In its absence, several colleges and S.K. University buildings had been converted into COVID Care Centres, and two private hospitals — RDT Bathalapalli and KIMS Saveera — had been utilised for admitting serious patients in addition to the GGH. The district administration has even proposed converting an under- construction warehouse at Raminepalli into a COVID Care Centre, but even that is a Herculean task. Anantapur Medical College Principal and other officials inspected the facility and were of the opinion that 36 beds with ventilators and remaining 72 ICU (With Oxygen supply) beds could be immediately brought into use temporarily if additional manpower was deployed by the contractor and minor works were finished in ‘First Floor’. The centralised air-conditioning work has just started and the self-sustaining sewage treatment plant is yet to be set up in the hospital, which is supposed to be a greenfield project. Ventilators, patients’ beds and Oxygen cylinders are in place but some minor works need to be completed. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy told The Hindu that while the Centre had paid its share of Rs. 110 crore, the share of State government (about Rs. 30 cr) was pending and following his representation, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to release that immediately. Bharatiya Janata Party State vice-president S. Visnuvardhan Reddy said he had spoken to Health Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy and got an assurance to expedite the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/super-speciality-hospital-progresses-at-a-snails-pace-in-anantapur/article32062279.ece
13 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four die in accident||Four persons died when a minivan collided with an autorickshaw at Malyavantham Road near Bathalapalli in Anantapur district on Sunday. The accident took place when Bathalapalli-bound S. Narayanaswamy(45)’s autorickshaw was hit by a minivan proceeding from Bathalapalli to Tadipatri. While Narayanaswamy and his wife Ademma(42) died on the spot, the other two passengers, Chennakeshava and Peddakka, died at hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-die-in-accident/article32061763.ece
13 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigil intensified at check-posts in Chittoor||The incidence of a 30-year-old man with travel history to Bengaluru testing positive to the COVID-19 at Punganur has prompted the medical and police personnel to focus on the western mandals of Chittoor district, which reported as many as 159 cases on Sunday, taking the total over 3,200. With parts of Karnataka getting ready for the lockdown, the police have intensified vigil at border check-posts at Nangili and Madanapalle, expecting a hike in inter-State movement. While the pandemic has been rattling the eastern mandals, particularly Puttur, Nagari and Srikalahasti municipalities, it seems like it’s now the turn of the western mandals of the Madanapalle revenue division. Remote areas affected The municipalities of Madanapalle and Punganur have been witnessing steady spike in positive cases. On Sunday, Madanapalle police sub-division had registered as many as 14 cases, which included cases from the remote mandal of Gurramkonda too. Madanapalle division had so far accounted for three casualties. The Punganur municipality, which remained considerably free from the virus till June end, saw an upward trend of cases in July. Municipal Commissioner (Punganur) Lokeswara Varma appealed to the people to avoid all non-essential travel. Deputy-Superintendent of Police (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said the officials were on the job to identify the primary contacts of the patients in the region. “The border with Karnataka is under strict surveillance due to the volatile situation there,” he said. Meanwhile, District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) M. Penchalaiah said that as many as 20,000 testing kits had arrived in Chittoor district, along with the required stocks of the thermal guns and oxy-metres. He sought the duty personnel at all the primary health centres to submit the indents for procuring the stocks, as he said it was imperative for the paramedical staff to be equipped with them(thermal guns and oxy-metres).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigil-intensified-at-check-posts-in-chittoor/article32061768.ece
13 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for launch of COVID dedicated hospital in Tirupati||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), in coordination with the doctors of both government and private hospitals, is set to launch an exclusive 140-bed COVID-19 hospital for doctors and judicial staff, and the same would be functional on the ESI Hospital premises at Tirupati from July 15. Speaking to The Hindu , the IMA Tirupati Chapter president, P. Ravi Raju said that it was for the first time in India that the IMA had come out with an action plan to launch a hospital for the doctors and judiciary. ‘Round-the-clock care’ “All government and private doctors have expressed their overwhelming support to the project. The highlight of the hospital is that we are going to have pulmonologists, critical and intensive care specialists round-the-clock,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. Thanking Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta for their immediate nod for the project, the IMA functionary said that the move to have a COVID hospital would boost the morale of the medical fraternity at a time when close to 20 staff had tested positive in Chittoor district. Work hours “The medical teams from government and private hospitals will be deputed here in three shifts. The cases will also be segregated into three categories based on their condition, from asymptomatic to critical. We have brought in all the paraphernalia for treatment. All the medical fraternity involved in this project will be covered under the Aarogyasri and the Prime Minister’s health insurance scheme,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. The official said that the paramedical staff and administrative staff would be allotted the duties at the hospital through District medical and health officer (DMHO) and District Coordinator of Health Services (DCHS) and Superintendent of SVRR Government Hospital and Director of SVIMS Hospital. The payment for the medical staff at the new hospital would be in tune with the IMA norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-launch-of-covid-dedicated-hospital-in-tirupati/article32061770.ece
13 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto driver held on charge of murder||An auto-rickshaw driver, G. Sandeep, was arrested by the police on Sunday on the charge of murdering a woman, J. Anusha (30), on July 7, as she allegedly did not repay the Rs. 3,000 loan taken from him. The police found the body of the woman at the Polavaram right canal, near Manduru village. Confessed Sandeep confessed to the crime, said Eluru Deputy Superintendent of Police O. Dileep Kiran. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik lauded Mr. Kiran, Eluru Rural CI A. Srinivas Rao and his team for cracking the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/auto-driver-held-on-charge-of-murder/article32062285.ece
13 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh curbs in West Godavari from today||With COVID-19 cases rising by the day, officials have decided to impose restrictions on public transport, business establishments and movement of public in containment zones in West Godavari district. The restrictions will be in force from Monday. Barring essential services, all other shops like provisional stores, saloons and vegetable shops will be allowed from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. Political meetings, cultural shows and sports meets were prohibited in the district, according to Collector Revu Mutyalaraju. The vehicles carrying essential goods would be allowed. The restrictions will be total in Eluru, Bhimavaram, Tadepalligudem, Narsapuram and Palakol towns and partial in Pedapadu, Mogalturu, Poduru, Attili and Penugonda mandals.  34 dead  The highest number of 1,224 COVID-19 cases were reported in Eluru, followed by 167 in Narsapuram, 143 in Bhimavaram, 120 in Palakol, 115 in Tadepalligudem, 65 in Pedavegi, 60 in Poduru, 53 in Penugonda, 42 in Attili, 39 in Mogalturu, 34 in Nidadavole, 26 in Pedapadu and 25 cases in Tanuku. Cases were also reported in Bhimadole, Akiveedu, Veeravasaram, Unguturu, Penumantra, Peravali, Pentapadu, Penumantra, Kovvur, Denduluru and Ganapavaram mandals. The district recorded a death toll of 34. As many as 84,327 samples have been tested. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said check-posts would be arranged by the police in coordination with Excise, Fire and Forest personnel in all sub-divisions.  Lockdown in   East Godavari  Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has imposed a fresh lockdown in the Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram corporations and their surrounding rural areas from July 14 in view of a surge in COVID-19 cases. All shopping complexes, street vendors, liquor shops and other small-scale commercial activities would be allowed run only between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-curbs-in-west-godavari-from-today/article32062288.ece
13 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good rains raise hopes of farmers in Anantapur, Kurnool districts||Sowing operations are in the districts of Kurnool and Anantapur are in full swing, thanks to the good rainfall for the past one week. Hundri river yielded some water flow (110 cusecs) for a couple of days into the Srisailam Dam before stopping on Sunday. At Sunkesula Barrage, people gathered to witness the water collected this monsoon season. There were, however, no outflows from Sunkesula and Jurala, which feed the Srisailam Reservoir. The total rainfall in Kurnool district was 159 mm on Sunday, with an average of 2.9 mm rainfall in 14 mandals. The highest recorded was 32.2 mm in Peapully and the lowest of 1.mm was in Kolimigundla mandal. In Anantapur district, 49 of the 63 mandals recorded excess rainfall, while 13 recorded normal. Against the 89.7 mm normal rainfall for the monsoon season from June 1, the district recorded 142 mm, an excess of 58.3%. On Sunday, the total rainfall recorded was 183 mm in Anantapur and 42 mm in Vajrakarur mandal, with the average rainfall for the district standing at 2.9 mm. Hagari and Vedavathi rivers saw water flow in July after many years. Groundnut sowing was started in Anantapur district with more than three lakh hectares already sown by Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-rains-raise-hopes-of-farmers-in-anantapur-kurnool-districts/article32061765.ece
13 July 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dredging begins at Gangidinali channel||Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah(Nani) on Sunday flagged off dredging work of the 2.5 km-long Gangidinali channel at Campbell Peta village near Machilipatnam in Krishna district. The blockage of the navigation way at the channel had become an impediment to the fishing activity here. Once dredging is completed, more than 100 boats could resume the activity from the Campbell Peta fish landing centre, Mr. Nani said, adding that Rs. 52 crore was being spent on the process. The fisherfolk requested Mr. Nani to initiate action to provide shelter at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dredging-begins-at-gangidinali-channel/article32061771.ece
13 July 2020||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo stares at Rs. 1-cr. revenue loss||The eerie silence enveloping the 625 acres of the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park seems symbolic of the deep crisis the zoo park is experiencing following the COVID-19 pandemic. With the front gates locked, the zoo is staring at a revenue loss of over Rs. 1 crore during the April-May-June months. In a bid to make tables turn, the zoo officials are now stepping up its animal adoption and outreach programmes through social media to raise money for its residents. Like others zoos in the country, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park closed in March following the nationwide lockdown for the pandemic. “April-June is the peak tourist season for the zoo. The gate collection through sale of tickets was Rs. 1.02 crore last year during April-June period. We saw over two lakh visitors in these three months. All that source has dried up now,” said zoo curator Nandani Salaria. The day’s cost of managing the zoo is normally covered in large part by sale of entry tickets. “We are very dependent on the public and their support,” she added. The zoo officials are now promoting its animal adoption programmes through social media platforms like Twitter and WhatsApp. People can adopt an animal or bird either for a day or more or pay for its upkeep for a year. There are 24 types of animals and birds given for adoption. As part of its outreach programme, the zoo has also opened virtually during the lockdown, allowing people to see the animals and their antics from their living rooms. “We are sharing videos and clippings of animals in their enclosures in an effort to spread awareness about the species and engage with the public,” said Ms. Salaria. ‘Souvenirs for sale’ From tweeting a video of the heartwarming tale of hand-rearing two stripped hyena cubs to celebrating world giraffe days and online quizzes, the IGZP’s handle in Twitter is abuzz with stories. “We also plan to create a collection of souvenirs for sale,” she added. The zoo authorities have kept a system in place to ensure safety of animals and staff. These include, disinfection of the vehicles entering the zoo with sodium hypochlorite solution, tyre bath for vehicles with formalin solution, keeping foot baths with Virkon - S solution at all day and night kraals of animal enclosures, washing of fruits and vegetables with sodium hypochlorite and then thoroughly cleansing with potable water, vitamin and mineral supplements for herbivores by mixing in feed to enhance immunity, spreading of bleaching powder and lime outside the enclosures and on the road sides. From the conservation point of view, the lockdown has brought some good news for zoos the world over. In Hong Kong, for instance, a pair of pandas finally mated after more than a decade. Could a human-free environment be a respite for the animals? Curator Salaria nods, “Yes, we are expecting some good news from a few animal enclosures in our zoo. How much Nature has healed in the process only time will tell.” Maybe the giraffes in Vizag zoo will get the chance to follow the lead of the Hong Kong pandas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-stares-at-rs-1-cr-revenue-loss/article32062300.ece
13 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Residents oppose funeral of patients near their village||Mild tension prevailed at Annangi, a remote village near Maddipadu in Prakasam district, on Sunday as the residents opposed the authorities who went there to select a site for the disposal of bodies of coronavirus patients. The villagers staged a noisy protest during the grama sabha held by a team of officials led by Revenue Division Officer Prabakar Reddy, which had identified a ‘hill poramboke’ land for the purpose. Grama sabha The grama sabha was held on the directions of Prakasam Collector Pola Bhaskar to allay the fears of the people pertaining to the issue. The officials explained that all infection prevention control protocols would be duly followed while disposing the bodies. The health workers would wear personal protective equipment (PPE) during the process and the bodies would be packed in leak-proof plastic bags. However, the explanations failed in convincing the villagers. Police intervene The villagers feared that the drinking water source would get polluted if the bodies of the COVID-19 patients were cremated at the selected site. A posse of police led by Ongole Deputy Superintendent of Police K.V.V.N.V Prasad ensured that the Gram Sabha passed off smoothly. Residents of more than 100 villages consume the water from the Obul Redddy Gundalakamma reservoir nearby, the villagers said, adding that the cremation of bodies might trigger the spread of the virus. Fear of virus “The positive cases would go up in geometric proportion in Maddipadu mandal which has reported 22 positive cases till date, if the bodies of COVID-19 patients were brought here for the funeral,” the residents said. The disposal of the bodies of the COVID-19 patients is emerging as a daunting task for the administration. In a similar incident, the officials could not perform the funerals at another isolated ‘hill poramboke’ site selected near Yerrajerla earlier. The villagers opposed the move to disposal of the bodies close to the site selected for the YSR Housing scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/residents-oppose-funeral-of-patients-near-their-village/article32061710.ece
13 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore tally rises to 1,552 with 63 new cases||Prakasam district reported 84 cases in the last 24 hours taking the tally in the district to 1,402. Meanwhile, Nellore registered 63 new cases and one fatality. The toll rose to ten in Nellore district as a 60-year-old man from Nayudupeta succumbed to the disease. With this, the tally rose to 1,552 in Nellore district. Nellore city accounted for 40 of the fresh cases followed by Venkatachalam(3), Podalakur(2), Kavali(2), Kovur(2), Balayapalli(1), Indukurpeta(1) Naidupeta(1), Atmakur(1), Varikuntapadu(1), Gudur(1) Buchireddypalem(1), Podalakur(1) and Aluru(1). Three persons who had come from Kadapa district also tested positive as also one each from Prakasam and Chittoor districts. In Prakasam, as many as 2,403 persons tested negative for the disease, while results of 3,710 persons are awaited. So far, over 99,000 persons have undergone testing in the district. On Sunday, 36 persons were discharged from hospital. Ongole continued to be in the grip of coronavirus with 11 more persons, two each from Samata nagar, Gantapalem and Bandlamitta, testing positive to the disease. The total number of confirmed cases in the district headquarters went up to 274. Pamur, a new COVID-19 hotspot, registered 13 more cases, taking the total number of infected persons in the remote village to 205. 32 clusters ‘very active’ As many as 32 clusters were declared very active and 73 other clusters active by the authorities, who were on their toes implementing the cluster containment action plan in different localities across the district. Four of the newly-infected persons had returned from Telangana, two each from Maharashtra and Odisha and one from Karnataka. One of the newly-infected persons had returned from the USA. The disease continued to spread to remote villages. New cases were registered in Thotavaripalem, Harishpeta, Upugunturu, Rayavaram, Turimella, Pandilapalli, Tarlapadu, Upalapadu, Sankavarapadu, Mogicherla, Chimalapenta and Lingasamudram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-tally-rises-to-1552-with-63-new-cases/article32061773.ece
13 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||15% devotees with tickets fail to turn up for Tirumala darshan||About 15.35% of the devotees who booked tickets did not turn up for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala since the reopening of the temple on June 11 post lockdown. While 37,604 of the 2,02,346 devotees who booked Rs. 300 online tickets did not avail themselves of the darshan in the last one month about 11,782 of the 97,216 devotees who took free darshan tokens issued at counters in Tirupati did not make use of them. The absentees stood at 18.58% and 12.12% in the two categories respectively. Speaking to the media, the TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal on Sunday said it was heartening to note that not even a single devotee who had visited the hill temple during the last one month had reported positive for COVID-19. The TTD had called up about 2,643 devotees who reached home after the darshan in two phases, between June 18 and 25 and July 1 and 7 and none of them had reported COVID infection. However, 91 employees working at Tirumala had tested positive for the virus, he said. Hundi collection The temple hundi received offerings of Rs. 16.73 crore during this period. Twenty gold biscuits each weighing about 100 grams were received on Saturday. Assets Mr. Singhal said that the TTD would soon release a White Paper on its properties spread across the country to put an end to speculations and protect the image of the institution. The manner of holding the Tirumala Brahmotsavams would be decided basing on the situation at that time. However, as part of preparatory measures, tenders had already been invited for taking up required works, he said. Brushing aside apprehensions in some quarters on the financial viability of the prestigious institution, he said it was in a safe and sound condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-devotees-with-tickets-fail-to-turn-up-for-tirumala-darshan/article32061712.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati emerges as a bulbul’s paradise!||The rich biodiversity of Tirupati, nestled in the lap of Seshachalam hills, needs no elaboration, but not many know that it is already home to five of the six varieties of bulbuls found in the State. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are home to six varieties of the species. The red-vented bulbul, the red-whiskered bulbul, the yellow-throated bulbul, the yellow-browed bulbul and the white-browed bulbul are found in Tirupati and its surroundings. The sixth variety, black-crested bulbul, is found only in the northern end of the Eastern ghats in East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts. ‘Vulnerable species’ “The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has listed the yellow-throated bulbul as a vulnerable species. It is sighted only in the rocky wooded hill sides of South India, a habitat that is very rapidly losing ground to mining and developmental pressures,” says Rajasekhar Bandi, Citizen Science Coordinator at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Tirupati. “Tirupati is blessed to have such a species in its midst,” he points out. The Birding Club had recorded 217 species of birds around the IISER campus. From dry and moist deciduous forests to wetlands and grasslands to urban forests, A.P. is home to more than 460 species of birds. The Pulicat Lake and the Coringa sanctuaries are refuge for some of Arctic migratory birds that are declared a priority under the Arctic Migratory Birds Initiative (AMBI). The sad part is the lack of awareness among the citizens on the natural history and the state of birdlife in the landscape. Webinar series In order to impart knowledge on birds, their role in ecosystems, threat, conservation challenges and bird-watching, the institute is conducting an Telugu webinar series. The first event was conducted with support from the Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF) and Duleep Matthai Nature Conservation Trust (DMNCT). Since webinars can easily sneak into the drawing rooms and positively impact thousands of people of all social and age groups, the content is carefully designed by the Ecology and Evolution lab of the institution’s Department of Botany. Details are regularly posted on the Facebook page of ‘Tirupati Citizen Science Programme’ and ‘Early Bird India’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-emerges-as-a-bulbuls-paradise/article32062268.ece
13 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown in Bengaluru casts shadow on bus services||The proposed total lockdown of Bengaluru city from July 14 has cast a shadow on the bus services operated by APSRTC Tirupati and Kadapa regions. There are 56 buses running between Bengaluru and Tirupati everyday, which includes 30 of APSRTC and 26 belonging to KSRTC. All the buses will remain suspended from the said date, said APSRTC’s Regional Manager (Tirupati) T. Chengal Reddy. The 30 includes direct services from Tirupati, Chittoor, Madanapalle and Piler towns towards Bengaluru. Similarly, the last service from Kadapa district starts around 9 a.m. to Bengaluru and head towards the home State in the return direction by 6 p.m., said APSRTC Regional Manager (Kadapa) T. Jitendranath Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-in-bengaluru-casts-shadow-on-bus-services/article32061802.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curve of daily, overall positivity rates steepening in State||The State, which has been witnessing a rapid growth in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, is also registering an increased daily and overall positivity rates. The percentage of positive cases detected from among the samples tested in a given period of time is considered as the positivity rate. The State, which has been at the forefront in testing, saw a daily positivity rate of not more than 1.4% between March 12 and May 31, during which period 3,571 cases had been detected out of 3.72 lakh samples tested. In the month of June, the COVID-19 cases had risen exponentially, and the positivity rate of the 5.17 lakh samples tested increased to 2.12%. As many as 11,024 positive cases were reported in that month. In the first 12 days of July, 14,573 positive cases were reported on testing 2.63 lakh samples, and the positivity rate further increased to 5.27%. For every 100 persons tested, at least five were found to have been infected in July. In the last 24 hours, the highest single-day positivity rate of 10.97% was registered with 1,933 out of 17,624 samples tested turning positive. A similar trend was witnessed after the State’s testing figure crossed the 10-lakh mark on July 5. On July 9, the positivity rate was 9.21%, the second highest single-day positivity rate. The third was 8.81% on July 11. Pending samples On the other hand, the government has many pending samples. The testing is prioritised based on the condition of the person from whom the sample has been collected. The overall positivity rate so far is 2.53% with 29,168 out of a total 11,53,849 samples tested turning positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curve-of-daily-overall-positivity-rates-steepening-in-state/article32062265.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poverty, inequalities on the rise during YSRCP rule: TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has alleged that poverty and inequalities have risen significantly in the State ever since the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) came to power. “Welfare has taken a beating under the inefficient rule of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and corruption is on the rise,” a statement quoted TDP politburo member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu as saying on Sunday. ‘Schemes scrapped’ Mr. Ramakrishnudu said that the YSRCP, after assuming the office, had scrapped many welfare schemes introduced by the previous TDP government. “More so, the government is tricking the people by renaming the old schemes. The State and Central government schemes were clubbed and being claimed as new schemes introduced by the YSRCP,” he said. The TDP leader further accused the YSCRP government of introducing ‘illusionary schemes’. “The scrapping of welfare schemes introduced during the TDP’s tenure have deprived the poor of benefits worth Rs. 18,026 crore in the last 14 months,” said the former Finance Minister. The government has also cut spending on development of BCs, SCs, STs and minorities by 50%, he claimed. “The previous TDP government spent Rs. 6,149 crore on the welfare of BCs, SCs, STs and minorities in 2018-19 financial year, while the YSRCP spent only Rs. 3,382 crore during the 2019-20 fiscal. The sub plan funds were diverted,” said Mr. Ramakrishnudu. The social welfare funds were also trimmed to Rs. 919 crore from Rs. 6,407 crore, he said. The funds for the development SCs and STs were cut by 7.63%. Same is the case for allocations to the welfare of women, children, differently abled and senior citizens, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poverty-inequalities-on-the-rise-during-ysrcp-rule-tdp/article32062271.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Syllabus cut decision after considering all aspects’||In order to ease the lockdown impact on students, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has rationalised the syllabus by up to 30% for classes 9 to 12 for the 2020-21 academic year. Taking into consideration the rapid spread of COVID-19 , the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and CBSE are working on rationalisation of syllabus. The students of the schools run by the State Board expected a similar move but the government is exercising caution before taking a call. “To consider a cut in the syllabus, we need to look into the number of working days available. Two months of the regular academic year have lapsed and classes have not yet commenced,” said Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. Acknowledging the fact that coping up with such time loss might not be possible, the Minister said any ‘rationalisation’ would have to be done considering the students’ best interests. The government is of the view that reduction of syllabus in the ‘extraordinary’ circumstances may be the need of the hour but there may be resentment among students and parents at the time of re-introducing the old syllabus after things normalise.“We will take a call after discussing all aspects of the issue,” said the Minister. Sources in the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT) indicated that the exercise, if and when taken up, would focus on reducing the topics or themes that are either repeated or overlapped rather than removing entire chapters. “In any case, the core elements will be retained. The focus will be on learning outcomes,” says an official. Excess fee The Minister said to rein in private schools violating norms, district-level squads had been formed to keep a vigil. “These squads will inspect the schools and assess their performances,” he said. Referring to reports of excess fee and other irregularities, he said the School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission had been asked to identify such institutions and initiate stringent action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/syllabus-cut-decision-after-considering-all-aspects/article32062273.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online registration of crops from today||Officials of the Revenue and Agriculture Departments will jointly register crops online (e-Crop) in the State from Monday. The village revenue officers (VROs) and the village agriculture assistants (VAAs) will enumerate the crops at village level. The staff will enrol the name of the farmer and enter online the details of his village, survey number, extent of land, bank information, phone number and the crop he or she is cultivating. If the cultivator is other than a pattadar (land owner), a Crop Cultivation Registration Certificate (CCRC) will be issued. The land in which fish, shrimp and crab ponds were being raised would be recorded separately, said Commissioner (Agriculture) H. Arun Kumar .  Inter-crop data  “For the first time, Agriculture and Revenue Departments are jointly taking up e-Cropping, which will be useful to farmers. Some thousands of VROs and VAAs are engaged in the task,” Mr. Arun Kumar said, adding that necessary training had been given to the staff. Farmers would be given prior intimation while enumerating the crops and an SMS would be given once the data was entered online. The particulars of inter-crops being taken up in coconut, palm oil and banana orchards and in paddy and other fields would also be entered, the Commissioner said. “We are taking up e-cropping details in the presence of farmers. If a farmer is not available in the village, the staff will visit the place again and there is no need to worry,” Mr. Arun Kumar said.  Key for planning  Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu were particular about e-cropping as the government would depend on that data in future for preparing action plans, supplying seeds, fertilizers and pesticides and in procuring the yield. “Schemes such as interest-free loans, Rythu Bharosa, crop insurance and Minimum Support Price (MSP) will be based on e-crop data,” Arun Kumar said. Farmers could contact nearby YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendras or the Integrated Call Centre by dialling 155251 for clarifications, the Commissioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-registration-of-crops-from-today-in-ap/article32061803.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discoms told to speed up payment for acquired land||The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) has asked the power utilities to strengthen the mechanism for resolving issues pertaining to paying compensation to farmers whose land was acquired for creating infrastructure, in a time- bound manner. During a teleconference with the commission members P. Raja Gopal Reddy and Thakur Rama Singh, APERC Chairman Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy said that though the power utilities were making good efforts in resolving such issues, a concerted mechanism needed to be evolved to redress the grievances speedily and effectively. Citing an instance, he said Prakasam Collector had conducted an inquiry pertaining to an appeal by a farmer seeking compensation of Rs. 48,000 for his subabul crop and got it paid by the APTransco in just 24 hours. Justice Nagarjuna Reddy advised the power utilities not to acquire farmers’ land forcefully. He ordered that the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 should be strictly adhered to during the land acquisition. He also suggested that Energy Secretary N. Srikant organised a video-conference with all District Collectors and ensure that fair compensation was paid to the farmers who had parted with their land. “The APERC is monitoring the judgments given by various consumers’ grievance redressal forums and Vidyut Ombudsman. The failure in implementation of the judgments by the power utilities will attract the penal provisions under Sections 142 and 146 of the Electricity Act, 2003,” said Justice Nagarjuna Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discoms-told-to-speed-up-payment-for-acquired-land/article32062274.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Polavaram will be completed on time’||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy tweeted on Sunday that the Polavaram project would be completed on time. “The credit for that goes to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he said, and added that the rehabilitation of 17,760 families would be completed by August 15. “Each of the families is being given two acres of farm land and Rs. 6.36 lakh compensation,” he said. Tobacco procurement In a separate tweet, Mr. Vijaya Sai said the government had sanctioned Rs. 200 crore to the MARKFED for procuring tobacco. As the purchases began on an aggressive note, the price went up by Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 a kg. This was possible due to the concern the Chief Minister had for the growers, the MP observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-will-be-completed-on-time/article32062276.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed in tackling the situation: BJP||BJP national secretary V. Satish has alleged that the A.P. government has failed in containing COVID-19. In a video-conference attended by BJP and Jana Sena Party leaders on Sunday, Mr. Satish said there had been no adequate protection for doctors and paramedical staff who were fighting against the virus at personal risk. Much of what the government said about their protection was confined to rhetoric. Leaders of the alliance had resolved to highlight the government’s failures and see to it that necessary action was taken so that COVID could be controlled. JSP chief Pawan Kalyan said the government should properly tackle COVID-19 . The BJP and JSP decided to study the implementation of Atmanirbhar Abhiyan and other schemes launched by the Centre, and to fight against the “anti-people” policies of the YSRCP government in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-in-tackling-the-situation-bjp/article32062275.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth awaiting promised job notifications, says Kala||TDP State president K. Kala Venkata Rao on Sunday took potshots at Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, alleging that he tricked the unemployed youth in the State. In a statement, Mr. Venkata Rao said lakhs of unemployed youth lost job opportunities as Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy filled the posts with “politically unemployed.” Not a single permanent job was filled during the last 13 months, he alleged. The government could neither attract investors nor promote the industry in the State, he said. “The unemployed are still anxiously waiting for employment notifications. The YSRCP, in the run-up to the elections, had promised that job notifications would be issued as per the job calendar in January every year,” Mr. Venkata Rao. ‘Many removed from service’ Leave alone filling vacancies, as many as three lakh employees had been removed in the last 13 months, he said, and added that the government was planning to remove contract and outsourcing employees. Section 144 was imposed when the unemployed staged a dharna at the CM’s residence demanding employment, he said The government also closed down the skill development centres set up by the TDP government, he said. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is under the impression that creating jobs means appointing his followers as consultants,” Mr. Venkata Rao said. Mr. Jagan boasted that 75% jobs would be reserved for the locals. But the government appointed people from other States and living abroad as consultants, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-awaiting-promised-job-notifications-says-kala/article32062269.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR fake book: ‘miscreants will be booked’||Police are making efforts to identify the persons who were circulating the biography of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, penned by his wife and YSRCP honorary president Vijayalakshmi, in some social media groups with false information. “We have received the complaint and the persons who posted the PDF file of the book ‘Nalo.. Natho.. YSR’ will be arrested soon,” a police officer told The Hindu on Sunday. The book was released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the occasion of the birth anniversary of his father on July 8. Tirumala Tirupati Devastanams (TTD) Board Chairman and party functionary Y.V. Subba Reddy in a statement said some persons were circulating the copy of the book in social media sites, violating the rules. A complaint has been lodged with Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, the TTD Chairman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-fake-book-miscreants-will-be-booked/article32062289.ece
13 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||393 persons booked for not wearing masks||Police on Sunday booked 393 persons for violating the COVID-19 protocol. Following directions of Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, personnel conducted a special drive at junctions and collected Rs. 32,050 as fines from those who came out without masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/393-persons-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/article32061774.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vasupalli demands construction of 1,000-bed hospital in city||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Urban district president and MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has demanded immediate construction of a 1,000-bed hospital in Visakhapatnam. Speaking to the media here on Sunday, he appealed to private hospitals to take up COVID-19 treatment and suggested that patients with other diseases could be treated at their homes by the doctors. He also demanded that the District Collector and the GVMC Commissioner conduct periodical inspection of the quarantine centres. Mr. Ganesh Kumar demanded that the State government release a White Paper on the testing of COVID-19 cases in the State. ‘No testing’ He alleged that the growing incidence of the pandemic was an indication of the failure of the State government to check the spread of the coronavirus. The number of cases in the State was increasing with each passing day, the MLA said. He alleged that those with symptoms of the diseases were not being tested and even doctors were falling a prey to the pandemic. The patients at quarantine centres were not being provided nutritious food, water and other amenities, the MLA alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vasupalli-demands-construction-of-1000-bed-hospital-in-city/article32062291.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘killed’ by family members||A 30-year-old man was allegedly murdered by his mother, sister and brother-in-law, by beating him with a grinding stone in his house at Ramachandra Nagar in Akkayyapalem area under IV Town police station limits here on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as K. Ashok Varma (30). According to complaint received by the police, Ashok Varma was reportedly a habitual drinker and used to fight with his family members very often.  ‘Inebriated condition’ On Saturday night, he reportedly entered into a heated argument after reaching home in an inebriated condition. His mother K, Varalakshmi, sister Sridevi and brother-in-law Venkateswar Raju allegedly beat him up severely, following which he succumbed to his injuries, according to sources. Assistant Commissioner of Police (East sub division) J. Kulasekhar and IV Town Circle Inspector Prem Kumar inspected the crime scene. Cases have been booked. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-by-family-members/article32062293.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quality food being provided at quarantine centres, says Minister||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao inspected the quarantine centre at Andhra University Engineering College Women’s hostels here on Sunday afternoon. He interacted with the people over there and enquired about the facilities and the quality of food. Speaking to the media, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that for the last four months, over 16,000 people have stayed in quarantine facilities in Visakhapatnam district. He said that 2,186 persons are in 64 quarantine centres as on date. The quarantine centres were being monitored by the Joint Collector with the coordination of health department, revenue, police and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials, he said. All facilities and quality food were being provided at the centres following the instructions from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the Minister said. The Minister also checked the food being provided there and served it to the people. He said that containment zones were being strictly monitored and their status was being reviewed from time to time. He appealed to people to wear masks without fail when they come out of their homes, and maintain physical distance from others in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quality-food-being-provided-at-quarantine-centres-says-minister/article32062295.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man allegedly ends life at Anakapalle||A 35-year-old man reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his residence at Kotturu under Anakapalle Town police station limits on Saturday. The deceased was identified as D. Venkata Aravind, who was working as an Assistant Manager in a private firm in Odisha. According to the police, Aravind took the extreme step after the other members of his family went out. As per the complaint by his parents, Aravind had been suffering from depression for the past some time. During preliminary investigation, the police found that Aravind had lost nearly Rs. 2.3 lakh in an online game. He had contacted the organisers of the online game for refund of the amount. But the amount was not refunded. Police suspect that loss of money in an online game could be the reason for the man taking the extreme step. Those having suicidal tendencies can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-allegedly-ends-life-at-anakapalle/article32062282.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rain likely||Wind convergence at lower levels prevails over AP, and an active trough zone prevails over south peninsular region, according to the IMD. Thunderstorm along with lightning and heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in north and south coastal AP, Rayalaseema and Yanam on July 13 and 14. The southwest monsoon has been weak over coastal AP and normal over Rayalaseema. Heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places in Chittoor district of Rayalaseema and rainfall occurred at a few places over coastal AP, Yanam and Rayalaseema. The chief amounts of rainfall (recorded in cm) received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday are: Coastal AP: Jiyyammavalasa (Vizianagaram) 5, Tadepalligudem (West Godavari) 4, Therlam (Vizianagaram) 3, Merakamudidam (Vizianagaram) 3 and Masulipatnam Cdr (Krishna) 3. Rayalaseema: Venkatagiri Kota (Chittoor) 8, Chittoor (Chittoor) 8, Thambalapalle (Chittoor) 5, Palamaner (Chittoor) 5, Chilamathur (Anantapur) 3, Santhipuram (Chittoor) 3, Peapally (Kurnool) 3 and Lepakshi (Anantapur) 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isolated-heavy-rain-likely/article32062280.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘falls to death’||A 27-year-old man died after reportedly falling from a building at Visalakshi Nagar area under Arilova Police Station limits in the early hours of Sunday. The deceased was identified as Vijay Kumar, a resident of Yendada and working in a tea shop at Visalakhi Nagar. According to the police, the youth attended the birthday party of his owner at the penthouse of the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-falls-to-death/article32062296.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more die, 57 new cases take tally to 2,078||Fifty-seven new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 2,078 in the district on Sunday. Three more persons succumbed to coronavirus, taking the death toll to 25. Eighty personshave been discharged after they tested negative. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 971 and the number of persons discharged is 1,082. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, with the detection of new cases 29 new clusters including, Balaji Nagar (Simhachalam), Adarsh Nagar, areas in Elamanchali, Nakkapalli, K Kotapadu, Devarapalle and Anakapalle, were formed in the district. 278 cases Meanwhile, East Godavari district recorded the highest single-day spike of 278 cases over the past 24 hours ended by Sunday morning.A total of 128 cases have been recorded in Rajamahendravaram Urban. In Kakinada city, 40 cases have been recorded while the number was 24 in the Kakinada rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-die-57-new-cases-take-tally-to-2078/article32062297.ece
13 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar organised||The Department of Mathematics and the Institute of Science organised a national webinar on ‘Mathematical Modelling & Sample Size Determination in Research’ on Saturday in connection with World Population Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-organised/article32062290.ece
13 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs respond to call for spreading awareness on coronavirus||Following a call by the district authorities, many non-governmental organisations have taken up campaigns to create awareness among the public on the importance of using sanitisers, wearing masks and maintaining physical distance to protect oneself from coronavirus. The Kesali Foundation has distributed around 5,000 masks and sanitisers in Gurla, Garividi, Cheepurupalli and other areas. “We have been extending financial help to low-income group employees who have lost their livelihood with the closure of many industries and shops in Vizianagaram district,” said its president Kesali Apparao. SPARKS members, including its founder P.V. Padmanabham, president T.P. Bhavani and secretary P. Sowjanya, have been distributing masks to people from all walks of life. Mr. Padmanabham said they were making people understand that wearing a mask in public places was compulsory in view of the increasing COVID-19 cases in the district. World Vision manager Pattapu Shyambabu said that his organisation had extended a financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 each to 2,000 families in Gantyada mandal. “We have been training rural folk on COVID-19 protocol since the virus is spreading quickly in villages,” he added. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and SP B. Rajakumari urged people from all walks of life to come forward voluntarily to create awareness on COVID-19 protocol among the public. Quarantine violations Meanwhile, police personnel are counselling the people who have been advised 14-day home quarantine to follow the norms, since it’s been observed that many of them were moving around freely. Many Station House Officers with the support of NGOs have been holding awareness programmes in Chintalavalasa, Bhogapuram, Pusapati Rega, Bondapalli and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngos-respond-to-call-for-spreading-awareness-on-coronavirus/article32062284.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah condoles death||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu has condoled the death of Kutikuppala Gruhalakshmi, wife of well-known physician from the city Kutikuppala Surya Rao. In a condolence message on Sunday, the Vice President expressed his heartfelt sympathies to Dr. Surya Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-condoles-death/article32062292.ece
13 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Online campaign for inclusion of Gondi in Eighth Schedule||Social networking platforms have come in handy for Bhadrachalam-based Adivasi Sankshema Parishad (ASP) to run an online campaign to muster support for its long standing demand for inclusion of Gondi (Koya) language in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution amid these unprecedented times of coronavirus pandemic. The online campaign gains prominence amid the curtailment of social contacts and transit under the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. The ASP and various other Adivasi organisations representing six States, including the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha, are gearing up to observe the Gondi (Koya) Language Day on July 21. These Adivasi organisations have long been demanding official recognition of Gondi (Koya) language spoken by crores of Adivasis across the Gondwana region spanning several States in the country. The potential of social media platforms such as Facebook as effective communication tools to build public opinion for a social cause has been reinforced in the current times of pandemic induced crisis, said ASP convener Madivi Nehru. “I am using Facebook and WhatsApp platforms to reach out to people and exhort them to consistently strive to achieve the goal of official recognition to Gondi (Koya) language,” he asserted. The online campaign is intended to mobilise Adivasis to observe the “Vishwa Koya (Gondi) Basha Dinotsavam” in their respective villages in strict compliance with the physical distancing regulations to lend strength to the long-cherished demand for adding Gondi (Koya) in Schedule VIII of the Constitution. A sustained campaign is the need of the hour to achieve this goal, he said, adding the online campaign will be intensified ahead of the "International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples" falling on August 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-campaign-for-inclusion-of-gondi-in-eighth-schedule/article32062096.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana sees 1,269 new cases||he number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 34,671 as 1,269 swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. On the same day, eight more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 356. The new 1,269 cases includes 800 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 132 from Rangareddy and 94 from Medchal. As per the medical bulletin issued by the State Health department, presently there are 11,883 active cases while 22,482 have been discharged and 356 have died. Discrepancy in tally However, upon adding the numbers, a discrepancy was noted. The total came to 34,721 — 50 more than the total cases (34,671) mentioned in the medical bulletin. Compared to cases reported per day from July 3 to 8, fewer cases have been recorded in the past three days. A record high of 1,924 cases had been reported on July 8. RAT positives included? The drop in cases is being observed despite increase in testing. Though Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) too were initiated from Thursday, officials did not clarify if the positives from those tests were also included in the total cases reported. Till July 7 at least, only RT-PCR were conducted to detect people with coronavirus. With increase in tests and drop in cases, the cumulative Test Positivity Rate too is on downward trajectory. While 21.98% of positivity rate was recorded on July 9, it dropped to 20.35% on July 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-sees-1269-new-cases/article32062049.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police seek inclusion of COVID treatment in Arogya Bhadratha||With several policemen of different ranks contracting COVID-19, the law enforcement department has requested that they be facilitated to avail ‘best treatment’ from corporate hospitals in case they test positive for the infection. This demand has intensified after several Ministers, MLAs and other public representatives got admitted to corporate hospitals, instead of Gandhi Hospital, declared as the Centre of Excellence for COVID-19 treatment in Telangana. The officers, especially in the ranks of constables, sub-inspectors and inspectors, that The Hindu spoke to, demanded that the government should include coronavirus in Arogya Bhadratha Scheme (ABS), a health insurance scheme under which policemen and their family members can avail cashless treatment for various ailments at any hospital in the State. Currently, the scheme excludes COVID-19 at a time when a large number of policemen are facing the risk of contracting the virus due to the nature of their job. So far, around 1,000 police officers, including a few IPS officers, have been diagnosed with the infection. Considering the limitations and criticism about treatment provided at the Gandhi Hospital and other government hospitals in Hyderabad, there is a strong feeling among police personnel that the State government should include COVID-19 in ABS, which is part of Employees Health Scheme. “Being frontline warriors, we are at risk of contracting the virus. Many of our colleagues have already tested positive and a few succumbed. The situation at Gandhi Hospital is very scary,” said an inspector with Hyderabad city police. Last month, Additional Director General of Police (Welfare) wrote to all empanelled hospitals to refer coronavirus-positive cases to Gandhi Hospital, as it is not covered under EHS tariff and the government will not reimburse any amount. The letter also stated that the empanelled hospitals are requested to refer all such cases to Gandhi Hospital, where a separate provision has been made on the eighth floor of the building to provide COVID treatment to government employees. “Though, a separate ward is dedicated to police personnel at Gandhi hospital, what is wrong in including the infection in ABS? Even we want the best treatment at private hospitals, which many of us cannot afford. This can happen only if the top brass pursue it with the government,” said a Cyberabad SI. Recently, office-bearers of police welfare association submitted a representation to Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, who assured them to take up the issue with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. More than 68,000 police personnel, including 88 IPS officers and 18,000 trainee constables and sub-inspectors and their family members, are eligible to avail the health scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-seek-inclusion-of-covid-treatment-in-arogya-bhadratha/article32062062.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All wings of Irrigation Dept. to come under one fold||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered that the existing system of major, medium and minor irrigation wings and the State Irrigation Development Corporation, which sponsors micro irrigation schemes, be disbanded and all wings of irrigation department be brought under one single organisation. Since the work load had grown in Irrigation department due to higher focus, it should be reorganised. The strength of zones should be increased and each of them should be headed by officers of the rank of Chief Engineer. The irrigation projects, canals, reservoirs and tanks should be under the supervision of Chief Engineers. He gave the instructions at a marathon meeting on Sunday to identify areas that did not get irrigation water by the canal network of various projects. ‘Expedite works’  Mr. Rao noted that there were 139 irrigation tanks between flood flow and Kakatiya canals of Sriramsagar project. Some of these tanks did not get water. Such tanks should be identified. As many offtake sluices as possible should be fixed for flood flow canal to fill the tanks. The works should be completed in three to four months. The flood flow canal should be used to supply water to areas not serviced by another irrigation scheme. It was not only the tanks lying between flood flow and Kakatiya canals but areas lying south of flood flow canal that were linked to other schemes but did not get water which should be identified. They should be serviced by flood flow canal. The works should be completed in six months. Mr. Rao found fault with proposing an ayacut for Yellampally project beyond the water yield from it. It was possible to irrigate under 90,000 acres from Yellampally project. The balance ayacut designed under the project should be irrigated by Sriramsagar project. Anticipating higher water availability in river Krishna this year, Mr. Rao asked officials to immediately release water from Jurala and Bheema - II lift-irrigation schemes on the river for filling up tanks. The works of Distributory 82 of Kalwakurthy lift-irrigation scheme should be expedited to provide water to 30,000 acres this year itself. A reservoir should be constructed to store large quantity of water available from Kalwakurthy lift-irrigation scheme. Otherwise, the capacity of nearby tanks should be increased. Operational plan Mr. Rao directed that the water from projects should be used to fill tanks first, then reservoirs and finally release water to ayacut. It will help storage of water which is available in plenty in rainy season. The potential of canal network to supply water to tail-end areas of all projects should be re-examined. The operational plan and rules for every project should be framed. The government will allot budget for operations every year. The maintenance and repairs in all projects should be completed in summer every year. The meeting was attended by Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, S. Niranjan Reddy, E. Dayakar Rao, Koppula Easwar and V. Prashant Reddy, Principal Secretary Irrigation Rajat Kumar, MLAs and irrigation officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-wings-of-irrigation-dept-to-come-under-one-fold/article32062084.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. to keep tabs on oxygen cylinder sale||The State government has advised the hospitals treating COVID-19 patients to migrate to cryogenic liquid oxygen tank/vessels to minimise scope for any shortage of oxygen supply. The decision comes in the light of reports on black marketing of oxygen cylinders leading to shortage in the market. It was decided to constitute joint teams of officers consisting of Drug Control Administration, task force, director of public health and deputy chief controller of explosives for inspection of hospitals and dealers to assess whether the sale and utilisation of the oxygen cylinders had been in conformity with guidelines. Prosecution The teams would initiate prosecution in cases where violation of rules was noticed. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, who reviewed the situation late on Friday evening, said traders who were holding stock of oxygen cylinders should possess licence from PESO, failing which they would be prosecuted under Explosives Act. Officials informed the Chief Secretary that the Commissioner’s task force was already in action and two cases had been registered under Drugs & Cosmetics Act, Indian Explosives Act and the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-keep-tabs-on-oxygen-cylinder-sale/article32062054.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood release starts at Narayanpur two weeks earlier||In a development that would augur well for the farming community of the two Telugu States by improving the chances of early arrival of flood into the common reservoirs, Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar, Karnataka has started release of water from Narayanpur dam in Yadgir district to the Krishna river course on Sunday morning, almost a fortnight earlier than last year. According to the flood monitoring officials, the dam authorities of Narayanpur lifted two crest gates of the project for one metre each on Sunday morning to let about 11,250 cusecs of water into the river course as the flood cushion of the reservoir had come down below 4 tmc ft water. Storage of the reservoir crossed 33.5 tmc ft against its capacity of 37.6 tmc ft and the authorities decided to let water into the river course as nearly 40,000 cusecs of inflows were reaching it. The inflows into Narayanpur were mainly from 35,000 cusecs released from Almatti after power generation and supplementation from the rivulets in between the two reservoirs. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) forecast, the inflows into Almatti stood at about 56,500 cusecs on Sunday afternoon and the water storage reached 98 tmc ft against its capacity of 129.7 tmc ft. However, the CWC indicated that there would be a decline in the inflows by Monday morning. Engineers of the Jurala project, however, stated that the flood being released from Narayanpur would reach Jurala only if it was not stopped at Gugal and Girjapur barrages. “At the rate of 50,000 cusecs release from Narayanpur, the water will reach Jurala in 48 hours as it has to travel about 180 km of the river course. Since the release of flood is low, it will take longer to reach Jurala, even if it is not stopped in the barrages between,” a flood monitoring engineer said. Storage of water in Jurala was a little over 8 tmc ft against its capacity of 9.66 tmc ft on Sunday evening as the inflows from the local catchment area were only about 4,000 cusecs. About 1,500 cusecs was being drawn from the reservoirs for canals to fill tanks and other/drinking needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-release-starts-at-narayanpur-two-weeks-earlier/article32062094.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR hospital ready with isolation wards||South Central Railway (SCR)’s Central Hospital at Lallaguda has been provided isolation-cum-COVID wards and has started treating patients showing mild or very mild symptoms. Necessary training has been given to the doctors and para medical staff about the protocol procedure for treating COVID patients. All the required medical infrastructure and equipment are being supplied for the safety of medical staff to facilitate necessary treatment. A notification has also been issued to hire nine specialists, 16 general duty doctors, 31 nursing superintendents, four lab assistants and 50 housing attendants to work on a temporary basis. The required details are available on SCR official website: www.scr.indianrailways.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-hospital-ready-with-isolation-wards/article32062065.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘CM should restore public confidence in govt. hospitals’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy has appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to introspect why people are losing confidence in government hospitals and initiate steps to revive that confidence. Gandhi Hospital, the State’s largest COVID isolation centre, has over 200 ventilators and yet, people are scared to get admitted there, he said, adding that it was time that the State government seriously work to infuse confidence in people, he said at a press conference here. The Central government was ready to assist the government in all areas as it has been doing like supplying necessary ventilators and PPE kits, he said. He was speaking to the media after visiting the Gandhi Hospital and interacting with the staff. He requested additional incentives for the medical staff who are risking their lives to treat COVID patients. The Union Minister said the poor and middle class people were scared to go to Gandhi Hospital and also feared the private hospitals that were charging exorbitantly. He requested the State government to have some control over private hospitals to ensure people were not fleeced, and mentioned he too has received several complaints in this regard. He also stressed the need to step up testing, tracing and treating the patients. He said NIMS has acquired a facility, which could test 3,000 people per day and the machine costs just Rs. 95 lakh. “The government can procure similar machines for nine old districts of Telangana and keep them ready. It would not cost more than Rs. 10 crore and can be used in future also,” he said. Mr. Kishan Reddy said the Central government has sent 7.44 lakh N-95 masks and 2.41 lakh PPE kits to Telangana. It was decided to provide 1220 ventilators of which 888 have already been given and about 2.25 lakh testing kits have also been sent. In addition to these, Rs. 215 crore has been given by the cCentral government to spend on any facility for COVID patients. Mr. Reddy said he was in regular touch with Health Minister Eatala Rajender and had expressed concerns over shortage of doctors and medical staff. The Central government was training its staff in AIIMS in all states, including AIIMS Bibinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-should-restore-public-confidence-in-govt-hospitals/article32062057.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stones thrown at MP’s vehicle||Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Aravind’s car was attacked in Warangal allegedly by TRS activists who threw stones and eggs when he was on his way to Hyderabad after addressing a press conference at the BJP party office. Mr. Aravind, who made a scathing attack on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the press conference also targeted the TRS MLAs of Warangal city, Dasyam Vinay Bhaskar and Nannapaneni Narender accusing them of indulging in land encroachments. Apparently annoyed with his comments, followers of the MLAs tried to obstruct his car raising slogans against him. Mr. Aravind said they threw stones and eggs on his car but there was no damage. Some 10 to 12 people gathered but only four or five reached his car with clear intentions to attack him. Local BJP leaders were seen accusing the police of remaining silent while the TRS activists tried to stop the car of a Parliament member. But the police caught hold of a couple of activists even as Mr. Aravind left the place. A car allegedly also followed him on the national highway for some time. “Physical attacks will not deter me but the incident only reflects the intolerance of the ruling party,” Mr. Aravind told The Hindu . Earlier, he tweeted saying “Anti- Hindu forces in TRS attacked me in Warangal, Telangana, where I visited to address a press conference on ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. They also chased my vehicle on the highway to Hyderabad.” He said it only reflects the chaos in Telangana. The BJP State president Bandi Sanjay condemned the attack and claimed that those involved were the henchmen of leaders who resorted to land grabbing. He also demanded suspension of police officials present there for failing to protect a Parliament member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stones-thrown-at-mps-vehicle/article32062087.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Outsourced nurses at Gandhi continue stir||Over 200 nurses employed on outsourcing basis at Gandhi Hospital boycotted duties on Sunday too, demanding regularisation of job and hike in salary. They convened at the ground on the hospital premises to register their protest. The nurses who attend COVID-19 patients had launched the protest on Saturday. Pay difference They have been working at the government hospital for at least past 13 years and now draw salary of Rs. 17,500 per month. They had staged protests earlier too, requesting salary hikes. The fresh protest was triggered after another batch of nurses was appointed a few days ago on outsourcing basis for a monthly salary of Rs. 24,000 each. “Though we have been working for over 13 years, our salary is much less than that of the fresh recruits. We want our jobs to be regularised and salaries to be increased,” said B. Prameela, an outsourced staff nurse. Meet authorities The nurses met the Health department authorities on Sunday evening and were assured a salary hike apart from daily incentives. However, a decision to call off the strike would be taken on Monday morning after discussions among all the protesting outsourced nurses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/outsourced-nurses-at-gandhi-continue-stir/article32062046.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Asad for 500 tests in each ward||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi directed corporators of his party to get at least 500 persons from their respective wards tested within the next 10 days. Mr. Owaisi held an online meeting with party workers and directed them to get RT-PCR and antigen tests of their constituents. The numbers of those who had been tested should be noted down and a compliance report submitted to Yakutpura legislator Syed Ahmed Pasha Qadri, he said. In a video statement, the Hyderabad parliamentarian directed his cadre to get themselves tested as well and maintain social distancing while interacting with locals when they embark upon the exercise. “I am hopeful that you will start this from tomorrow along with the leaders of primary units and others,” he said. Touching upon the issue of access to oxygen cylinders, he asked them to help NGOs and individuals by getting their names registered with the local police station, and underscored precautionary measures like sanitisation of equipment. “Those who are doing this as a social service, should go to the local police station and give the name of supplier and those who are being helped. It is important to get a licence,” he said. Mr. Owaisi expressed deep concerns over social distancing not being followed in some mosques during Friday prayers. He strongly urged that proper precautions be followed and ablution spaces and toilets be closed, and directed party leaders to engage with mosque managing committees in a respectful manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asad-for-500-tests-in-each-ward/article32062063.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSSP constable held for harassing women||A 32-year-old TSSP constable was arrested by Banjara Hills police for allegedly sexually harassing a businesswoman, who gave him lift till Pragathi Bhavan in her car on July 7. The accused, Veerababu, of Nalgonda 12th Battalion TSSP, was attached to the Punjagutta police station. Inspector N. Kalinga Rao said that on July 7, the victim gave lift to Veerababu from Srinagar Colony till CM Camp Office, as he said that he needed to report for duty urgently. “While getting down, he took her phone number and made video calls at odd hours and harassed her,” he said. Before lodging a complaint, the woman approached SHE Teams, who counselled Veerababu, but in vain. As a result, she approached Banjara Hills police on Saturday and lodged a complaint, following which a case under sections 354-B (Criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) and 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) was registered against the constable. He was arrested and remanded to judicial custody on Sunday. A similar case was booked against Veerababu at Saifabad police station, after a woman doctor lodged a complaint of harassment against him. “His modus operandi is to ask for lift, and take their phone numbers and make video calls and send text messages at odd hours,” police said. Veerababu got married a few years ago and has two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tssp-constable-held-for-harassing-women/article32062069.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NAAC extends accreditation validity||The validity of the accreditation for colleges, which expired during the period of lockdown, has been extended from March 1 to December 31. The Academic Advisory Council (AAC) of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), an autonomous institution of the University Grants Commission (UGC), that met recently decided to extend the validity due to the pandemic. Those colleges which had permission to submit the documents before March 2020 but could not submit due to lockdown, could now submit within three months after the commencement of the academic schedule in their respective states. However, they must intimate the same to NAAC, according to NAAC executive committee member Prof. Y.L. Srinivas. After a detailed deliberation, the AAC also suggested that NAAC be considerate to colleges while defining the Academic Year for Assessment and Accreditation as sought by the colleges. The committee suggested that for the academic years 2019-2020 and 2020-2021, depending on the spread and intensity of the pandemic, the academic schedules will differ from State to State or university to university, and NAAC may relax the condition making flexible and open ended provisions for deciding the academic year. Through this, institutions will be permitted to make the submissions as and when they complete the academic year. Further for those who have already submitted their applications, it suggested that NAAC may consider extension of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/naac-extends-accreditation-validity/article32062071.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress to launch ‘Speak up Telangana’||Telangana Congress will launch an online social media campaign ‘Speak up Telangana’ on July 18 to voice the concerns of the people on ‘failure’ of the State government in tackling COVID-19. This was decided at a meeting of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee COVID-19 Task Force to discuss health and education issues in the light of COVID-19 pandemic and it was attended by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and members of the Task Force while it was chaired by Marri Shashidhar Reddy. Mr. Shashidhar Reddy said a decision was taken to conduct an online social media campaign captioned #SpeakupTelangana and this will be launched simultaneously on all social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp etc between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on July 18. Further details of the campaign are being worked out. A decision was also taken to write an open letter to the Chief Minister to convey the party’s comments, observations and suggestions to deal with the pandemic. Mr. Reddy alleged that the State government has failed miserably in taking adequate steps to arrest the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-to-launch-speak-up-telangana/article32062085.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Report on creamy layer opposed||National Backward Classes Welfare Association president and former legislator R. Krishnaiah has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to implement the recommendations of the B.P. Sharma Committee on the revision of income criteria for determination of creamy layer among the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) since it would render huge injustice to large sections. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister on Sunday, Mr. Krishnaiah urged the former to get the entire issue re-examined by entrusting the work to the National Commission for Backward Classes constituted under Article 338-B of the Constitution. He also wanted the Prime Minister to abolish the creamy layer system in OBC reservations in employment and education in States and Central government by amending the Constitution. Mr. Krishnaiah stated that the Centre was going to take a decision soon on the inclusion of salary of parents for determination of creamy layer among the OBCs working in State and Central government departments, public sector undertakings and even private organisations for the purpose of extending reservation as recommended by the B.P Sharma Committee report submitted to the Centre last year. The implementation of the report would deny reservation facility to crores of children/students and youth seeking employment. He pointed that the reservation being extended to OBCs now under Article 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution was based on social and educational backwardness and not merely on the economic backwardness. Neither Kalekar and Mandal Commissions nor any BC Commission in States had recommended implementation of the creamy layer system. He said extending reservation was a tool to root out social discrimination. As per Article 338-B, the National Commission for BCs was empowered to take up any policy matter pertaining to OBC reservations, Mr. Krishnaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/report-on-creamy-layer-opposed/article32062092.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||One more held for illegal sale of cylinder||Cracking the whip on illegal sale of oxygen cylinders, a team of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North zone) on Sunday apprehended a 36-year-old man from Musheerabad and seized 19 illegally procured cylinders from his possession. Acting on a tip-off, Inspector K. Nageswar Rao and his team raided Baba Traders at Indira Nagar of Musheerabad and apprehended Shaik Akbar, who was selling oxygen cylinders and other gas cylinders without any valid license to make a quick buck. The team seized 16 oxygen cylinders weighing 50 kg and three weighing 14 kg, apart from other gas cylinders. According to Inspector Rao, the accused was operating an industrial and medical equipment business and decided to cash in on the COVID situation. “With many people suffering due to non-availability of oxygen cylinders in hospitals, Shaik decided to sell them at a high price in the grey market to earn some money,” the officer said. The investigators also found that the accused was selling oxygen cylinders at a very high price to COVID-19 patients under home quarantine. “A few days ago, he illegally procured a huge quantity of oxygen cylinders from Sardar Khan of Baba Gas Agency in Nacharam,” Mr. Rao said, adding that the accused along with the seized property was handed over to Musheerabad police for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-held-for-illegal-sale-of-cylinder/article32062053.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Actor Samantha’s green challenge||Actress Akkineni Samantha planted a sapling at her home with actor and father-in-law Akkineni Nagrjuna after accepting the “Green India Challenge” from him. She said that the concept was unique and the only way to counter pollution and improve oxygen levels. She gave the challenge to her co-stars Kirthi Suresh Rashmika Mandanna. She also asked her fans to plant three saplings each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/actor-samanthas-green-challenge/article32062074.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kidnapped infant rescued within 14 hours, three held||Mangalhat police claimed to have solved a kidnapping case within 14 hours and rescued an infant from the abductors. Three accused, including a woman, of the same family from Allahaband were arrested. The accused are Shaik Aleem (39), an auto driver, his wife Arshiya (36), an alm-seeker and Shaik Saleem (40). Police said that the trio kidnapped the four-month-old girl from Seetarambagh, for begging. The offence took place around 3 a.m. The infant was handed over to the mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kidnapped-infant-rescued-within-14-hours-three-held/article32062066.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Add oximeter to home quarantine kit, says Cong.||The COVID-19 home quarantine kits being provided to suspected patients is inadequate as it does not have the mandatory oximeter and other life-saving medicines, State Congress leaders have said. In a statement here, TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said an oximeter was essential not only for confirmed patients, but also for suspects to check oxygen saturation levels at regular intervals. In the absence of an oximeter, it would be difficult for the patients or suspects to know whether or not they need oxygen support, he said. Stating that the State government has completely neglected this essential element from the home quarantine kit, he also alleged the supply of oximeters at COVID-19 ohospitals was inadequate with only one or two oximeters available for each ward. The same equipment being used for all patients in the ward was turning a source of infection. Mr. Reddy asked Health Minister Eatala Rajender to specify how many home quarantine kits were distributed and said no efforts were made by the authorities to curb the disease in the early stage. Mr. Reddy also reiterated the demand for including COVID in Aarogyasri Scheme as it would make treatment more accessible to common people. He reminded that Andhra Pradesh government has included coronavirus under Aarogyasri, giving confidence to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/add-oximeter-to-home-quarantine-kit-says-cong/article32062055.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||4 injured in bakery blast||Four people suffered third degree burns after an industrial boiler exploded at a biscuit making unit in Nandigama of Ranga Reddy district here on Sunday. A case under relevant sections of IPC was registered against management of Heemankashi Bakers. The victims are K. Yadava Chary (48) from JP Darga, Kalva Koteshwar Rao (32), Srinivas (42), both residents of Kothur village, and Sunil Singh, who lives in company quarters and hails from West Bengal. They are undergoing treatment at a hospital and are said to be out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-injured-in-bakery-blast/article32062067.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID suspect found dead||A 38-year-old man, who had coronavirus symptoms, was found dead at his house in Santosh Nagar here on Saturday night. Police said that Syed Sadiq Ali, who was jobless, hanged himself from a ceiling fan. “His father died of a cardiac arrest recently, brother is admitted to Global Hospital for COVID, and he feared contracting the deadly virus and resorted to the extreme step,” Santosh Nagar police said on Sunday. For the last few days, Ali was unwell and went to a private hospital, where doctors advised him a string of tests. “After coming home around 9 p.m., he locked himself up in a room and hanged himself,” police said.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-suspect-found-dead/article32062070.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ASCI online programme for executives||Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) is launching its first-ever online executive education programme titled ‘Career Accelerator’. The 11-month programme with weekend classes dovetails intellectual rigour with competency development approach in the context of the current business environment. It is designed for working executives (with a Bachelor’s degree) who aspire for career growth by developing their managerial knowledge, skills and capabilities, according to programme directors Shahaida P. and Kali Charan Sabat. Participants would be mentored by successful senior executives and regular panel discussions or webinars with corporate leaders on emerging sectors would be held. Details on http://ogmp.asci.org.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asci-online-programme-for-executives/article32062072.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Opposition charges meaningless: Mahmood Ali||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali has termed the criticism of the opposition parties over the demolition of mosques and temple in the old Secretariat premises as meaningless and advised these parties not to create confusion among the people with their criticism. The opposition leaders were levelling allegations against the government in spite of the fact that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has assured that more spacious mosques and temple formed part of the plan of the new Secretariat complex. The Chief Minister was categorical in saying that the inauguration of the new Secretariat complex would be taken up after prayers were offered in the new temple and mosques that would be constructed on the premises. In a statement, the Home Minister said the opposition parties were indulging in unnecessary propaganda as they were left with no issues to criticise the government which was committed to all-round development of the State and had been implementing various schemes in this direction. The opposition leaders were worried about their political survival which had become questionable with the implementation of welfare programmes, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/opposition-charges-meaningless-mahmood-ali/article32062081.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana Engineers Day observed||Telangana Engineers Day was observed in the State on Saturday on the occasion of the 143rd birth anniversary of Ali Nawab Jung, the engineer who designed several historical structures and irrigation projects during the rule of Nizam VII. TheEngineers Day was celebrated virtually by the State government in association of the Institution of Engineers (India), Telangana Retired Engineers Association, Telangana Engineers Joint Action Committee, Telangana Electricity Engineers Association and Telangana Engineers Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-engineers-day-observed/article32062090.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Organic farming drive at EFLU||The English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) initiated a unique organic farming drive at the campus. Vice-Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar planted the first sapling at the university nursery. He said, “Our food is our medicine, our sustenance, and one of the great pleasures in life,” while stressing that a green environment is a key to relieving the stress in our lives, and relaxing us. “Many universities abroad have vegetable gardens and orchards growing various fruits, and staff and students enjoy farming, working together in a partnership.” The programme was organised by the Campus Planning and Development (CPD) wing of the university as part of the “Go Green Initiative”, which is among the several initiatives of the VC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/organic-farming-drive-at-eflu/article32062091.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Construction workers electrocuted||A 45-year-old man was electrocuted at a construction site at KPHB Colony around 9.30 a.m. on Sunday. S. Nallindra, a construction labourer from HMT Hills, was removing centring sticks, when he came in contact with a live wire and died on the spot. Soon, site owner Venkateshwar Deepakonda shifted him to a hospital, but doctors declared him dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/construction-workers-electrocuted/article32062068.ece
13 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||With pic/ Minister participates in Entomology programme||Minister for Education Sabita Indra Reddy distributed PPE safety kits to the entomology staff near Chitra Layout in Saroornagar Circle on Sunday. Later, she participated in the customary 10-minute vector control programme at 10 a.m., as per the programme decided by the entomology wing. She displayed dengue larvae in stored water to residents of the colony, and cautioned them about emptying vessels once every week. Corporator Radha Reddy, chief entomologist A. Rambabu and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/with-pic-minister-participates-in-entomology-programme/article32062076.ece
13 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Idol-makers from Rajasthan hit hard||A group of idol-makers from Rajasthan, who made the town their second home several years ago, are staring at grim business prospects with the coronavirus crisis threatening to take the sheen off the Ganesh Chathurthi festivities slated for next month. The Rajasthan-based artisans, having expertise in making idols of deities and other aesthetically appealing objects, are presently reeling under the ripple effects of the pandemic with sharp fall in sale of idols. Trying times Amid these trying times, the artisans are struggling to eke out a living to feed their families in their roadside makeshift sheds-cum-dwellings at Gopalapuram on the Wyra road near here. “Coronavirus crisis has inflicted a severe blow to our trade ahead of the prime festive season,” said Bheru Lal, an idol maker from Rajasthan.“There are hardly any takers for the impressive range of idols of Lord Krishna, Saibaba and other deities besides attractive figurines of varied sizes and myriad hues,” he said, adding that only a few buyers were turning up mostly for “dishti bommas” (figures resembling a demon-like effigy) which were displayed in front of shops and homes to ward off “evil eye.” “The crisis hit us at a crucial time when the orders for preparation of Ganesha idols usually pour in — during July. But this time we are facing a precarious situation owing to the pandemic outbreak,” he said. “Lots of hard work, substantial investment on procurement of raw materials and, above all, artistry goes into making an idol,” said Babu Ram, another artisan from Rajasthan’s Pali district. Last year’s surplus stocks of Ganesha idols were still lying unsold on their roadside makeshift sheds, he said. “We are praying for divine intervention of Lord Ganesha, the destroyer of obstacles, to clear the hurdles and help us surmount these hard times,” said Babu Ram with folded hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/idol-makers-from-rajasthan-hit-hard/article32062098.ece
13 July 2020||SANGAREDDY:,TELANGANA||Complete Rythu Vedikas in time: Collector||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao directed the officials to complete Rytu Vedikas by the deadline. The Collector along with other officials visited the Rythu Vedikas at Regintal, Hadnoora, Nyalakal and Mungi and examined the progress of works. He has also visited the Narinja Vagu project near Zaheerabad. District Agriculture Officer B Narsimha Rao accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complete-rythu-vedikas-in-time-collector/article32062089.ece
13 July 2020||V. Geetanath,TELANGANA||‘High time govt. revised pandemic strategy’||With more than 30,000 positive cases — including over 12,000 which are active and 10,000 surfacing in the last few days alone — it is quite clear that Hyderabad and Telangana need a different kind of strategy to deal with COVID-19. Even if it had a strategy earlier, it calls for a review, and the government has to come out of its stupor to take some proactive steps, suggest senior health specialists, epidemiologists and scientists. Overwhelming opinion among them is that the government should immediately constitute a high-powered committee of public health experts dealing with epidemics along with internal health specialists from both the public and private sector along with scientists. The next possible steps of the government should be based on the suggestions made by this panel rather than leaving the entire planning to a combination of bureaucrats and execution to the already overburdened public hospital doctors. “This is a pandemic and it calls for a different set of strategies and execution of testing, tracing and isolating. While it is true cases are rising everywhere, it is not enough to deal with this highly contagious virus like we have dealt with swine flu and other communicable diseases,” says a senior health professional. After shrugging off the possible spread of coronavirus, the government did show alacrity in constituting a five-member committee in the last week of March “to study global developments with regard to novel coronavirus and suggest measures on how to contain the spread of the virus”. Health Minister Eatala Rajender was the leader of the committee which consisted of directors of top national scientific research institutes, Vice-Chancellor of University of Health Sciences, a professor of a public health institution and and another expert from the private sector. “How many times has the committee met, what suggestions has it given to the government, how have they been implemented? There is no information available so far,” points out a senior health official, also seeking anonymity. Neighbouring States have experienced epidemiologists, specialists like virologists, pulmonologists and others in advisory panels to forecast the transmission trajectory of COVID-19 and it is not too late to involve them in the exercise to complement health professionals currently involved, they opine. “Problem is those deciding the containment strategy have little experience in handling outbreaks and there has been little or no exchange of information or domain knowledge with national teams or neighbouring States. This has led to ad hocism of public hospitals having their own treatment protocols and private hospitals having their own agenda,” says another health professional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-time-govt-revised-pandemic-strategy/article32062044.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Realty gains behind shifting of fruit market to Koheda?||The fruit market at Kothapet, one of the busiest and biggest in Telangana, was closed from Sunday for one-and-a-half months in view of the spread of coronavirus. Consequently, the marketing department has shifted wholesale fruit business from here to Koheda, where a heavy rain accompanied by wind blew away the temporary sheds erected for the purpose. The shifting has been resented by farmers and businessmen on the ground that the site at Koheda lacked proper facilities. They wonder whether coronavirus will not chase them if they were to shift to Koheda. They alleged that the market was being shifted to spike the prices of land since public representatives, market committee members and officials of market department had purchased lands at Koheda.    The TRS and BJP leaders, including some bigwigs who have been at loggerheads on various issues including the State government’s response in containing the spread of coronavirus have, at last, struck some rapprochement with Minister for Urban Development, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao and Union Minister of State for Health G. Kishan Reddy sharing the dais during the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of two elevated corridors to ease traffic in the busy areas of RTC Crossroads, Baghlingampally, Indira Park, Ashok Nagar, VST Crossroads and Ramanagar on Saturday. Apart from the other leaders on both sides, the two leaders too had indulged in exchange of some fireworks over containing the spread of COVID-19 in Hyderabad and elsewhere in Telangana and over Centre’s cooperation or lack of it in dealing with the situation. The two leaders announced working together for the better and swifter development of the city burying the differences over other matters, bringing some smiles among the leaders of two parties on the dais and among citizens of the city.   Telangana State has been carved out as the 29th State of the country on June 2 six years ago with Hyderabad as its capital. But bifurcation of the State is yet to sink into the minds of officials of certain government agencies/departments. This could be seen from the recent letter addressed by Union Health Secretary Balram Bhargava explaining about the Indian Council of Medical Research’s initiative in developing vaccine to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Union Secretary explained about the steps being taken for speeding up the process for clinical trials of the new vaccine. Copies of the letter were addressed to the top executives of the Bharat Biotech International Limited. And the letter quoted BBIL as based out of Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh. N. Rahul, B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realty-gains-behind-shifting-of-fruit-market-to-koheda/article32062082.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Faith under scrutiny||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/faith-under-scrutiny/article32062059.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Page 2 Readers mail||When Telangana is in debt and has a pandemic to tackle, is it worth shelling out public money on constructing a new building? The demolition of the Secretariat building was causing extreme pollution and was life threatening for respiratory sufferers in this season. Instead of aiding people in distress, the government is spending on its comforts which is not warranted. So many people are crying for help, some have lost employment, some have not received salaries, some have died and yet, the government is hell bent on constructing a new building. Vithal G Deshpande, Warsiguda   The inauguration of beautification works at Uppal crossroads by a Minister accompanied by Mayor and MLA with a crowd behind them in violation of lockdown norms gives an impression that our political leaders are not keen to learn lessons. Law enforcing authorities seem to have a different yardstick for them. These leaders are setting a wrong example with their indiscipline. Austerity measures should be initiated by the government to save public money and implement public health norms by banning all such functions till normalcy is restored. M.V. Nagavender Rao, Anandnagar   It is indeed deplorable that a few leaders of ruling party are almost not following COVID-19 regulations of wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. Most government programmes are attended by officials, party leaders and cadre in large numbers. Even Ministers, MLAs and MPs are failing to convince the party cadre to follow preventive measures and the result is a number of people’s representatives and officials becoming victims of coronavirus. J.P. Reddy, Nalgonda  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-2-readers-mail/article32062051.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon: NIA gets another 90 days to file chargesheet||The City Civil and Sessions court on Sunday allowed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) an extension of 90 days to file its chargesheet against Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha, accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The Central agency was also granted Mr. Navlakha’s custody for 10 days till July 22. Special Judge D.E. Kothalikar directed the Superintendent of the Taloja jail to hand over Mr. Navlakha’s custody to the NIA. He had surrendered before the New Delhi office of the NIA on April 14. The agency was granted custody till April 21, which was extended by seven days. The NIA had then claimed that he was not cooperating with it and giving evasive replies. It therefore sought his judicial custody, which was granted. Mr. Navlakha is at the Taloja jail’s quarantine centre located at Namdar Gopal Krishna Gokhale Vidya Nagar, Kharghar. The agency’s application seeking his custody was on the grounds that it had to confront him with data recovered from seized electronic articles and question him about the whereabouts of the other accused absconding in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhima-koregaon-nia-gets-another-90-days-to-file-chargesheet/article32062003.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||Country needs another Manmohan Singh for revival of economy: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the country again needs an economist like Dr. Manmohan Singh to revive the economy. “When Dr. Singh was the Union Finance Minister, he gave new directions to the Indian economy. I was also part of that Cabinet. I credit Dr. Singh and late P.V. Narsimha Rao for the turnaround of the economy from the crisis,” Mr. Pawar said, adding Prime Minister Narendra Modi should also take the help of experts as the country needs another Dr. Singh. He was talking to Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, in the second part of a three-part interview. Sena MP Sanjay Raut interviewed the NCP president, who is only the third leader after Sena founder late Bal Thackeray and Sena president and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, to be featured in the Marathi daily. When asked about Mr. Modi calling him a political guru, Mr. Pawar said there is no such thing as guru in politics. “There is no dialogue between the Modi government and leaders of other parties. When Dr. Singh, Pranab Mukherjee, and P. Chidambaram were the finance ministers, they would constantly be in touch with experts and political leaders cutting across party lines to get their views on various issues facing the country. This is not happening now.” Commenting on the ongoing tensions with China, Mr. Pawar, a former Union Defence Minister, said China is a bigger threat to India than Pakistan. “When we think of an enemy, the first name that comes to our mind is Pakistan. But we need not worry about Pakistan. In the long term, it is China that has the power, vision, and programmes to act against Indian interests. China is a bigger threat to India.” Slamming Mr. Modi over his meetings and handshakes with Chinese premier Xi Jinping, the NCP chief said by creating a picture of camaraderie, you can’t resolve issues between the two countries. “Instead of striking, we should try to put international pressure on China through negotiations and diplomatic channels. China had turned not just Pakistan but countries like Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka against India.” Mr. Pawar said Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi are always blamed for their handling of China and Pakistan. “But, during the tenure of Nehru, India and China shared warm relations.” Nehru was of the view that China would become a superpower some day and that India should maintain a cordial relation with it since tensions were not beneficial to either of the two countries, he said. Nehru signed the Panchsheel treaty with China and there was peace in the region, the NCP chief said. “Unfortunately, the Chinese leadership took a different stand and there was a conflict,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/country-needs-another-manmohan-singh-for-revival-of-economy-pawar/article32062010.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||Guv. should reconsider stand over varsity exams, says Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari should reconsider his stand on holding the final year university exams in the State. Mr. Raut’s remarks came against the backdrop of 16 personnel at the Raj Bhavan in south Mumbai testing positive for COVID-19. “The entry of coronavirus in Raj Bhavan is nature’s indication to the Governor that his stand that the exams should be held is wrong. He should reconsider his stand,” Mr. Raut said. The insistence that exams be held is “wrong” as it puts the lives of students and their parents at risk, the Rajya Sabha member said. The Uddhav Thackeray-led State government earlier decided to cancel the final year university examinations in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. The Governor, however, last month said the decision would jeopardise the future of students and asserted that the chancellor of universities a position which he holds ex-officio has the final authority over all university matters, as per the Maharashtra Public Universities Act. He also said not conducting the final year examinations amounts to breach of guidelines of the University Grants Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/guv-should-reconsider-stand-over-varsity-exams-says-raut/article32062011.ece
13 July 2020||Mumbai,||16 test positive at Raj Bhavan||Sixteen personnel at Raj Bhavan in south Mumbai have contracted COVID-19, while Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has tested negative for the virus, a civic official said on Sunday. Mr. Koshyari has denied reports that he is in self-isolation. “I am perfectly alright, and not in self-isolation. I underwent relevant tests, the result were negative. There are no symptoms of COVID-19 either,” Mr. Koshyari said in a statement. The Governor said he was discharging all his official duties, strictly adhering to safety protocols such as physical distancing and wearing a mask. “Reports appearing in a section of the press regarding my health are baseless. I am hale and hearty,” he said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said all staff members at Raj Bhavan were asked to undergo COVID-19 tests after two personnel tested positive a few days ago. “In all, 100 employees were tested and the reports of 14 of them have returned positive. This takes the total number of positive cases at Raj Bhavan to 16,” the BMC said. “It has been decided to quarantine the patients in their residences on the premises of the Raj Bhavan. However, if the Raj Bhavan administration demands a separate quarantine facility, then it will be provided to them,” BMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/16-test-positive-at-raj-bhavan/article32062165.ece
13 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Crime Branch to investigate fraud case||The Crime Branch will now investigate a case in which a 35-year-old MBA graduate was arrested for allegedly duping women after befriending them on matrimonial sites. The Rabale police arrested Sachin Dilip Sambre-Patil on June 23, based on a complaint filed by a 33-year-old lawyer on May 31. Assistant police inspector Tukaram Nimbalkar said, “During our investigation, we found that the accused had created at least five fake profiles on matrimonial sites and approached around 1,000 prospective brides through each profile. The Crime Branch is taking over the case to find out how many women responded to his messages and met him in person.” Pravin Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, said the cyber cell will identify the women who came in contact with the accused. “He claims to have met 10 women, but we suspect the number to be higher. We appeal to the women who have been duped by the accused to approach us immediately or write to the cyber cell,” Mr. Patil said. The police said the accused got married in 2014, but later met a doctor and married her in 2017. The next year, he divorced his first wife. The accused has an 18-month-old son with his second wife. The police said the accused started making fake profiles on matrimonial sites in 2015 and approached women claiming to be unmarried, divorced, widowed or awaiting divorce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/crime-branch-to-investigate-fraud-case/article32062008.ece
13 July 2020||Panaji,||Goa sees 85 fresh cases||Goa reported 85 new COVID-19 cases and two more deaths on Sunday, taking the infection count to 2,453 and the toll to 14, an official said. An 80-year-old woman and 49-year-old man died in ESI Hospital in Margao, he said. Fifty-nine people were also discharged, leaving the State with 952 active cases, he said. A total of 5,008 samples were tested during the day, of which 85 were positive, 2,328 negative and 2,595 reports are awaited, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-sees-85-fresh-cases/article32062002.ece
13 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally surges past 2.5 lakh with 7,827 new cases||With another massive surge of 7,827 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, Maharashtra’s tally breached the 2.50 lakh mark and touched 2,54,427. The State also recorded 173 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 10,289. Since July 1, the State has reported single-day spikes of over 7,000 cases at least four times, with the highest single-day surge of 8,139 cases being reported on Saturday. With 1,243 new cases, Mumbai’s total case load has now reached 92,988. As many as 44 more deaths were reported in the city, taking its toll to 5,288. While there are 22,540 active cases in the city, the tally of active cases in the State is 1,03,516. State Health Department officials said 3,340 patients were discharged on Sunday, pushing the cumulative tally of recoveries to 1,40,325. Dip in case fatality rate State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stands at 55.15%, while its case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 4.04% from last week’s figure of 4.15%. Pune district reported 1,711 new COVID-19 cases till Sunday evening, taking the district’s total case tally to 39,125. Of the total cases, 21,601 are active, according to the State Health Department. Pune district administration authorities, however, said there were only 14,484 active cases. The district also reported 37 deaths, taking its toll to 1,097. Along with Mumbai and Pune, big surges continued to be recorded across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Thane reported 775 new cases to take the district’s total tally soaring past the 23,000 mark. 28 deaths in Thane Thane also recorded 28 deaths, pushing its death toll to 718. Kalyan-Dombivli outdid Thane to report another massive spike of 779 cases, taking its total case tally to 14,611. Navi Mumbai added 321 fresh cases, pushing its cumulative total to 10,837. Navi Mumbai also reported 10 fatalities, taking its death toll to 288. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded big spikes as well, adding 134 and 352 cases respectively to take their total case tallies to 5,960 and 7,893. Seven more deaths in Vasai-Virar pushed its cumulative toll to 166. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported eight more fatalities, taking the district’s death toll to 290. Jalgaon recorded 209 fresh cases, pushing its tally to 5,810, of which 2,129 are active ones. The rise in cases continued in Aurangabad, with the district reporting 222 new cases, taking its case tally to 8,217, of which 3,837 are active. With six more deaths being recorded on Sunday, the district’s death toll has now reached 338. Dr. Awate said, “Till date, of a total of 13,17,895 laboratory samples, 2,54,427 (19.3%) have tested positive. Nearly 32,000 samples across the State were tested on Sunday.” He said 6,86,150 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 47,801 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-tally-surges-past-25-lakh-with-7827-new-cases/article32062005.ece
13 July 2020||Pune,||‘Pune lockdown an attempt to mask MVA’s failures’||A day after a major administrative reshuffle saw Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad being transferred, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Siddharth Shirole said the imposition of the 10-day lockdown in Pune district was an attempt to disguise the failures of the State government, and was unfair to the citizens of a city limping back to normalcy. Mr. Shirole, the legislator from Shivajinagar, said Mr. Gaikwad, a known opponent of the lockdown, was merely made a political scapegoat. The 10-day lockdown comes into effect from midnight of July 13. Stating that the city’s health infrastructure should always be ahead of the graph of rising cases, Mr. Shirole said it was unfathomable how a 10-day lockdown could help in bringing the city’s deplorable medical infrastructure up to snuff. He also alleged that the State government had been misleading people with projections and the state of preparedness with statistics that were miles away from reality. “The lockdown has now become a compulsion, but could have easily been prevented with proactive action on part of the State government. Given the drastic surge in cases in the past fortnight, the State authorities should have foreseen and accordingly ramped up their infrastructure,” Mr. Shirole said. With the district witnessing an average surge of 1,400 cases daily (of which 1,000-odd are from Pune city) since the beginning of July, hospitals in the city are packed to capacity. “Last week, it took me six hours to obtain a bed for a 75-year-old woman who had tested COVID-19 positive. And even then, the woman, a resident of Aundh, finally got a bed at Bharti Hospital, at the other end of the city. I think it is time to give the public the true picture of the beds available in the city,” Mr. Shirole said, adding that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had neither visited the city personally nor had any review videoconference with elected representatives. Given that Pune’s mortality and infection growth rates were among the highest in the country, the BJP leader expressed surprise that the State had yet to set up a jumbo 10,000-bed COVID-19 treatment centre. “Even after more than 100 days following the first lockdown in March, the State leadership has failed woefully in preparing Pune for this spike in cases, forecast by most epidemiology studies and models. This, despite the fact that I had been repeatedly cautioning State authorities and ministers to boost Pune’s medical infrastructure,” Mr. Shirole said.  Ramesh Iyer, Pune city Congress general secretary and party spokesperson, urged the State government to ensure that facilities like the private COVID-19 hospital set up by Wipro, are utilised as soon as possible. “With the monsoon in earnest, cases will rise dramatically. The State health authorities must arrange for staff in facilities like Wipro’s hospital in Hinjewadi, which is gathering dust. To cope with the shortage of doctors, final-year MBBS students should be assigned the responsibility of administering preliminary treatment of patients,” Mr. Iyer said. Meanwhile, a number of leaders and outfits across the political spectrum opposed both the lockdown and the sudden transfer of Mr. Gaikwad, who had served as the city’s Commissioner for barely six months. Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) Commissioner Vikram Kumar has been appointed in Mr. Gaikwad’s stead as the new PMC Commissioner. Echoing Mr. Shirole, senior BJP leader and Pune MP Girish Bapat, too, spoke of Mr. Gaikwad being made the “fall guy to mask the failures of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government” to check the spread of the contagion in Pune merely because he had been a vocal opponent of the lockdown. “Why was the previous PMC Commissioner, who has been working hard, being shunted out in the midst of the pandemic? The State government should do a rethink on the lockdown as it will impose massive strain on those struggling to make ends meet,” Rahul Dambale of the Republican Yuva Morcha said. Likewise, Santosh Shinde of the Sambhaji Brigade, questioned as to what purpose had been served by the transfer of an officer who was already well-set in managing the problems facing the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pune-lockdown-an-attempt-to-mask-mvas-failures/article32062001.ece
13 July 2020||Pune,||People resort to panic buying ahead of 10-day lockdown||Long queues were witnessed outside grocery and retail stores across Pune city throughout Sunday as people scrambled to stock essentials ahead of the 10-day lockdown commencing at the midnight of July 13. Hundreds thronged the Market Yard in Gultekdi, which comprises Pune’s largest wholesale vegetable, grocery and fruit market. Given the scale of the crowds, officials at the agricultural produce market committee and the police found it difficult to control buyers, most of whom had thrown physical distancing to the winds. As per the announcement on Friday, only the supply of milk is permitted in the first five days of the strict lockdown period, with all vegetable and grocery stores remaining shut. Meanwhile, Pune district reported 1,711 new COVID-19 cases till Sunday evening, as its total cases surged to 39,125, of whom 14,484 cases are active. Of the total case tally, 23,591 people have been discharged, Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said. As many as 558 of the active cases in the district are in a critical condition. According to district officials, the death toll climbed to 1,050, while State Health Department figures put the total fatalities at 1,097. The death toll in Solapur district has climbed to 328, with only one fatality reported on Sunday. The death toll in Pune division, which consists of Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts, has now reached 1,483, as per Pune divisional office figures. Mr. Mhaisekar said Pune division’s total case tally has reached 45,897, of whom 16,483 are active cases, while 27,931 people have been discharged till date. Solapur reported 109 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,930, of whom 1,409 are active. Satara, which has reported 65 deaths thus far, reported a record high surge of 153 new cases as its total cases shot to 1,696, of whom 621 are active cases. Sangli recorded 16 new cases to push its tally to 624, of whom 306 are active ones, while with 35 new cases, Kolhapur’s total cases stand at 1,174, of whom 315 are active. While Sangli’s death toll stands at 16, Kolhapur’s count has climbed to 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/people-resort-to-panic-buying-ahead-of-10-day-lockdown/article32062007.ece
13 July 2020||Bethesda,||Trump dons a mask in public, finally||U.S. President Donald Trump finally yielded to pressure and wore a face mask in public for the first time on Saturday as the U.S. posted another daily record for COVID-19 cases, while Disney World reopened in a state hit hard by the pandemic. White House experts leading the national fight against the contagion have recommended wearing face coverings in public to prevent transmission of the illness. But Mr. Trump had repeatedly avoided wearing a mask, even after staffers at the White House tested positive for the virus and as more aides have taken to wearing them. WHO’s call for testing Hours after the World Health Organization (WHO) urged countries to step up control measures to rein in the disease, Mr. Trump donned a dark mask bearing the presidential seal as he visited wounded military veterans at the Walter Reed military hospital in a suburb outside Washington. “I’ve never been against masks but I do believe they have a time and a place,” he told reporters as he left the White House. Mr. Trump is trailing Democrat Joe Biden in the polls ahead of a November election and surveys show most Americans are unhappy with how he has handled the public health crisis. But the President has continued to praise his own response to the pandemic despite a cascade of figures showing the extent of the disease’s spread across the United States. The country posted yet another daily record of confirmed cases on Saturday night, with 66,528 new infections, while the death toll rose by almost 800 to nearly 1,35,000. Disney park reopens In Florida, where nearly one in six of those new infections were recorded, the Walt Disney World theme park partially reopened after four months of shutdown prompted by the virus. Hundreds of people queued to enter the park in Orlando, some sporting Mickey ears but all wearing face masks, with social distancing and other hygiene precautions also in place. Days earlier, top U.S. infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said that Florida had begun reopening before meeting the criteria that would have enabled it to do so safely. The COVID-19 pandemic has infected nearly 13 million people, killed over 5,60,000 and triggered massive economic damage since the disease was first detected in China late last year. The United States is the country worst hit by the illness, followed by Brazil — which surpassed 70,000 deaths on Friday. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called on countries to adopt an aggressive approach to tackling the virus, citing successful mitigation efforts in Italy, South Korea and elsewhere. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu admitted a decision to allow bars and other businesses to reopen may have come “too soon” after his country reported a record 1,500 new infections on Friday. Australian authorities said they would slash by half the number of people allowed to return from overseas each day after a fresh surge in cases that saw a lockdown imposed on Melbourne, the country's second-largest city. In Hong Kong, a spike has marked a setback for the city after daily life had largely returned to normal, with restaurants and bars resuming regular business and cultural attractions reopening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-dons-a-mask-in-public-finally/article32061700.ece
13 July 2020||Washington,||Stone remains a convicted felon, says Mueller||Donald Trump may have commuted Roger Stone’s prison sentence but the President’s long-time ally remains a convicted criminal, former Special Counsel Robert Mueller said on Saturday. Mr. Stone, 67, had been set to begin serving a 40-month prison term on Tuesday after his conviction on seven felony charges originally brought by Mr. Mueller as part of the Russia collusion probe. Multiple charges The charges include tampering with a witness and obstructing the House investigation into whether the Trump campaign conspired with Russia to help him win the 2016 election. In an op-ed piece in The Washington Post on Saturday, Mr. Mueller defended his probe as being of “paramount importance,” dismissing White House claims that he was out to get Mr. Trump and those who worked with him. “Stone was prosecuted and convicted because he committed federal crimes. He remains a convicted felon, and rightly so,” Mr. Mueller wrote as Democrats — and two Republican Senators — piled on Mr. Trump for again intervening in the justice system to help an ally. Senator Mitt Romney, who infuriated Mr. Trump when he became the only Republican to vote to convict the President in his impeachment trial, pulled no punches on Saturday. “Unprecedented, historic corruption: an American President commutes the sentence of a person convicted by a jury of lying to shield that very President,” he tweeted. ‘A mistake’ Another Republican Senator, Pat Toomey, also criticised Mr. Trump but in milder terms, saying that as Mr. Stone has been duly convicted it was “a mistake” to commute his sentence.  Most Republicans have remained largely mute on the matter, while Democratic critics led by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi unanimously condemned Mr. Trump. “President Trump’s decision to commute the sentence of top campaign advisor Roger Stone, who could directly implicate him in criminal misconduct, is an act of staggering corruption,” she tweeted. Ms. Pelosi called for legislation “to ensure that no President can pardon or commute the sentence of an individual who is engaged in a cover-up campaign to shield that President from criminal prosecution.” Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden weighed in without mentioning Mr. Stone by name. “I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again: Donald Trump is the most corrupt President in modern American history,” he tweeted. “Every day that he remains in office, he further threatens the future of our democracy. We have to vote him out this November,” wrote Mr. Biden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/stone-remains-a-convicted-felon-says-mueller/article32061698.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||China, Iran close to reaching trade and military partnership||Iran and China have quietly drafted a sweeping economic and security partnership that would clear the way for billions of dollars of Chinese investments in energy and other sectors, undercutting the Donald Trump administration’s efforts to isolate the Iranian government because of its nuclear and military ambitions. The partnership, detailed in an 18-page proposed agreement obtained by The New York Times , would vastly expand Chinese presence in banking, telecommunications, ports, railways and dozens of other projects. In exchange, China would receive a regular — and, according to an Iranian official and an oil trader, heavily discounted — supply of Iranian oil over the next 25 years. Joint military training The document also describes deepening military cooperation, potentially giving China a foothold in a region that has been a strategic preoccupation of the United States for decades. It calls for joint training and exercises, joint research and weapons development and intelligence sharing — all to fight “the lopsided battle with terrorism, drug and human trafficking and cross-border crimes.” The partnership — first proposed by China’s leader, Xi Jinping, during a visit to Iran in 2016 — was approved by President Hassan Rouhani’s Cabinet in June, Iran’s Foreign Minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said last week. If put into effect as detailed, the partnership would create new and potentially dangerous flashpoints in the deteriorating relationship between China and the U.S. It represents a major blow to the Trump administration’s aggressive policy toward Iran since abandoning the nuclear deal reached in 2015 by President Barack Obama and the leaders of six other nations after two years of gruelling negotiations. Renewed U.S. sanctions, including the threat to cut off access to the international banking system for any company that does business in Iran, have succeeded in suffocating the Iranian economy by scaring away badly needed foreign trade and investment. But Tehran’s desperation has pushed it into the arms of China, which has the technology and appetite for oil that Iran needs. Iran has been one of the world’s largest oil producers, but its exports, Tehran’s largest source of revenue, have plunged since the Trump administration began imposing sanctions in 2018; China gets about 75% of its oil from abroad and is the world’s largest importer, at more than 10 million barrels a day last year.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-iran-close-to-reaching-trade-and-military-partnership/article32061692.ece
13 July 2020||Peshawar,||‘Kapoor haveli’ faces demolition threat||The historic ancestral home of the Hindi film industry’s showman, late Raj Kapoor, in Pakistan’s Peshawar city is facing demolition threat as the current owner of the house is adamant on building a commercial complex on the site, which is worth crores. In 2018, the Pakistan government had decided to convert the ‘Kapoor haveli’ in Qissa Khwani Bazar in Peshawar in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province into a museum, heeding to a request by Raj Kapoor’s son Rishi Kapoor. Rishi Kapoor died recently in Mumbai.  Poor condition The ‘haveli’ has turned into a ghost building, residents of the area said. Due to its dilapidated condition, the building can collapse anytime, they said. The state of the building is deteriorating with each passing day due to ecological impacts, torrential rains, earthquakes and wind storms. The ‘haveli’ is currently owned by Haji Muhammad Israr, a wealthy jeweller in the city. The provincial government wanted to buy it, keeping in view its historic importance and conserve it in its original shape for tourists. Mr. Israr, however, wants to demolish the building and construct a new commercial building at this prime location.  There are reports that the provincial government has failed to convert the building into a museum due to differences with its owner over its price. Mr. Israr has denied that he has had any issue with the government over the price of the property, estimated to be over Pakistani Rs. 5 crore. He says he simply wanted to demolish it and construct a huge commercial market at the site.  “It is a matter of concern that the ‘Kapoor haveli’ which we consider as the pride of our city is in dilapidated condition and is fast heading to the disappearance because of being ignored,” said Mujeeb-ur-Rehman, a resident of Dhaki Nalbandi where the palatial house is located. Shakeel Waheedullah, Secretary Cultural Heritage Council Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, expressed regret over the dilapidated condition of the house. The ‘Kapoor haveli’ was built by Basheswarnath Kapoor, the grandfather of Hindi film industry pioneer Prithviraj Kapoor and father of Raj Kapoor. The Kapoor family, originally from Peshawar, migrated to India after the Partition in 1947.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kapoor-haveli-faces-demolition-threat/article32061694.ece
13 July 2020||Tehran,||Misaligned radar led to Ukrainian jet’s downing in January, says Iran||Iran said that the misalignment of an air defence unit’s radar system was the key “human error” that led to the accidental downing of a Ukrainian passenger plane in January. “A failure occurred due to a human error in following the procedure” for aligning the radar, causing a “107-degree error” in the system, the Iranian Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) said in a report late on Saturday. This error “initiated a hazard chain” that saw further errors committed in the minutes before the plane was shot down, said the CAO document, presented as a “factual report” and not as the final report on the accident investigation. Flight 752, a Ukraine International Airlines jetliner, was struck by two missiles and crashed shortly after taking off from Tehran’s main airport on January 8, at a time of heightened U.S.-Iranian tensions. The Islamic republic admitted several days later that its forces accidentally shot down the Kiev-bound plane, killing all 176 people on board. The CAO said that, despite the erroneous information available to the radar system operator on the aircraft’s trajectory, he could have identified his target as an airliner, but instead there was a “wrong identification”. The report also noted that the first of the two missiles launched at the aircraft was fired by a defence unit operator who had acted “without receiving any response from the Coordination Center” on which he depended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/misaligned-radar-led-to-ukrainian-jets-downing-in-january-says-iran/article32061690.ece
13 July 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka cancels rallies over new virus wave||Sri Lanka’s ruling party on Sunday called off its rallies ahead of upcoming parliamentary elections and delayed the international airport’s reopening over a surge in virus cases. The country lifted its COVID-19 lockdown in late June after declaring there was no longer any community spread of the virus. But a swathe of cases emerged last week, including an outbreak at a drug rehabilitation centre last week that saw 253 patients test positive in a single night. “All public meetings where the President and the Prime Minister were due to attend today, tomorrow and the day after have been cancelled,” President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna- party said in a statement. Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s brother Mahinda is the country’s Prime Minister. The party said all their candidates were also told to call off upcoming gatherings ahead of the August 5 poll. Airport to remain closed Aviation Minister Prasanna Ranatunga said on Sunday the international airport, which authorities had planned to reopen on August 1, would remain closed. “We have decided in the interest of safety and well-being of our citizens to put off the reopening of airports,” he said. A repatriation programme that has brought home some 12,000 Sri Lankans from overseas so far would also be suspended, Mr. Ranatunga added. The elections were to be held on April 25, but were postponed twice before being rescheduled for August. The country has reported 2,605 cases with 11 deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-cancels-rallies-over-new-virus-wave/article32061696.ece
13 July 2020||Madrid,||Madrid, July 12, 2020 (AFP) -||The first regional elections in Spain since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic got under way on Sunday in the northern regions of Galicia and the Basque country, with voters wary of new spikes in infections. People who have tested positive for COVID-19 are not permitted to vote, excluding 420 electors from a total of about 4.5 million across the two regions.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/madrid-july-12-2020-afp/article32061695.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Nurturing citizens in social studies||The list of jettisoned subjects is comprehensive; the apprehension that it is purposeful is unavoidable; the conclusion that a ‘happening’ has been converted into a ‘penalty goal’ is inescapable. These thoughts cross the mind while reading about the decision of the Ministry of Human Resource Development to exclude certain subjects from the list of topics of study in the social science curriculum for Classes 9 to 12 with the objective of reducing by 30% the “load” while retaining “core concepts”. The stated rationale of the move is the disruption caused by COVID-19 to the academic year. The exercise covers other subjects too, but the focus of this analysis is on the social sciences only for reasons that will become evident in this essay. The argument for disruption and the resultant load is self-evident and valid. The phenomenon is universal and applies to all stages of education and to all lands across the globe. Not all have reacted the same way and pedagogues would argue that there could be more than one method of lightening the academic load that in any case predates the pandemic. Democratic societies the world over have developed methodologies of nurturing young citizens in essential values and procedures and none have so far abandoned them on account of the pandemic. Salient features of curriculum The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on its website indicates nine salient features of the senior secondary school curriculum for Classes 11 and 12 for the years 2020-2021. It mentions that the curriculum strives to “provide ample scope for physical, intellectual and social development of students”. The curriculum also strives to “uphold Constitutional values such as Socialism, Secularism, Democracy, Republican character, Justice, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, Human Dignity of Individual and Unity and integrity of the Nation by encouraging value-based learning activities.” With some abridegments, therefore, the features reiterate the values mentioned in the Preamble of the Constitution of India. Item 4 of the salient features says the curriculum strives to “nurture Life-Skills by prescribing curricular and co-curricular activities to help improve self-esteem, empathy towards different cultures etc.” There is, however, no mention of Fundamental Duties (Article 51A of the Constitution); of the duty “to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture” and of the duty “to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of enquiry and reform”. The wording here is curious. Are “different cultures” synonymous with our “composite culture”? Is it an admission that ours is a land of “different cultures”? It would be argued in defence of abridgements that the CBSE curriculum for Classes 9 and 10 has identical wording for items 3 and 4 and that the themes are therefore covered at an earlier stage of school education. This is to presume that levels of student comprehension between Classes 9 and 11 or 10 and 12 remain static and do not need upgradation either in teaching or in understanding. Being ‘politically conscious’ Our system of democratic governance is based on the Constitution that prescribes universal adult suffrage with the voting age now being 18, after the 61st Amendment of 1988. It was then argued formally in Parliament that “the present-day youth are literate and enlightened and the lowering of the voting age would provide to the unrepresented youth of the country an opportunity to give vent to their feelings and help them become a part of the political process. The present-day youth are very much politically conscious. It is, therefore, proposed to reduce the voting age from 21 years to 18 years.’ In other words, and since the general average school-leaving age after Class 12 is 16-17 years, this objective of being “politically conscious” is to be attained suddenly at the age of 17 and without the benefit of formal instruction on fundamental principles of our polity. And if this formal instruction on the principles of the Constitution is not available to the young person at that age, she or he has no option but to resort to informal knowledge acquired through hearsay and media or social media with all the tilt or prejudice of demagogy and propaganda that go with it. Would the young person exercising franchise for the first time then be an informed voter? In this context, it is useful to examine the relevant portions of the Draft National Education Policy 2019 with a Message from the Minister of Human Resource Development. It has on page 96 a section on ‘Development of Constitutional Values’. It states that “the process and the content of education at all levels will also aim to develop Constitutional values in all students, and the capacities for their practice... Some of these Constitutional values are: democratic outlook and commitment to liberty and freedom; equality, justice, and fairness; embracing diversity, plurality, and inclusion; humanness and fraternal spirit; social responsibility and the spirit of service; ethics of integrity and honesty; scientific temper and commitment to rational and public dialogue; peace; social action through Constitutional means; unity and integrity of the nation, and a true rootedness and pride in India with a forward-looking spirit to continuously improve as a nation.” The same document, on page 231, reiterates the objective of developing “an understanding of our Constitutional values, and the disposition and capacities for their practice, amongst all their students.” The other objectives mentioned in this section are diversity, plurality humanness, fraternal spirit, scientific temper and commitment to rational dialogue. Focus on the next generation Will these virtues and constitutional values and capacities for their practice be developed without formal instruction? Would this necessarily be the best training for citizenship? Could the objective be to lessen the instruction in constitutional values and their impact on perceptions and practices of the next generation? The BJP’s Sankalp Patra for the 2019 general election mentions in several places the objective of good governance and of putting in place for it “a framework of governance which will yield rich dividends over the next generation”. This focus on the next generation requires good citizens who in turn need to be educated in good governance. This is precisely what the objective of the jettisoned items of the curriculum was intended to be. The proposed move of load-shedding goes counter to this and strikes at the target of training good citizens and teaching them civility. Would a sceptic be justified in suspecting that the objective may be to have a less literate young voter? Hamid Ansari is the former Vice-President of India, 2007-2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/nurturing-citizens-in-social-studies/article32061686.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The sum and substance of the EU’s China dilemma||Europe and China have been major partners for a generation. According to the Global Office of the International Comparison Program at the World Bank, China and the European Union (EU) jointly account for nearly 35% of global GDP in PPP terms. Europe championed China’s case for World Trade Organization (WTO) membership and China supported the ‘European Project’. A single example is sufficient to demonstrate how critical China is for European prosperity. Between 1995 and 2012, Germany, Europe’s economic powerhouse, enhanced its industrial value by 37%, the largest chunk of which came from supply chains not in the United States but in China. Behind the presumption Therefore, when on June 9, Josep Borrell Fontelles, the European Union’s High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, publicly proclaimed that “China is without doubt one of the key global players. We have to engage with China to achieve our global objectives, based on interests and values”, a logical assumption might be that there is unlikely to be any change in the Europe-China relationship after the novel coronavirus pandemic. Such a superficial impression is reinforced by European statements that they will not choose sides between the United States and China. Yet any such presumption bears closer examination. In March 2019, the EU Commission published “A Strategic Outlook”, describing China as, simultaneously, a cooperative partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival promoting alternative models of governance. This was the product of a long process of distillation during which the political and security dimensions began to jostle with the economics that had been the primary determinant of China-EU ties for two decades. Red flags go up There was a growing appreciation that the balance of challenges and opportunities presented by China were shifting as its economic power and concomitant political influence grew with unprecedented scale and speed, and in ways that concerned European security. China’s efforts to cultivate separate European sub-constituencies like the 16+1 Format with the Central and Eastern European States, and meetings with the Nordics and the Southern Europeans; the sailing of the PLA Navy into the Baltic Sea for joint exercises with Russia in 2017; cross-sectoral hybrid threats including information operations in European countries; Chinese behaviour in the South China Sea and Indian Ocean; and its targeted acquisition of key high-technology companies such as Kuka in Germany or key ports like Piraeus in Greece, began to raise red flags in the Chancelleries of Europe. China’s economic and financial practices backed by strategic motives threatened unity and the European project itself, since it appeared to undo their efforts in terms of connectivity, regulatory frameworks and the building of a single European entity. Thus, even before the pandemic, the “Strategic Outlook” recommended that the EU should shift towards “a more realistic, assertive and multifaceted approach” to China. China’s actions in the first half of 2020 have sharpened such contradictions. Its early handling of COVID-19, and even more importantly, the clumsy Chinese efforts to use the confusion inside Europe to their propaganda advantage, led the EU to make a rare and blunt accusation against China on June 10, 2020: “Foreign actors and certain third countries, in particular Russia and China, have engaged in targeted influence operations and disinformation campaigns around COVID-19 in the EU, its neighbourhood and globally, seeking to undermine democratic debate and exacerbate social polarisation, and improve their own image in the COVID 19 context.” China’s aggressive actions in the South China Sea, on the Line of Actual Control with India, and in Hong Kong, among others, have also gained European eyeballs, so much so that even though China remains critical to European economic health, the EU Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen, after the virtual Summit with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on June 22, 2020, said that Europe’s relations with China are “simultaneously one of the most strategically important and one of the most challenging that we have”. This then is the European dilemma. Determinants and focus now The European debate is no longer simply about market access, industrial subsidies, over-capacity in steel and hi-tech industries; stealing of IPR, and China’s assertive approach to the security, resilience and stability of digital networks. It has begun to turn towards how to balance economic co-dependency and co-prosperity with China’s strategic global intentions and efforts to seek military supremacy and its bearing on European security. In the trinity of determinants identified by the EU in March 2019 — namely [negotiating] Partner, [economic] Competitor and Systemic Rival — the last dimension is gradually becoming the dominant political narrative. China also views Brussels as increasingly antagonistic. Yuan Peng, President of China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, which belongs to China’s intelligence services, has opined in a stellar article on June 17, titled “The Coronavirus Pandemic and a Once-in-a-Century Change”, that “Europe’s star is fading”. Ironically, the retreat of the U.S. from global leadership is providing the Chinese with the means to take advantage, even when they no longer deem it in their strategic interests to support the “European Project”. During recent EU-China leader level meetings, the Chinese have downplayed the differences. Yuan Peng puts it thus: “The United States, Europe and Japan have common interests in curbing China, but China, Europe and Japan also have much to gain in tapping the potential of their relations.” The Chinese intention is to delay the former by dangling the economic carrot. Sentiments after pandemic None of this should lead to the inference that the EU will follow the U.S. in ‘de-coupling’ or join an ‘against-China’ camp. The European Union Chamber of Commerce in China, which recently released its Business Confidence Survey 2020, says that most European businesses are chiefly “in China, for China”. European companies still hope that China’s President Xi Jinping will use this pandemic to make fundamental reforms in the way that Deng Xiaoping and Zhu Rongji did in 1992 and 1998, respectively. European companies still regard China as the biggest potential market. Yet, the pandemic has also triggered calls for diversifying European businesses away from an overreliance on any single market. The deteriorating relationship between China and the U.S. is causing many new investors to look for alternative investment spaces. If either the Chinese fail to restore their end of the global supply chains or if the world demand cannot be revived, more companies will tend to look elsewhere. A role for India This, then, is an opportune time for India-EU relations, but only if we do not waste the crisis. Political conditions are favourable especially after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. The Europeans recognise India’s role in helping provide peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific. They see great potential in working together on technologies and issues of the future. But we are not the only economic alternative for Europe in the aftermath of COVID-19. If the Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement can be put back on track or, at the very least, if we conclude a new investment agreement, and if we are ready to join in high-technology collaboration including 5G and artificial intelligence, we may be able to align our stars. This will require imagination from our side, but Europe will also need to change its positions on trade in goods and be ready to accommodate India on services. The opportunity for India and the EU to build a partnership that is both economic and strategic is there for the taking in a post-COVID-19 strategic scenario. Vijay Gokhale is a former Foreign Secretary of India and a former Ambassador to Germany and to China||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-sum-and-substance-of-the-eus-china-dilemma/article32061677.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hardly smart about urban health care||The novel coronavirus pandemic has largely been an urban crisis so far, with megacities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai accounting for most of the COVID-19 positive cases. Indian cities are not only facing a public health crisis but also a larger emergency of economic issues and livelihoods. A high percentage of urban residents have lost employment during the lockdown and continue to face an uncertain future. So, are Indian cities equipped to deal with the pandemic and its aftermath? Still an urban dream Over the last decade-and-a-half, cities have started receiving more policy attention from the government, with dedicated national-level programmes on urban development. The ‘Smart Cities Mission’, a flagship programme of the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, completed five years, in June 2020. The Mission had sought to make 100 selected cities “smart”, primarily through an “Area-Based Development” model under which a small portion of the city would be upgraded by retrofitting or redevelopment. Five years after its launch, the enthusiasm regarding Smart Cities seems to have waned. While “smart cities” and “bullet trains” were buzzwords in the initial years of the first term of the NDA government, over the last few years there has hardly been any mention about them by the top political leadership. Many of the projects undertaken under the ‘Smart Cities Mission’ are behind schedule. According to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, of the 5,151 smart city projects across the 100 cities, while around 4,700 projects have been tendered, only 1,638 projects have been completed. In terms of expenditure, of the total investment of Rs. 2,05,018 crore, only projects worth Rs. 26,700 crore have been completed. Hence, the idea of completely transforming India’s derelict cities into “smart cities” within five years now seems a pipe dream.  A blind spot Most of these Smart Cities are now reeling under the devastation caused by COVID-19. Some cities have been using the Integrated Command and Control Centres created under the ‘Smart Cities Mission’ as “war rooms” for monitoring real time data regarding the spread of the virus. However, tackling the larger public health and economic fallout remains a more difficult challenge. In fact, the ‘Smart Cities Mission’ has given short shrift to basic services such as public health. An analysis of the smart city projects under the Mission shows that only 69 of over 5,000 projects undertaken under the Mission were for health infrastructure. These projects are for an estimated cost of Rs. 2,112 crore, amounting to just around one per cent of the total mission cost. Hence, public health seems to be a major blind spot in India’s smart city dreams. While one could argue that health infrastructure is not a core element of a “smart” city, the ‘Smart Cities Mission’ was never focused merely on technology; it had the stated aim of improving the quality of life of urban residents. Further, public health is an essential local government function in India’s constitutional scheme. As per the 12th Schedule of the Constitution, introduced by the 74th Amendment, “public health” is one of the 18 functions that are to be devolved to the municipalities. However, public health infrastructure of cities has often been neglected over the years and new programmes such as the ‘Smart Cities Mission’ have further driven local governments away from their core responsibilities. Strengthening local capacities The COVID-19 crisis has exposed the weaknesses in the institutional and human capacity of Indian cities to handle a public health emergency. Despite the renewed policy focus on cities, India’s urban local bodies continue to be financially and administratively weak and heavily understaffed. There is also high level of vacancy of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, the frontline public health workers carrying out contact tracing, in urban areas, especially in COVID-19 hotspot cities such as Mumbai. The relative success of Kerala in containing the pandemic has shown how a decentralised political and administrative system with strong local governments and high investment in local public health care can be effective. In the absence of such participative local government institutions, authorities in some cities have roped in resident welfare associations to monitor COVID-19 cases. In this process, resident welfare associations have become emboldened and are often imposing draconian rules as they exercise a form of private authoritarianism in their neighbourhoods. To tackle the COVID-19 crisis, it is important to strengthen local government capacities, invest heavily in urban public health systems, and promote programmes that improve the livelihoods of urban vulnerable communities. The ‘Smart Cities Mission’, with its skewed priorities and parallel governance structures of Special Purpose Vehicles, offers little hope in this regard. Instead, programmes such as the National Urban Livelihoods Mission and National Urban Health Mission, which have lately received limited focus and resources, need to be strengthened. Think jobs too Further, it is time to consider the introduction of a national urban employment guarantee programme that assures jobs for urban residents and strengthens the capacities of urban local bodies. Kerala has been running such a scheme since 2010 and States such as Odisha, Himachal Pradesh and Jharkhand have also recently launched similar initiatives in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. As Indian cities face an unprecedented challenge, it is important to get the priorities of urban development right and invest in programmes that improve the health and livelihoods of its residents. Mathew Idiculla is a lawyer and researcher on urban issues, and a consultant with the Centre for Law & Policy Research, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hardly-smart-about-urban-health-care/article32061679.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-imagining journalism-2||In this 400th column, I continue our collective efforts to re-imagine journalism. This also marks the 40th anniversary of the Organization of News Ombudsmen and Standards Editors (ONO). The organisation, which was born in the U.S. in 1980, deliberately chose the acronym ONO to mark the difficult relationship between an ombudsman and the newsroom. According to the official history of ONO, “It was said at the time that ‘Oh No!’ was the most common thing an ombudsman would hear from nervous or annoyed reporters whenever the ombudsman was seen on the newsroom floor, as their appearance often heralded a difficult discussion about poor decisions or outright mistakes. So the chance to call the organization itself ‘Oh No!’ was simply too good to pass up.” Reflections on journalism There have been many reflections on journalism over the last three centuries. From Benjamin Franklin’s declaration on journalistic ethics (found in his autobiography published in 1791) and Mahatma Gandhi’s reflections on running Indian Opinion (1904-1915) to the findings of various commissions, there is a rich oeuvre of literature about what makes journalism a public good. India had two press commissions — the First Press Commission (1952-54) and the Second Press Commission (1978-1982) — to define the contours of the Indian press. The first commission to come up with a comprehensive report was called the Hutchins Commission (the Commission on Freedom of the Press). In 1943, Henry R. Luce, the publisher of Time Inc., and Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, came up with the idea of forming a panel to reflect on the state of the U.S. press. The commission had a generous grant of $2,00,000 from Luce, and 13 American and four international advisers. It examined the role of journalism during the financial crisis following the Great Depression and World War II. As Chair of the commission, Hutchins told his fellow members that their purpose was to answer three questions: “What society do we want? What do we have? How can the press... be used to get what we want?” These questions remain valid. The commission’s key recommendations were that newspapers should redefine themselves as “common carriers of public discussion” by providing “a truthful, comprehensive account of the day’s events in a context which gives them meaning, a forum for the exchange of comment and criticism, a means of projecting the opinions and attitudes of the groups in the society to one another, and a way of reaching every member of the society by the currents of information, thought, and feeling which the press supplies.” It is heartening to receive a number of responses from readers, though a couple of them were merely clever jibes at the vocation itself. Academics define the news media as knowledge machines which make a distinct product: accounts. The role of these machines includes having editorial judgment in selecting and rejecting materials. As Professor Pablo J. Boczkowski said: “From a multitude of potentially newsworthy events happening in the world, these machines produce reports of the facts that count and explanations of why they count.” Space for debate When Internet 2.0 happened, there was a wide belief that this would enable readers to voice their opinions in the comments section leading to better dialogue and debate. Unfortunately, the comments section, instead of becoming a site for democratic mediation of ideas, soon descended to a gladiatorial arena drawing more blood than ideas. Many publications opted to shut down the comments section fully. Some like The Hindu have opted for a moderated comments section, which means deploying more human resources in these hard times. The unbridled space, and the choice to be anonymous, offered by platform companies like Facebook and Twitter amplifies hate, bigotry and misogyny. Debate has given way for shrill acrimonious exchanges that often end up as personal abuse. Digital disruption often blurs some of the crucial distinctions — for instance, how a local newspaper covers an international development as opposed to a global player such as Reuters or The Associated Press. For instance, a report in The Hindu, “The spectre of U.S. sanctions” (July 12), dealt with the adversarial impact on India of the U.S. Congress’s move to implementthe Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. A community requires not just hyper-local news but also needs to know about decisions taken by foreign leaders that have a profound impact on its livelihood. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/re-imagining-journalism-2/article32061683.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The travesty of film journalism||The recent death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput has raised several questions. Many have expressed their concerns about blind items that regularly feature in film-related news space slandering actors. Some have also said that these news items are manipulated and controlled by rivals of the target. No evidence is given in such news items; they are all based on hearsay. Often the news item doesn’t even mention the writer of the piece. That we still call it news is nothing short of farcical. A serious concern Film editor and writer Apurva Asrani wrote a long blog explaining his agonising experience when targeted by a series of slandering articles aimed at tarnishing his credibility. Mr. Asrani had to pay a heavy price in terms of health and mental consequences that he suffered. Actor Himanshu Malik also wrote an article enumerating his unsavoury experiences and the ugly machinations of the Hindi film industry. Rajput’s death has opened the floodgates of numerous such accounts — mostly social media posts and personal blogs. The insider-outsider debate has been long ensuing. However, there’s another serious concern that shouldn’t be brushed under the carpet — the nature of film reporting in India or, to be more specific, film reporting in Bollywood. Film journalism or whatever that means has been reduced to gossip, sensationalism and hype. Most film reviews are just badly written plot summaries with a few comments about song, dance, costume. In fact, that’s exactly how one shouldn’t write about films. These reviewers think cinema happens in a vacuum. There’s no mention of the sociocultural dimensions of the film. The rest of the stories are interviews with actors. Most of these are PR-driven exercises engineered before the launch of a film or intended to serve vested interests. Questions are often sent beforehand. Tailor-made answers are offered. Then there are lifestyle features about actors’ homes, their holidays, children and their birthday parties and unending inanities. Rumours, link-ups and scandals form a bulk of film-related reporting in this nation. This deviance has been normalised. However, exceptions exist — there are a handful of writers who are interested in discussing the merits and demerits of a film. At the same time, alternative online platforms like Film Companion have emerged that are interested in discussing films and not stars. Post-liberalisation phenomenon The question to ask is, how did film writing descend so low? This could be seen as a post-liberalisation phenomenon with major changes in the media landscape of the country and the advent of lifestyle or ‘sunny journalism’ as some would call it. The range of film magazines that soon emerged did very little to create interest in cinema per se; their sole focus remained on the life of the stars and fashioning a halo around the persona of the leading actors. The magazines were sold on the merit of who featured on the cover and other juicy details they offered. These magazines also started their own film awards. An unholy nexus thus flourished. The film award show is nothing less than a TRP-generating spectacle. All claims of honouring the finest in filmdom are pure convenience. This kind of film writing that thrived by spawning personal details of stars soon became an industry. Space for contemplative film writing and analysis began to shrink and a tabloid-type reporting took over by splashing photos of stars arriving at airports or leaving from home. We were told that this is what readers want to see. Such reporting encourages unabashed voyeurism. It breeds ugly consumerism. In such a climate, films that deserve to be written about don’t get featured because they are either too arty or their actors do not have a fan following whose ‘airport looks’ will bring the publication more attention. There are a lot of things to fix in any social structure including the Hindi film industry. But let us not leave film journalism out of the radar. Kunal Ray teaches literary and cultural studies at FLAME University, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-travesty-of-film-journalism/article32061687.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Museum to mosque||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s decision to turn Hagia Sophia back into a working mosque is a major setback to the country’s secular values that are already under attack from Islamists. The sixth century Byzantine monument had been at the centre of the conflict between Ottoman Muslims and eastern Orthodox Christians for centuries. Built as a cathedral by Byzantine Emperor Justinian I, it was converted into a mosque by the Ottomans after Mehmed the Conqueror captured the city in 1453. For five centuries, it was a jewel in the Ottoman Sultan’s crown. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the founding father of modern Turkey, closed down the mosque in 1930 as part of his secularisation drive and reopened it as a museum five years later. Ever since, it has been one of Turkey’s most visited monuments as well as a symbol of Christian-Muslim co-existence. In recent years, the demand for converting the museum into a mosque gained traction with support from Mr. Erdoğan and his party. On Friday, as soon as the country’s highest administrative court cancelled Hagia Sophia’s museum status, he signed a decree transferring its management to the Directorate of Religious Affairs. Reopening Hagia Sophia as a mosque is now only a matter of time and formality. Mr. Erdoğan, whose Justice and Development Party (AK Party) came to power in 2002 on promises of reforming the Kemalist state into a more inclusive and democratic one, has, instead, been systematically unmaking the secular republic. He has tightened his grip on power by moving religion to the centre of his governance. He has rewritten the Constitution, turning Turkey into an all-powerful executive presidency, and launched a war against journalists and critics at home. His foreign policy bets on Syria and Libya had backfired with jihadists making gains in both countries. After the failed coup of 2016, he started a purge to get rid of rivals from the government. Now, with the decision on Hagia Sophia, his brand of Islamism is taking a giant leap forward. The symbolism is hardly lost on anyone. For Turkish Islamists, Hagia Sophia has always been associated with the “glory” of the Ottoman imperial era. He is appealing to those sentiments, while symbolically marking an end to Kemalist secularism. The move comes at a time when the President is facing challenging times. The economy is in free fall. The COVID-19 pandemic is spreading. His popularity is sliding, especially after the AK Party lost local elections in Istanbul and Ankara last year. Whether the Hagia Sophia decision would help him politically or not, it could further fracture Turkish society and worsen international relations. Mr. Erdoğan is opening the wounds of the past, which could have lasting consequences. Surely, 2020 is not 1453.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/museum-to-mosque/article32061673.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Sure power||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s stated resolve to tap the energy of the sun to substantially power the economy and everyday life is to be welcomed, because it could help chart a green deal for the future. He restated the case for greater reliance on solar power, for energy and as a path for self-reliant industrialisation, at the inauguration of a 750 MW photovoltaic project at Rewa, in Madhya Pradesh last week. But as he would recognise, the idea of building a domestic solar manufacturing industry that delivers increasing volumes of quality photovoltaic cells, modules and associated equipment is long in the tooth. India’s installed base of this green power source is about 35 gigawatts (GW), and its projected addition of capacity until 2024 in a COVID-19 affected future is estimated by the industry to be of the order of 50 GW. Viewed against the goals set five years ago for the Paris Agreement on climate, of installing 100 GW of solar power by 2022, there could be a sharp deficit. Combined with low domestic cell manufacturing capacity at 3.1 GW last year, and heavy reliance on China, high ambition must now be supported by aggressive official policy. The Chinese story is one of a steady rise from insignificant manufacturing capability in the 1990s, to virtual dominance through active government support in identifying and acquiring top technologies globally, importing critical raw materials such as polysilicon, acquiring solar manufacturers abroad, and investing in third countries with ready capability. Importantly, the domestic market was treated with great importance while promoting exports. The pandemic presents a critical opportunity for India to plan a green deal, on the lines of what the EU has committed itself to: that future growth and employment should align itself to environmental and sustainability objectives, particularly in energy production, away from dirty fuels such as coal. There is no better time than now to make solar energy a strategic sector, giving it as much importance as defence. As the architect of the International Solar Alliance, which attracted about 120 nations at its launch, India needs to show leadership to advance the manufacture and absorption of solar photovoltaic infrastructure in low- and middle-income countries. The key requirements are integrated policies fully supported by States. Industry must get help to set up facilities and avail low cost financing — both important elements in China’s rise — and be able to invest in intellectual property. A forward-looking programme should also look at emerging trends in deploying solar innovatively. These include newer technologies such as aesthetic photovoltaic window and roof tiles for buildings, multi-role urban structures, and greater use of residential and commercial buildings to deploy more panels. Rapid progress requires a strategic shift to aid competitive domestic manufacturing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sure-power/article32061672.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Painting the lily. (From an editorial)||The reactionary reforms rules drafted by the Government of India in consultation with the Local Governments, regarding the composition of and elections to Legislative Councils and the procedure thereof, have secured the approval of the Joint Committee. The Joint Committee, we are told, opine that the Draft Rules “accurately and liberally interpret the recommendations of their report and the intentions of Parliament in framing the Act.” We are unable to say that this is not so for the Committee, we must grant, know their intentions better than we others. We daresay, however, that this will come as a surprise to some who claim to have laboured hard along and in co-operation with the Committee; for, they have been assuring the country that while many of the rules were in accordance with the Act and the intentions of the Joint Committee, they considered many others were distinctly against the expressed intentions of the Parliament and of the Committee and that they had done all in their power to get them rescinded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/painting-the-lily-from-an-editorial/article32061680.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Studying punitive fine proposal||A conference of Inspectors-General of Police will be held here [New Delhi] for three days from July 22 to discuss the law and order situation in the country, The conference will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, who has taken over the Home Portfolio. This conference, it is learnt, was arranged by Mr. Y. B. Chavan as Home Minister to discuss the law and order situation with special reference to certain communal incidents. Police chiefs confer once in two years. During the last meeting of the Inspector-Generals of Police held in Delhi the student problem was discussed. Several important suggestions emanated as to the role of the police in curbing student unrest. The present conference is expected to devote attention to the growth of naxalite movement besides communalism. The Prime Minister is expected to stress the importance of prompt police action to tackle difficult communal and other law and order situations. Several important proposals, including punitive fine, have already been mooted to curb communalism. Opposition leaders as well as the sub-committee of the National Integration Council were sounded on this proposal and the Prime Minister also wrote to the Chief Ministers on the subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/studying-punitive-fine-proposal/article32061681.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Stay focussed on your investments||If Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate on international airfare rises, how many of us will cancel our foreign vacation with family? Similarly, if the government reduces GST on hiring of banquet halls in hotels, how many of us will hurry into getting our son or daughter married even though they are pursuing higher education to take benefit of the lower GST? Though it is true that the GST rates do impact our lives and also the cost of living, that is something which is not in our control. Equally true is the fact that many financial goals of our life have to be fulfilled, even if something beyond our control, such as a rise or fall in GST rates, occurs. Financial responsibilities Some of these goals could be in form of our family financial responsibilities such as funding the education of our children, getting them married, our retirement and the like. There could also be certain dreams and aspirations such as going on a foreign vacation with family and purchasing a bigger car. A lot of these do not change simply because either GST or, for that matter, most other taxes and levies in the country increase or decrease. Yet, we keep focussing on GST rates and other taxes. Several times, as financial planner, I encounter individuals who procrastinate, delaying financial planning and investment decisions because the Union Budget is in the offing or the GST Council will be holding a meeting to decide on the rates. These are just excuses to avoid the discipline that we have to impose on ourselves with regard to financial planning. However, it is detrimental to our wealth creation. The best way to deal with any kind of wealth creation and achieve our financial goals is to plan and invest. So, instead of referring to GST as Goods and Services Tax, the goal must be Goal Savings Target. First, make a list of all financial responsibilities and dreams. This can be called ‘My GDP – My Goals and Dreams Plan.’ Prioritise them. This will help in getting focus and ease allocation of funds for each goal. Decide the amount that will be needed to fulfil those financial goals. There are enough calculators available on Web that will help in calculating the monthly amount needed to meet those financial goals. In case there are some inhibitions in making calculations, take the help of a qualified person. Set priorities It is not always possible to have enough surplus every month to invest towards our future goals. The moment goals are prioritised, it is easier to take a decision. Goals that are high priority need allocation of money first, and so on and so forth. Another benefit of listing and prioritising financial goals is to decide where to invest. Options could be investing in the stock markets, gold, fixed deposits, bonds or real estate. Also, consideration can be given to whether the investment be made directly or should mutual funds be considered as a vehicle. There could be a few other investment vehicles available that can be considered. Lastly, deciding on financial goals, calculating the amount, allocating funds are all steps in bringing about focus. Focus always helps in optimum utilisation of resources. Making ‘MY – GST’ will help bring focus so that ‘our financial resources’ viz. income from ‘our routine earning’ and returns generated from ‘our investment’ help in achieving ‘My GDP.’ Family support As a practitioner, it is very common to get a comment from a family member, housewives and older children saying “I also want to contribute towards a particular financial goal that the family is investing for.” As individuals, we want to know the end goal and also belong to an activity where the end result is known. Thereafter, every time there is some saving and investing, there is a sense of achievement as it lends clarity to our purpose. Giving direction to our investments gets us focussed; choosing an investment vehicle and asset class becomes easy; we refrain from copying others or relying on any rumours; and, there is family support.  (The author is a financial planner and the author of Yogic Wealth)   Deciding on financial goals, calculating the amount and allocating funds are all steps in bringing about focus.. Focus also helps us optimally utilise resources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stay-focussed-on-your-investments/article32061663.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Is there a safe investment?||In tune with current times, Claudius in the Shakespearean play, Hamlet, would, have, perhaps, said: “When anxieties come, they come not in single spies, but in battalions!” With uncertainty in employment on one side and volatile financial markets on the other, it is natural that we are overanxious about the world around us. It is in this backdrop that we address a reader’s question: How safe are bank deposits in these uncertain times? In this article, we show there are no safe investments and that your investment decision involves risk trade-offs. Default risk A safe investment is not one that will protect your nominal capital. Rather, it is one that will help you accumulate money at a required rate with zero risk. Suppose you have to earn 4% compounded annual return to achieve your goal eight years hence, the safest investment would be a cumulative bank deposit with zero default risk. Unfortunately, all banks carry default risk, though low. That means there is a no safe investment! You should, therefore, look for investments with a minimal risk. You may be aware that the Reserve Bank of India has identified SBI, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank as domestic systemically important banks. While these banks may reduce your anxiety levels on a default risk, you may not fancy the interest rates they offer. There is an alternative. In the Budget, the government increased insurance cover that banks offer on deposits (including savings account) from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh. You can, therefore, spread your deposits across banks such that the maturity amount of your cumulative deposits does not exceed Rs. 5 lakh in any one bank. Of course, it will be cumbersome to monitor deposits across multiple banks. Reinvestment risk What about direct investment in government bonds? True, such investments do not have default risk, but they expose you to high reinvestment risk. To understand this risk, consider a five-year cumulative bank deposit for Rs. 10,000 at 5.5% interest per annum. In the first year, you earn Rs. 550 as interest income, which the bank adds to your deposit amount. In the second year, you will earn 5.5% on Rs. 10,550. But if the bank were to credit the interest to your savings account, you have to reinvest Rs. 550 at 5.5 per cent every year. Why? To earn 5.5% compounded return on your initial investment, you should reinvest your interest income at 5.5% every year. But you could face problems finding investment opportunities every year, especially, if the RBI were to cut interest rates. So, the risk you run today is that you may be forced to reinvest the yearly interest income at a lower rate in the future. This reinvestment risk is very high for government bonds because you will receive interest every half year. It all comes down to trade-offs. Suppose, you want to accumulate money for 7 years, you can invest in a recurring (or cumulative) deposit that matures in 7 years. It may be difficult to find a government bond with the same maturity. You could invest in an open-end bond fund and redeem your units after 7 years. Suffice it to know such funds cannot provide fixed returns because they offer net asset value (NAV)-based returns. So, if your anxiety levels are high, consider keeping your deposits with the three systematically important banks. If your anxiety levels are not-so-high, then consider other public sector banks in addition to these three systematically important banks. And if you want to get a somewhat higher interest rate, you may have to consider private-sector banks. Remember this: You cannot avoid any risk. It all comes down to what risks you are comfortable with — zero default risk, high reinvestment risk (government bonds) or low default risk, zero reinvestment risk (recurring and cumulative bank deposits).  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/is-there-a-safe-investment/article32061665.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||blackboard: Switching out and in||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/blackboard-switching-out-and-in/article32061667.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am a 43-year old corporate lawyer drawing a monthly salary of Rs. 1.3 lakh. Due to personal reasons, I could not invest until now. How much should I be investing every month and also in what vehicles, for me to retire at 65? I have an eight-year-old son. Sindhu Joseph A.It is never too late to start investing. To gauge how much you need to invest, you’ll have to make a basic financial plan first. This involves listing out your main financial goals with the timeline by which you’d like to achieve them. You will need to assess your return targets and risk appetite. Finally, you create individual portfolios towards each financial goal. Given the details you’ve mentioned, you will perhaps need to create a corpus for your son’s higher education about 10 years from now and a corpus for your retirement, 22 years from now. This apart, you will need insurance and an emergency fund to take care of unexpected contingencies. We suggest you first take a basic term life cover to take care of your son’s needs in your absence. Do sign up for a health insurance cover for a minimum of Rs. 10 lakh too, if you don’t already have one. You must also set aside enough savings in a bank FD towards an emergency fund to cover 9 months of your living expenses to take care of any period of interrupted income or profession in future. Having done this, you can plan out your long-term investments towards your son’s education and retirement goals. For your son’s education, do estimate the sum you’ll need 10 years hence (after factoring in inflation at 7-8%), for an undergraduate and post-graduate degree using online or offline help. You can invest in hybrid aggressive equity mutual funds (via systematic investment) or in a combination of multi-cap equity and debt funds to get to this goal. For your retirement, make an estimate of the monthly expenses you will need in today’s rupees to live comfortably. To arrive at the size of retirement corpus, you will need to adjust this for inflation over the next 22 years and then multiply the annual amount by a factor of 20 or 25 times. This will be your retirement goal. The size of this corpus will decide how much you will need to invest every month. Given that you have 20-odd years to go, you can invest in equity fund SIPs with a PPF component to get to your retirement goal. Start investing Rs. 1.5 lakh a year in PPF right away and invest the rest via SIPs in multi-cap and index funds. You can use online calculators for the above estimates. You may also need the help of a full-fledged financial advisor to map out your investment plan and to select the right products. Do remember that financial planning is not a one-off exercise and needs constant monitoring and course corrections along the way. Q.I am 33 and a dentist with an academic job and a private set up. My monthly earnings are about Rs. 40,000. I am married and have a child. I am yet to start financial planning. How much should I save every month? Srinidhi Bhat A.The first step in financial planning, as detailed above, would be to map out your key financial goals today with the timelines by which you would like to achieve them. If you have dependants who contribute to the family’s spending, you also need to take both a term life and a health insurance cover to tide you and your family over unexpected events. You will also need to save 9 months’ of living expenses in a bank FD to meet any unforeseen emergencies that interrupt your income or work. In our view, while real estate can be one of your investments, it cannot be the only one, given that returns from this asset are very location-specific and that land can be quite illiquid as an investment. It is best to maintain a diversified basket of investments across real estate, stocks, bonds, FDs and gold. Both your stock and bond investments can be routed through mutual funds. Kindly start by investing Rs. 1.5 lakh a year in PPF which can contribute to your retirement planning and help in tax savings. You can start SIPs in hybrid equity or multi-cap equity funds towards your longer term goals such as child’s education. Financial planning is an ongoing process for which you may need the services of a qualified financial advisor, to help you quantify goals, decide on the asset allocation and choose the right products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article32061664.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article32061670.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Hima confident of landing a berth for Tokyo Olympics||Star sprinter Hima Das is not unduly worried about having to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics, as she feels she can make it to her maiden Games once the international season, suspended due to COVID-19 pandemic, resumes. Hima, the reigning 400m junior World champion, is yet to qualify for the postponed Olympics and the international season has been suspended till November 30. “Worrying about it would only create unnecessary tension. There still is a year to go for the Olympics,” Hima told PTI in an interview from NIS, Patiala.  “Let us first pray that this pandemic ends. Then the athletics season begins (on December 1) and there is a lot of time next year to qualify for the Olympics,” she said. The 20-year-old Hima, known as the ‘Dhing Express’, holds the 400m National record (50.79 seconds). However, a lower-back injury has been troubling her for some time, leading to speculation that she may not run the 400m and switch to the 200m. she had left it to her coach to take a call on that, Hima said. Hima won six races in Poland and the Czech Republic in July and August last year. But she ran just one 400m, four of the five other wins came in the 200m. Specialised training Hima said the campers at Patiala had begun easing into specialised training after their outdoor fitness regimen. “There are no immediate competitions and so we are just doing medium-intensity training,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hima-confident-of-landing-a-berth-for-tokyo-olympics/article32061916.ece
13 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Esha has next Olympics in her sights||At 15, gifted shooter Esha Singh is now dreaming big — of representing India at the next Olympics. For, the former junior World Cup silver medallist is now a part of the core group of shooters picked by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) to train for the next edition of the Olympics. Esha feels it is a great opportunity, especially after having “missed out narrowly in the Olympic trials held in March for the originally scheduled Games this year”. “I am proud to be named in the group and frankly I was not expecting this even though I was pleased with the way I have been performing on the international circuit before the lockdown,” said Esha, who won the Asian junior championship 10m air pistol gold last November. “I am not going to Delhi as it is not a national camp which I should attend compulsorily,” said Esha, who is thankful to her sponsors Pooja Crafted Homes, Olympic Gold Quest and Indian Oil Corporation for all the support. “Definitely, like all top athletes, I enjoy my training sessions even now, with SAI coach Ved Prakash sir monitoring them. I don’t think there will be any big changes in my training schedule. I will continue to focus on 10m air pistol till the next Olympics,” said Esha whose daily training is handled by her father-cum-coach Sachin Singh. “Definitely, training in these conditions means the intensity will not be the same as when we train in the ranges. But it is important to keep yourself focused mentally and physically,” said Esha. Sachin Singh said training in the prevailing circumstances is different. “The biggest challenge is how she responds in a major championship, for the pulse rate, heartbeat will be different in those conditions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/esha-has-next-olympics-in-her-sights/article32062039.ece
13 July 2020||TURIN,||Ronaldo to Juventus’ rescue||Cristiano Ronaldo converted two penalties, both awarded for handball and the second in the last minute, as Serie A leader Juventus twice hit back to draw 2-2 with Atalanta to move closer to a ninth successive title on Saturday. The win took Juventus eight points clear of second-placed Lazio, which lost 2-1 at Sassuolo, with six matches to play.  With help from Messi In the LaLiga, Lionel Messi notched a 20th assist of the season to help a lacklustre Barcelona secure a 1-0 win away to Real Valladolid. Arturo Vidal struck the winner in the 15th minute. David McGoldrick scored twice for Sheffield United as it upset Chelsea with a 3-0 win in the Premier League at Bramall Lane. Chelsea’s grip on a top four place — and Champions League qualification — was weakenedby the result.  The results:   Serie A: Lazio 1 (Alberto 33) lost to Sassuolo 2 (Raspadori 52, Caputo 90+2); Brescia 0 lost to Roma 3 (Fazio 48, Kalinic 62, Zaniolo 74); Juventus 2 (Ronaldo 55-pen, 90-pen) drew with Atalanta 2 (Zapata 16, Malinovskiy 81).   LaLiga: Espanyol 0 lost to Eibar 2 (Exposito 25-pen, 36); Osasuna 2 (Gallego 23, Arnaiz 90+1) bt Celta Vigo 1 (Lorenzo 10); Valladolid 0 lost to Barcelona 1 (Vidal 15); Atletico Madrid 1 (Costa 74) bt Real Betis 0.   Premier League: Aston Villa 2 (Trezeguet 45+4, 59) bt Crystal Palace 0; Wolves 3 (Jimenez 45+2-pen, Dendoncker 46, Jota 74) bt Everton 0; Sheffield United 3 (McGoldrick 18, 77, McBurnie 33) bt Chelsea 0; Brighton 0 lost to Manchester City 5 (Sterling 21, 53, 81, Jesus 44, Bernardo Silva 56) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldo-to-juventus-rescue/article32061782.ece
13 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Purnima Mahato taking care of trainees as her own||Purnima Mahato believes taking care of the mental health of trainees at the Tata Archery Academy (TAA) in Jamshedpur is as important as looking after their game. Purnima, a Dronacharya Award-winning coach and mother of two, finds similarities between her own kids and those living at the TAA.  “I see how my children get bored at being confined for such a long time. It’s no different for the trainees, away from their families. Apart from coaching tips, we are also counselling them on handling the tough period and on safety measures,” Purnima told The Hindu . “Individual phones are not allowed inside the academy. But, considering the situation, they have been permitted to carry phones for two hours a day and speak to their families.” According to Purnima, who is now confined to her home as it falls in a ‘red zone’, the 19 trainees would take some time to find their form.  “They did indoor training for two-three hours a day and attended online classes during the lockdown. However, staying away from practice impacts their game. When they returned to training, they found a 70m target too far. Now they are shooting at 10m and 30m targets,” she said. Purnima said the pandemic spoiled the TAA’s plan of inducting a new batch of trainees. “Normally we take 24 trainees, but this time we had plans for 26. It has been put on hold because of the pandemic,” said Purnima.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/purnima-mahato-taking-care-of-trainees-as-her-own/article32062179.ece
13 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Vinay parts ways with Puducherry||Allrounder R. Vinay Kumar’s one-year stint with Puducherry came to an end, with Cricket Association of Puducherry (CAP) naming Sheldon Jackson, Paras Dogra and Pankaj Singh as the outstation players for the side this year. Former Rajasthan and India pacer Pankaj, who played for Puducherry in 2018-19, returns to replace Vinay. Mutual consent Vinay stated that he parted ways with Puducherry by mutual consent, and that he is yet to take a call on whom he will next represent. “My contract with Puducherry expired at the end of our Ranji Trophy campaign. We parted ways by mutual consent,” Vinay stated.  With uncertainty surrounding the start of the domestic season due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Vinay explained that he will take a wait-and-watch approach. “I haven’t yet thought about my future plans. Due to COVID-19, we don’t even know when the season will start. My priority right now is to stay safe. When things return to normal, I will see which State team I can join,” the 36-year-old said. A CAP official explained, “Pankaj Singh is one of the best bowlers in domestic cricket, and someone who has played for us already. He still has good pace and is always consistent. He knows how to do well in this competition.” Vinay had a successful run with Puducherry, taking 45 wickets from nine Ranji Trophy matches. With the bat, he hit three fifties and recorded an average of 31.77. The former Karnataka skipper was effective in the limited-over matches as well.  (With inputs from S. Dipak Ragav)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinay-parts-ways-with-puducherry/article32061779.ece
13 July 2020||CHENNAI:,||GenNext’s reality show||GenNext Cricket Institute will conduct a cricket reality show for players aged between 14 and 22. The show will be hosted by India off-spinner R. Ashwin. The players will perform drills (batting, bowling, catching, ’keeping) over video calls and will be judged by coaches. Entry is free. Call Karthik (99626 86000) or Aravind (99520 85044).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gennexts-reality-show/article32061856.ece
13 July 2020||Chennai,||Sheldon Jackson to play for Puducherry||Sheldon Jackson, Pankaj Singh and Paras Dogra will be the three outstation professional players for Cricket Association of Pondicherry for the 2020-21 domestic season. Pankaj replaces Vinay Former Rajasthan and India pacer Pankaj Singh, who played for Pondicherry in 2018-19, will return to replace Karnataka pacer Vinay Kumar, who played last year. Sheldon Jackson played a key role in Saurashtra’s Ranji Trophy-winning campaign last year, scoring 809 runs, and will replace Tamil Nadu’s K.B. Arun Karthick in the squad. A CAP official said, “Sheldon has been a prolific run-getter and will add strength to our batting line up alongside Paras Dogra who has done well for us. “Pankaj Singh is one of the best bowlers in domestic cricket and someone who has played for us already. He still has good pace and is always consistent, giving very little to the batsmen. He knows how to do well in this competition. We came close the last two years to qualify for the knockouts from the Plate group and with these signings, we hope to do it this year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sheldon-jackson-to-play-for-puducherry/article32061857.ece
13 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Lagno pips Yifan to title||Kateryna Lagno of Russia won the third Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Chess.com women’s Speed Chess in dramatic fashion on Sunday. In the final, she scored a 6.5-5.5 win over China’s Hou Yifan, who lost the final game after being in a superior position. The Chinese was unlucky as she let her mouse slip, leading to a blunder that her opponent cashed in on. This was after the World No. 1 had staged a gallant comeback from 2-5 down to make it 5-5. Lagno’s compatriot Alexandra Kosteniuk took the third spot, beating Iran’s Sarasadat Khademalsharieh 7-4. The final leg begins on July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lagno-pips-yifan-to-title/article32061777.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Another poor weekend for Daruvala||Jehan Daruvala had yet another poor weekend in the FIA Formula 2 championship race at Spielberg, finishing 12th and ninth in the two races on Saturday and Sunday. The India, part of the Red Bull Racing F1 team’s junior driver programme, is yet to score a point in the championship after four races even as teammate Yuki Tsunoda got a second-place finish in the first race on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/another-poor-weekend-for-daruvala/article32061780.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rijiju to hold online meet with State ministers||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju will hold discussions with sports ministers of all states and union territories from July 14 to figure a way forward as sporting activities begin to resume amid the gradual lifting of the COVID-19 lockdown. The two-day online meeting will review the action taken during the pandemic, and discuss resumption of sporting activities at the state level along with identification of budding talent through competitions at block and district levels. “The country is in the second phase of unlock now and it is important to have a dialogue with the states to align the way forward for sports and youth related activities,” Rijiju said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rijiju-to-hold-online-meet-with-state-ministers/article32061783.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Epitome of detachment||Except for a few realised souls who have attained Poorna Vairagya, it is not possible for the majority of the people living in this world to be totally detached to the concerns caused by the body mind complex. But even such realised souls have to fight the strong pulls of nostalgia to remain in that state. Vidura stands out as an embodiment of detachment in the scene when he sheds his mortal body in Yudhishtira’s presence which is described in a telling manner in the Devi Bhagavata, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Vidura’s life, character and antecedents show that he is committed to dharma and is also a great devotee who knows Krishna as the Supreme Lord incarnate. It is held that he himself is the incarnation of Yama who was once cursed by Sage Mandavya to be born as a human being. As Vyasa’s son, Vidura had always been a source of support to Dhritarashtra and he accompanies him to the forest where they spend the last years of their lives. Yudhishtira and others once visit them in the forest. Not seeing Vidura, Yudhishtira makes enquiries and is told that Vidura has become detached and has gained Poorna virakti and has left the place. He is in total solitude and is doing penance and meditating on the Supreme Lord. The next day Yudhishtira sees Vidura on the banks of the Ganga, totally lost in meditation and in an emaciated state. He is overwhelmed and pays obeisance to him. Here, Suta says Vidura does not react but just stands stupefied in front of Yudhishtira. The term used is ‘stanu bhuta’ meaning remaining stone like. Vidura holds on to his commitment to remain detached even when accosted by his favourite Yudhishtira. It is said that a bright effulgence comes out of his body and enters Yudhishtira while he falls lifeless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/epitome-of-detachment/article32061736.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 09:21 IST,||Sudoku - July 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-13-2020/article32062761.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Tiny particles, big solutions||Over the past 15-plus weeks, how many times in a day have you furiously wiped down surfaces with disinfectants? The COVID-19 fear factor has turned scientists to research on products with nano technology, that is based on the application of group of few atoms . They are looking for a solution aimed at a surface coating that bonds to the material with long-term protection against germs (bacteria, viruses, fungi, protozoa). What are these surface protectors? They are substances that use metals such as silver and copper or biomolecules such as neem extract known for their anti-microbial activity, or cationic (i.e positively charged) polymers in combination with chemical compounds (like ammonia plus nitrogen) that can be used as a long-lasting protective coating. The compound can be sprayed on metal, glass, wood, stone, fabric, leather, and other materials; the effect can last from a week to 90 days depending on the type of surface. Are they out in the market? Until the pandemic, there were products for anti-bacterial application, but now the focus has shifted to viruses. For instance, Prof Ashwini Kumar Agrawal, the Head of Textile and Fibre Engineering Department at IIT Delhi, developed N9 blue nano silver in 2013, with a much higher potency than other metals and polymers to catch and kill bacteria. He has now evaluated anti-viral properties and re-formulated the compound to work against COVID-19. He says different kinds of silver (yellow and brown) have been patented by countries including the US, China, and Australia to establish the uniqueness of the metal for surface hygiene. “But the N9 blue silver can be 100 times more effective with the longest lasting protection.” Institutions (particularly the IITs) across the country are in different stages of developing these nanoparticles as surface coatings. All are awaiting validation against viruses, through field trials before they can legally mass manufacture. The required certification needs to ideally go through Government-approved labs (like ICMR, CSIR, NABL or NIV) that are currently all engaged only in research on medicinal drugs and vaccines. But are there nano-products that are available? There are some products that have been tested by private labs either in India or abroad. For instance, Delhi-based start-up, GermCops has launched a disinfection service with a US manufactured and EPA-certified water-based anti-microbial product which, it is claimed, when sprayed over metallic, non-metallic, tiled and glass surfaces gives protection up to 120 days with a 99.9% killing rate in the first 10 days. Dr Pankaj Goyal, the founder, says the product is good for homes that have had a COVID-19 positive patient home-quarantined. She is speaking to the Delhi Transport Corporation to disinfect 1,000 buses. However, the testing has been conducted in a private lab. IIT Delhi’s samples were sent in April to the microbiological testing laboratory, MSL in UK. The reports are expected only by the end of the year. “The battery of lab tests will confirm the efficacy of the compound in dry state, how fast and for how long it can continue to kill the virus and if it is non-toxic and safe to use,” says Prof Agrawal. While Prof Agrawal’s N9 blue silver comes under the Government of India’s Nano Mission project funded by the Department of Science & Technology, another by IIT Madras, funded by the Defence Research Development Organisation, has developed a nano-coated filter for PPE kits, masks, and gloves that can be used by frontline healthcare workers. The coating filters sub-micron-sized dust particles in the air. However, its practical application is also subject to field testing and is therefore, pending. Are long-lasting surface protectors in use anywhere else in the world? Following findings from the Diamond Princess cruise ship that the novel coronavirus can last on surfaces up to 17 days, the development of a new disinfectant technology arose. While anti-viral coatings are undergoing clinical tests in several countries, three months ago, scientists from Haifa’s Institute of Technology, in Israel, claimed to have developed anti-viral polymers that could kill the novel coronavirus without getting diminished. Researchers in Hong Kong University of Science & Technology also developed a new anti-microbial coating known as MAP-1 that can kill most bacteria and viruses — including the coronavirus — for up to 90 days. Prof Agrawal says many countries are engaged in developing heat-sensitive polymers that respond to contamination from touch or droplets, from the time of previous epidemics of SARS. Many of those formulations have been modified during the current pandemic and sold under different brand names in Japan, Singapore, and the US. However, the surface protectors currently available in international markets are pocket-pinching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tiny-particles-big-solutions/article32062158.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Sophie’s choice of colleges||While for a majority of India, lockdown officially began on March 24, the country’s 17-18-year-olds — the batch of 2020 — have been living in a quasi-lockdown state since the beginning of this year, preparing for the ‘board year’. In any other year, by this time, students would have been ready to start a new chapter of their lives. The top scorers faces would have been up on billboards and parents would have gone through variations of the ‘Top 10 Colleges’ lists, choosing campuses based on ‘Only the best for our child’. This year has been anything but normal. And with the pandemic shifting perspectives, the criteria for what makes for ‘a good college’ has changed vastly. It is no longer just about the best placement rate, but also about how hygienic the dorms are, and how strict its safety standards are. “The pandemic did not give us any warning,” says Madurai-based Divya Hinduja, mother to 17-year old Kunal. Interested in data sciences, Kunal managed to get admission in City University of Hong Kong. But with no end of the pandemic in sight, Divya rethought the idea of Kunal going abroad. “I turned around on that because the pandemic taught us that anything can happen anytime,” she says. All through last year, it was Divya backing Kunal’s desire to study abroad. “After the pandemic, I said anywhere in India is okay beta , but not abroad. Just in case anything like this springs up again, it will be difficult for us to meet, and I will be completely petrified,” she says. Her decision was strengthened after understanding what her friends, whose kids were studying abroad, were going through. For the first few months, students were stuck away from home. Now, under a new directive by the Trump government in USA, students whose classes have moved online will be stripped of their visa and be required to go back to their countries. Open campuses While Divya is willing to send Kunal to any good college in India, some parents are rethinking their top college choice based on their locations. Cities such as Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai have an air of fear lingering over them, given their newfound reputation as places with the highest number of COVID-19 cases. In Dehradun, Preeti Gulati does not wish for her daughter Samriddhi to even move away from their hometown. The 17-year-old was already battling certain health issues and the pandemic further ensured that she stayed put. “At least they have online classes; if they didn’t, we would have considered taking a one-year break,” says Preeti, adding that she selected the best computer science institute in the city. “Plus, if she stays with us, we can keep a better eye on her nutrition and immunity.” Divya, on the other hand, says the infrastructure of the college matters more than its location: “Most colleges are not in the centre of the city but on the outskirts.” On Divya’s checklist is a hostel with spacious rooms for a maximum of two people, so that social distancing can be maintained. The academic buildings as well shouldn’t be overcrowded, and should follow a strict hygiene protocol. She will also be checking who the caterers for the hostel are, and “whether or not the cooks wear gloves and masks while cooking and sanitise themselves before entering the kitchen.” Samriddhi and her parents too made a trip to her college to register and check the safety standards of the campus. “We checked how airy and well-ventilated the classrooms were, how much sunlight they got, how green the campus was. The desks are such that only one person sits on one bench,” says Preeti. “Whoever entered had to sanitise themselves at the gates and there was a thermal screening check,” she adds. Learn to live with it What do you do when your own city is one of the most infected areas in India? Does home still feel safe? “There is at least one COVID-19 positive case in almost every housing society here. In our own society, there are a couple,” says Ranjita Mandal, a Panvel (Navi Mumbai) resident. Her daughter, Sudipa, has been preparing for engineering entrance exams since last year. But the pandemic keeps pushing the date for JEE and NEET further — as things stand, they are supposed to be held in September. “I wish they could take just one test and be done with it. But there are so many private colleges with their own (now-online) entrance exams… we don’t know when this will end and we will be able to select a college,” says Ranjita. With the looming uncertainty regarding admissions, Ranjita finds that it doesn’t pay to worry too much about campus hygiene and health. “As long as she gets into a good college — that is our priority. Because even if the admission is done, I’m sure they will conduct classes online, at least for this year. Maybe they can do just theory this year. So is does not matter where the college is, as long as it is good for her in the long run,” she says. Preeti agrees, “We don’t know when there will be a cure, but we can’t always keep our children restricted. Once they go to college they need to take care of themselves. As they say, you have to learn to live with it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sophies-choice-of-colleges/article32062149.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A tragedy to learn from||It is hard to accept that a tragedy can actually teach us something positive. After or even as we are experiencing COVID-19, the fact is that the world will never be the same again. I ask myself as I read and hear about people dying — both elderly and even the young — if their death is really in vain? Or is there a lesson that we can take from death that has been forced on them? Every life is being touched at some point by tragedy; it could be a building collapse, a broken relationship or a sudden disability. Life seems to be at a constant risk, and if we forget this we might be unprepared for challenges that existence may have in store for us. We are therefore being forced to attempt to make some sense of what is happening, to overcome our fears and look at re-building our lives. I am realising, with pain undoubtedly, that I have to first accept ‘what is’. I do not want to treat my fear as some kind of adversary and allow it to punish me. People around the world are struggling, like I am. With every death we read about here in our country or elsewhere, each of us is dying, a little. The whole world is becoming one. The lesson to embrace thus is the need for patience and the certainty that everything in life is temporary. If this is true and the world is no more a safe place, at least for now, I am telling myself to take advantage of this sudden change, spend my time doing things I have always wanted to do, but for which I always lacked courage. I wish for myself and for all those like me that we work towards lifting ourselves out of the emotional rubble that has been forced upon us and build our own life, a life we dreamed of, but never dared to create. The writer is an organisational and behavioural consultant. He can be contacted at ttsrinath@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-tragedy-to-learn-from/article32062155.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A glossary of new Zoom language||Thanks to the COVID-19 crisis, work habits and philosophies have transformed radically. Zoom meetings are a big part of this change. A whole new vocabulary is developing to describe Zoom etiquette and behaviour. As part of ongoing efforts by The Hindu to keep you on the cutting edge of the public discourse, here is a handy glossary.  Bheja Vu: The feeling that all the points that people are making in this meeting were already made in yesterday’s meeting.  Involuntary Mutation: When you deliver one of the best speeches of your life, full of insight and inspiration, providing clarity on a wide variety of issues, for a period of at least 15 minutes, without realising that your microphone is still on mute.  Preparation Anxiety: The concern that your clothing conveys the impression that you are not taking the meeting seriously enough. You can minimise this anxiety by wearing a crisply ironed shirt and a tie, but this can be also lead to perceptions of Abnormal Formality.  Abnormal Formality: The tendency to overdress for Zoom meetings, leaving others with feelings of rage, inadequacy and resentment that your laundry services during this time of crisis are much better than everyone else’s.  The Doggler Effect: When your dog barks continuously throughout the duration of your call.  Mutually Assured Meeting Destruction: When the connection is poor, both of you have meetings at the same time, and you end up shouting simultaneously in the same room.  Pantomiming: When you are struck dumb by the realisation, halfway through the meeting, that you are not wearing pants.  Advanced Pottery: A high level Zoom skill. Refers to the ability to complete a bowel movement during the course of the meeting, without revealing this fact to others.  Cereal Killing: The act of chewing cornflakes very carefully so that others are not disturbed by the noise. If your camera is on, your spoon movements will need to be quick.  Juvenile Retention: When your child refuses to leave the room while you are in a meeting. May involve musical instruments.  Perfeuphoria: The realisation that you no longer have to buy deodorant.  Patriot Shame: The feeling that arises within you when you want to stop using Zoom because some people say it’s Chinese, in order to support our troops on the border, but are unable to figure out how to use Microsoft Teams.  Stubble Fallacy: The mistaken belief that if the lighting is dim enough, no one will be able to make out that you have not shaved for the last three days.  Porn Scorn: The reaction of your colleagues when you watch porn during a meeting without realising that your screen sharing is on.  Hair Supremacy: The sense of satisfaction that you get when you realise that you are the only one in the meeting who has recently had a haircut.  Snortle: The mildly amused noise you make, quickly suppressed, combining a snigger and a chortle, when you notice that your boss has positioned his camera in such a way that you can see right up his nose.  Skin Depth Analysis: Post meeting judgemental remarks about your physique and complexion, made by others, after you take a shower during a Zoom meeting and forget to turn off your camera. We hope this was useful. Please share this knowledge with others, and use it well. No new words were invented in Shovon Chowdhury’s most recent novel,Murder With Bengali Characteristics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-glossary-of-new-zoom-language/article32062152.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Room for trouble||Every year in the second week of July, the area surrounding Delhi University’s North Campus colleges erupts with activity as ‘freshers’ (first-year students) go on the hunt for paying guest (PG) accommodation. At the corner of every campus street, people hand out flyers for PG accommodations — promising a host of facilities to suit every budget — and everybody from the e-rickshaw drivers to student-run helpdesks have a recommendation. This year, however, uncertainty over reopening of universities on account of COVID-19 has pushed paying guest and hostel owners to the “brink of collapse” as there are no freshers coming in and most of the older students have moved out. Rajesh Gupta, who has been running a PG accommodation in Vijay Nagar since 2017, said he had to give up one of the three floors he had taken up on rent to use as students’ residence. “The floor had been lying empty for nearly three months as there were no tenants coming in. The only reason we are still running is because we have about 8-10 students still living here,” Mr. Gupta said, adding that the cost of running common areas, electricity and maintenance had made it a loss-making endeavour. “Usually, when the students go back home around this time, there is one month where we incur losses as we are getting no rent but have to pay for maintenance work such as painting. This year, however, most students left for home in March and have not returned since. Many of them were not in a position to pay rent either,” he added. Love Jain, who runs a PG in Kamala Nagar — near DU colleges such as Hansraj, Kirori Mal, and Ramjas, said that the industry had practically collapsed. “Most of the people running PG’s here have taken property on rent from building owners. So, even if tenants are not coming, they have to pay rent to their landlord,” he said. In a bind PG owners find themselves in a tough spot, having to either pay rent for property with no tenants or forgo investments they have made on the building by giving up the lease. The situation has been made worse with recent orders of the government and the High Court. “On the one hand, commercial properties have been ordered to continue paying rent, and on the other, we have been told to waive rent for students. What are we supposed to do?” wondered Mr. Jain. Ruchika Bansal, who has been running Bansalville PG since 1995, said this is the first time her venture has faced such a problem. Life interrupted “When students left for home in March just before the lockdown started, nobody expected it to last this long. The students left most of their belongings here. Now, they are stuck back home and all their books and clothes are locked here,” Ms. Bansal said. “While some students living near Delhi were able to come and clear out their rooms, I have been helping others who stay far away by sending back their belongings via courier. Several students living in the Northeast and Odisha have mailed me their keys. We start a video call, and their belongings are packed up right in front of them and mailed back,” Ms. Bansal added. Uncertain about the future, Ms. Bansal said that many people were fearful of returning to Delhi given the high number of infections in the Capital. “Parents do not want to send their children to Delhi,” she added. During the lockdown, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had appealed to landlords to not take money from tenants. Several people who run PG facilities said that many people used this as an excuse to not pay any rent. “On humanitarian grounds, if someone was not in a position to pay, I would have not charged money... but if someone continues to stay or has left for home without emptying the room... it is very difficult to sustain myself,” said Sudha V., who runs a PG for working women. She added that Mr. Kejriwal’s appeal led to an uncomfortable situation with two of her tenants as they were “living lavishly but not paying rent”. Many PG owners have demanded that the government provide them relief. What students say The students who left their belongings behind claimed that PG owners and landlords were “less than charitable in relaxing rent” despite government orders, and often used “emotional pressure” to extract rent. Mansi, a second-year BA English student who was residing at a PG in Janakpuri, said her landlord insisted on collecting rent for all the months during lockdown, arguing that students who came to Delhi to study came from privileged backgrounds. Mansi’s father is a labourer in Saharanpur and has been unable to find work since the beginning of the lockdown. Unable to continue paying her landlord, she drove to Delhi to collect her belongings last week. Rishima Saha, a BA Sociology student at Lady Sri Ram College who stayed in a flat with three others, said she is in a tough spot as the landlord has refused to return the security deposit. “When we told the landlord about the government order on relaxing student rent, she threatened to call the police,” she said. Eventually, they had to courier their keys to friends or relatives in Delhi so that their belongings could be shifted. Arundati K., who is from Kerala and a BA German student, said she and her flatmates have been paying rent as well as water charges for their 2 BHK apartment despite not having returned for the last three months. “We tried negotiating with the landlords but they are not budging. They emotionally manipulate us by saying they have bank loans and education fees to pay. They even told us to return to Delhi as places are reopening.” After the High Court recently rejected a petition filed by the Students-tenants Union, calling for extension of rent relaxation for students, the number of evictions have gone up, claimed a member of the union. “Without government directions to landlords, tenants have no security and are facing a crisis,” the member added. Property dealer Rajveer Bhasin, who has spent over 10 summers sweating it out with parents and their children to find suitable accommodation near North Campus, said that almost all flats and PGs are empty. “Colleges are shut, coaching centres are shut and nobody knows when they will reopen. I have a huge inventory and owners are willing to cut down on rent so that they get some form of income,” said Mr. Bhasin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/room-for-trouble/article32061966.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Coping with the caseload crunch||For Balbir Singh, 54, co-owner of Sukhmani Hospital, a 35-bed facility in Safdarjung Enclave, the novel coronavirus pandemic has brought unprecedented distress. “Since the virus hit the city, the number of OPD patients in the hospital has fallen from around 100 a day to 15-20 now. Patient admissions used to be three to four a day but now there is hardly any patient being hospitalised,” said Dr. Singh. His is not the only tale of woe. Sunil Kumar Jain of Pentamed Hospital, a 30-bed hospital in Model Town, said that revenue is down by half. Vandana Gupta, who runs Agarwal Hospital in Pitampura, a 30-bed neonatal ICU facility, said hardly four-five people visit the OPD daily now, compared to 10-15 people earlier. Dr. Singh said it makes “more sense” to close the facility at this point. “But we cannot do that as the government has asked us to be functional. We are currently incurring losses,” he said. On April 17, the Delhi government had issued an order that all hospitals should maintain full operations and try to accommodate the load of those which have been declared as dedicated COVID hospitals.  Revenue loss   Since the outbreak of the virus, more than 300 small hospitals with less than 50 beds and catering to non-COVID-19 patients have been suffering a loss of revenue of around 50-60%, according to multiple doctors who own such hospitals, including Mr. Singh. The same has also been confirmed by the Delhi Medical Association (DMA). “Non-COVID patients are reluctant to go to hospitals as they are afraid and do so only in case of an emergency. While health workers seek higher pay, beds are vacant and hospitals are earning less,” said DMA president Dr. Girish Tyagi. The loss of income has led to the DMA seeking assistance from the Delhi government, given that the latter has directed such hospitals to remain functional. About 80% owners of such hospitals are doctors and most of them are elderly, said Dr. Rajender Sharma, chairman of DMA’s nursing home forum. “We had requested the Chief Minister to at least provide PPE kits to these hospitals, as they do in government hospitals, and also provide sanitisers at subsidised rates. We had also urged the government to reduce electricity bills and property tax, but they are yet to reply to the requests,” said Dr. Sharma.  Adjusting to reality   “We have reduced salaries of some senior doctors by 20%, but not lower-level employees who earn less,” said Dr. Singh. “We admit suspected COVID-19 patients and staff attending to them are paid extra. Also, earlier 100-150 visited the OPD daily, now it is down to 30-50 people. Also daily surgeries are down from four-five to one or sometimes none,” said Dr. Jain of Pentamed Hospital. He said patients are self-treating or go to the chemist to procure medicines. “The incidence of many diseases has also come down as people are not stepping out or eating food from outside,” he said. “In March and April, there were no OPD services. In May and June, they have picked up, but we are still running 50-60% short. Out of a staff strength of 70-80, only 40 are working and they stay in the hospital building. The rest are still on the rolls — we will pay them once they are back, including perhaps a part of their lockdown dues. We are still figuring it out,” said Dr. Gupta of Agarwal  Hospital. Both Mr. Singh and Mr. Jain said many employees are not willing to join duty due to the acute COVID-19 situation in the Capital. All three owners said they have started virtual consultation after the virus outbreak, but it is yet to pick up. Mr. Singh said he initially started it via Zoom and then switched to WhatsApp. “But that is only two to three in a day. We started doing video consultation only after lockdown,” he added. “I have also started WhatsApp consultation, but that’s only one or two patients a day,” said Mr. Jain. Ms. Gupta said they started tele-consultation at normal OPD charges after the nationwide lockdown kicked in. “But only our old patients who know us do it. There are no new patients for it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/coping-with-the-caseload-crunch/article32061968.ece
13 July 2020||EW DELHI,||COVID-19 bed occupancy low in the Capital||Touted as a game changer by the Central government in easing the acute hospital bed crisis in the Capital for COVID-19 patients, the recently-opened 10,200-bedded Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre (SPCCC) at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur currently has a bed occupancy of just 123 patients and 2,000 functional beds. Catering to 11 districts of Delhi, the facility mirrors the low-bed occupancy across the Capital, where over two-third of COVID beds are lying vacant. As per the Health Ministry data, the health infrastructure dedicated to provide medical attention to the COVID affected across the country includes 1,370 Dedicated COVID Hospitals (DCH), 3,062 Dedicated COVID Health Centres (DCHC), and 10,334 COVID care centres (CCC). The Capital alone offers 15,253 hospital beds, 9,217 beds in dedicated COVID care centres and 544 in COVID healthcare centres. Earlier this week, the Capital got an additional 1,000 beds with the opening of a temporary medical centre built by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. In mid-June there was a huge demand for COVID beds. An analysis by the Delhi government showed that during this period, patients were brought in and admitted in a critical condition and 15% of COVID deaths took place within two days of arrival. However, Delhi is doing better in July with over 75% recovery rate against the national recovery rate of 62.93%, according to the Union Health Ministry data. Treatment approach “Currently, the approach for treatment of COVID-19 is largely based on supportive care since there is no cure. Maintaining good hydration is essential. Based on the severity of symptoms, COVID-19 can be categorised into three groups: mild, moderate and severe,” said a senior Health Ministry official. As per the Health Ministry’s clinical management protocol of COVID-19 for moderate and severe cases, adequate oxygen support, appropriate and timely administration of anti-coagulants, and widely available and inexpensive corticosteroids in accordance with the protocol can be considered the mainstay of COVID-19 therapy. For mild cases, which comprise nearly 80% of the cases, hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) has been recommended. The standard of care treatment strategies have shown to yield positive results. Decline and climb “Delhi, however, has benefited from stringent testing measures, priority containment of cases and their contacts and the medical support that has been offered to patients at home isolation. We are in a better position infrastructure-wise than we were in mid-June. But we are dealing with a virus that is unpredictable and trends in several countries have shown that there can be a decline and then a climb in number,” said a Delhi Health Department official. D.K. Sharma, Medical Superintendent of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) noted that despite the fact that the rush for beds is currently manageable, the infrastructure has to be in a state of preparedness. “One-third COVID beds of AIIMS Trauma Centre and Jhajjar campus are currently occupied with approximately 400 patients in both,” he said. Lok Nayak Hospital Medical Director Suresh Kumar agreed that the stress on hospital beds for COVID has come down by 50%, as patients are opting for home isolation and care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-bed-occupancy-low-in-the-capital/article32061984.ece
13 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Markets, establishments in U.P. to remain shut on weekends||All markets and establishments in Uttar Pradesh will remain closed on weekends as part of the State’s efforts to check the spread of COVID-19. Markets and all industrial units will be cleaned and sanitised on Saturdays and Sundays, a government spokesperson said on Sunday. Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said the restrictions will be imposed from the coming Saturday and remain in place at least for July. “Banks will remain open. Economic activities will not suffer. Social activities will remain limited,” he said. He added that all markets will open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. from Monday to Friday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed all officials to ensure that all COVID-19 hospitals have uninterrupted oxygen supply and that they also store a backup of 48 hours of oxygen. He also asked officials to increase testing to 50,000 samples per day. The State recorded 1,388 fresh cases over the past 24 hours and 21 deaths, taking the toll to 934, said the Health Department. The State has 12,208 active cases. Of the new cases, 38 were recorded in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 144, officials said. The new cases include 11 inmates of the district jail, six employees of the U.P. Power Corporation Limited and seven police personnel, they said. New cases According to Muzaffarnagar DM Selvakumari J, the Health Department had received 839 results of samples, of which 38 were positive for COVID-19. She said eight patients have recovered from the infection. All the new patients are being shifted to a COVID hospital in Begarazpur, officials said. The most number of deaths have been recorded in Agra (94), followed by Meerut (90) and Kanpur (86) districts.   (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/markets-establishments-in-up-to-remain-shut-on-weekends/article32062000.ece
13 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Youth shoots newly married woman before taking own life||A young man allegedly shot dead a 20-year-old newly-wed woman of his village before killing himself in a similar manner in the early hours of Sunday. The police suspect that the two were in a relationship. The woman, belonging to Scheduled Caste, got married in Basai village on June 29 this year and had come to visit her parents in Nanu Kalan village. The accused took the woman to a vacant plot behind some shops that belong to one Kisan Pal, on some pretext and allegedly shot her. He then shot himself. The matter came to light when the woman’s uncle spotted the bodies lying in the plot in the morning. The family claimed that the villagers had heard the gunshots around midnight. They said the man and the woman did not know each other and the motive behind the murder was unclear. A countrymade pistol used in the commission of crime was also found lying close to the bodies. The woman’s uncle called the police control room to inform about the incident. The police sent the bodies for post-mortem and the weapon was seized. A case has been registered on charges of murder and under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Arms Act at Pataudi police station. Gurugram Police spokesperson Subhash Boken said an investigation was under way, but prima facie, it seemed that the duo was in a relationship. Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002 (Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-shoots-newly-married-woman-before-taking-own-life/article32061979.ece
13 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha dancers forced to work as labourers in U.P.||If anyone thinks that the migrants’ agonizing return journey to their native places has ended following the opening up of public transport options, then he or she is mistaken. Three Odisha dancers, who were stranded in Uttar Pradesh, were forced to work as agricultural labourers for a month before being rescued by Sabyasachi Mishra, the Odia actor who has been helping those in distress due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Tempted by an attractive contract of performing in 45 stage shows, three young women professional dancers had left for Uttar Pradesh in the month of January. They had barely performed 10 to 12 stage shows when the COVID-19 lockdown came into force.  ‘Hopes crushed’ “I saw my hopes being crushed. I had dreamed of earning Rs. 1 lakh at one go and shift to small business as we hardly get regular stage shows in Odisha. For a few days, we managed with whatever resources we had. But in the month of April, we started to feel the pinch,” said Sunita Sahoo, who left behind her 13-year-old daughter with her mother in Cuttack. She is trained in modern dance. Her younger colleagues, Pinky Patra and Pinky Sahoo, also have years of experience in dancing in public functions. Put up in a temporary accommodation at Sonughat area in Deoria district of Uttar Pradesh, they tried everything to return. They could not muster courage to walk back to Odisha. For a few weeks, their family members had sent some money to sustain themselves. The arrangement could not last long. As the fund fast exhausted, they volunteered themselves to work in a wheat field. “We were being paid Rs. 60 for cutting one katha (720 sq ft) area of wheat plant. Though we knew the wage was too low, we did not have any option. Soon after the wheat harvesting season was over, we opted to work in paddy field,” said Ms. Sahoo who had no previous experience of working as an agricultural labourer.  ‘Poignant story’ When they got to know that Odia film actor Mr. Mishra was helping those in distress, they collected his number and dialled him. “Their story was poignant. The young women opted to work in rice field despite being trained dancers. It shows their resolve to stay afloat without sacrificing dignity. I arranged a taxi for them from Sonughat to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar where they took train to Bhubaneswar,” the actor said, adding that they proved no work is big or small if done with honesty and hard work. After their return on July 5, while two girls are now under quarantine in Cuttack, another girl has returned to her home in Angul district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-dancers-forced-to-work-as-labourers-in-up/article32061993.ece
13 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram quake zone caught between two geological faults||Mizoram’s zone of “scary” earthquakes is caught between two subterranean faults, a geologist assigned to make a preliminary study on the frequent tremors said. The State’s Champhai district and adjoining areas could experience aftershocks for several months but the people there have nothing to worry if their magnitude does not measure above 5 on the Richter scale, he assured. Mizoram experienced at least eight moderate earthquakes between June 21 and July 9. The tremors ranged from 4.2 to 5.5 on the Richter scale. The epicentre of most of these quakes was beneath Champhai district bordering Myanmar, including the last one of magnitude 4.3 and about 10 kilometres deep. A few were beneath the adjoining Saitual and Serchhip districts. “Earthquakes have happened and will happen in that part of Mizoram because it is caught between two geological faults. These are the Churachandpur Mao Fault and the Mat Fault,” said Dr. Saitluanga who teaches geology at the Pachhunga University College in State capital Aizawl. Faults are discontinuities or cracks that are the result of differential motion within the earth’s crust. Vertical or lateral slippage of the crust along the faults causes an earthquake. The Churachandpur Mao Fault is named after two places in Manipur and runs north-south into Myanmar along the border of Champhai. The Mat Fault runs northwest-southeast across Mizoram, beneath river Mat near Serchhip. “There are several shallower transverse or minor faults in between these two major faults that are deeper. We have reason to believe the earthquakes have been caused by these minor faults,” Dr Saitluanga told The Hindu . The tremors after the strongest of these earthquakes on June 22 have been aftershocks that can happen for a long time, he said. “But as long they are below the intensity of 5, there’s nothing to worry. Quakes are happening all the time, most of them not felt by us, which is good because the release of energy in small amounts can prevent the build-up of a large earthquake,” he added. An aftershock of 5 or more on the Richter could be a sign of a major earthquake waiting to happen, he said.  CM’s calls for study On July 10, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga wrote to the Centre seeking assistance and sanctioning of an extensive study by seismologists or geophysicists on why the frequent earthquakes were happening. He also sought installation of earthquake observation centres in the eastern part of the State with “real time seismic telemetry for earthquake disaster preparedness”. According to Champhai’s Deputy Commissioner Maria C.T. Zuali, much destruction was done by the earthquake of intensity 5.5 on June 22. “The quakes have damaged 158 houses, churches and community halls,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mizoram-quake-zone-caught-between-two-geological-faults/article32061991.ece
13 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. MLA quits Cong., joins BJP||A Congress MLA from the Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh resigned as a legislator on Sunday and joined the BJP, dealing another jolt to the Congress. Kunwar Pradyumna Singh Lodhi, MLA from Malhara in Chhatarpur district, joined the BJP at its office here in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and State party president V.D. Sharma. ‘Cabinet Minister status’ Later, he was appointed chairman of the M.P. State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. “He will have the status of a Cabinet Minister,” the Chief Minister’s office said. “I have come as a soldier of the BJP without any condition,” Mr. Lodhi said. “My priority is the region’s development and work on irrigation schemes should be expedited so that migration from the region stops.” Only through the BJP the region could be developed, he added. “Because of the pandemic, many people have returned. Bundelkhand needs employment opportunities and irrigation schemes,” he said, adding that Mr. Chouhan had approved an irrigation scheme in his constituency. Pro tem speaker Rameshwar Sharma said the MLA had submitted his resignation on Saturday. “He gave me the resignation yesterday. I asked him to reconsider it, but he reappeared today saying he wanted to resign. On his insistence, we have accepted his resignation today and completed legal procedures,” Mr. Sharma said on Sunday. With Mr. Lodhi’s resignation, the Congress numbers in the Assembly have dropped to 91.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mp-mla-quits-cong-joins-bjp/article32061998.ece
13 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||New cases in the Capital below 2,000 for second day in a row||The Capital reported 1,573 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,12,494, according to a heath bulletin by the Delhi government. The bulletin states that 37 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally to 3,371. Also, 2,276 patients have recovered in Delhi, taking the total recoveries to 89,968. The government said that 9,443 RT-PCR tests and 11,793 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of people tested in the Capital to 7,89,853. Currently, there are 19,155 active cases here, out of which 11,059 are in home isolation. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that Delhi has been able to minimise death of COVID-19 patients in home isolation with the help of pulse oximeter. On Saturday, a government report stated that there had been no death of patients put under home isolation in July first week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-cases-in-the-capital-below-2000-for-second-day-in-a-row/article32061988.ece
13 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Amid deluge, Assam farmer stands out with flood-resistant paddy||Nitu Bora took a “risk” with an unfamiliar variety of paddy in 2019. A year later, he has inspired a majority of some 1,500 farmers who saw their hard work undone by floods in Assam’s Golaghat district. According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority, this year’s flood since May 22 has affected crop, mainly paddy, on more than 125,097 hectares of land across 25 of the State’s 33 districts. Nitu Bora’s 0.9-hectare paddy field in Balidua village of Golaghat district’s West Brahmaputra area was flooded too. But unlike that of most other farmers in Assam, his paddy crop of the Ranjit Sub1 variety withstood the deluge. He had tested waters in July 2019 with the variety – the Sub in its name means submergence – on about 0.2 hectares of his plot. “I decided to take the risk with the new variety after listening to crop experts. This paddy survived 15 days under water while the flood damaged the common varieties in the rest of my plot,” the 45-year-old farmer said. He had virtually dragged neighbours Luhit Bora and Babu Bora to the District Agriculture Office in Golaghat town two days after crop specialists had campaigned for adopting Ranit Sub1 and two other flood-tolerant varieties named Swarna Sub1 and Bahadur Sub1. The other two farmers too used a fraction of their respective plot to invest in seedlings of the flood-resistant paddy collected from the Agriculture Department. Farmers in flood-prone areas of Assam have been harvesting the water-resistant Swarna Sub1, developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Manila-based International Rice Research Institute, since 2009. But the switchover from traditional varieties of paddy has been slow.  Flood impact study “We introduced the flood-resistant varieties in 2018 and the 5.6 tonnes of rice per hectare that Nitu Bora harvested was the first flood-impact study, although we cannot compare with the traditional varieties since they were damaged,” said Abhishek Singha, research technician of the Assam Agribusiness and Rural Transformation Project (APART). The Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Society headed by bureaucrat Laya Madduri is the coordinating agency for the World Bank-funded project. “The experiment of the Boras has this year made about 60% of the farmers in the West Brahmaputra area switch to the flood-tolerant paddy. Some 1,500 farmers cultivate on about 950 hectares in this area,” Mr Singha told The Hindu on July 5. Nitu Bora’s example has made convincing the other farmers easier for Golaghat’s District Agriculture Officer Nabin Chandra Bora and APART’s Golaghat nodal officer Syed Rajibur Rahman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amid-deluge-assam-farmer-stands-out-with-flood-resistant-paddy/article32061995.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Clear stand on plea alleging inadequate preparation in DU’s SOL, UGC told||The High Court has asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to submit its stand on a plea alleging inadequate preparation in the introduction of Choice Based Credit System (CDCS) in the Delhi University’s School of Open Learning (SOL). Justice Prathiba M. Singh also directed DU to submit the report of the committee, appointed pursuant to any order of the court, for correcting all the defects in the course material. The court’s direction came on a plea by five first-year students at SOL contending the hard copies of proper course material have not been provided with either for the first semester or for the second semester. The students said study material dispatched to the students was incomplete and defective in nature. They further claimed that the course material which has been uploaded contain several defects, due to which it was virtually impossible for SOL students to give the examinations and to upload the answer sheets within the deadline. On June 4, DU had issued an examination notification for conduct of online examinations due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Under the system, evaluation of papers for the first and second-semester students was to be based on online assignments. The question papers have been already uploaded on June 26 and the last date for submission and uploading of answer sheets was initially on July 11. On Friday, the DU’s counsel informed the court that the deadline for submission of answer sheets has been extended to July 15. The university, in an affidavit, also claimed that more than 50,000 students of SOL have already submitted their assignments online. It is also stated that hard-copies of the study material have been made available to approximately one lakh students for Semester-I and approximately 92,000 students for Semester-II. Additionally, it submitted that about 3,20,000 students have hit the SOL website for online study material during the lockdown period. The students in their main petition have sought quashing of the implementation of CBCS, introduced in the SOL. They asked for the appointment of an eminent educationist to make recommendations as to whether the CBCS should be discontinued and be replaced with the annual-mode of examinations, as done hitherto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/clear-stand-on-plea-alleging-inadequate-preparation-in-dus-sol-ugc-told/article32061961.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre part of joint effort by State, Centre’||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan visited and reviewed the Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre (SPCCC) here on Sunday and said that the SPCCC is part of the “coordinated efforts of the Centre and the Delhi government to bolster the containment measures”. “The healthcare facility follows naturopathy and protocols of Ayurveda for boosting immunity of the in-patients at the centre. They are given Ayurvedic kadha in the morning followed by meals as advised by dieticians and the day ends with milk with turmeric,” noted a release issued by the Health Ministry. The Ministry added that a unique feature of the Centre is that it has been backed by the community and donors, in kind, donation and support through beds, oxygen cylinders etc. “Out of the 10,200 proposed beds, 2,000 are functional. There are 88 enclosures each with 100-116 bed capacity with two enclosures supervised by one nursing station. Currently, the SPCCC is ready with 20 enclosures and 10 nursing stations. Also, 10% of the beds comprise the Dedicated COVID Health Centre (DCHC) with oxygen support. As on date, 123 patients are admitted, out of which 5 patients with co-morbidities have been shifted to hospitals for tertiary care,” noted Mr. Vardhan. The healthcare facility also has in-house psychological counselling and psychiatry services provided by NIMHANS-trained counsellors along with meditation and yoga sessions for the patients. “India’s clinical protocol has focused on early detection through widespread testing, surveillance, prompt triaging and clinical management of cases. This has resulted in one of the lowest fatality rates of 2.66%. Our success can be seen in the recovery rate which is almost 63%, with more than 5.3 lakh recoveries,” said the Minister. The Minister added that as we proceed into Unlock 2.0, it is critical to ensure that all of us rely on the “social vaccine – ‘ Do Gaj ki Doori ’”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sardar-patel-covid-care-centre-part-of-joint-effort-by-state-centre/article32061981.ece
13 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Two Maoists say farewell to arms||Two CPI (Maoist) cadres surrendered before the police in Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Sunday. Two ultras, identified as Kanna Madi and Lake Punem, laid down their arms before Malkangiri Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Dnyandeo Khilari. Madi, carrying a reward of Rs. 4 lakh on his head, was reported to be involved in killings and setting up improvised explosive devices since 2013. Punem carried a bounty of Rs. 2 lakh. “I got disillusioned by CPI (Maoist) ideology. The recent development being undertaken in Swabhiman Anchal motivated me to join the mainstream,” Madi said. Moreover, increased presence of the Border Security Force (BSF) and the police and fear of action by security forces also contributed to the surrender. Both said they were influenced by the appeal of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Director General of Police Abhay, who called upon the Maoists to surrender and become part of the developmental initiatives of the State. According to the BSF, the CPI (Maoist) had established safe havens in Swabhiman Anchal taking advantage of the topographical isolation of the area. “Malkangiri had been one of the worst Maoist-affected districts with as many as 332 incidents recorded in 12 years since 2008, claiming the lives of 101 civilians and 77 security force personnel,” said the BSF . Swabhiman Anchal, part of Malkangiri district, had seen much bloodshed with the death of 25 civilians and 49 security personnel, including five BSF officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-maoists-say-farewell-to-arms/article32061992.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Security guard killed during burglary attempt at factory||A 62-year-old security guard at an iron factory in north-west Delhi’s Wazirpur Industrial Area was killed after he was allegedly hit on the head with a rod during a burglary attempt, the police said on Sunday. The victim, identified as Madhav Mishra, who hailed from Bihar, lived here with his son in a slum cluster in Shalimar Bagh, they said. The incident took place on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, the police said. The body was spotted on Sunday morning by a few workers who had come to work. The factory owner arrived soon after and the police were informed around 8 a.m., a senior police officer said. The police also said that the security guard, who was alone on night shift, was killed by unidentified people who hit him on his head with a rod during a burglary attempt at the factory. ‘Nothing stolen’ However, no valuables or any other property was reported to be stolen, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and an investigation is under way. He died on the spot and his body was taken to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital for a post-mortem, she said. There was no CCTV camera installed on the premises of factory, the police said. However, they are scanning footage of those in the adjoining areas to identify the culprits and nab them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/security-guard-killed-during-burglary-attempt-at-factory/article32061989.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC: treat plea seeking single agency for disaster management as representation||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre to treat as representation a plea seeking synchronization of the work under the National Capital Region Planning Board Act, 1985 and the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 under a single nodal agency. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said: “This exercise will be carried out as early as possible and practicable.” During the brief hearing, the Bench remarked that the petitioner, law student Arjun Narang, ought to have first made a representation to the Centre as it was a policy decision. The petition had contended that Delhi-NCR has been battling with executive problem on account of numerous discrepancies between the guidelines issued by the NCR governments — of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — in relation to the response mechanisms to the disaster outbreaks such as COVID-19 pandemic or an earthquake. It stated that the discrepancies were mostly in relation to inter-State travel, patient admissions and treatment, testing, dealing with containment zones and dealing with COVID-19 positive persons. It had pleaded for the Central, State governments and district-level authorities of NCR region to work in tandem and provide a single set of parameters or guidelines under a common COVID-19 response plan for the entire NCR region. “In order to bring about uniformity in the COVID-19 response, it is imperative that the respondents [Centre and governments of Delhi, U.P., Haryana and Rajasthan] designate the NCRPB or any authority, consisting of executive members from all the States and UTsconcerned, as the single nodal agency, to carry out disaster management tasks in the NCR region in a uniform manner,” the petition had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-treat-plea-seeking-single-agency-for-disaster-management-as-representation/article32061962.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||SDMC may enter into 50% revenue sharing with DTC||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) may soon enter into 50% revenue-sharing arrangement with the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) after the approval of an MoU by the civic body’s Standing Committee last week. The SDMC had been seeking a revenue share from advertisements on DTC buses and it’s properties, as well as had a say in advertisements before they were put up among other clauses, the proposal states. Earlier, due to violations of the outdoor advertisement policy, the civic body had undertaken removal of advertisements on DTC properties following which the matter had been taken to court in 2015. The two authorities were directed to resolve the matter. Rates revised Following deliberations “it has been in principle agreed that DTC will share 50% revenue from advertisements”, the proposal reads. Rates under different categories have been increased from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 5,500 for interior and exterior bus wraps from Rs. 2,500 to Rs 3,000 for the only exterior and from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,500 for the interior body of the buses, including four to eight panels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sdmc-may-enter-into-50-revenue-sharing-with-dtc/article32061971.ece
13 July 2020||July 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Ominous clouds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ominous-clouds/article32061970.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Plan to convert stadiums into COVID centres put on hold||Authorities in Delhi have put on hold their plan to use stadiums as makeshift COVID care centres for now in view of the city witnessing a good recovery rate, officials said on Sunday. Seeing the current situation, there is no need to convert stadiums into COVID-19 care facilities, an official in the east Delhi district administration said. However, he said, the stadiums can be converted into COVID facilities in the coming days if the need arises. Last month, a Delhi government panel constituted by Lt. Governor Anil Baijal had suggested to use Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, JLN Stadium, Thyagaraj Indoor Stadium and Dhyanchand National Stadium for the purpose. A government study on Saturday said that there has been a “sharp decline” in daily fatality figures in the city in the past two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plan-to-convert-stadiums-into-covid-centres-put-on-hold/article32061986.ece
13 July 2020||New Delhi,||Bike-borne men loot Rs. 25 lakh||Two bike-borne men allegedly looted Rs. 25 lakh from a 31-year-old man after intercepting his vehicle near Shastri Nagar metro station, the police said on Sunday. The victim, Manish Verma, a resident of outer Delhi’s Nangloi, works at a packaging unit in Rohini Sector-3, they said. The incident took place on July 10, when Mr. Verma was returning to office after collecting Rs. 25 lakh from a man in Kucha Ghasiram, the police said. When he reached near Shastri Nagar metro station, two bike-borne men intercepted his vehicle, engaged him in a conversation. Before he could realise that he was looted, they managed to flee with the money, which was kept in a polythene bag inside the trunk of his scooter. Soon after they left, he checked the trunk of his vehicle and realised that the bag was missing, a police officer said. As per the instruction of his boss, Mr. Verma had gone to collect money from a person in Kucha Ghasiram, the officer said. Case registered On the basis of his complaint, a case was registered and efforts are on to trace the culprits, the police said, adding that CCTV camera footage are being scanned to identify the routes taken by the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bike-borne-men-loot-rs-25-lakh/article32061990.ece
13 July 2020||Bulandshahr,||Police team attacked in Bulandshahr||A special operations group team of the Uttar Pradesh police was attacked by some persons when it had gone to arrest a man wanted in a murder case here, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday evening when the team tried to apprehend one Shahid, a resident of Sarai Kaaji locality in the Kotwali Nagar area, wanted in a murder case, they said. As soon as the accused, his brothers and some four-five men saw the police, they started fleeing. When policemen tried to stop them, they attacked them with bricks and stones, Superintendent of Police (City) Atul Kumar Srivastava said. The policemen had to fire some rounds in the air in self defence, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-team-attacked-in-bulandshahr/article32061996.ece
