14 July 2020||JAIPUR/ NEW DELHI,||Amid overtures to Sachin Pilot, Rajasthan CLP backs Gehlot||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in Rajasthan on Monday expressed faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot amid the political turmoil caused by Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion and claimed the support of over 100 legislators in the 200-member Assembly. With the show of strength at Mr. Gehlot’s official residence where more than 100 MLAs — from the Congress and those supporting the ruling party — were in attendance, the CLP passed a resolution calling for strict disciplinary action against those who “weaken the party”. The Congress, has, however called another meeting of the Legislature Party on Tuesday morning. Senior Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra through emissaries, reportedly tried reaching out to Mr. Pilot, who continued to be in Delhi and refused to attend the CLP meeting. A source close to Mr. Pilot, however, denied that the central leadership had made any serious attempt to resolve the issue. On a day of fast-paced developments, the MLAs, accompanied by Mr. Gehlot, were shifted to a luxury hotel on the Jaipur-Delhi Highway, 20 km from the city, soon after the meeting ended. Stern warning The resolution, passed unanimously, condemned all “undemocratic and wrongful” acts for weakening the Congress and expressed confidence in the leadership of party president Sonia Gandhi and senior leader Rahul Gandhi, besides extending support to the Ashok Gehlot-led government. “This CLP meeting demands that if any Congress office-bearer or member of the CLP indulges in anti-party activities, directly or indirectly, or is involved in a conspiracy, then strong disciplinary action should be taken against him,” the resolution stated, without naming Mr. Pilot or any other leader. The resolution also accused the Opposition BJP of hatching a conspiracy to “murder democracy” by trying to destabilise the Congress government and bribe the MLAs. This was an insult to the eight crore people of Rajasthan, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-overtures-to-sachin-pilot-rajasthan-clp-backs-gehlot/article32073064.ece
14 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad district lockdown from July 15-24||In a bid to cap the continuing spike in COVID-19 positive cases in Dharwad district, the district administration has decided to impose a complete lockdown in the district from July 15 to July 24. After a discussion with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa through video conference and meeting with officials and doctors of the district, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district in-charge Jagadish Shettar made the lockdown announcement in Dharwad on Monday. He said that the decision has been taken with the consent of the Chief Minister. The lockdown will be in force from 10 a.m. on July 15 to 8 p.m. on July 24. Strict implementation Making the announcement, Mr. Jagadish Shettar said that the lockdown would be strictly implemented on the lines of the first lockdown announced in the country. “However, there will be exemption for door-to-door sale of essential commodities and functioning of MSMEs. All shops, offices, supermarkets and malls shall remain closed during the period. Only medical shops, petrol bunks and milk parlours will be kept open,” he said. The Minister clarified that there would be no inter-district travel barring cases of medical emergencies. “People who want to come to the district or go out of it could do so till Tuesday evening. From Wednesday, check-posts will be erected and entry and exit of private vehicles will be prohibited,” he said. No mass prayers Mr. Shettar said that he would appeal to the people to refrain from crowding at prayer halls and places of worship. Considering the instances of crowding at mosques, Anjuman-e-Islam, Hubballi, has requested the administration to ban religious congregation and mass prayers and accordingly, the administration has prohibited any kind of mass prayers during the period. Clarifying that the police had been given a free hand to take action against offenders, he, however, appealed to the people not to resort to panic-buying as the district administration would make necessary arrangements for supply of essential commodities, including vegetables, fruits and grocery items, on the doorsteps of residents. Mr. Shettar said that the spike in number of cases in the district was a matter of concern and all necessary steps were being taken to check it. “So far, 30,834 persons were tested for the pandemic and of these, 28,869 tested negative. While 1,088 persons have tested positive, the results of 1,275 persons are awaited. Meanwhile, 398 persons have been discharged from hospitals and there are 657 active cases. Of the 33 deaths that the district has reported, 30 % are people from other districts,” he explained. Admitting that the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) had been overburdened because of the increase in COVID-19 patients, he said that he had requested the Chief Minister to enhance medical facilities at KIMS. The Chief Minister had responded positively to the request, he said. Video conference Earlier, Mr. Shettar, along with Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner R. Dileep, Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar and several district-level officers, attended the video conference with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharwad-district-lockdown-from-july-15-24/article32073264.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC gives ex-royals right to manage deity’s property||The Supreme Court on Monday held that the erstwhile Travancore royal family is the “human ministrant” or the shebait (manager) of the properties belonging to Sree Padmanabha, chief deity of the famed and fabulously rich Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple in Kerala. A Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Indu Malhotra, in a 218-page judgment, brought quietus to a dispute of over a decade on whether the temple and its considerable assets should devolve to the Kerala government following the death of Travancore ruler Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma in July 1991. Arguments were raised both to and fro — senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal for the royals and some devotees represented by a team of advocates of P.B. Suresh, Vipin Nair and Karthik Jayashankar — on whether the 26th Constitutional Amendment, which put an end to privy purses enjoyed by erstwhile rulers, would nudge the temple and properties into the hands of the State. In fact, the Kerala High Court, in 2011, directed the State to take over the temple and exhibit its treasures for public viewing in a museum. Justice Lalit, who wrote the judgment, categorically held that the death of a ruler does not affect the royal family’s shebaitship of the temple. “Shebaitship was always in the royal family and the Ruler represented the unbroken line of shebaits,” the judgment said. Shebaitship does not lapse in favour of the State by principle of escheat (reversion of property to the State). Accepting the royals’ submission that the temple is a “public temple”, the court issued a slew of directions for its transparent administration in the future. It directed the setting up of an administrative committee, with the Thiruvananthapuram district judge as its chairperson. The other members would be a nominee of the trustee (royal family), the chief thanthri of the temple, a nominee of the State and a member nominated by the Union Ministry of Culture. The panel would take care of the daily administration of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-gives-ex-royals-right-to-manage-deitys-property/article32073066.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||High Court puts on hold Secretariat demolition till Wednesday||Telangana High Court on Monday extended the order staying demolition of Secretariat buildings till Wednesday. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a Public Interest Litigation plea challenging the demolition of Secretariat buildings, instructed the Chief Secretary to furnish before it a copy of the resolution adopted by Telangana Council of Ministers on June 30 to demolish the buildings. Through this resolution, the State Cabinet had taken a final decision to bring down the Secretariat buildings. When the arguments resumed on the petition on Monday, Advocate General B.S. Prasad appealed to the bench to vacate the stay order and permit the government to continue the demolition process. The demolition had already started and the remaining buildings were in a precarious condition, the AG told the bench. Observing that “once a demolition has begun, it cannot be stopped”, the bench said that, however, the petitioner’s counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar wanted to file a reply to the counter affidavit filed by the government on the matter. When Mr. Prabhakar said that demolition of the building involved enforcement of several provisions related to environment laws, the Advocate General replied those laws would come into force when a new building is constructed. ‘Confidential’ Mr. Prabhakar sought time till Wednesday to file the reply. When the bench sought to know details of the Cabinet decision to demolish the old Secretariat, the Advocate General said those precise details cannot be revealed since they were confidential. The bench, however, differed with Advocate General’s contention stating that earlier the High Court had dismissed a batch of Public Interest Litigation pleas challenging the government’s decision and paving way for construction of new Secretariat. Interim decision That verdict was based on an interim decision taken by the State Cabinet on June 18, last year. During the hearings, the court wanted to peruse the Cabinet decision on that matter. After initially declining to present the copy of the Cabinet decision, the government eventually furnished it to the HC in a sealed cover. In a similar fashion, the latest Cabinet resolution during which a final call was taken to demolish the Secretariat buildings should also be presented to the court, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-puts-on-hold-secretariat-demolition-till-wednesday/article32073292.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Kalaburagi follow Bengaluru, opt for lockdown||With the State government empowering the administration of districts to decide on local lockdowns to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, three districts, with a high incidence of the virus, have announced one while a few others are likely to follow suit, even as Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts geared up for the lockdown to be implemented from Tuesday night. The decision came following a meeting of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa with Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police, and Chief Executive Officers of zilla panchayats on Monday. Contrary to speculation ahead of the meeting that Karnataka could go for another State-wide lockdown, districts were allowed to take the decision depending on the situation there. Soon after the meeting, Dakshina Kannada imposed a lockdown from Wednesday night to July 22, Dharwad announced one from Wednesday night to July 24, and Kalaburagi opted for one only in urban areas from July 14 to 20. Lockdown has also been imposed in the urban limits in Raichur and Sindhanur from July 15 to July 22 Monday’s meeting focused on pandemic control measures in the high-incidence districts of Bidar, Dharwad, Mysuru, Gadag, Ballari, Kalaburagi, and Dakshina Kannada. It was also noted that Bidar, Dharwad, Gadag, and Mysuru had reported a higher mortality rate among the COVID-19 positive cases, with Bidar now being amnong the top five high-mortality districts in the country. The Chief Minister, while directing district officials to reduce the mortality rate, also sought an expert analysis on the mortality in these districts. With thousands of migrants leaving Bengaluru for their villages over the last two days, in view of the lockdown in the capital, and a similar trend expected in other districts too, Mr. Yediyurappa has called for stricter monitoring on quarantining those returning home. He also asked booth-level committees to be set up and to undertake a house-to-house survey to identify COVID-19 positive cases. Mr. Yediyurappa also directed officials to strictly enforce lockdown norms and warned of action against hospitals that refused to cooperate in treating both COVID-19 and non COVID-19 cases. In case of a shortage of medical personnel, Mr. Yediyurappa asked districts to hire such persons temporarily for six months, a note from the Chief Minister’s Office said. He added that there should be no shortage of hospital beds or ambulances, and asked the administrations to use the rapid antigen testing kits depending on the need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dakshina-kannada-dharwad-kalaburagi-follow-bengaluru-opt-for-lockdown/article32073094.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||Cannot conduct exams in present scenario: State government||The Maharashtra government made its stance on final year university examinations clear on Monday, stating that it would not be able to conduct them due to the COVID-19 situation in the State. The announcement came after a meeting of the Maharashtra Disaster Management Authority, chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, where the feasibility of conducting the final year examinations by September, as per the guidelines laid down by the University Grants Commission (UGC), was discussed. ‘Not against exams’ Speaking to reporters after the meeting, State’s Higher and Technical Education minister Uday Samant said the government is not against examinations. “However, it is of the view that considering the COVID-19 situation, examinations cannot be conducted in the present scenario,” he said. Mr Samant said the government will be discussing the matter with nine other States, which have already decided not to hold examinations. “At present, several colleges, hostels and schools are being used as quarantine facilities for patients of the novel coronavirus. Many students have returned back to their native villages. Their books, computers, and notebooks have been left at the university,” he said, reminding that students who appeared for examinations in Bengaluru ended up being infected with the virus. He said 13 vice-chancellors of non-agriculture universities have sent in written submissions to the State government, explaining the difficulties in conducting examinations now. “Students and parents are also against conducting exams. UGC is said to be providing guidelines to conduct examinations but is it ready to take responsibility of the health of lakhs of students who will appear for exam?” he asked. Second chance Mr. Samant clarified that students will be given grades/marks based on their performance in the previous years. “Those who feel that they can improve their performance will be given an opportunity to appear for the examinations after the situation has improved,” he said, adding that those who want to appear for exam should give it in writing to concerned universities. “The universities will discuss the matter with respective district collectors and announce the date of examination,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cannot-conduct-exams-in-present-scenario-state-government/article32073485.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,||32 teams to watch market areas||The Greater Chennai Corporation, with support from the district administration, has formed 32 teams to monitor all market areas in the 16 taluks of the city to enforce social distancing. The teams of Revenue officials will monitor all violations pertaining to COVID-19 containment and prevent its spread in such neighborhoods. A decision to close trading for three months will be taken if the teams find such markets violating the COVID-19 norms. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash has directed officials to regulate markets where a large number of COVID-19 patients have been traced. Even after shifting most of the 81 markets, the civic body has been unable to control crowding in such places. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy said a meeting would be held with traders’ associations this week to create awareness among them about COVID-19 containment. Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Kootamaippu president A.M. Vikramaraja said the traders had reported a 70% dip in sales in Chennai because of the lockdown. “Essential commodities trade has also registered a dip of 30% because people have low purchasing power during the pandemic. The sales have dipped because of the decision of the State government and the Corporation to close shops by 6 p.m. Most of the sales happen in the evening,” said Mr. Vikramaraja. Corporation officials said each of the 200 wards had reported at least 10 violations every day, which increased the risk of COVID-19 spread. The spread of COVID-19 had started increasing in zones such as Anna Nagar, Kodambakkam and Teynampet that had a large number of commercial establishments, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/32-teams-to-watch-market-areas/article32073141.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||With 449 fresh cases, State’s tally crosses 8,000-mark||The government is trying to stem the intense transmission of COVID-19 along the coastal belt, which is fast making its way inland, by formulating special action plans for the coastal zone, while intensifying surveillance and testing in major disease clusters that have developed in many parts of the State. On Monday, the cumulative case burden of COVID-19 in the State crossed the 8,000-mark, with the reporting of 449 fresh cases. 8,322 cases in State The total number of cases reported so far in the State now stands at 8,322, while the total recoveries have been 4,257. Cases due to local transmission again exceeded the number of imported cases of infection. Of the 449 new cases, only 204 were imported cases of infection while the rest were all reported from the community. In 18 of these cases, the source of infection remains unknown. Local transmission The local transmission cases included a huge cluster of 77 cases from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police camp at Alappuzha, five health-care workers, 10 Defence Security Corps jawans, four personnel of Fire and Rescue Services, one Border Security Force jawan, and three employees of Kerala Solvent extraction Ltd. The number of active cases in the State now is 4,028. With two more deaths reported from Kollam and Kannur, the death toll in the State now is 33. 51 clusters in State However, the evolving picture of the epidemic indicates a situation wherein the local transmission of COVID-19 could get out of hand. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that local transmission of COVID-19 had resulted in 51 cluster formations, including two large community clusters. As more cases spring up in the community, the possibilities of patients reporting late in hospitals and the heightened risk of risk of infection amongst the elderly and those with co-morbidities could push up the State’s mortality rate significantly in the coming days. Mr. Vijayan, however, sought to reiterate that the containment model adopted by Kerala so far had been effective and had won international accolades. In the same breath he also acknowledged that the increase in case burden and the potential of many vulnerable people requiring ICU and ventilator support could overwhelm the health system. The number of samples tested in the State in the past 24 hours was 12,230. The number of hotspots now was 223. Reverse quarantine Mr. Vijayan said intense efforts were on across the State to create awareness on the importance of reverse quarantine and that more first-line treatment centres and quarantine facilities were being readied. He also challenged the argument which has been raised from many quarters about the insufficiency of testing in the State by quoting figures on the State’s test positivity rate (2.27, which he claimed was the best in the world ) and the tests pre million vs case per million figures. Those who criticise the State’s strategy are doing it without any scientific backing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-449-fresh-cases-states-tally-crosses-8000-mark/article32073360.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||37 deaths, 1,935 new cases in a day in State||In an alarming development, the State reported 37 new COVID-19 deaths and 1,935 new infections during the past 24 hours as of Monday morning. The death toll has mounted to 365 and the tally has crossed the 30,000-mark and reached 31,103, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. The tally doubled in just 13 days and nearly 10,000 cases were reported in the past six days. Also, 100 deaths were reported in the past five days. With the discharge of 1,052 patients, the number of recoveries is at 16,464 and there are 14,274 active patients. The recovery rate is at 52.93%. New deaths Six new deaths occurred in Anantapur and four deaths each occurred in East Godavari, Kurnool and West Godavari districts. Three deaths each occurred in Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Prakasam districts. Kadapa and Nellore reported two new deaths each while Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported at one death each. The death tolls in the districts are as follows: Kurnool (105 deaths), Krishna (83), Guntur (32), Anantapur (30), Chittoor (24), Visakhapatnam (16), Srikakulam (14), West Godavari (14), Nellore (12), East Godavari (12), Vizianagaram (8), Prakasam (8) and Kadapa (7). Krishna district continues to top the State with the highest death rate of 3.17%. Kurnool in the second place has 2.87% death rate and in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and Guntur death rate is between 2% and 1%. In the remaining districts death rate is less than 1%. The State's death rate is 1.17%. Of the 1,935 new cases, 1,919 are local cases and 16 are imported cases. The remaining cases were reported in Guntur (191), Anantapur (176), Chittoor (168), West Godavari (137), Krishna (111), Nellore (99), Visakhapatnam (84), Kadapa (84), Vizianagaram (69) and Prakasam (34). Testing Meanwhile, 19,247 samples have been tested in the past day and so far 11.73 lakh samples were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/37-deaths-1935-new-cases-in-a-day-in-state/article32073053.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Iran drops India from Chabahar rail project, cites funding delay||Four years after India and Iran signed an agreement to construct a rail line from Chabahar port to Zahedan, along the border with Afghanistan, the Iranian government has decided to proceed with the construction on its own, citing delays from the Indian side in funding and starting the project. Last week, Iranian Transport and Urban Development Minister Mohammad Eslami inaugurated the track-laying process for the 628 km Chabahar-Zahedan line, which will be extended to Zaranj across the border in Afghanistan. Officials told The Hindu that the entire project would be completed by March 2022, and that Iranian Railways will proceed without India’s assistance, using approximately $400 million from the Iranian National Development Fund. The development comes as China finalises a massive 25-year, $400 billion strategic partnership deal with Iran, which could cloud India’s plans. Trilateral agreement The railway project, which was being discussed between the Iranian Railways and the state-owned Indian Railways Construction Ltd (IRCON), was meant to be part of India’s commitment to the trilateral agreement between India, Iran and Afghanistan to build an alternate trade route to Afghanistan and Central Asia. In May 2016, during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Tehran to sign the Chabahar agreement with Iranian President Rouhani and Afghanistan President Ghani, IRCON had signed an MoU with the Iranian Rail Ministry.  (With inputs from   Yuthika Bhargava)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iran-drops-india-from-chabahar-rail-project-cites-funding-delay/article32073060.ece
14 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19: West Bengal appoints new nodal officers for worst-hit districts||West Bengal, which is battling a spurt in COVID-19 cases, on Monday appointed four senior IAS officers as nodal officers for “supervising and coordinating” different activities to control the spread of the pandemic. The nodal officers for Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and Howrah were changed by an order issued by Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha. State’s Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay has been appointed as the nodal officer for Kolkata, which has accounted for the highest number of infections and over 500 deaths. Manoj Pant, another senior IAS officer, has been assigned the responsibility of North 24 Parganas while Naveen Prakash and Rajesh Pandey have been appointed a nodal officers for South 24 Parganas and Howrah respectively. The State recorded 1,435 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 31,448. The number of active infections has increased to 11,279. 24 deaths in 24 hours Twenty-four deaths were also reported in the past 24 hours taking the number of deaths to 956. Of the new fatalities, 10 were reported from Kolkata and eight from North 24 Parganas district. Reports of the remaining deaths came in from Hooghly, Howrah, South 24 Parganas and Paschim Bardhaman district. Bureaucrat succumbs Meanwhile, a young bureaucrat posted in the State’s Hooghly district died of COVID-19 during the day. This was the first death in the State’s bureaucracy. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee took to Twitter to express grief over the death and hailed 34-year-old Debdatta Ray for her contribution to combating the pandemic. “Grieved to hear about the untimely passing away of Debdatta Ray, who was posted as Deputy Magistrate & Deputy Collector in Chandannagar. A young WBCS (Exe) Officer, she was at the forefront fighting the pandemic & displayed outstanding devotion in discharge of her duties (sic),” the CM said in a tweet. She added, “I, on behalf of the Govt of West Bengal, salute her spirit & the sacrifice she's made in service of the people of #Bengal. Spoke to her husband today & extended my deepest condolences. May the departed soul rest in peace & lord give her family strength to endure this loss. (sic)” Ms. Banerjee also sent a letter to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-west-bengal-appoints-new-nodal-officers-for-worst-hit-districts/article32073423.ece
14 July 2020||Kolkata,||Woman donates kidney after defeating COVID-19||Uttam Kumar Ghosh, a Bangladeshi national, got a new lease of life here after his mother donated one of her kidneys to him, but his survival story is not just a case of organ transplant as both had to recover from COVID-19 before the surgery. Mr. Ghosh (38) came to Kolkata with his mother Kalpana and other family members in January to get himself treated for kidney ailments. Authorities at R.N. Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) said after necessary clearance from the health department, doctors fixed a date in March for his surgery, but the sudden imposition of the lockdown stalled the plan. The family breathed a sigh of relief when the Union Health Ministry issued an advisory recommending emergency transplant surgeries despite the lockdown. However, they were disappointed again as tests showed the mother-son duo had contracted COVID-19. Both of them were sent to the State-run MR Bangur Hospital for treatment, said Dr. D.S. Ray, head of the nephrology department, RTIICS. “Mr. Ghosh and his mother were released from the government hospital on June 12 following their recovery. We waited for another three-and-a-half weeks and asked them to stay under home quarantine. After conducting two rounds of tests to ensure they were cured, we decided to go forward with the transplant,” Dr. Ray said. Both the donor and the recipient are recuperating well and have been discharged, he said. “We hope Mr. Ghosh recuperates as per our expectations. He has been advised to get regular checkups,” Dr. Ray said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-donates-kidney-after-defeating-covid-19/article32073426.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Madras HC can decide on pleas on OBC quota for medical courses: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Madras High Court to go ahead and decide on merits all the petitions pending before it seeking 50% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota seats for medical and dental courses in Tamil Nadu. A Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, held that the  Saloni Kumari case, which was pending in the Supreme Court and pertained to the grant of 27% OBC quota in terms of a Central Act, cannot impede the Madras High Court from deciding on the question of the grant of 50% quota for OBCs in Tamil Nadu on the basis of a State law. The High Court will begin hearing the petitions on Friday. The top court fully agreed with the argument made by senior advocate P. Wilson that the pendency of the Saloni Kumari case, which pertained specifically to OBC reservation in Uttar Pradesh, would not bar the Madras High Court from hearing Tamil Nadu-specific petitions. The Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate V. Giri and Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, said the High Court should decide on all the issues highlighted on merit. The State agreed with Mr. Wilson’s submission that the High Court’s decision should be made in time for admissions during the current year. At one point during the virtual hearing, Mr. Wilson argued: “The Central government, in 2016, filed a counter-affidavit in the Saloni Kumari case, admitting that it is bound to give OBC reservations in State-surrendered seats to the all-India quota.”  However, the same officer is still opposing the plea in the High Court. He argued that, therefore, the Central government is not honest in its approach and is illegally depriving tens of thousands of OBC students across the country.” The court finally disposed of the batch of petitions — including one by Tamil Nadu — filed against a June 22 order of the Madras High Court to keep the petitions in abeyance till the apex court decided the Saloni Kumari case. Tamil Nadu, in its petition, submitted that the Madras High Court’s adjournment order came soon after the Centre convinced it that an ‘identical’ case — Saloni Kumari versus Director General of Health Services — was already pending in the Supreme Court. The High Court was told that the apex court had tentatively listed the Saloni Kumari case for July 8, and that any decision ought to follow the Supreme Court’s ruling in the case. Tamil Nadu said the High Court had been completely misguided by the respondents, which included the Centre and the Medical Council of India. “The Saloni Kumari case pertains to reservation for OBCs under seats surrendered to All-India quota by medical colleges located in the State of Uttar Pradesh, and not to the rest of India or to Tamil Nadu,” the petition said. An adjournment had made the apex court’s grant of liberty to the State to approach the High Court redundant, the petition argued. “It nullified the grant of such liberty because if the Supreme Court wanted the High Court to await orders in the case relating to Saloni Kumari, it would not have felt the need to grant liberty to approach the High Court,” the State reasoned and highlighted that the adjournment by the High Court may unwittingly delay the implementation of the 50% reservation for Backward Classes and lead to same constitutional illegality being perpetrated in the current academic year, for which results were announced on April 1. It warned that the admission process was in the second stage of counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/madras-hc-can-decide-on-pleas-on-obc-quota-for-medical-courses-sc/article32073139.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘India paying price as govt. is asleep’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday targeted the government on Chinese incursions as well as its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Reacting to a report published in The Hindu on Monday, Mr. Gandhi tweeted that India was paying the price as the government was “lying asleep”. The report noted that China’s move into areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) were planned and followed a new mobilisation order issued by President Xi Jinping. “He’s ‘lying’ asleep. And India is paying for it,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted without naming anyone. But the tweet sought to convey that India was caught unawares. In a separate tweet, he attacked the government on its COVID-19 management. “India at good position in COVID19 battle?” he said, tagging a graph of India’s daily average cases that showed a steady rise while countries such as South Korea and New Zealand were showing a steady decline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-paying-price-as-govt-was-lying-asleep-rahul/article32073100.ece
14 July 2020||KAKINADA,||Miffed Mudragada quits quota campaign||Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham on Monday dissociated himself from the movement for BC status for the community, which he has been leading for quite some time, citing “verbal attacks” against him following his letters to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the issue as the reason. In an open letter to members of the community, Mr. Padmanabham said “the attack” on his course of action in a section of the media by fellow Kapus had left him shocked, “forcing me to quit the movement.” “I did not bother about loss of health, finances or political career during my association with the movement,” he said. In the two-page letter, the 67-year-old leader attributed the success of the Kapu Garjana at Tuni in 2016 to the overwhelming support extended by members of the community. “I confess that I am not a well-educated individual. However, I led the movement with guidance from legal experts and intellectuals. The entire course of action of the movement was in the knowledge of the Joint Action Committee,” Mr. Padmanabham said. Expressing deep concern over the way his intentions were being suspected by some community members, he appealed to them to take the movement forward by leading it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/miffed-mudragada-quits-quota-campaign/article32073057.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will invest $10 billion in India, says Google chief||Technology giant Google will invest $10 billion (Rs. 75,000 crore) in India over the next five to seven years with a focus on digitising the economy and building India-first products and services, its CEO Sundar Pichai said on Monday. Speaking at the company’s annual event, Mr. Pichai, also the CEO of Alphabet (Google’s parent firm) said, “We’ll do this through a mix of equity investments, partnerships and operational, infrastructure and ecosystem investments. This is a reflection of our confidence in the future of India and its digital economy.”  Investments will focus on four areas key to digitisation — enabling affordable access and information for every Indian in their own language, building products and services that are deeply relevant to India’s unique needs, empowering businesses on their digital transformation journey, and leveraging technology and AI for social good in areas such as health, education and agriculture. Mr. Pichai also spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi via videoconference early on Monday. Mr. Modi tweeted that the interaction was “extremely fruitful”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-invest-10-billion-in-india-says-google-chief/article32073061.ece
14 July 2020||Pune,||With 6,497 new cases, State tally crosses 2.6 lakh||Maharashtra reported 6,497 more COVID-19 cases and 193 deaths on Monday, taking total cases to nearly 2.61 lakh and the death toll to 10,482. State Health Department officials said just 1,05,637 of the cases are active, with 4,182 patients being discharged on Monday taking total recoveries to 1,44,507. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stood at 55.38% and the case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 4.02%. Mumbai nears 95,000 Mumbai reported 1,158 new cases, taking its tally to 94,146. However, only 22,900 of these are active cases. The city also reported 47 more deaths, taking its death toll to 5,335. Areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued to rise faster than the State capital, with 2,649 cases on Monday, taking cases in the region to 82,721. Within the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation reported the highest cases, 494, followed by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) with 353 cases. The total cases in the two corporations are now virtually the same, with TMC’s tally at 15,110 and Kalyan-Dombivali fast catching up, with 15,105 cases. Surge in Jalgaon, Nashik Jalgaon and Nashik reported big surges of more than 200 cases each; Jalgaon saw a rise of 220 fresh cases, taking case tally to 6,030 of whom 2,169 were active. With 236 new cases, Nashik’s tally has reached 7,316 of whom 2,807 are active. Likewise, the rise in cases continued in Aurangabad, which reported 215 new cases, taking its tally to 8,432.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-6497-new-cases-state-tally-crosses-26-lakh/article32073486.ece
14 July 2020||Hyderbad,||Spike in COVID cases again||After drop in the number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana in the past three days, it shot up again as 1,550 cases were reported on Monday. Nine more COVID patients died, taking the toll to 365. From July 10 to 13, between 1,170 and 1,280 cases were reported, which was a sharp drop despite increase in tests. On Monday, 11,525 tests were conducted out of which 1,550 samples tested positive for coronavirus. The new cases include 926 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 212 from Rangareddy and 53 from Medchal. As per the medical bulletin, 36,221 cases were listed under the ‘Total Cases’ category. However, when 12,178 active cases , 23,679 discharged, and 365 deaths are added, the total cases are 36,222. There is discrepancy of one case between the ‘Total Cases’, and the added number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spike-in-covid-cases-again/article32073296.ece
14 July 2020||Bengluru,||More restrictions during this lockdown||The week-long lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts, from Tuesday night, will have more restrictions than the previous lockdown. The State government has fixed a limited time slot for even shops selling essential items. They will be open only till noon, but pharmacies and all other health-related services will remain open all day. The city police will not issue travel passes like before. Only emergency trips are allowed within the city, while those with establishments permitted to work shall show their office identity cards. Examinations already scheduled will be held as planned and students can use their admission tickets as travel passes. Meanwhile, inter-district and inter-State travel will be restricted. People will be permitted to travel only in cases of emergency after availing themselves of passes on the Seva Sindhu portal. Barring these new restrictions, the other guidelines remain the same as that of the Sunday lockdown.   There is no proposal before the government to extend the lockdown beyond one week. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Twitter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-restrictions-during-this-lockdown/article32073098.ece
14 July 2020||MANGALURU,||For a week from Thursday in Dakshina Kannada||Lockdown will be imposed on Dakshina Kannada for a week from July 16 to prevent the spread of COVID-19, according to Minister in-charge Kota Srinivasa Poojary. He announced it after holding a video conference with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday. It will be in force till July 22, the Minister said and added that detailed guidelines will be issued by the district administration. The Minister asked people to purchase essentials required for a week on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-a-week-from-thursday-in-dakshina-kannada/article32073265.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP wary after Maharashtra experience||The crisis in the Congress-led government in Rajasthan may have been compared to the situation that brought down the party’s government in Madhya Pradesh, with infighting between leaders and the high command’s failure to arrest it but for the BJP, the Rajasthan crisis is one where lessons learnt after the Maharashtra elections came in handy. According to senior party sources, the debacle of government formation in Maharashtra, with current Finance Minister Ajit Pawar unable to back up his claim on numbers and the party’s humiliating retreat, has made the BJP tread with caution in dealing with Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. “Whereas any party would want a government in Rajasthan, we were not very sure of the numbers,” a senior party leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-wary-after-maharashtra-experience/article32073058.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Fire breaks out at pharma city||A major fire broke out at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City at Parawada, in Visakhapatnam, late on Monday night. According to the Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena, the fire reportedly broke out in a dump yard in the pharma city and as per the initial reports, there was no report of any casualty. “We are ascertaining the details, and both police and fire service department are at the spot to control the flames,” Mr. Meena said. A few days ago two persons died and four others were injured in an accident at Sainor Life Sciences, a unit at the pharma city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fire-breaks-out-at-pharma-city/article32073056.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Something positive for HCQ||A study on the clinical profile of the first 500 confirmed COVID-19 cases in Kerala published by the Health Department has reported that even among high-risk groups, it was the early administration of the controversial malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) combined with azithromycin, which might have prevented many patients with mild symptoms from progressing to moderate or severe disease.Page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/something-positive-for-hcq/article32073361.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘India paying price as govt. was lying asleep’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday targeted the government on Chinese incursions as well as its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Reacting to a report published in The Hindu on Monday, Mr. Gandhi tweeted that India was paying the price as the government was “lying asleep”. The report noted that China’s move into areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) were planned and followed a new mobilisation order issued by Xi Jinping. “He’s ‘lying’ asleep. And India is paying for it,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted without naming anyone. In a separate tweet, he attacked the government on its COVID-19 management. “India at good position in COVID19 battle?” he said, tagging a graph of India’s daily average cases that showed a steady rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-paying-price-as-govt-was-lying-asleep/article32073062.ece
14 July 2020||Madurai,||Rs. 145 crore disbursed to MSMEs||Around Rs. 145 crore has been disbursed to micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Madurai district under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till June 30, according to Lead District Manager K. Arivalagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-145-crore-disbursed-to-msmes/article32073451.ece
14 July 2020||Kolkata,||BJP MLA found dead||The body of BJP MLA Debendra Nath Roy was found in front of a shop in Uttar Dinajpur district on Monday morning triggering allegations of murder by his family members and the BJP leadership. “A suicide note has been recovered. Prima facie it appears to be case of suicide,” Sumit Kumar, Superintendent of Police, said.  Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact 033-24637401/ 033-24637432.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mla-found-dead/article32073422.ece
14 July 2020||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC refuses to stay MBBS exams; tests to be held from Tuesday||Written examinations for two batches of MBBS students of West Bengal University Of Health Sciences (WBUHS) will be held from July 14, the Calcutta High Court ordered on Monday, refusing prayers by a few students for a stay on the tests in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Subrata Talukdar directed that the “second Professional MBBS Examinations and the third Professional MBBS Part-I Examinations” will be held as per schedule.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/calcutta-hc-refuses-to-stay-mbbs-exams-tests-to-be-held-from-tuesday/article32073425.ece
14 July 2020||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC to remain closed till July 19||The Calcutta High Court will continue to remain closed till July 19 in view of a rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city and a new phase of lockdown in containment zones, Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan said in an administrative order on Monday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/calcutta-hc-to-remain-closed-till-july-19/article32073424.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear pleas on Vikas Dubey, aides’ encounters||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, will on Tuesday hear petitions questioning the killings of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey and his associates by the Uttar Pradesh police last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-vikas-dubey-aides-encounters/article32073227.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi: nearly 3 lakh rapid antigen tests conducted||A total of 2,99,699 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in Delhi since June 18, stated data released by the city government on Monday. While the total positivity rate in Delhi is around 9%, the positivity rate is 6.5% for antigen testing, the data show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-nearly-3-lakh-rapid-antigen-tests-conducted/article32073229.ece
14 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab imposes total ban on public gatherings||Amid rising cases of COVID-19, the Punjab government has put a complete ban on all public gatherings, while restricting social gatherings to five and marriages and other social functions to 30 instead of the current 50. The decision is a part of the revised guidelines issued on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-imposes-total-ban-on-public-gatherings/article32073228.ece
14 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||86 cases in Vijayapura||Vijayapura district recorded 86 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. Meanwhile, Dharwad district recorded 74 such cases and five deaths. Davangere district recorded 45 new cases while Bagalkot and Uttara Kannada recorded 37 new cases each. Belagavi recorded 27 cases, while Chitradurga recorded eight cases. Both Gadag and Haveri districts recorded six cases each. Belagavi and Bagalkot districts recorded two deaths each and Gadag, Davangere, Haveri and Uttara Kannada recorded one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/86-cases-in-vijayapura/article32073262.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||28-year-old who abused stand-up comedian held||The Mumbai Police on Monday arrested a 28-year-old man for abusing and giving rape threats on social media to stand-up comedian Agrima Joshua. He is active on social media, and goes with the pseudonym Umesh Dada alias Imtiyaz Shaikh. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said the State government is seeking legal opinion on the stand-up comedy act by Ms. Joshua as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/28-year-old-who-abused-stand-up-comedian-held/article32073489.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||Teltumbde files bail plea; Rao seeks early hearing||Professor Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, filed an application before the special National Investigation Agency court on Monday, the 91st day of his arrest, seeking to be released on default bail. Poet Varavara Rao (81), another accused in the case, moved the Bombay High Court on Monday seeking that his interim bail application be heard on Tuesday. Later in the day, prison authorities confirmed that Mr. Rao was shifted from Taloja jail to JJ Hospital in the morning for some tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teltumbde-files-bail-plea-rao-seeks-early-hearing/article32073488.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Over 70 deaths reported for fourth straight day||With 73 deaths reported on Monday, Karnataka reported more than 70 deaths for the fourth consecutive day. The death toll now stands at 757. With 2,738 new cases, the total number of cases has now touched 41,581. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,315 cases and 47 deaths on Monday. The total number of cases here has touched 19,702. With 838 recoveries, a total of 16,248 persons have been discharged so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-70-deaths-reported-for-fourth-straight-day/article32073097.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Corporation may let gyms open in city||The Greater Chennai Corporation is exploring options to open gyms in the city to protect the livelihood of 15,000 persons associated with the trade. Commissioner G. Prakash has ordered officials to study all aspects of the loss of livelihood by gym owners and workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corporation-may-let-gyms-open-in-city/article32073144.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Cases continue to dip in Chennai||Chennai witnessed a dip in fresh COVID-19 cases for the fifth day in a row on Monday, with 1,140 persons testing positive. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally increased to 1,42,798 as 4,328 persons tested positive. The toll went past the 2,000-mark with 66 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-continue-to-dip-in-chennai/article32073143.ece
14 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Public entry banned||Deputy Commissioner of Ballari S.S. Nakul said that four deaths and 105 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Ballari on Monday. Mr. Nakul has restricted the entry of public into his office and asked people to submit their grievances through kiosks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/public-entry-banned/article32073261.ece
14 July 2020||Srinagar,||Lockdown in parts of J&K as cases spike||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday reimposed stringent lockdown restrictions in parts of the Kashmir valley following a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases here. The administration, however, has decided to unlock the tourism sector. Barricades were put up and vehicular movement, except for essential services, was restricted in Srinagar. Restrictions on public movement and activities were imposed in 88 areas notified as COVID-19 red zones in Srinagar after a sharp spike in positive cases in the last couple of weeks, an official said. Zonal committees District Magistrate, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said, “Under the new orders, all these areas are being sealed off at all but one entry and exit. Twenty-five zonal committees have been assigned to be a part of the containment plan.” The fine for face mask violations has been enhanced to Rs. 1,000, whereas the violation of social distancing guidelines in red zones will incur a fine of Rs. 10,000, an official said. “The restrictions will remain in force until further orders,” the official added. Srinagar worst hit Restrictions were also imposed in Pulwama, Anantnag, Ganderbal, Baramulla and Kupwara. In the last one week, over 450 cases were detected in Srinagar district alone. An official said 314 fresh infections of novel coronavirus were reported on Monday in J&K. “While 89 cases were reported from the Jammu division, 225 were from the Kashmir division,” the official said. Srinagar has detected the highest 101 cases, followed by Jammu with 25 cases. Four more persons have died due to coronavirus in Kashmir, taking the toll in J&K to 186. The number of positive cases has already crossed the 10,000 mark. The administration has decided to allow partial restoration of tourism in J&K from July 14. “The intending tourists have been advised to board a pre-booked transport vehicle from the airport on their arrival. The vehicle will be arranged by the hotel they have already booked,” an order said. It says the hotels, houseboats and guest houses will have to arrange transport for the tourists and ensure that proper social distancing norms are followed. Tourists above 65 years of age have been advised to avoid coming to Jammu and Kashmir for holiday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-in-parts-of-jk-as-cases-spike/article32073233.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cases dip in Chennai, T.N. toll goes past 2,000||On Monday, Andhra Pradesh watched with concern as it recorded 37 new virus deaths and 1,935 new infections, while Kerala was trying to stem the intense transmission of COVID-19 along the coastal belt, which was making its way inland, through special action plans for the coastal zone, while intensifying surveillance and testing. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that local transmission had resulted in 51 clusters, including two large community clusters. As more cases sprang up in the community, patients might report late to hospital and risk of infection among the elderly and those with co-morbidities could push up mortality. Mr. Vijayan said the containment model so far had been effective and had won international accolades. He acknowledged that the increase in case burden and the potential of many vulnerable people requiring ICU and ventilator support could overwhelm the health system. On Monday, the cumulative case burden in the State was 8,322, with the reporting of 449 fresh cases. Total recoveries were 4,259. Local transmission again exceeded imported cases. Of the 449 new cases, only 204 were imported while the rest were from the community. In 18 cases, the source of infection was unknown. The local transmission included a huge cluster of 77 cases from the ITBP camp at , Alappuzha, five health-care workers, 10 Defence Security Corps jawans, four personnel of Fire and Rescue Services, one BSF jawan, and three Kerala Solvent Extraction Ltd staff. There were 4,028 active cases. With two more deaths reported from Kollam and Kannur, the toll was 33. The overall death toll in Andhra Pradesh mounted to 365 and tally touched 31,103, the Health Department said. With the discharge of 1,052 patients, the number of recoveries was at 16,464 and there were 14,274 active patients. Six deaths occurred in Anantapur and four each in East Godavari, Kurnool and West Godavari districts. Three deaths each occurred in Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Prakasam districts. Kadapa and Nellore reported two new deaths each while Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported at one death each. For the fifth day in a row, new coronavirus infections dropped in Chennai with 1,140 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of cases increased to 1,42,798 as 4,328 persons tested positive, while its toll went past 2,000 with 66 more fatalities. Behind Chennai, districts such as Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Madurai turned into priority areas for the Health department. Tamil Nadu’s toll went past 1,000 on June 27, and in 15 days, the number of deaths rose to 2,032.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-ap-worry-as-deaths-new-cases-rise/article32073015.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Congress fault lines run across States||The open revolt in the Congress by Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, barely four months after Madhya Pradesh leader Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the party and joined the BJP, has once again brought into focus the Congress’s leadership battles across multiple States. From Punjab to Haryana and Himachal Pradesh to Chhattisgarh, there is simmering discontent among leaders who are ready to challenge the State-level leadership, threatening to split the party. But the “high command” weakened by successive Lok Sabha election losses has failed to act decisively. Daily strife In Punjab, while Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is facing almost a daily challenge from former State unit chief Partap Singh Bajwa, who often takes to social media to register his protests, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu has almost gone into political hibernation. Now, reports suggest Mr. Bajwa and Mr. Sidhu are coming together to take on the Chief Minister. And ironically, much like Mr. Scindia and Mr. Pilot, both leaders are considered to be close to former party chief Rahul Gandhi and his sister, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “When we came to power after 10 years of Akali-BJP rule, the Congress was like a clenched fist. Now, only the thumb rules, while the other four fingers are lying idle,” Mr. Bajwa told The Hindu but refused to elaborate any further. In Haryana, the fight-to-the-finish turf war between former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the State unit’s former chief, Ashok Tanwar, resulted in Mr. Tanwar’s exit just ahead of the Assembly polls last October. Though the party brought in Kumari Selja in an effort to balance different factions, Mr. Hooda continues to tower over all other groups within the party. It was clearly evident this March when the Congress leadership had to accept Mr. Hooda’s son, Deepender, as the party’s nominee in the Rajya Sabha election from Haryana over Mr. Gandhi’s preference, Randeep Surjewala. Himachal Pradesh is witnessing a triangular contest among former Chief Minister Vir Bhadra Singh, Kaul Singh and current State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore. In Chhattisgarh too, there is constant talk of intense rivalry between Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo. Opinion on what is prompting leaders to leave the Congress is divided: while former party spokesperson Sanjay Jha talked about talent being ignored, others blame a weak leadership. While many refrained from making their views public, Mr. Jha tweeted on what ailed the party. “I fully back Sachin Pilot. Look at the facts: Rajasthan 2013 Assembly elections; CM: Mr. Gehlot. Result: BJP: 163, Congress: 21 ( lowest ever) Rajasthan 2018 Assembly Elections: Result: BJP-73, Congress:100. One man slogged 5 years for it; Sachin. But who becomes the CM,” Mr. Jha tweeted. Finding a pattern “If you look at the people who have left or are ready to revolt, most of them have been very close to Mr. Gandhi. And it’s not as if Mr. Pilot and Mr. Scindia were not rewarded when the United Progressive Alliance was in power. They were not only given important portfolios but also projected as faces of the future. Yet, they left [or revolted]. It means they were not sure of the party’s leadership,” an MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-fault-lines-run-across-states/article32073032.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||19 States have higher recovery rate: Centre||The Union Health Ministry has advised people not to panic if they are diagnosed with COVID-19, stating that “most people get better”. “Practise self-isolation and take medications that are advised,” the Ministry said on Monday, even as India’s COVID-19 recovery rate now stands at 63.01% with 5,53,471 people having recovered in the country so far. “19 States in India have a higher recovery rate than the national average of 63.02% and 30 States have a lower fatality rate than the national average of 2.64%,” the Ministry said. The Ministry attributed the numbers to aggressive testing coupled with timely diagnosis, effective management of containment zones and surveillance. “The norms and standards for care of home isolation along with the use of oximeters has helped keep a check on asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients without burdening the hospital infrastructure,” said the Ministry. It added that this graded policy had led to the recovery of 18,850 people in the last 24 hours, taking the total cumulative number of recovered cases among COVID-19 patients to 5,53,470. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), during the last 24 hours, 2,19,103 samples were tested. The cumulative number of samples tested as of now is 1,18,06,256.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/19-states-have-higher-recovery-rate-centre/article32073039.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||High CBSE marks will push up cut-offs||College admission rankings that are based on Class 12 results are likely to have much higher cut-offs this year, with a huge spike in the number of students scoring high marks in this year’s Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examination. Students who scored 95% or above were part of an elite group of just 17,693 in 2019, less than 1.5% of all candidates. In 2020, a year when the examinations were disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, that figure more than doubled with 38,686 students scoring above 95%, according to CBSE data. The number of students who scored above 90% also increased from nearly 94,000 in 2019 to almost 1.6 lakh in 2020. For universities and colleges which use Class 12 marks for their admission procedures, this means that a larger number of high-scoring applicants are likely to push cut-offs to higher levels than usual. The overall pass percentage was also higher than the previous year, with 88.8% of students passing the exam in comparison to 83.4% in 2019. Cancelled papers For subjects that were cancelled due to the pandemic, marks were calculated on the basis of students’ performance in the completed papers, using an assessment scheme approved by the Supreme Court. Only a third of the 12 lakh candidates were able to complete all papers. No merit list of toppers was announced this year. The results of 400 students could not be computed using the assessment scheme, the CBSE said in a statement. Students who wish to improve their scores in papers that were cancelled will be allowed to write an optional examination, which will be held as soon as conditions are conducive. No ‘Fail’ The CBSE decided to avoid using the term “Fail” in any of the results, and has replaced it with the term “Essential Repeat”. Compartment exam schedules will be announced later, in consultation with the Centre. As has been the trend in recent years, girls performed better than boys with a 92% pass percentage this year. More than 86% of boys passed the exam. Students from the southern region performed best in the exams, with Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Chennai all recording a pass percentage of more than 95%. More than 94% of Delhi students passed the examination, despite the fact that some students in northeast Delhi wrote only a paper or two, due to violence in the area causing additional cancellations in February. All the three CBSE websites created to access the Class 12 results crashed on Monday afternoon, frustrating students. CBSE’s official Twitter handle blamed the National Informatics Centre for the website failures. A CBSE spokesperson said students could also check results on the Umang app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-cbse-marks-will-push-up-cut-offs/article32073048.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aircraft carriers to get Indian jets by 2032||The Navy is expected to start receiving new twin-engine aircraft carrier-based fighter aircraft being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) by 2032 and it will be a replacement for the Russian MiG-29K carrier jets in service, a defence source said. “The Navy is expected to get the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL)-built twin-engine carrier aircraft by 2032. It will replace the MiG-29Ks in service which are scheduled to start going out by 2034,” the source said. The Navy currently operates Russian-origin carrier INS Vikramaditya and expects to have the first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC-I) Vikrant operational by 2022. With a second carrier to come in, the Navy is already evaluating a global tender for 57 carrier-based twin-engine fighter aircraft. With the new jet under development and also factoring in budgetary constraints, the Navy is looking to revise the tender for 57 carrier-based jets downwards. The revised numbers have not been finalised yet, the source stated. Last January, the naval Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) successfully completed arrested landing and take-off on board Vikramaditya and has since undertaken several trials. Deck-based fighter Based on the experience of the carrier landing, the DRDO has offered to develop a twin-engine deck-based fighter for the Navy. With the successful deck-landing, they decided to drop the naval LCA Mk2 and move on to the twin-engine jet, the source said. The new jet being developed by DRDO should be ready by 2026, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh stated last December. The design specifications have since been finalised. The Navy currently has 45 Russian MiG-29K aircraft and its officials had stated that there will not be enough aircraft to operate from both carriers. The Navy is currently evaluating the responses to the Request For Information (RFI) from Boeing with its F-18 Super Hornet and Dassault Aviation with its Rafale jets. Both companies had stated that their jets can operate off the ski-jump of Vikramaditya and in future the Vikrant. In fact, an Indian Navy team was to visit the US Naval Air Station in Maryland to witness a demonstration by Boeing on the compatibility of its F-18 Super Hornet of taking off and landing from the decks of Indian aircraft carriers. However, the visit got delayed due to the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aircraft-carriers-to-get-indian-jets-by-2032/article32073043.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Corps Commanders’ talks today at Chushul||India and China are scheduled to hold the fourth round of Corps Commanders talks at Chushul on Tuesday where details of the second phase of disengagement along the border would be discussed, a defence source said. The focus of the talks, scheduled around 11.30 a.m, would also be on pulling back the massive deployment of troops and equipment along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), another source said. As in earlier talks, the Tuesday dialogue will be held between 14 Corps Commander Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh and Commander of South Xinjiang Military District Maj. Gen. Liu Lin. Last week, Indian and Chinese troops completed the first phase of disengagement from the stand-off areas in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra and a partial disengagement from Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5. However, Chinese troops are still present on the ridge line of Finger 4. At each place, Indian troops also moved back a couple of kilometres following a pull-back by Chinese troops as per the consensus reached, creating a temporary buffer zone with only a small groups of soldiers left to verify the disengagement. For instance, at Patrolling Point (PP) 17A, each side has retained around 50 soldiers each and the remaining moved back to permanent positions as part of the agreed disengagement. The first source said disengagement could be better managed by avoiding contact and added that both sides were relocating troops, and decided to cease patrolling so that troops didn’t clash as tempers were still high. “Trust on both sides continues to be an issue. Troops will get back to original location slowly,” the source said. The earlier Corps Commander talks were held on June 6, 22 and 30. The consensus for disengagement and de-escalation reached on June 6 was breached with the clash in Galwan Valley on June 15, claiming the lives of 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/corps-commanders-talks-today-at-chushul/article32073027.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Gold smuggling plotters go a long way back||The plot to smuggle gold concealed in air-freight addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate here was possibly seeded years before. Investigators said two of the main accused in the high-profile case had struck a chance friendship when they were employees at a supermarket in the State capital. Life took the youth, Sarith P.S. and Sandeep Nair, in different directions only to bring them back together again in 2018. Sandeep, meanwhile, had journeyed to Dubai several times. Sarith got employment as a liaison at the consulate. Sandeep briefly showed up on the radar of the Customs in 2016 when officers named him as accused in a case relating to the smuggling of 1.5 kg of gold via the international airport here. However, enforcers could not retrieve any contraband from him, and the case against Sandeep has remained in limbo since. Investigators said Sarith had told Sandeep that he had imported expensive mobile phones, perfumes, and electronic items without paying duty by getting the goods parcelled from Dubai in air-cargo shipments earmarked for the mission here. New accomplice Sandeep subsequently convinced Sarith to use the same channel to import gold from the UAE clandestinely. Swapna Suresh, the second accused, joined the consulate later. Her fluency in Arabic and English and communication skills won her the trust of consulate officials. Officials said the duo had recruited Swapna for the smuggling bid to exploit her standing in the consulate. She had also cultivated powerful connections in the government by working for the mission and organising events at its behest. Sarith and Swapna left the consulate in 2019 but often worked for the mission on a “request basis”. On July 5, when Customs delayed the clearance of the suspect cargo that contained 30 kg of gold concealed in imported piping, Swapna allegedly dropped the name of high officials to “harry” officers into releasing the “diplomatic baggage” without examination. Investigators believe the gold smuggling plot gathered momentum after Sandeep introduced Rameez, another accused in the case, to the other suspects. They said Rameez could have organised the Dubai end of the operation through Faisil Fareed, another suspect in the case who was still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gold-smuggling-plotters-go-a-long-way-back/article32073367.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Two from Pune held for links with IS||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a 22-year-old woman and a 27-year-old man from Pune for alleged affiliations with the Islamic State in Khorasan (ISKP), a banned terror group active in Afghanistan. The accused have been identified as Sadiya Anwar Sheikh, a student of mass communication and journalism, and Nabeel S. Khatri, a gymnasium owner. The names of the accused had surfaced during investigation of a case registered earlier by the Delhi police in March when a couple from Jammu and Kashmir were arrested during the agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. In 2015, when Sheikh was a student at a convent in Pune, she was detained and counselled by the Maharashtra police as she planned to leave the country to join the Islamic State (IS) in Syria. Radicalised over Net She was allegedly radicalised on the Internet by a Sri Lankan handler, who promised her medical education in Syria. “It has also been revealed that Sheikh had been in contact with Islamic State recruiters through social media since 2015. She was planning to execute a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir and was detained by the State police in 2018,” the NIA said in a statement on Monday. However, as reported by The Hindu in 2018, she was not arrested by the J&K police as no explosives were found on her. She continued to be on the radar of the police and intelligence agencies and was detained in the Kashmir Valley in January 2018 and labelled a “suicide bomber”. The Jammu and Kashmir police had to release her after interrogation revealed that she had travelled there to meet the person she wanted to marry. Violent terrorist attacks The NIA said in the statement that the case was initially registered by the Delhi police on March 8 after the arrest of the Kashmiri couple — Jahanzaib Sami Wani and Hina Bashir Beigh — from Jamia Nagar in Delhi. “The couple were having affiliations with the ISKP, which is a banned terrorist organisation and is a part of the Islamic State, and were found to be involved in subversive and anti-national activities. They were also found to be in touch with Abdullah Basith, who is already lodged in the Tihar jail in another NIA case,” the NIA said. The NIA alleged that Sheikh was continuously in touch with Wani, Beigh and Basith on various secure messaging applications, discussing how to propagate the IS ideology. “They were trying to build up a cadre of IS by recruiting gullible youth for terrorist activities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-from-pune-held-for-links-with-is/article32073025.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Exams postponed to Nov., ICAI tells Supreme Court||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) informed the Supreme Court on Monday its decision to cancel exams scheduled in July and August, taking into consideration public interest and the health of the students in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, for the ICAI, said the situation was “too dynamic” as regards the health crisis to safely hold the exams.  Students alerted The ICAI said the exams, for now, had been postponed to November 2020. Mr. Srinivasan said the candidates had been intimated about the change of plans to avoid causing them any anxiety. In the previous hearing, the ICAI had indicated “operational problems” in conducting the exams due to the spread of infection. ‘Opt-out’ scheme The hearing was based on a writ petition filed by the India Wide Parents Association, represented by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, which primarily challenged the ICAI's ‘opt-out’ scheme. On June 29, the court asked the ICAI to come ready with a fresh draft notification allowing students to opt out of the exams without running the risk of being marked as having failed in the papers they missed due to the pandemic. However, on July 2, the ICAI was having second thoughts about the exam with the pandemic situation worsening. When told of this, the court allowed it time to review the situation and come back on July 13. A total of 3.46 lakh students were supposed to take the exams between July 29 and August 16. Of this, 2.89 lakh had opted in while 52,000 had opted out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/exams-postponed-to-nov-icai-tells-supreme-court/article32073045.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC directs Chest hospital to file report||Observing that the recent death of a COVID-19 patient in Government Chest Hospital prima facie appeared to be the consequence of medical negligence, Telangana High Court on Monday directed the hospital superintendent to file a detailed and complete report on the patient’s death. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL plea on patient Ravi Kumar’s death, wanted the report by July 20. A lawyer, B. Yashpal Goud, who filed the petition, informed the court that Mr. Kumar was admitted to the hospital in Erragadda on June 24 with high fever. He eventually tested positive for coronavirus. Negligence alleged The lawyer contended that the patient died as the hospital staff declined to provide ventilator and proper treatment. He furnished a copy of the selfie-video clip made by the patient before his death. In the clip, which went viral on social media, Mr. Kumar said the hospital staff removed his ventilator and refused to arrange oxygen support for him. The petitioner sought for appointment of a judicial committee to inquire into the patient’s death and ascertain facts. He also requested the court to review all the records of the patient. The petitioner appealed to the court to constitute a committee of external experts to determine how patients admitted in the hospital are taken care of and treated. “I am concerned about the young man who lost his life. I ask the government to take action against persons responsible for his death,” the CJ said hearing the plea. The bench instructed the hospital superintendent to explain precisely what exactly transpired after 26-year-old Ravi Kumar was admitted in the hospital. Jenila reference The bench recalled the instance of maternal death of 20-year-old Jenila of Jogulamba-Gadwal district during the lockdown and how the HC had directed the government to slap criminal case against the doctors responsible since their negligence resulted in her death. “If Ravi Kumar’s death was the result of callousness of medical staff, then it is something necessarily to be worried of...” the bench observed. Remarking that Mr. Kumar’s was a death not due to COVID-19, the bench said the doctors and the medical staff should be held accountable for it. The bench said that irrespective of the seniority of the doctors, if they are found guilty in the case, stringent punishment should be awarded to them.  I am concerned about the young man who lost his life. I ask the government to take action against persons responsible for his death. Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, Chief Justice, Telangana High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-directs-chest-hospital-to-file-report/article32073102.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Something positive for HCQ||A study on the clinical profile of the first 500 confirmed COVID-19 cases in Kerala, published by the Health department has reported that even among high risk groups, it was the early administration of the controversial malaria drug, Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) combined with Azithromycin, which might have prevented many patients with mild symptoms from progressing to moderate or severe disease. WHO had withdrawn the trial’s HCQ arm, after interim trial results showed that HCQ produced little or no reduction in the mortality of hospitalised COVID-19 patients, when compared to standard of care. The State Health department’s report endorsing the efficacy of HCQ for COVID patients with mild symptoms thus comes at a time when there is speculation that the drug might be taken out from the COVID treatment protocol by the ICMR. The study reported that it was because of the very early admission of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Kerala that even among high risk groups, COVID-19 did not progress to severe critical disease. The mean of number of days from symptom onset to nasopharyngeal swab collection and hospitalisation in Kerala was only 1.7 days and 3 days respectively. This was not the case in many parts of India or China or Italy, where the COVID mortality has been much higher. The study reports that out of 500 patients, 42% were asymptomatic, 29.6% were in Category A (mild symptoms), 24.2% were in Category B (mild disease with fever) and 4.2 % were in Category C with serious illness, Out of 500 patients, three patients died (case fatality rate 0.6%). Fever was present in 24.2%, cough in 29%, sore throat in 32.2%, myalgia in 10.8%, rhinitis in 8%, headache in 8.8%, diarrhoea in 5.4%, and fatigue in 5%. Of the 500 patients, 1% were critically ill and required ICU care. About 1% required non-invasive ventilation,0.6% required invasive mechanical ventilation, 1% had pneumonia, 0.6% had myocarditis and 0.6% had acute kidney injury  Early use of drug and Azithromycin might have prevented mild symptoms from worsening, as per a Health dept. study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/something-positive-for-hcq/article32073365.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,||HC quizzes govt. on COVID-19 treatment||A family member of an employee of the High Court of Karnataka died last night after being unable to get timely admission despite a three-hour long desperate effort made by the court’s Registrar (Administration) to get information on hospital having bed with ventilator facility. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, who was sitting in a Division Bench comprising Justice Alok Aradhe, disclosed this information to the Additional Advocate General on Monday afternoon during the hearing of PIL petitions related to complaints that COVID-19 positive and other patients were finding it difficult to get admission in hospitals for treatment in the city. Two deaths Incidentally, it was during the hearing of these petitions that the High Court on July 7 had termed as “sorry state of affair” the instances of death of two COVID-19 positive patients in Bengaluru after several hospitals, including two government hospitals, declined admission to them citing procedures. The Registrar (Administration) had made desperate efforts to get information on hospitals having bed with ventilator facility for three hours last night but ultimately the family member of the staff died, the Chief Justice said. Meanwhile, it was pointed out to the Bench by an advocate that a pregnant woman had to wait for eight hours to get admission to a hospital in the city, while stating that the claim of the government is contrary to the ground situation. Terming such instances as “very serious”, the Bench posed a series of questions to the government, including the delay in outcome of COVID-19 lab test results, while making it clear that it would not hesitate to issue directions to ensure that a system is in place. One phone number Later, the Bench directed the government to ensure that one phone number with multiple lines is set up to assist the public to give accurate information on hospitals and availability of beds, and wide publicity on the telephone number through newspapers and other media, and at testing labs, fever clinics etc. ‘Develop app’ The court also asked the government whether it could develop a software application to give real-time information to the public on bed availability and other related issues. Meanwhile, the Bench said that there should be a clear protocol right from the conduct of COVID-19 test till hospitalisation of patients who test positive, and from availability of information on test results to hospitalisation.    Terming such instances as “very serious”, the Bench posed a series of questions to the government, including the delay in outcome of COVID-19 lab test results, while making it clear that it would not hesitate to issue directions to ensure that a proper system is in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quizzes-govt-on-covid-19-treatment/article32072998.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala temple case: government to abide by SC ruling||The State government will abide by the Supreme Court ruling that has upheld the right of the royal family of erstwhile Travancore in the administration and management of the centuries-old Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple here. Responding to the Supreme Court’s ruling on Monday that has put an end to a nine-year-old dispute, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the government was duty-bound to implement the verdict and that it would not go in appeal against the verdict. Asked to comment on the apex court reversing the Kerala High Court’s 2011 order that the rights of the erstwhile royal family ceased to exist after the death of the last ruler of erstwhile Travancore in 1991, the Minister said the State government had made its stand clear earlier. “The ruling needs to be examined in detail. We welcome the Supreme Court ruling,” he added. The Supreme Court ruling was clear on the way forward in the opening of the Vault ‘B’ of the temple, the Minister said replying to a query on the stance taken by the present Left Democratic Front government. Royal family happy Aswathy Tirunal Gouri Lakshmi Bayi, Pooyam Tirunal Gouri Parvathy Bayi and Adithya Varma of the royal family of erstwhile Travancore expressed happiness over the ruling. “No one can claim credit for this. It is a victory of the Lord and a blessing from him to his devotees. The temple wealth belongs to the Lord and not the royal family. We are thankful to all those who stood by us and waited for so long,” said Pooyam Tirunal Gouri Parvathy Bayi said. The Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple gained worldwide attention following the unearthing of huge treasures in its underground vaults. The former Civil Services officer and the Director General of National Museum, C.V. Ananda Bose, who headed a five-member expert committee appointed by the Supreme Court to evaluate the treasures of the temple, said a strong administrative machinery was needed to protect the temple wealth and to manage its day-to-day affairs. ‘Devotees’ wish’ “It is considered as the wealthiest temple in the world. Supreme Court ruling has come as desired by the devotees,” he said. V. Ratheesan, the Temple Executive Officer for the past three years, said the five-member committee proposed by the Supreme Court with members from all sections would pave way for the further development of the temple. “This will facilitate funds from the Centre, State, the Trust floated by the former ruler and royal family and support from all quarters. Lot of facilities were created in the past three years and the court asking the present committee to continue till the new committee is formed is a recognition for the works done,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-temple-case-government-to-abide-by-sc-ruling/article32073003.ece
14 July 2020||KOCHI,||NIA suspects terror funding in Kerala gold smuggling case||The proceeds from the gold smuggling case might be used for terror funding, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The agency submitted before the NIA special court, Kochi, on Monday that it had reasons to believe that the gold was not smuggled for jewellery groups as commonly perceived. Some terror groups were dealing in gold as it had become difficult for them to handle cash, the agency submitted. UAPA norms The NIA came up with these explanations on specific questions from the court on how the case would attract the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) slapped on the accused. The agency invoked Section 16 and 17 of the UAPA, which prescribes punishment for raising funds for terrorist activities, against Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, two of the accused. The agency had sought the custody of the two for probing “the terrorist angle” and suspected terrorism funding in the case. On Sunday, when the case was first considered, the agency submitted that the accused had forged the documents pertaining to the UAE Consulate to send gold through diplomatic baggage. The accused had smuggled in gold on three occasions using forged documents, it submitted.  The NIA also produced the case diary before the court. The court sent the two accused to the custody of the agency till 11 a.m. on July 21. Sandeep complained to the court that no enquiries were being made on the role of one Rashid who had arranged visa and other documents to facilitate gold smuggling from the UAE. He submitted that he was being victimised by the investigation agencies. In Customs’ custody Earlier, the Customs officials had moved a petition before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, seeking the custody of Kannamthodi Thekkekalathil Ramees of Malappuram, who the agency says had admitted to his “active role in the criminal conspiracy and smuggling of huge quantities of gold to India under the guise of diplomatic baggage.” He was remanded in the custody of Customs for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-suspects-terror-funding-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/article32073007.ece
14 July 2020||Srinagar,||Two JeM militants killed in Anantnag||Two Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militants were killed and a woman was injured during an anti-militancy operation by the security forces at Anantnag in south Kashmir on Monday. “During the encounter, two terrorists affiliated with JeM were killed in the Srigufwara area of Anantnag. The bodies were also retrieved. One of the killed terrorists has been identified as Nasir, alias Shahbaz, alias Baz Bai, a Pakistan resident. He was an ‘A’ category terrorist,” a police spokesman said. The identification of the other terrorist is being ascertained, the police added. “In the indiscriminate firing by terrorists, one woman received gunshot injuries. She was shifted to hospital for treatment where her condition is stated to be stable,” the police said. The gunfight started on Monday morning when a joint cordon-and-search operation was launched by the police, the Army’s 3 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF. “Arms, ammunition and other incriminating materials were recovered from the site of encounter,” the police said. The bodies of the killed terrorists will be buried at Baramulla in north Kashmir keeping in view the current COVID-19 situation. “In case any family claims the killed terrorist to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification and participation in last rites at Baramulla,” the police said. Deputy Inspector General (DIG), North Kashmir, Muhammad Suliaman Choudhary on Monday said 35-40 foreign militants were operating in northern districts of Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-jem-militants-killed-in-anantnag/article32073030.ece
14 July 2020||Kolkata,||BJP MLA found dead in Bengal||The body of Hemtabad BJP MLA Debendra Nath Roy was found hanging in front of a tea shop in Uttar Dinajpur district on Monday, triggering allegations of murder by his family members and the BJP leadership. Mr. Roy won the 2016 Assembly polls on a CPI(M) ticket and joined the BJP in 2019. The body was found in the courtyard of the shop, about 1 km from his home in Hemtabad. Family members said some people on motorbikes had called him out at 1 a.m. after which he did not return. “A suicide note has been recovered. Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide. We are looking into the case from all angles,” Sumit Kumar, Uttar Dinjapur Superintendent of Police, said. The MLA’s wife asked why the hand of the MLA was tied if it was a case of suicide. Protests erupt BJP State president Dilip Ghosh demanded a CBI probe, adding that party workers were killed and hanged in Purulia district before the rural polls. The BJP leadership took out a protest rally in Kolkata. Mr. Ghosh called for a 12-hour bandh in north Bengal on Tuesday in protest against the death. “This is a deaf and mute government. We have to make noise for it to hear... If someone has to come and see what lawlessness and goondaraj is, they can see it in Bengal,” the BJP leader said. The BJP leadership also met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in Raj Bhavan. Mr. Dhankhar also called for an “impartial probe to unravel the truth and blunt political violence”. The Trinamool Congress leadership said the death was a matter of investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-found-dead-in-bengal/article32073041.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. issues notice to PTI over Rs. 84 crore dues for Delhi office||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry’s Land and Development Office (L&DO) has issued notice to the news agency Press Trust of India over dues for its office on Parliament Street, giving it time till August 7 to pay Rs. 84.48 crore or face penalty and further action under the lease agreement. The notice issued on July 7 said the “breaches” committed should be removed by Tuesday. According to a Ministry official, the pending dues include ground rent and regularisation charges for unauthorised construction since 1984. The official said no dues had been paid since then. Asked about the timing of the notice, the official said the process had started before the lockdown that was imposed in March and that an inspection was conducted in February. A spokesperson for PTI said: “We have just received a demand notice. We are seeking clarification from authorities, and have no further comments for now.” The notice comes just weeks after state broadcaster Prasar Bharati threatened to cancel its subscription to the news agency, the largest in the country. In a letter to PTI on June 27, Prasar Bharati said its coverage was “detrimental to national interest”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-issues-notice-to-pti-over-rs-84-crore-dues-for-delhi-office/article32073050.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Iran, China set to clinch 25-year deal||Iran and China are close to finalising a 25-year Strategic Partnership which will include Chinese involvement in Chabahar’s duty-free zone, an oil refinery nearby, and possibly a larger role in Chabahar port as well. According to leaked versions of the 18-page “Comprehensive Plan for Cooperation between Iran and China”, being finalised by officials in Tehran and Beijing, the cooperation will extend from investments in infrastructure, manufacturing and upgrading energy and transport facilities, to refurbishing ports, refineries and other installations, and will commit Iranian oil and gas supplies to China during that period. Railway project The proposed tie-up comes even as Iran decided last week to go ahead on its own with the construction of a railway line from Chabahar port to Zahedan, in Afghanistan for which an MoU had been signed with the PSU Indian Railways Construction Ltd (IRCON) four years ago. The MoU, signed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Tehran in 2016, was to construct the Chabahar-Zahedan railway as “part of transit and transportation corridor in trilateral agreement between India, Iran and Afghanistan”. However, despite several site visits by IRCON engineers, and preparations by Iranian railways, India never began the work, ostensibly due to worries that these could attract U.S. sanctions.  The U.S. had provided a sanctions waiver for the Chabahar port and the rail line to Zahedan, but it has been difficult to find equipment suppliers and partners due to worries they could be targeted by the U.S., said officials. The Ministry of External Affairs and IRCON declined to comment. However, asked if the MoU with IRCON had been cancelled, an official said India could still join at a “later date.” Iranian officials denied a report that also suggested Chabahar port, where India took charge of operations at one terminal last December, would be leased to China. However, Iran proposed a tie-up between the Chinese-run Pakistani port at Gwadar and Chabahar last year, and has offered interests to China in the Bandar-e-Jask port 350km away from Chabahar, as well as in the Chabahar duty-free zone. Each of those possibilities should be watched closely by New Delhi, said former Ambassador to Iran, K.C. Singh. “[The Iran-China deal] impinges on India’s “strategic ties” with Iran and the use of Chabahar port,” he cautioned.  (With inputs from Yuthika Bhargava)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iran-china-set-to-clinch-25-year-deal/article32073049.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear pleas on Dubey encounter||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, will on Tuesday hear petitions questioning the killings of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey and his associates by the Uttar Pradesh Police in response to the ambush and murder of eight police officers at Bikru village on July 3. The hearing was scheduled even as a statement was issued by the India Executive Board of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), chaired by Wajahat Habibullah, former Chief Information Commissioner, urging the Allahabad High Court to monitor the probe into the encounter killings of Dubey and his associates in line with the Supreme Court guidelines laid down in the PUCL vs Maharashtra judgment of 2014. The CHRI Executive Committee, which includes former SC judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, and former Delhi High Court chief justice A.P. Shah, highlighted how the U.P. Police had in December last year tweeted that 103 people were killed and 1,859 injured in 5,178 “police engagements” in the last two years. There is still no clarity whether the State had the killings investigated at all despite an order from National Human Rights Commission and a call for review of the cases by five United Nations Special Rapporteurs. The first petition by a Maharashtra-based lawyer, advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay, was filed hours before Dubey was shot dead on July 10. The police version is that he tried to escape custody after a vehicle in the convoy bringing him to Kanpur, met with an accident. The petition had presciently said there was “every possibility of U.P. police resorting to kill Vikas Dubey in fake encounter during his transit”. A letter from Mr. Upadhyay to the Supreme Court on Saturday sought an urgent hearing, saying what was apprehended about Dubey’s fate had actually happened. ‘Trigger-happy cops’ The second petition listed is one filed by Anoop Prakash Awasthi, which begins dramatically by asking “Shall we close our honourable courts, prosecution agencies and dismantle the system of administration of criminal justice as the trigger-happy cops in Uttar Pradesh do not need them and believe only upon their fire power when taking any adversary or outlaw in their custody?” A separate plea has also been filed by the NGO, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL)..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-dubey-encounter/article32073022.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC issues notices to EC, YSRCP on use of name||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued notices to the Election Commission of India and the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress upon hearing a writ petition filed by Anna YSR Congress Party president S. Mahabub Basha for de-recognition of the ruling party in Andhra Pradesh under the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order of 1968. Anna YSR Congress, which claims to be a registered political party formed in September 2015 in Andhra Pradesh, in its petition, said it was aggrieved by the “illegal and unlawful appropriation and unauthorised usage” of the ‘YSR Congress Party’ abbreviation in YSR Congress Party’s letterheads, campaign material and other collaterals of party administration. Anna YSR Congress claimed that the EC had in September 2010 issued clear instructions to the YSR Congress Party barring it from adopting the abbreviation “YSR Congress Party” as its party name. The petition said the YSR Congress Party was “obliged under law” and as directed by the Election Commission to use its full name and not its abbreviated form. Justice Jayant Nath posted the case for further hearing on September 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-issues-notices-to-ec-ysrcp-on-use-of-name/article32073009.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Nod for Karnataka-T.N. economic corridor||The Expert Appraisal Committee of the Environment Ministry has recommended the grant of Environmental Clearance for the development of an economic corridor — the Satellite Town Ring Road (STRR) — between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The greenfield highway is part of Bharatmala Pariyojna and will be implemented by the National Highways Authority of India. The project will start in Dabaspet in Karnataka and end near Devarapalli village on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border, and encompasses two States — 134.94 km in Karnataka and 45.02 km in Tamil Nadu. The NHAI submitted before the committee that the new road would provide better, fast, safe and smooth connectivity for commuters between the two States as well as in the region. “Accident rates are also expected to be under control due to enhanced road safety measures. Development of the proposed project road will boost local agriculture and enable farmers to realise better value for their products as well as attract more investment to that region,” it said. The project is expected to cost Rs. 756.68 crore. The NHAI said that 12,111 trees would be felled for the project and 206 persons would be affected with regard to property and other structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-karnataka-tn-economic-corridor/article32073000.ece
14 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Narrow escape for top Maoist leader, 4 others||Five Maoists, including a top leader carrying a cash reward of Rs. 25 lakh on his head, escaped from the scene of what would have been a major exchange of fire near Thiryani in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, 300 km from here on Monday afternoon. Mailarepu Adellu alias Bhaskar, a member of Telangana State Committee of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) with a cash reward of Rs. 25 lakh on his head, hails from Pocharam village in Boath mandal. While, Varghese Koya aka Manglu of Chhattisgarh, who slipped into the jungle with Bhaskar and three others, had a reward of Rs. 5 lakh on his head. Based on specific information that a Dalam was moving in the hillocks in Thiryani police station limits, multiple police parties carried out combing operations in the area, and the five rebels had a narrow escape, KB Asifabad in-charge Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier told The Hindu. The police recovered several incriminating materials, including revolutionary literature, uniforms, electronic gadgets, detonators, cordex wires and three solar panels. When asked whether there was any exchange of fire between the parties, Mr. Warrier denied and said, “Maybe they learnt about our presence in the jungle and escaped. We did not confront them.” Police believe that the Maoists are still in the forest and will continue the combing operation. “Search for the escaped Maoists will continue. Our teams are making efforts to nab them,” the SP said. If sources are to be believed, the movement of Maoists was noticed considerably in the district after the lockdown as people, especially in tribal hamlets, returned to their habitation and the members of the banned Maoist party took the opportunity to ‘interact’ with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narrow-escape-for-top-maoist-4-others/article32073347.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP wary after Maharashtra experience||“Whereas any party would want a government in Rajasthan, we were not very sure of the numbers,” a senior party leader said. “Added to this was the fact that unlike Jyotiraditya Scindia in Madhya Pradesh, Sachin Pilot had not openly expressed rebellion against the Congress. Which is why we too have adopted a wait and watch situation with regard to Rajasthan,” the leader from the State said. He added that the numbers situation was “being closely watched” by the BJP, but said much needs to be said before any scenario that could see Sachin Pilot join the BJP, comes to fruition. As the Congress sent out contradictory signals through the day — a resolution by its legislative party that those trying to break the party were not welcome to All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Randeep Surjewala sending out a “all is forgiven” message to Mr. Pilot — the man at the centre of the storm remained silent. Party leaders did confirm that some communication had been on between Mr. Pilot and the BJP, especially after the exit of Mr Scindia from the Congress, but that “nothing had been committed” to him. The Income Tax Dept. raids this morning against business interests said to be friendly with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot are being dismissed as just “muscle flexing” in response to the FIRs lodged on alleged efforts at buying MLAs in Rajasthan and the extensive use of the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) of the State. In public, the BJP is maintaining that the events in Rajasthan have nothing to do with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-wary-after-maharashtra-experience/article32073008.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Amid overtures to Pilot, CLP backs Gehlot||The resolution also accused the Opposition BJP of hatching a conspiracy to “murder democracy” by trying to destabilise the Congress government and bribe the MLAs. This was an insult to the eight crore people of Rajasthan, it said. But despite the strongly-worded resolution, the central leadership of the Congress was keen on a compromise and tried to persuade Mr Pilot to head back to Jaipur. Former Union finance minister P. Chidambaram, senior leaders Ahmed Patel and K.C. Venugopal are also believed to have reached out to Mr. Pilot but there was no official confirmation. Before the CLP meeting began, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, camping in Jaipur after being deputed to handle the political crisis, appealed to Mr. Pilot and the MLAs supporting him to raise the issues arising out of “difference of opinion” via party forums. “The doors of Congress are always open... Talk to us,” Mr. Surjewala said at a press conference, adding that the Congress leadership had spoken to Mr. Pilot about several times during the last 48 to 72 hours. Nothing should be done to weaken the party or give an opportunity to the BJP to indulge in horse-trading, Mr Surjewala added. The decision to initiate talks now rests entirely on Mr. Pilot, said another senior Congress leader. Congress sources claimed that the group supporting the Deputy Chief Minister wanted key portfolios like Home and Finance for their nominees and wants the party to retain Mr. Pilot as the Rajasthan Congress chief. Mr Pilot, so far, has not issued any public statement nor has he responded to The Hindu’s attempt to reach him for his comments. Meanwhile, the Income Tax Department officials conducted raids at the premises of two close aides of Mr. Gehlot on Monday morning on complaints of tax evasion. Mr. Surjewala said the IT raids were a clear “act of revenge”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-overtures-to-pilot-clp-backs-gehlot/article32073012.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Ex-royals get right to manage deity’s property||The court defined ‘shebait ’ as the “custodian of the idol, its earthly spokesman, its authorised representative entitled to deal with all its temporal affairs and to manage its property”. The court traced how the shebaitship descended from King Marthanda Varma, who rebuilt the temple and installed a new idol after a fire destroyed the temple in 1686. It referred to how the King surrendered his kingdom in January 1750 and assumed the role of ‘Padmanabhadasa’ after realising “the futility of battles as a means to an end and the conscious feeling that the Travancore he created was built on a foundation of sacrifice of the liver and limbs of countless numbers who fell due to him and for him...” Second committee It also ordered a second committee to be constituted to advise the administrative committee on policy matters. This would be chaired by a retired High Court judge nominated by the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court. Both committees should start functioning within the next two months and an executive officer should be appointed without delay. The primary duties of the committees would be to preserve the treasures and properties. They would take a call on whether to open Kallara B, considered to be the richest among the temple vaults, for inventorisation. The committees would ensure that rituals and religious practices are conducted as per custom and on the advice of the chief thantri. The court ordered an audit to be conducted for the past 25 years. Audit results have to be filed annually with the State Accountant General. The court ordered status reports to be filed by the second week of December 2020. A further report should be filed after audit on March 31, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-royals-get-right-to-manage-deitys-property/article32073011.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Google to invest $10 bn in India, says Pichai||“During our interaction, @sundarpichai and I spoke about the new work culture that is emerging in the times of COVID-19. We discussed the challenges the global pandemic has brought to areas such as sports. We also talked about the importance of data security and cybersafety,” the Prime Minister said.    Mr. Pichai said, “There’s no question we are facing a difficult moment today, in India and around the world. The dual challenges to our health and economies have forced us to rethink how we work and live. But times of challenge can lead to incredible moments of innovation. Our goal is to ensure India not only benefits from the next wave of innovation, but leads it. Working together we can ensure that our best days are still ahead.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/google-to-invest-10-bn-in-india-says-pichai/article32073010.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Zero tolerance against Pak. ceasefire violations’||Army Chief Gen. Manoj Naravane on Monday reiterated “zero tolerance” against ceasefire violations by Pakistan and infiltration attempts by terrorists, the Army said. He was addressing troops during a visit to Jammu. The visit comes amid the tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and the continuing violations on the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. “The Army chief said all agencies of the services and the government are working together relentlessly and will continue to do the same to defeat the nefarious design of proxy war being fuelled by our adversaries,” the Army said in a statement. Gen. Naravane visited the forward areas of the Yol-based 9 Corps to review the security situation and operational readiness of the troops deployed in the Jammu-Pathankot region, it said. Gen. Naravane was briefed by Lt. Gen. Upendra Dwivedi, General Officer Commanding 9 Corps, on the operational preparedness, upgradation of security infrastructure and the internal security matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zero-tolerance-against-pak-ceasefire-violations/article32073019.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||I-T searches in three States over ‘tax evasion’||The Income-Tax Department on Monday conducted searches at multiple locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur and Kota, of which some were allegedly linked to two Congress leaders from Rajasthan. Amid the political turmoil, the premises of Rajiv Arora, vice-president of the State Congress and founder of a jewellery house, and another party leader Dharmendra Rathore were allegedly searched in Rajasthan. In Delhi, searches were carried out at four locations, including those linked to the managing director of a big industrial house. Eight other locations in Mumbai, related to the industrial house and another company, were also searched. 2015 complaint An Income-Tax team visited a hotel in Jaipur, where Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials had also gone in the morning in connection with a probe into receipt of about Rs. 96.7 crore from Mauritius. The ED is investigating a complaint lodged with the agency in 2015, alleging that one Mauritius-based entity was used to route undeclared funds through purchase of shares of a hotels and resorts firm in July 2011, at a price much higher than its then value of Rs. 100 per unit. The same firm is said to be linked to the Jaipur hotel. The I-T department released a statement, saying that the search operations, carried out in 20 premises in Jaipur, six in Kota, eight in Delhi and nine in Mumbai, were linked to three groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-searches-in-three-states-over-tax-evasion/article32073017.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||Teltumbde files bail plea in Elgaar Parishad case||Professor Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, filed an application before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday, the 91st day of his arrest, seeking to be released on default bail. Mr. Teltumbde has filed for bail for the first time. Poet and activist Varavara Rao (81), another accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, moved the Bombay High Court on Monday seeking that his interim bail application, which was listed on July 17, be heard on Tuesday. Later in the day, prison authorities confirmed that Mr. Rao was shifted from Taloja jail to JJ Hospital on Monday morning for some tests and doctors will be deciding on whether he needs to be admitted for any treatment. Mr. Rao’s family said they were not informed about him being shifted to hospital. His daughter said jail authorities told her Mr. Rao was fine in jail when she called in the morning.   Mr. Teltumbde has sought his release on the grounds that the prosecuting agency has not filed its charge sheet even after the stipulated 90-day period as per Section 43 D (modified application of certain provisions of the Code) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The application was filed by Mr. Teltumbde through advocate Sathyanarayanan under Section 167 (2) (ninety days, where the investigation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than 10 years) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr. Teltumbde has also challenged the order passed by the special NIA court on July 12 extending the agency’s time to file a charge sheet by another 90 days. Mr. Teltumbde was arrested on April 14 this year and taken into NIA custody. He is now lodged at Taloja jail. Advocate R. Satyanarayan, who is representing Mr. Rao, said the activist had sought temporary bail on the grounds of his deteriorating health and the risk of contracting COVID-19. Mr. Rao, who is lodged at Taloja jail, had filed a petition in the High Court challenging the June 26 order passed by the special NIA court rejecting his bail plea. Mr. Rao also filed a writ petition seeking a direction to authorities of Taloja jail to produce his medical records and submit a detailed report on the treatment given to him after he was hurriedly discharged from the State-run JJ Hospital on June 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teltumbde-files-bail-plea-in-elgaar-parishad-case/article32073037.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC declines to stop Amarnath Yatra||The Supreme Court on Monday declined a plea to restrict the annual Amarnath Yatra on the grounds of the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said the court did not want to interfere in the issue, which has to be solely dealt with by the local administration. “We cannot enter the arena of the executive and district administration... We need to pay due respect to the separation of powers,” Justice Chandrachud observed. The court was hearing a plea filed by Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organisation for a direction to the Centre, Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board to cancel/restrict access of the general public/devotees for the Yatra this year amid the pandemic. The petition said arrangements could be made for live darshan through Internet and TV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-declines-to-stop-amarnath-yatra/article32073046.ece
14 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Conductor booked for ‘forcing’ girl off bus in U.P.||Nearly a month after a 19-year-old girl from Delhi died after she was allegedly forced off a U.P. Roadways bus on the Yamuna Expressway by the conductor as he suspected her to be infected by COVID-19, an FIR has been registered against the conductor by the Mathura police. The incident happened on June 15 when the girl was travelling with her mother from Delhi to Shikohabad in Firozabad district. The conductor allegedly forced the girl and her mother off the bus near Maant in Mathura. The girl died within 30 minutes and the post-mortem report suggested that she died of cardiac arrest. In her complaint, Sarvesh Devi, mother of the deceased Anishka, said they boarded the bus from Noida. She said the girl fainted because of heat and exhaustion but some passengers and the conductor felt that she had COVID-19. The conductor got into an argument with her, wrapped the girl in a blanket, and forced them to get down at a toll plaza, where the girl died after some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conductor-booked-for-forcing-girl-off-bus-in-up/article32073231.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Rama made others happy||Rama is described as Subhekshanah in the Vishnu Sahasranama. It means that that Rama had beautiful eyes. This name signifies that if a person did not see Rama, or was not seen by Him, he would not only be condemned by everyone, but he would condemn himself. The next name in the Sahasranama is Rama, which means He who makes others happy. He delighted everyone with His charm and good looks, and with His good qualities, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. We find that even rishis admired His handsomeness. When Rama entered the Dandakaranya forest, sages gave up their mouna vrata and spoke admiringly of His beauty. Surpanakha, when punished by Lakshmana, ran to her brother Khara, to narrate what had happened. But even then, she could not help paying tribute to Rama’s looks. She spoke of His lotus-like eyes, and said He looked like a gandharva . Vaishnava Acharya Nampillai did not find this surprising. Even when one is critical of something, one must speak the truth, which is what Surpanakha did. Was Rama not handsome? So, although she had a complaint against Him, she did not hide the truth, but revealed that He was a handsome man. Rama was also deserving of the name Viraama, because none could vanquish Him. During Rama’s battle with Ravana, Indra lent his chariot and his charioteer Matali to Rama. Indra had always lost battles, which he had fought, and had run away from the battlefield. So Matali, had always been in the sad position of having to drive the chariot away from the enemy. But Rama feared none, and so Matali now, for the first time, had the experience of driving towards the enemy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rama-made-others-happy/article32073044.ece
14 July 2020||Srinagar,||Abdullahs move HC over house arrests||National Conference (NC) president Dr. Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah on Monday filed a habeas corpus petition before the High Court, challenging “the unconstitutional and illegal house detention of 16 NC senior leaders and functionaries”. “The decision to move to the HC has been taken as a last resort to provide relief to party members who have been under house arrest or were kept under house detention after being shifted there from detention centers”, NC leader Imran Nabi Dar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abdullahs-move-hc-over-house-arrests/article32073023.ece
14 July 2020||Bhopal,||Scindia allies bag plum portfolios||Ten days after Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expanded his Council of Ministers, portfolios were distributed on Sunday night with key departments such as Public Health and Family Welfare and Panchayat and Rural Development being secured by supporters of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia. The letter containing the portfolio distribution addressed to Governor Anandiben Patel by Mr. Chouhan, made public on Monday, shows he has retained the General Administration, Public Relations, Narmada Valley Development and Aviation Departments. The Public Health and Family Welfare Department has been handed over to Prabhuram Choudhary, a supporter of Mr. Scindia. Among his other supporters, Tulsiram Silawat secured the Water Resources and Fisheries Departments, and Govind Singh Rajput the Revenue and Transport departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scindia-allies-bag-plum-portfolios/article32073024.ece
14 July 2020||IMPHAL,||Minister clarifies on NPP moves||Manipur’s Health Minister L. Jayentakumar, who is from the National People’s Party (NPP), on Monday clarified that the NPP Ministers’ move to rejoin the coalition Ministry led by Chief Minister N. Biren last month was not under pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party’s central leadership. “It was not under the pressure from the Centre that we rejoined the Ministry. It is a matter of moral principle of the NPP which remains unchanged. We also did not seek additional portfolios,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-clarifies-on-npp-moves/article32073028.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||Dubey’s aides to be taken to Kanpur||Arvind, alias Guddan Ramvilas Trivedi, and his driver Sushilkumar, alias Sonu Suresh Tiwari, both alleged associates of the slain gangster Vikas Dubey, were granted a transit remand by a Thane court on Monday and will be taken by road to Uttar Pradesh. Inspector in-charge Gyan Singh, representing the Kanpur police, produced both the accused before the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Thane. Mr. Singh said travelling to the special court in Kanpur Dehat may take more than 48 hours and that they would reach Kanpur around 11 a.m. on July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dubeys-aides-to-be-taken-to-kanpur/article32073035.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Only 15 claims of health workers paid’||Only 15 of 147 death claims of public health workers fighting COVID-19 have been paid out so far under an insurance scheme announced in March, according to a Finance Ministry statement. At a review meeting on Monday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was briefed about the current status of the scheme launched as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna by Health Ministry officials and the New India Assurance Company. “Of the 147 intimations received till date, claim documents have been submitted for 87, out of which 15 have been paid, four approved for payment while 13 are under examination,” said the statement. “A total of 55 claims have been found ineligible out of which 35 claims fall outside the scope of the cover like police personnel, municipal workers not related to hospitals, people from education [and] revenue departments,” the statement added. Another 20 claims submitted have other causes of death, such as cardiac arrest, rather than COVID-19 itself. Under the scheme, New India Assurance is to provide accidental death insurance coverage of Rs. 50 lakh each for 22 lakh health workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-15-claims-of-health-workers-paid/article32073040.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Afghan goods to arrive by Wagah border||Pakistan will allow Afghanistan to send goods to India via the Wagah border from July 15. The decision, part of Islamabad’s commitment under the Pakistan-Afghanistan Transit Trade Agreement, is expected to boost Afghanistan’s exports to India. “At the special request of the Government of Afghanistan and with a view to facilitating its transit trade, Pakistan has decided to resume Afghan exports through Wagah border crossing from July 15 after implementing COVID-19 related protocols,” a press release from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan said. Both Pakistan and India had suspended trade through the Wagah border in March to deal with the pandemic challenge. Pakistan Prime Minister’s Special Representative for Afghanistan, Mohammad Sadiq said, “We are moving ahead with promoting economic activity on both sides of the border.” However, the External Affairs Ministry is yet to respond to Pakistan’s decision. Islamabad is silent about allowing Indian exports to Afghanistan. A Confederation of International Chambers of Commerce and Industry statement from Amritsar said orders had been placed for pomegranates and other Afghan fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-goods-to-arrive-by-wagah-border/article32073051.ece
14 July 2020||NALGONDA,||Dead man’s kin push body to grave in cart||Fear of contracting COVID-19 kept relatives, neighbours and the local tractor driver away, as the body of Marripalli Janaiah, who died on Friday night, was carried to the grave in a cart. A photo of family members replacing the bullocks and pushing the cart with the dead body at Akaram village in Shaligowraram surfaced on Monday. As per information, the 32-year-old died of a liver ailment while being treated at Nalgonda district hospital on Friday night. The body was transported from Nalgonda to Akaram, about 35 kms away, in a vehicle. The final rites, with less than 10 people in attendance, were conducted on Saturday. “There was no bier or other customs observed. Initially, it was decided to carry the body in a tractor trailer, but thinking about physical distancing norms and that the grave was nearby, they used a cart,” Venkat, a village local, said. However, COVID sample result of Janaiah disclosed as positive by District Medical & Health Office on Monday has created alarm in the already panic-struck Shaligowraram. The mandal has reported three positive patients in less than a week, which locals say, are persons who commuted to Hyderabad or Nalgonda for work. On Monday, following the positive result of the deceased, the police, medical and revenue teams visited Akaram and directed family members and persons who were in proximity with the body to isolate at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dead-mans-kin-push-body-to-grave-in-cart/article32073298.ece
14 July 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. Speaker rejects pleas to disqualify 2 Cong. MLAs||In a major relief to rebel Congress MLAs Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh, Uttar Pradesh Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit on Monday rejected their party’s pleas to disqualify them. The Speaker dismissed the petitions saying they lacked substance, a Vidhan Sabha spokesperson said. Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Misra said a legal opinion was being taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-speaker-rejects-pleas-to-disqualify-2-cong-mlas/article32073230.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Naming of panel chief draws HC ire||The Madras High Court on Monday warned of initiating suo motu contempt of court proceedings against State government officials for having constituted the State Police Complaints Authority under the chairmanship of the Home Secretary instead of a retired Supreme Court or HC judge as per court orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naming-of-panel-chief-draws-hc-ire/article32073145.ece
14 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Nizamabad GGH Superintendent quits||Dr. Nageswara Rao, Superintendent of Government General Hospital, Nizamabad has tendered his resignation to his post with immediate effect. Dr Rao on Monday sent his resignation letter addressed to the Director of Medical Education. He also confirmed that he has resigned and his letter to the DME. The GGH Nizamabad hospital was in the news for all the wrong reasons last week. First four patients, including three COVID-19 patients, undergoing treatment in the hospital died on a single day amid complaints that lack of oxygen cylinders led to their deaths. A day later, body of a COVID-19 patient was transported by the family members in an autorickshaw from the mortuary to the burial ground. The DME had taken a serious note of the two incidents and sought an explanation from the Hospital Superintendent. The Nizamabad Collector too ordered an inquiry into the episode. Sources said Dr. Rao took the decision to quit in the wake of the recent developments. On Monday, an audio message was circulated on the social media on his resignation. There was no official confirmation whether the DME had acted on the resignation letter of Dr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nizamabad-ggh-superintendent-quits/article32072995.ece
14 July 2020||Kottayam,||Arrest warrant against Franco Mulakkal||The Additional District and Sessions Court - I in Kottayam on Monday cancelled the bail granted to Franco Mulakkal, former bishop of the Catholic diocese of Jalandhar and an accused in the nun rape case, and issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against him. Sessions judge G. Gopakumar issued the arrest warrant citing that the accused had failed to appear before the court on multiple sittings since previous November. The court, which declared the bail bond as forfeited, also directed the police to register a case against the guarantors. A show cause notice will be issued to the guarantors seeking to submit the reason for not confiscating the surety amount of Rs. 2 lakh. Failure to appear The bishop had last appeared before the court here on November 30, 2019 to secure an extension for his bail. When the case was considered on June 10 this year, the court issued a strict directive to the accused for appearing in person on July 1 as he had failed to appear for more than 10 occasions. The bishop, however, failed to turn up once again citing that his residence in Jalandhar was in a COVID -19 containment zone. When the case was considered on Monday, counsel representing the accused submitted that the bishop could not appear as he had been directed to go in quarantine. Prior to leaving for Kerala, he had met his advocate Mandeep Singh Sachdev to discuss the case. The lawyer, however, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 later and the bishop was accordingly directed to go in quarantine. ‘Misleading court’ However, special public prosecutor Jithesh Babu pointed out that the accused had misled the court on an earlier occasion as the Civil Line area in Jalandhar, where the Bishop House was situated, was not in a containment zone. Admitting the arguments of the prosecutor, the court directed that a non-bailable warrant be issued to the bishop through the District Police Chief, Kottayam, and posted the case for August 13. On March 16, the court had dismissed a discharge petition filed by the accused and posted the case for commencing trial proceedings. Though, the court had posted the case on May 6 and May 19, it could not consider the case due to the lockdown. After the hearing on charges and examination of the witnesses, the court will frame the charges against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrest-warrant-against-franco-mulakkal/article32073001.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 204.27 cr. of Ardor group of companies||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 204.27 crore of the Ardor group of companies in connection with a bank loan fraud amounting to Rs. 488 crore. The assets include three office premises, 23 residential plots and four shopsin Ahmedabad, besides a piece of land in Surat. The ED’s money laundering probe is based on seven cases registered by the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-20427-cr-of-ardor-group-of-companies/article32073018.ece
14 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam flood situation continues to deteriorate, toll reaches 50||Six people drowned in Assam on Monday as the flood situation continued to deteriorate, affecting more than 21.63 lakh people across 27 of the 33 districts in the State. Officials said six people died as surging waters inundated 2,763 villages. The number of people killed due to the floods so far stands at 50. The embankments of river Brahmaputra and its tributaries breached in at least 40 places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-flood-situation-continues-to-deteriorate-toll-reaches-50/article32073020.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Left parties demand release of political prisoners in view of COVID-19||The Left parties have demanded that all political prisoners be released and given adequate medical attention. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau said that some of them had reportedly contracted COVID-19 due to overcrowded prisons. Activist Akhil Gogoi (in photo) had tested positive, while the health of poet Varavara Rao was alarming. CPI general secretary D. Raja said many faced a threat to their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-parties-demand-release-of-political-prisoners-in-view-of-covid-19/article32073034.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases continue to dip in Chennai; State’s toll goes past 2,000||Chennai witnessed a dip in fresh COVID-19 cases for the fifth day in a row on Monday, with 1,140 persons testing positive. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally increased to 1,42,798* as 4,328 persons tested positive. The toll went past the 2,000-mark with 66 deaths. After Chennai, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Madurai have become priority areas for the Health Department. Cases continue to surge in these districts, with Madurai recording its highest single-day count of 464 cases. Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur recorded a rise of 352 and 337 cases respectively, while Chengalpattu had 219 cases. 3,035 discharged A total of 3,035 persons were discharged on Monday, more than half of them in Chennai. With this, 92,567 persons have been discharged after treatment, while the number of active cases stands at 48,196. However, there seems to be no significant reduction in the number of deaths in the State. Though the bulletin issued by the Health Department had the count of deaths that had occurred in the last two to three days, the total number of fatalities reported in the bulletin per day continues to be between 60 and 70. The toll in the State went past 1,000 on June 27, and the number has climbed to 2,032 in 15 days. 24 deaths in Chennai Of the 66 deaths, 24 were in Chennai, seven in Chengalpattu and four each in Madurai and Ramanathapuram. A number of persons died within a few hours of, or a day after, admission in districts including Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai and Sivaganga. A 32-year-old man with acute kidney injury was admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Salem, on July 12. However, he died within an hour of admission owing to COVID-19, acute kidney injury, diabetes, coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease. Similarly, a 45-year-old woman from Krishnagiri was admitted to the same hospital at 6.35 p.m. on July 12. She died at 7.05 p.m. owing to sepsis and respiratory failure. She suffered from diabetes and systemic hypertension. Another 45-year-old woman who had diabetes, systemic hypertension and obstructive sleep apnea died a day after admission on July 12. At the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Tiruchi, two 70-year-old patients died a day after admission. A 63-year-old man with diabetes was admitted to the Sivaganga Medical College Hospital at 11.39 a.m. on July 11. He died at 12.25 p.m. owing to COVID-19, acute respiratory distress syndrome, bilateral pneumonia, right leg cellulitis and sepsis. Focus on rural areas “The number of new cases is decreasing in Chennai. We are also focusing on rural parts of the State. After Chennai, the priority areas include districts such as Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Madurai, where the case load has increased,” an official of the Health Department said. He added that the bed capacity at hospitals, including those in Madurai, were being increased. “Hospitals in the southern parts of the State are reporting an increase in the number of cases. We are increasing the number of beds as well as oxygen points. We have dispatched oxygen cylinders, and are readying liquid oxygen facilities. All life-saving medication and high-flow nasal cannulas have been dispatched to the districts,” he said. Among northern districts, Ranipet had 126 cases, Vellore 129 and Villupuram 136. In the south, the surge continued in Kanniyakumari with 184, Theni 134, Thoothukudi 122, and Tirunelveli 113. Apart from these districts, Salem and Tiruchi had 99 and 92 cases respectively. A total of 58 returnees, including 11 from Karnataka, tested positive. As on Monday, the number of infected children went past 7,000, while 17,375 persons above 60 tested positive. A total of 44,560 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 16,54,008.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-continue-to-dip-in-chennai-states-toll-goes-past-2000/article32073178.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gym owners pushed to the brink||The Greater Chennai Corporation is exploring options to open 3,500-odd gyms in the city to protect the livelihood of 15,000 people associated with the trade. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash has ordered officials to study all aspects of the loss of livelihood by gym owners and workers of the establishments during the lockdown. Gyms have been closed for the last 115 days now. Public health experts have objected to the opening of the gyms to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the city. At least two lakh people visit gyms in the city, increasing the risk of COVID-19 spread during the pandemic. The Corporation has so far refused permission for gyms to re-open. According to a petition submitted to the Corporation Commissioner by representatives of gyms, many owners and workers had been forced to vacate the premises because of the lockdown. Owners said most gyms were located in large commercial spaces measuring more than 1,000 sq ft. Many were in an area of more than 2,000 sq ft. As a result, the alternatives available for gyms to store the equipment were inadequate. “Once the gym is closed, we will not be able to shift the equipment to other locations. More than 75% of the gyms are located on rented premises. The building owners are forcing the gym management to vacate. They are planning to find other tenants to get regular income. If the situation continues for a few more weeks, more than 75% of the gyms would be permanently closed. More than 10,000 people will lose their source of livelihood,” said a representative. The Corporation permitted salons, beauty parlours and hotels to function with restrictions after the lockdown was relaxed. But gyms remained closed. The Corporation also prevented residents from visiting 700 parks for their regular walk. Residents who walked on the road were penalised. This led to loss of space for physical activity and training in the city, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gym-owners-pushed-to-the-brink/article32073151.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic dims these workers’ hopes||For decades now, visually-impaired G. Kannan, 45, would meticulously work six hours a day, building sleek cane chairs and sofas. It would fetch him Rs. 4,000 a month. But for nearly four months now, he struggled to run his family, unable to step out for work because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “With barely any money left, I don’t know how many months I can manage this way before I can get back to work. My hope is just dimming further day by day,” he says. Many visually-impaired persons who made a living by making chairs and sofas haven’t been able to work. With the help of a few NGOs, they got some provisions but are scrambling for cash to buy medicines, vegetables and other essential items. “My 11-year-old daughter was studying in a private school and but I soon plan to shift her to a government school as I can’t afford to pay fees any more. I used to earn Rs. 7,000-Rs. 8,000 every month, and that is also gone now. I haven’t even paid my house rent for four months now,” says A. Karuppaiah, 55. For M. Elango, 55, getting medicines and provisions has been an arduous task since April. “With great difficulty, my son finished engineering and was working till recently. We thought that even if my wife and I lost our jobs, we could pull on with his salary. But now he has also lost his job. We feel miserable, worried over the uncertainty of the coming days,” he adds. G. Ezhumalai, 50, says the main problem is that almost all of them rely on bus services; since buses have not been plying, they remain confined to their homes. But there will be other challenges when they return to work: how to maintain physical distancing and depend on others to cross the road to board a bus to travel to work. C. Govindakrishnan of Nethrodaya, an NGO working for the welfare of the visually impaired, says the government should release fresh guidelines for persons with disabilities. “When visually-impaired people go out henceforth, how can they maintain social distancing? We always seek assistance from family members and neighbours. But during these times, we need specially framed guidelines for us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-dims-these-workers-hopes/article32073173.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Wholesale markets must be reopened’||The Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has demanded that wholesale markets, including the Koyambedu market complex in Chennai and the Gandhi market in Tiruchi, be reopened to protect the livelihood of traders and check the increasing prices of essentials. In a release on Monday, its president A.M. Vikramaraja said several wholesale markets selling groceries, vegetables and fish and meat in Chennai, Tiruchi and Vellore had remained shut for nearly 111 days because of the lockdown. Some of them functioned from alternate spaces. As the Koyambedu wholesale market complex for fruits, vegetables, flowers and grain had remained closed since May, 5,000 wholesalers and retailers had lost their livelihood, he said. Though 200 wholesale vegetable shops were functioning from the temporary market at Thirumazhisai, the produce did not often reach the Chennai residents in sufficient quantities, Mr. Vikramaraja said. With the market area turning slushy after a short spell of rain, retailers were hesitant to visit the market. This caused losses to farmers who brought produce from other parts of Tamil Nadu and neighbouring States. While the unsold produce went waste because of the lack of enough storage in the wholesale market, vegetables were ruling high in retail shops, he said. Mr. Vikramaraja urged the government to allow the wholesale markets to resume operations with restrictions for safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-markets-must-be-reopened/article32073183.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court warns govt. of suo motu contempt proceedings||The Madras High Court on Monday warned of initiating suo motu contempt of court proceedings against State government officials for having constituted the State Police Complaints Authority (SPCA) under the chairmanship of Home Secretary instead of a retired Supreme Court or High Court judge as per court orders. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha took serious note of the issue while hearing a public interest litigation petition filed in 2014 challenging the validity of Sections 10 and 14(2) of the Tamil Nadu Police Reforms Act of 2013. Custodial death The case was taken up now in the light of the custodial death of the father-son duo at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. Orders diluted When the petitioner’s counsel pointed out that the State government had, by way of a legislation, watered down the directions issued by the Supreme Court in Prakash Singh’s case in 2006, the senior judge told a Special Government Pleader (SGP), “You can’t keep diluting court orders like this. Our patience is running out. We will initiate suo motu contempt proceedings.” Further, directing the SGP G.K. Muthukumar to ensure that either the Advocate General or an Additional Advocate General represent the State government in the case before them, the judges directed the Registry to list it again on July 20. “If the officials don’t want to understand, then we will speak in their language,” Justice Sundresh said. Advocate Saravanan Dakshinamurthy had filed the PIL petition. He recalled that the Supreme Court had in 2006 ordered for the constitution of SPCAs headed by retired Supreme Court/High Court judges and district-level police complaints authorities (DPCAs) chaired by retired district judges.  Another direction In 2007, when it was brought to the notice of the court that some States had not constituted the authorities properly, the Supreme Court issued another direction to ensure that the constitution was in conformity with its orders. Despite those directions and after seven long years, the TN Police Reforms Act was enacted stating that the Home Secretary would chair the SPCA and Collectors would head the DPCAs. After the relevant provisions of the law were put to challenge in the present case, the government counsel accepted notice and obtained adjournments from time to time. When it was listed for hearing on November 15, 2016 before the first Division Bench of the then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (now a Supreme Court judge) and Justice R. Mahadevan, the then Additional Advocate General C. Manishankar conceded that there was some merit in the PIL petition and that he would advise the government appropriately. Crucial provisions Nevertheless, nothing transpired for about four years until November 14, 2019 when a GO was issued constituting the SPCAs as well as DPCAs in accordance with the Act and not the SC directives, the counsel said and urged the court to strike down the two crucial provisions of the 2013 legislation as unconstitutional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-warns-govt-of-suo-motu-contempt-proceedings/article32073190.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Met dept. plans revamp of its network||The Meteorological Department is revamping its existing rain gauges and automatic weather stations and expanding its weather observation network across Tamil Nadu. It plans to accelerate work in the next few weeks for more precise forecasts. To improve predictions and gather localised weather data, the department has planned to replace some weather instruments and add new rain gauges and weather stations to its network. However, field visits and installations were a challenge during the lockdown period, said Met officials. At present, the department has 40 automatic weather stations and 75 automatic rain gauges across the State. The department has received equipment to set up 20 automatic rain gauges (ARGs) and 10 automatic weather stations (AWS) in the first phase. A team of officials plan to visit Puzhal and Chembarambakkam to check the automatic rain gauges. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said: “We are finalising strategic locations to install the AWS and ARGs.” There are plans to upgrade Doppler weather radar in Chennai. At present, the radar scans an atmosphere of about 400-km radius to provide an overview of weather systems. Moreover, high wind speed recorders would be installed in strategic locations to get high-resolution data. Locations, including Kanniyakumari, were being considered. Forecast for two days On the forecast for the next two days, Mr. Balachandran said north coastal region and interior areas of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry would get light to moderate rainfall due to wind convergence. Chennai will have a generally cloudy sky and get thundershowers during evening or night in some areas till Wednesday. There would be a decrease in rains after July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/met-dept-plans-revamp-of-its-network/article32073153.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Bharathidasan varsity is violating communal roster’||Retired civil servant I.V. Manivannan has submitted a representation to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, alleging that the recruitment of teaching faculty at Bharathidasan University in Tiruchi was being undertaken in violation of the reservation policy. Mr. Manivannan is incidentally the Governor-nominated member in the Syndicate of the University of Madras. He said that while the State government had, in August 2019, decided to consider each of the departments at all State-run universities as a unit to implement the communal roster during recruitment, Bharathidasan University had taken a contrary stand. It proposed recruitment adopting the whole university as a unit for reservation, the former Higher Education Secretary alleged. The method was fraught with drawbacks and demerits and disadvantageous to various communities, besides providing scope for favouritism and nepotism, he said. The number of vacancies had not been arrived at in consultation with the Heads of Departments. And the vacancies had not been worked out with reference to the 200-point roster system prescribed by the government, he said. “The system proposed by Bharathidasan University ignores the interests of the weaker sections, including Arunthathiyars. Eligible Arunthathiyar candidates, who have started receiving benefits under the 3% preferential reservation system, will be thrown out of the university system...,” he felt. He sought to keep in abeyance the permission granted by the Higher Education Secretary to the Registrar to go ahead with the recruitment. He urged that a special committee be set up to verify whether the vacancies assessed were in tune with the 200-point roster system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathidasan-varsity-is-violating-communal-roster/article32073169.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||81 cases of violence against Dalits reported during lockdown: CPI(M)||There have been 81 cases of caste-related atrocities against Dalits during the lockdown in Tamil Nadu, resulting in 22 murders, eight attacks on Dalit neighbourhoods and violence against 134 people, according to a report by the Untouchability Eradication Front of the CPI(M). The report was released by former Madras High Court judge S. Hari Paranthaman on Monday. Speaking to The Hindu about the report, K. Samuel Raaj, general secretary, Untouchability Eradication Front, said the State must acknowledge the crimes as caste atrocities and not as law and order issues. “The front has office-bearers in every district, right down to the taluks. We document these atrocities and help victims take legal recourse. Over the last 11 years, people have started reaching out to us,” he said. Demanding immediate action, he said vigilance and monitoring committees should be set up at the State and district levels. “The Chief Minister should head the State-level committee and the Collectors should lead the district-level ones,” he said. “When caste clashes were on the rise in southern districts in the 1990s, a commission headed by retired Madras High Court judge Mohan identified unemployment as the main reason. People in villages are without work and this frustration is being taken out on Dalits,” Mr. Raaj said. He criticised the mainstream parties for not coming out strongly against caste-based atrocities due to the fear of losing support of a particular community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81-cases-of-violence-against-dalits-reported-during-lockdown-cpim/article32073174.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man wanted in Cheyyur woman’s death arrested||The Chengalpattu district police arrested Deivendran, main accused in a case relating to abetting a woman to end her life in Cheyyur. The police said that Sasikala of Nainarkuppam village in Kancheepuram district was found dead on June 24. The family tried to bury the body but the Cheyyur police sent it to the Madurantakam Government Hospital for post mortem. During investigation, the police found that she was in a relationship with her cousin Purushotamman. Her family opposed it and she decided to get married to a person her parents selected for her. Purushothaman and his brother Deivendran threatened her, the police said and suspect that the two visited her house before her death. Sasikala’s brother Arun Babu raised suspicion that Purushothaman might have murdered her and made it to look suicide. He alleged that Sasikala was continuously harassed by the siblings and one of her friends informed the family about the threat at the funeral. They said that Deivendran had filmed Sasikala in an obscene manner and allegedly threatened her, her brother alleged. Case altered Following rumours about her death and debate on social media, the police altered the case from suspicious death to abetment of suicide and were searching for the two men. Last week, Purushothaman surrendered before Deputy Superintendent of Police, Maduranthakam, while the police were searching for his brother. A special team of police on Monday apprehended Deivendran, 28, in Vyasarpadi and remanded him in judicial custody after producing him before a judicial magistrate’s court in Chengalpattu district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-wanted-in-cheyyur-womans-death-arrested/article32073155.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Insurance ombudsman resumes hearings||The insurance ombudsman for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry has resumed hearings online since June 18, and expects to receive COVID-19-related complaints in the days to come. “The last hearing at our office was held on March 17, after which hearings were suspended owing to the lockdown. From June 18, we have been regularly conducting online hearings,” ombudsman M. Vasantha Krishna said. In March, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India told companies to handle COVID-19-related claims expeditiously if hospitalisation was covered under a product and settle the costs incurred as per the terms and conditions of the policy. “The issue is there is a lack of clarity and transparency around what is covered and what is not covered under COVID-19-related insurance claims. The onus is on the part of the insurance firms to provide information to the customers about this aspect, which is lacking,” consumer activist T. Sadagopan said. The ombudsman achieved a complaint disposal rate of 94% during April 2019-March 2020 and issued a record number of 671 awards. There was no complaint pending for more than three months as on March 31. The ombudsman had achieved a disposal rate of 91% during April 2018-March 2019.  There is a lack of clarity around what is covered and what is not covered under COVID-19-related claims T. Sadagopan consumer activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-ombudsman-resumes-hearings/article32073176.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With schools closed, how do you fulfil nutritious needs of students, asks HC||The Madras High Court on Monday wanted to know whether the Tamil Nadu government had put any alternative arrangement in place to fulfil the nutritional requirements of lakhs of school children who were missing their noon meal due to the closure of schools since March 25 following the lockdown to fight COVID-19. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha directed government counsel to obtain instructions by July 20. The judges suggested that even vitamin tablets could be distributed to boost the immunity of students. The suggestion was made on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate R. Sudha. In her affidavit, the lawyer said 48.57 lakh school students were provided with protein-rich food such as eggs and lentils through 43,243 noon meal centres across the State until the lockdown was clamped. Though these children were in dire need of nutrition to develop immunity, nothing appeared to have been done for them, she said. Her counsel R. Vasudha Thiagarajan said that not only children but also adults, especially women, required nutritious intake of food to boost their immunity, and hence the government could consider providing boiled eggs as part of the meals served now at Amma Canteens that served hygienic and quality food to the poor. The litigant also sought a direction to issue nutritious meal hampers through ration shops or door delivery to all eligible families so that the basic requirements of nutrition got fulfilled.  They are in dire need of nutrition to develop immunity, but nothing seems to have been done R. SudhaPIL petitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-schools-closed-how-do-you-fulfil-nutritious-needs-of-students-asks-hc/article32073179.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tablighi Jamat members shifted out of Puzhal jail||On Monday, 129 Tablighi Jamat members, mostly foreign nationals lodged in the Puzhal prison complex on charges of violating visa rules, were shifted to the Tamil Nadu Haj Service Society building in Choolai, which will be designated as a temporary special camp. The Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamat on Monday organised an online protest demanding the release of all the Jamat members. Abdur Rahman, TNTJ spokesperson, said: “Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court had said that they had suffered enough and that they should be given proper accommodation. But they were shifted to a juvenile school inside Puzhal prison complex. We demand that the State government should release the Tablighi Jamat members and the Centre should send them back,” he said. Stir called off Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah said that his party had temporarily suspended the agitation that was planned on July 14 after the development. “We hope that the cases against them are closed and that they are soon sent back to their countries,” he said. Social Democratic Party of India on Monday demanded that the Tablighi Jamat foreign nationals had suffered enough and the State government must implement Madras High Court’s order without paving way for protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tablighi-jamat-members-shifted-out-of-puzhal-jail/article32073149.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sathyabama varsity cancels entrance exam||The Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology (Deemed University) has cancelled its all-India engineering entrance examination for admission to BE/B.Tech/B.Arch/B.Des courses for the academic year 2020-21. The institution will admit students based on marks obtained in Class 12 or equivalent examinations, according to a release. Those who have appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) will be given appropriate weightage. Details related to the courses offered and eligibility criteria are available atwww.sathyabama.ac.in For clarifications, please call toll-free number 1800-425-1770 or emailadmissions2020 @sathyabama.ac.inor WhatsApp 9940058263, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sathyabama-varsity-cancels-entrance-exam/article32073156.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People with rare diseases call for a national policy||The Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society has appealed for a national policy on treatment of those suffering from rare diseases. It has called on the government to implement the draft policy, which had envisaged a corpus of Rs. 100 crore. Manjit Singh, president of the society, said that the draft policy the government had come up with was contrary to the assurance given by the government in Parliament. “The corpus was to be raised in a 60:40 ratio by the Central and State governments. The government had sought suggestions from the public but it has not taken off yet.” The society has written to the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the 15th Finance Commission to expedite the policy that would provide access to medical treatment, ranging from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 2 crore, for patients in need of them. The society members said the government’s decision to provide one-time treatment cost had left approximately 190 patients with no support. Some of them had already died for want of money for treatment. The government should reprioritise the provision of treatment for fatal disorders like rare diseases, the members said. There are around 7,000 kinds of rare diseases but in India, only 12 to 15 types have definitive treatment, the society explained in its letter to the Prime Minister. The members pointed out that government arms, such as the Employees State Insurance Corporation, paid for the treatment of 24 children and the Armed forces were taking care of over 30 children. The members also pointed out that the Finance Ministry could make it mandatory to allocate 2% from Corporate Social Responsibility funds for treatment of rare diseases. The government could even come up with a cess of 0.005%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-with-rare-diseases-call-for-a-national-policy/article32073161.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sudhakara Reddy passes away||D. Sudhakara Reddy, president of the Air Passengers’ Association of India, passed away here on Monday. He was 73. He is survived by his daughter. Mr. Reddy had his finger on the pulse — from opposing high airfares to understanding passengers’ trauma on flight cancellations and refund. He fought for the rights of passengers. “It has always been in him to help those in need. After casually helping out some passengers, he began to realise the serious need for an association decades ago and that’s how he started it,” D. Vasanthi, Mr. Reddy’s sister, said. He had worked in the area for 30 years. On many occasions, he had taken up the cause of many air passengers. “He had appealed for and put forth many policy decisions and changes for the benefit of airline industry and air passengers, which is rare and hard to come by,” Beheram Mehta of APAI said. Suneel Dutt, Chennai airport director, said Mr. Reddy provided significant inputs to improve air connectivity and facilities at the airport. “He played a pivotal role in bringing passenger grievances to the public domain,” Mr. Dutt said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudhakara-reddy-passes-away/article32073148.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pillayar Palayam barricaded||The Kancheepuram Collector has announced complete lockdown in Pillayar Palayam in the district from July 13 to 26. The announcement comes in the wake of the locality, which houses a large number of daily wage earners, reporting 128 cases of COVID-19 patients. As part of the preventive measures, the Collector has ordered that all the 21 streets be fully barricaded and prevent people from moving out of the locality. A senior official said the locality consists of 7,000 families engaged in handloom and construction activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pillayar-palayam-barricaded/article32073157.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records pass percentage of 97.31% in CBSE Class 12 results||Tamil Nadu recorded a pass percentage of 97.31% in the Class 12 CBSE board exam results, which were announced on Monday. The State was second in the country, with Kerala having the highest pass percentage and Karnataka in the third place. A total of 38,235 candidates appeared for the exams from Tamil Nadu, of which 37,207 students got through. Among the top scorers in the city was A. Balakrishnan, a student of Maharishi Vidya Mandir, who scored 498 out of 500 marks. “Consistent practice with the previous years question papers is something I believe greatly helped me with my preparations,” he said. Currently preparing to write the JEE, Balakrishnan scored centum in maths, physics, chemistry and computer science and 98 marks in English. The Chennai region, which includes Tamil Nadu and a few other States, recorded a pass percentage of 96.17. The conduct of the board exams in Tamil Nadu and across the country was interrupted by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. A majority of the students in the State had their business studies, computer science and informatics practices papers pending. While the board was considering rescheduling the exams, the pending exams were cancelled owing to safety concerns. ‘No dip in performance’ “A majority of the students had performed well in the papers they had completed so there was no dip in the overall performance of the school. Students have scored high marks in English and maths and we have nine students scoring centum in marketing,” said P.G. Subramanian, principal, Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram. For students who had appeared for exams in more than three subjects, the CBSE had said the average marks obtained in the three best performing subjects would be awarded for the papers which had been cancelled. Similarly, the average marks of the best two papers were awarded for students who had completed only three papers. Vasanthi Vishwanathan, principal, Vel’s Vidyashram, said the overall performance of the students in her school was better than the previous year. “There were initial apprehensions that students had missed out on writing papers that they scored high marks in, but they are now extremely happy with the results,” she said. For students like Sujatha Venkatesh, who missed out on writing the informatics practices (IP) as well as business studies papers, initially there were lots of concerns. “IP, in particular, is a subject we were hoping to score in. But the assessment has been promising and we are happy with our results,” said the commerce group student, who scored a total of 495 marks. Srinivasa Raghavan, principal, Bala Vidya Mandir, said that while the overall performance of the students had been good, there was a dip in the number of centum, with many students scoring 99 marks in different subjects. A few days ago, the CISCE announced its Class 10 and 12 exam results. The CBSE has also begun its post-result counselling for students and parents to address psychological concerns as well as other queries regarding the exams. Students or parents can call 1800-11-8004 from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. till July 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-pass-percentage-of-9731-in-cbse-class-12-results/article32073166.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses schoolteachers’ case||The Madras High Court on Monday expressed strong displeasure over a teachers’ association having chosen to file a case against deployment of school teachers to supervise the work of volunteers involved in ensuring home quarantine of COVID-19 patients and their families across the Greater Chennai Corporation limits. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha dismissed the case filed by the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers’ Association with an observation that teachers alone could not seek exemption when other frontline workers, such as police and court staff, had been working in this crisis time. When petitioner’s counsel claimed that the Corporation had not spared women teachers of Corporation schools and deployed 200 of them as street warriors, the judges said that could not be a ground to seek exemption since women police and court staff too were working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-case-dismissed/article32073187.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM reaches out to attract foreign investment||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has written to chiefs of two prominent logistic majors and three petrochemical majors, inviting them to invest in the State, continuing his efforts to attract foreign companies to start businesses in Tamil Nadu. The Chief Minister has written to Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of FedEx Mr. Frederic W. Smith, Chief Executive Officer of UPS Mr. David P. Abney and also to the Chairman, Saudi Aramco Mr. Amin H. Nasser, Chairman, Exxon Mobil Corporation Mr. Darren Woods and Chairman, CPC Corporation Dr. Jia Ruey Ou, an official release said. The letters outlined the investment attractiveness and inherent advantages of the State of Tamil Nadu, offer excellent support for business and industry to further their growth and promise of a customised incentive package as per their requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reaches-out-to-attract-foreign-firms/article32073188.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac to modernise operations||Aiming to modernise its operations on a par with other beverage corporations in the country, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac), which recorded revenue of about Rs. 30,000 crore last fiscal, has issued a tender to implement a end-to-end computerisation of its operations. The project is aimed at employing QR code in every bottle and carton to track their movements. ‘Limited use of tech’ According to the tender document issued by Tasmac, the administration of the alcoholic beverage industry in Tamil Nadu “is a herculean task with limited adoption of technology”, and hence the project. To manage the day-to-day operations, an integrated enterprise-wide system was essential and this system would cover the computerisation of core and corporate functions of Tasmac by having system components, including but not limited to Integrated Supply Chain Management System, an ERP system and an Integrated Track & Trace System.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-to-modernise-operations/article32073164.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Camp declared a containment zone||A camp of Tamil refugees from Sri Lanka, located in Vilavancode taluk of Kanniyakumari, has been declared a containment zone, after 73 refugees tested positive for COVID-19. Totally, there are 320 refugees living in the camp. “We have sought a report from the district administration,” said an official attached to the Public Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camp-declared-a-containment-zone/article32073186.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State has 1,456 containment zones in all||There are a total of 1,456 COVID-19 containment zones across Tamil Nadu as on July 10, with Chennai district having 276 of them, the highest in the State, the government has said. According to a list containing the latest number of containment zones issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Salem district has 138 and Madurai 108. Tiruppur, 97, and Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai are the other districts with a high number of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-has-1456-containment-zones-in-all/article32073171.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cabinet to meet today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will chair a meeting of the Tamil Nadu Cabinet at the Secretariat here on Tuesday. Issues relating to the lockdown and measures being taken to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic are likely to be discussed at the meeting. The Cabinet is also likely to give its nod for industrial investment projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-to-meet-today/article32073175.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No bus services till July 31||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday extended till July 31 the period of suspension of bus services by government and private operators across the State. This is part of its continuing efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. A press release issued by the State government appealed for full cooperation from the general public in this regard. The government, which had initially allowed intra-district public transport for a brief period of time, eventually rescinded the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-bus-services-till-july-31/article32073181.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||72 police personnel rejoin duty||Seventy-two police personnel, who were cured of COVID-19, reported for work on Monday. They were welcomed by Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and other officials at City Police Commissionerate in Vepery. Over 1,500 police personnel have contracted the virus across the State while on COVID-19 duty. Of them, 1,434 were in Chennai. Till date, 847 police personnel have been cured of COVID-19. The police personnel were welcomed back to duty by a police band. Mr. Aggarwal handed over certificates of appreciation to them. He said: “We are glad and proud of you for rejoining your duties after beating COVID-19. The spread of COVID-19 can be totally contained if front line workers such as police and staff of other departments work hard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-police-personnel-rejoin-duty/article32073158.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP seeks police to block a Youtube channel of 'Karuppar Kootam'||The office-bearers of the BJP have lodged a complaint with the City Police Commissioner seeking to block a YouTube channel ‘Karuppar Kootam’, which allegedly insulted religious sentiments. R.C.Paul Kanagaraj, State president of BJP advocates’ wing, and other office-bearers met Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and lodged the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-seeks-police-to-block-a-youtube-channel-of-karuppar-kootam/article32073160.ece
14 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Works to distribute textbooks under way in Coimbatore||The government, government-aided and Corporation schools in Coimbatore district have begun the preparatory works to distribute textbooks for schoolchildren on Monday. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said although books for all classes have arrived, the textbooks for Classes X and XII will be distributed first. “The textbooks will be distributed after June 15,” she said, noting that the schedule was yet to be finalised. To ensure physical distancing to curb the spread of COVID-19, a batch of 20 students per hour would be allowed to receive the textbooks in each schools, Ms. Usha said. According to the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the State government, all teachers, students and parents will have to wear masks and practise physical distancing during the book distribution. The soft copies of study materials will be uploaded to the laptops of the students by the teachers in the school’s hitech laboratories. No student will be allowed inside the laboratories, according to the SOPs. The schools must ensure that no overcrowding occurs both inside and outside the school premises. Regarding the Class XII public examination scheduled for July 24, the schools must issue copies of the hall ticket to the respective students by July 17, the SOPs said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/works-to-distribute-textbooks-under-way-in-coimbatore/article32073195.ece
14 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Officials in a fix as pvt. schools ask for fees without forcing parents||A month after Collector K. Rajamani convened a meeting regarding action against those private schools demanding fees from parents, complaints of many schools in Coimbatore district requesting the parents to pay the fees have surfaced. In the meeting held on June 11 with school education officials from the district, Mr. Rajamani ordered strict monitoring of private schools that demanded fees despite the schools being closed. Noting that demanding fees in this period was a violation of the State government’s orders, he said such schools would be sealed and de-recognised. One of the District Educational Officers (DEO) in Coimbatore district claimed that no schools were found demanding fees from parents in the past one month. The Block Educational Officers visited the schools and provided “strict instructions,” the DEO said. However, sources in the Department of School Education told The Hindu that private schools were insisting that those parents who could afford to pay the fees shall do so. The schools cited the ongoing online classes as well as paying the salaries of the teaching and non-teaching staff as reasons to ask for fees. As the Department could initiate action only if the private schools were forcing the parents to pay the fees and warn of consequences, the officials were unable to take action in these cases, according to the sources. R. Visalakshi, president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association, said the parents were “morally bound” to pay the fees as it was not feasible to conduct the online classes free. “They should be considerate and must come forward to pay the fees,” she said, claiming that most of the private schools were requesting the parents to pay only the fees for the first term. A case regarding this issue was ongoing at the Madras High Court and the verdict was expected soon, Ms. Visalakshi said. When contacted, Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said private schools could not demand fees from the parents and the existing directions issued by the government in this issue would continue to be in force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-in-a-fix-as-pvt-schools-ask-for-fees-without-forcing-parents/article32073211.ece
14 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||District Collector inspects fish market||Collector K. Rajamani on Monday inspected fish market, Lorry Pet and vegetable market at Ukkadam, and quarantined areas at Alagu Nagar in Kurichi and Sriram Nagar in Podanur, said a release from the district administration. At the markets, he instructed the traders to ensure that they and their employees use mask and ask customers to use mask as well. At the quarantined areas, he instructed officials to ensure that none from within the areas stepped outside and outsiders did not enter the isolated zones. He also asked the police personnel posted there to ensure the same. The release said he asked the Corporation health workers posted there to ensure that all residents within the quarantined areas got medicines, Kabasura Kudineer and other medicines aimed at boosting immunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-collector-inspects-fish-market/article32073192.ece
14 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New DCPs assume office in Coimbatore||G. Stalin and K. Gunasekaran assumed office as Deputy Commissioners of Law and Order and Headquarters posts of Coimbatore city police respectively on Monday. Mr. Stalin said that more focus would be given on utilising police force for effective management of COVID-19 on a par with law and order management. Prior to his current post, he was Superintendent of Police of Civil supplies CID, Madurai. He has replaces L. Balaji Saravanan, who has been posted as SP of Pudukottai district. Mr. Gunasekaran, earlier was SP of Prohibition and Enforcement wing, Tiruppur, before the current posting. He replaces S. Selvakumar who has been posted as DCP, Headquarters, Tiruppur city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-dcps-assume-office-in-coimbatore/article32073214.ece
14 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation fever clinic sites for today||Coimbatore Corporation has been conducting fever clinics across the city to identify people with fever, flu, sore throat or phlegm and it would conduct the clinics at its urban primary health centres and the following places on Tuesday.  North Zone: Chandrakanthi Nagar, R.G. Pudur community hall, MKV ICDS centre, Balamurugan Nagar in Maniakarampalayam, Ganesh Layout Third Street, NBC Nagar in Thudiyalur, and Ambedkar Street in Vellakinar. South Zone: Arumuga Udayar Street in Telugupalayam, Balaji Avenue in Selvapuram, Kovai Garden in Kovaipudur, Sai Nagar in Podanur, MGR Nagar in Eachanari and Mariamman temple on Sundakkamuthur Road. West Zone: The park in Karuppasamy Nagar, Church Road near K.K. Pudur, VOC Nagar near Kovilmedu, Aishwarya Nagar near Seeranaickenpalayam, Kalveerampalayam, and VNR Nagar in Vadavalli. East Zone: Kamatchi Amman Kovil Street in Kallimadai, Pankaja Mill quarters, Pillaiyar Kovil Street in Sowripalayam, CMC Colony in Uppilipalayam and Kotaipudur ICDS centre in Ramanathapuram. Central Zone: Siddhi Vinayagar Kovil in Thiyagaraya New Street, Chandran Street, Arundathiyar Street, Nanjappa Street in Rathinapuri, South Housing Unit near Raja Street, Hoshmin Nagar and Vysial Street. The clinics will begin from 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-fever-clinic-sites-for-today/article32073198.ece
14 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||11-member expert panel to study elephant population in Tamil Nadu||The Forest Department has formed an 11-member expert committee to study elephant population of Tamil Nadu from 2006. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden S. Yuvaraj constituted the committee which has Shekar Kumar Niraj, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), as chairperson and S. Anand, District Forests Officer, Madurai, as member secretary. Elephant experts Aiay Desai from Bengaluru, Sivaganesan from Chennai, C. Arivazhagan, managing trustee of the Indo American Wildlife Society in Chennai, veterinarians M. Kalaivanan, from Theni and A. Predeep from Chennai and D. Boominathan of World Wide Fund (WWF), Coimbatore, Nitin Sekar, coordinator of WWF in Coimbatore, veterinarian Sree Kumar from Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University and a representative of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, Southern region, Chennai, are other members of the committee. The committee has been tasked to study elephant population and their movement in Tamil Nadu from January 1, 2006 to June 30, 2020. As per Mr. Yuvaraj’s order dated July 4, it should look into various aspects of elephant habitat restoration and amelioration measures. The committee should come out with suitable comprehensive proposal with an estimation of cost for the restoration of the habitat related measures. The committee has been requested to look into the human-wildlife conflict and the adequacy of the measures taken by the Forest Department. It should suggest suitable measures to minimise human wildlife conflict. The committee has also been tasked to study the social economic structure of villages where human-wildlife conflict happens frequently and to suggest suitable measures to educate the villages to minimise conflict. It should also look into the pattern of elephant births and deaths and to suggest suitable measures to increase the population of elephants with reference to the habitat. As per Mr. Yuvaraj’s order, there was an increasing trend of elephants straying from reserve forest areas to adjoining agricultural fields in the last 15 years. The order says that the chairperson of the committee can also invite any other suitable members for conducting the study, report of which should be submitted to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden on or before December 31, this year. Meanwhile, nature enthusiasts in Coimbatore, where 15 elephants died so far this year, wanted veterinarians and experts in wildlife who know the terrain well to be included in the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-member-expert-panel-to-study-elephant-population-in-tamil-nadu/article32073221.ece
14 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bed strength to be increased at COVID-19 care centre||The District administration has planned to increase the number of beds at the COVID-19 care centre it had set up at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex. The Centre was set up nearly a fortnight ago to treat asymptomatic patients. Those with symptoms are being sent to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The arrangement was to reduce the burden on resources at the Hospital. The administration had initially proposed 300 beds and had set up 286. Now given the increase in positive cases in the district in the past few days, it chose to increase the number of beds to 350, sources said. In a related development, 89 persons, including four women, were discharged from the Centre on Monday. The administration had taken them to the Centre around a week ago from Selvapuram after persons working in gold smithies tested positive for COVID-19. At the Centre, the administration had provided television set, carom boards, etc. to keep the persons occupied. It had also posted doctors 24x7, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bed-strength-to-be-increased-at-covid-19-care-centre/article32073199.ece
14 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery Calling initiative on track||Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the first phase of Isha Foundation’s agroforestry initiative ‘Cauvery Calling’ is on track and the target of 1.1 crore (11 million) trees for this year will be met, according to a recent review meeting of the board members. Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev chaired the virtual board meeting recently to review the progress of ‘Cauvery Calling’ and the ‘Rally for Rivers’ initiative, a press release said. The Karnataka Government would supply 70 lakh saplings this year and Isha Outreach's nurseries would produce 40 lakh saplings in Tamil Nadu, the release said.  Infrastructure to hospital L&T Valves, a subsidiary of engineering and construction company Larsen and Toubro, dedicated infrastructure to Madukkarai Government Hospital recently.  Casualty room, clinical laboratory, a compound wall, washroom and drinking water storage facility were dedicated to the hospital under the company’s corporate social responsibility initiative, a release said. Kinathukadavu MLA A. Shanmugam, Collector K. Rajamani and officials from the company participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-calling-initiative-on-track/article32073210.ece
14 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Probe begins into recovery of bullet at graveyard||The police and the ‘Q’ branch have begun investigation into the recovery of a live round of an assault rifle from a graveyard at Alandurai near Coimbatore on Monday. The police said that the bullet had the year ‘1942’ engraved on it. A senior police officer said that the bullet’s diameter matched with that of the calibre of some of the assault rifles in use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-begins-into-recovery-of-bullet-at-graveyard/article32073207.ece
14 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Financiers threaten borrowers||Though the Central and State governments and the Reserve Bank of India had categorically stated not to insist on borrowers to repay EMI or other loans in view of the COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown since March 24, many private financiers and banks continued to pressurise the borrowers. Following complaints to Collector, the legal service authority office-bearers wanted to put an end to the menace by the financiers. They said that a couple identified as Mohan (55) and his wife Vijaya (50) of Joseph Nagar allegedly consumed poison and died after they were unable to pay the loans to a private financier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/financiers-threaten-borrowers/article32073459.ece
14 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Five mobile medical dispensaries to screen residents in Erode Corpn.||Five mobile medical dispensaries to screen residents for influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), conditions that are associated with COVID-19, were flagged off at the Corporation office here on Monday. District Collector C. Kathiravan flagged off the vehicle in the presence of Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and other officials. Under the theme ‘Mission Zero’ and ‘Let’s Be Covid-Free Together’, the programme was sponsored by Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana and was supported by Aaditya Masala, RD International School, and City Hospital. M. Abdul Hasan, managing director of the hospital, said that each team comprising a doctor, a nurse and a pharmacist, would visit the hotspots, slum areas and congested areas in the corporation limits and screen residents for symptoms. Those with COVID-19 symptoms would be taken to the District Headquarters and Hospital, where their swab samples would be taken. Camps would be held both in the morning and evening and each mobile unit is scheduled to screen 1,000 persons a day. Mr. Kathiravan told presspersons that 50,494 swab samples were taken so far in the district, in which 389 tested positive and 83 locations were sealed. He said the civic body had conducted 70 fever surveillance camps in the past one week in which 32 tested positive. “Adequate beds are available in hospitals in the district for treating patients,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-mobile-medical-dispensaries-to-screen-residents-in-erode-corpn/article32073201.ece
14 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector comes to the rescue of couple with demonetised currency||The couple, who was in possession of Rs. 24,000 in demonetised currency, received a cheque for Rs. 25,000 from Collector C. Kathiravan on Monday. When Palaniyammal, physically challenged, and her husband K. Somu, native of Pothiya Moopanur village in Anthiyur, had nothing for their livelihood during the lockdown period, they were surprised to find Rs. 24,000 in a trunk box that they kept many years ago, on July 10. But their joy was short-lived when the bank refused to accept the demonetised currency. The issue was taken up with Mr. Kathiravan who promised Rs. 25,000 assistance from his personal account to the couple. On Monday, revenue officials brought the couple to the Collector’s camp office and Mr. Kathiravan handed over the cheque. Expressing gratitude for the timely assistance, Palaniyammal said, “We thought all the money we saved from selling a cow had become useless. Now, we feel secured.” As they had no television or radio, they did not know about demonetisation and the villagers also did not inform them. Mr. Somu used to sell incense sticks and camphor for a livelihood. “We are not familiar with higher denominations as our earnings were less than Rs. 100 a day,” he said. But the earnings stopped a year ago when Mr. Somu lost his vision completely and could not venture out of his house. Hearing their plight, a philanthropist from Anthiyur has been providing Rs. 500 every month. As per the Collector’s direction, the demonetised currency was handed over to the district treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-comes-to-the-rescue-of-couple-with-demonetised-currency/article32073215.ece
14 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Collector comes to the rescue of couple with demonetised currency||Tears rolled down her cheeks when 49-year-old Palaniyammal, a woman with physical disability, along with her visually impaired 58-year-old husband K. Somu, who was in possession of Rs. 24,000 in demonetised currency notes, received a cheque for Rs. 25,000 from Erode Collector C. Kathiravan on Monday. The couple, natives of Pothiya Moopanur village in Anthiyur, had lost all hope when they had nothing for their bread and butter during the COVID-19 lockdown. On July 10, they searched every nook and corner of their house, expecting some pennies to buy something to satiate their hunger. To their surprise, they found Rs. 24,000 in a trunk box that they had kept many years ago. But their joy was short-lived after the bank refused to accept the demonetised currency notes in their possession. The issue was taken up with Mr. Kathiravan who promised the couple Rs. 25,000 in assistance from his personal account. On Monday, revenue officials brought the couple to the Collector’s camp office and Mr. Kathiravan handed over the cheque. “We thought all our money obtained from selling a cow had gone useless,” said Ms. Palaniyammal, who added that her joy knew no bounds as they felt secured and rescued now. Since the couple should not possess the demonetised currency notes, they were handed over to the district treasury as per the Collector’s direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-collector-comes-to-the-rescue-of-couple-with-demonetised-currency/article32073167.ece
14 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Issuance of Plus Two hall ticket begins||Issuance of hall tickets for Plus Two students whose exam is scheduled for July 27 has begun in schools in the district on Monday. Officials said that hall tickets can be downloaded fromwww.dge.tn.gov.inor students can collect it from their schools from July 13 to 17. They said that only after July 17, the number of students who are writing the exam will be known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/issuance-of-plus-two-hall-ticket-begins/article32073209.ece
14 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Children separated from mother by the CWC reunited||Three days after two children were separated from their mother by the Child Welfare Committee, after they were ‘rescued’ for selling tea on the streets, and sent away to a reception unit in Dharmapuri, they were reunited with their family over the weekend. The two children — a 13-year-old girl and her 7-year-old brother — were rescued by the National Child Labour Project personnel following news reports of them helping their mother by selling her home-made tea. The two schoolgoing children, with the girl dressed as a boy for her safety, were assisting their widowed mother. However, acting on the report, the Child Welfare Committee and the National Child Labour Project personnel, took the children away to a CWC reception unit in Dharmapuri. The video that emerged later raised questions on the handling of the case, where the two children were seen wailing and resisting attempts to separate them from their mother and in the presence of two uniformed policemen. The video had raised furore among activists, who slammed the CWC action. The CWC sources said that the children were taken away as a temporary arrangement until an inquiry was held. Over the weekend, they were brought back to their mother Rehmat Banu. Speaking to The Hindu , District Child Protection Officer Saravanan said, “The children were taken away and sent to the reception unit only as a temporary arrangement. The Child Welfare Committee had called for a report by the Probation Officer and the prevailing circumstances at the children's house were explained. “We obtained a surety from the mother that the children would not be sent for work, and that their education would be continued,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-separated-from-mother-by-the-cwc-reunited/article32073220.ece
14 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 145 cr. disbursed for MSMEs||Around 145 crore has been disbursed to micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Madurai district under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till June 30, according to Lead District Manager K. Arivalagan. He said that the loan amount has been disbursed to around 8,910 bank accounts of the district to support the industries in view of the economic distress caused by COVID-19 pandemic. He said that industries can avail a loan of 20% of the outstanding loans as on February 29, 2020, up to a maximum amount of Rs. 5 crore. K. Ramachandran, a partner of Shenbagamoorthy Tech Services, a micro industry, had availed Rs. 10 lakh through the scheme. “As businesses were closed for nearly three months, we direly needed money to restart operations. So, availing loan through the scheme was definitely a timely help,” he said. Concurring with this viewpoint P.J. Bansidhar, proprietor of JB Hydraaulics - a machinery manufacturing micro industry, said that the loan amount helped to cover expenses. “I had availed Rs. 7.6 lakh through the scheme. 10% of the amount was used to pay salaries to my employees and dues to my suppliers. The remaining amount was used to pay for pending government dues,” he said. But, repayment would be difficult if lockdown extends, he added. “It would be helpful if the government waives interest for these loans,” he said. However, some industries are still facing difficulties in availing the loans during the complete lockdown period, said President of K. Pudur Industrial Estate Association M.S. Sampath. “Banks often say that they are working with limited staff members and as a result, even normal banking operations get delayed,” he said. “Though the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had clearly announced the guidelines for the granting loans, there are still banks that reject applications, citing stricter norms,” he added. While nationalised banks grant loans to the industries, it is difficult to procure loans from private banks, said K.R. Gnanasambandan, convenor of COVID-19 Redressal Committee of Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA). B. Muruganandham, President, MADITSSIA, said that there was still no clarity on the total loan limit allocated for Madurai district. “This loan scheme aims to help the MSMEs from economic distress due to pandemic. However, it would have been better if a grant was offered for MSMEs,” he said. The other issue was calculating the loan amount based on the outstanding amount as on February 29, said Mr. Gnanasambandan. “Since it was the end of the financial year, many industries had already repaid a large portion of the borrowed money. It would have been better if the loan was calculated based on the sanctioned amount,” he added. “Also, for industries that have not borrowed from banks, a loan amount of 20% can be calculated on their annual turnover based on their GST filings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-145-cr-disbursed-for-msmes/article32073465.ece
14 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Haryana truck drivers stranded in Madurai||Two truck drivers from Haryana have been rendered stranded in the city for nearly a week after the addressee refused to unload the refrigerators from the trucks, citing lockdown in Madurai city. The drivers have been rendered shelterless in the truck parking bay in Kamaraj Nagar near Avaniyapuram. “I started my journey from Faridabad on June 18 and reached Madurai on July 3. I was supposed to unload the goods and leave immediately. But, I am stuck here for 10 days,” said Y. Shabbir (30). Another truckload of refrigerator too arrived here on July 6. This time, A. Mohammed Rafi (36) from Haryana had to give company to Shabbir. The man to whom the goods were supposed to be handed over had promised to unload the materials on Monday. “He said since it was lockdown in Madurai he could not unload them then. But, today he is not attending to our calls,” said Shabbir. Both of them live in their trucks and make their meals and eat together. “At sharp 7 a.m. we are woken up by the contractor of the parking lot, who force us to pay Rs. 100 each day,” says Rafiq. With little money left with them, Mr. Rafiq made his employer deposit some money to manage their stay here. While Rafiq has six children, Shabbir is father of four. “We get calls from our family members and children. I came all the way to Madurai only to earn something for my family to eat,” he said. They want the addressee to unload the goods in smaller cargo vehicles and take them to the godown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/haryana-truck-drivers-stranded-in-madurai/article32073464.ece
14 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Swab test for administrative staff as VC tests positive||After Vice-Chancellor of Mother Teresa Women’s University Vaidehi Vijayakumar tested positive for COVID-19 on July 8, swab samples of administrative staff members who worked closely with her have been collected. Tests were taken in two batches on Friday and Monday. Registrar A. Suganthi said on Monday that samples of 12 staff members who worked at the VC office and the Registrar’s office had been collected and test results were awaited. She added that none of the staff had shown any symptom yet. “After the municipal administration was informed of this, health workers were sent to disinfect the place. Even before the VC tested positive, we conducted a thorough disinfection of the university on alternate Saturdays,” she said. The registrar added that staff at the VC’s office as well as other university administration staff were working without a break as they were preparing to submit the self-study report required by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. “Work is going on in full swing and there is no need yet to close down our offices. We have submitted the list of professors who interacted with the VC in the recent past to the health department. If more people end up testing positive, we will eventually make a decision on the day-to-day functioning,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swab-test-for-administrative-staff-as-vc-tests-positive/article32073467.ece
14 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: portal for hospitals to update bed status, discharges||Madurai district administration has created a makeshift portal to enable all hospitals admitting COVID-19 patients to update their discharges and the number of vacant beds. Collector T.G. Vinay on Monday said the portal was updated twice a day – at 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. – to know real-time bed vacancies. A source from the district administration said the portal was created as private hospitals admitting COVID-19 patients were delaying the process of updating the number of discharges, deaths and bed vacancies. Currently, there are 10 private hospitals in the district treating COVID-19 patients – Apollo Hospital, Bharathi Hospital, Devadoss Multispeciality Hospital, Guru Multispeciality Hospital, Lakshmana Multispeciality Hospital, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, Rahavendhar Hospital, Saravana Hospital, Vadamalayan Hospital and Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute. “The number of discharges had been significantly higher on July 11 and 12 than in the first week of the month because we have been updating the backlog from private hospitals. The hospitals are taking their time to update data. The Collector had called a meeting last week and sought strict adherence to updation of the portal,” the source said. The source said although 787 discharges were recorded on July 12 and 553 on July 11 in the State Health Bulletin, it was not exactly indicative of the number of discharges till date. The Collector said they were focussing on data related to admissions since July 6. “In the next three days, the discharge figures would be updated with the current numbers,” he said. Dr. Vinay added that since the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines no longer specified exit swab tests at the time of discharge, asymptomatic cases were usually asked to go back home after 10 days of treatment. Those in other treatment facilities, including COVID-19 care centres and Government Rajaji Hospital’s COVID-19 speciality hospital who had symptoms, would be discharged after their illness saturated, he said. “Those with symptoms will definitely be monitored for 10 days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-portal-for-hospitals-to-update-bed-status-discharges/article32073469.ece
14 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CBI seeks custody of five accused||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that has taken over the probe into the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of traders P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks has sought the custody of five policemen involved in the case. The CBI has sought the custody of the then Sattankulam Inspector Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj. Chief Judicial Magistrate T.V. Hemanandakumar directed the accused to be produced before the court on July 14. Earlier, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court had directed the CBI to file an application for police custody, within 15 days of remand, before Judicial Magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-seeks-custody-of-five-accused/article32073472.ece
14 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CBSE students fare well in Class 12 examinations||Students of most CBSE schools in Madurai fared well in Class 12 examinations, the results for which were announced on Monday. Students of both the Kendriya Vidyalayas in the city had performed well in the examinations. P. Selvaraj, Principal, KV, Narimedu, said 495 was the highest score in the school. Out of 148 students who took the examinations, around 30 students had secured more than 90% of marks. A. Jerald, Principal, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Tirupparankundram, said 478 was the highest score in the school. Subha Manikandan, Principal, Mahatma Montessori School, said 486 was the highest score in her school. Aruna M. Visvessvar, Senior Principal and Correspondent of Adhyapana School, said 485 was the highest score in the school, shared by both students from science and commerce streams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-students-fare-well-in-class-12-examinations/article32073478.ece
14 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CBI seeks custody of accused||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has taken over the probe into the custodial deaths of traders P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks in Sattankulam, has sought the custody of five policemen. The agency sought the custody of the then Sattankulam inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj, currently remanded in Madurai Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-cbi-seeks-custody-of-accused/article32073185.ece
14 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man held for misbehaving with minor daughter||In a shocking incident, a 45-year-old man in Tirumangalam was on Sunday arrested on the charge of sexually misbehaving with his minor daughter. Tirumangalam All Women Police Station have booked him under the provisions of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The man had been misbehaving with the girl, who is studying class 9, for some time, Madurai Superintendent of Police, Sujith Kumar, said. Police sources said that the man, who was a mechanic, has been a drunkard. Since, his wife was mentally ill, the abuse of the minor girl was not known to others. After the issue came to light through one of their relatives, the AWPS police arrested him. The girl has been sent to her aunt’s house. District Child Welfare Committee member, B. Pandiarajan, said that efforts were being taken to admit the girl and her brother to homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-misbehaving-with-minor-daughter/article32073466.ece
14 July 2020||MADURAI/KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai reports largest spike in COVID-19 cases||Madurai recorded the highest number of new COVID-19 positive cases – 464 – on Monday, with which the district’s tally soared to 6,539 and the number of active cases to 3,803. All of the new cases were indigenous cases. A total of 26 people were discharged and four patients – including those from Virudhunagar, Theni and Thoothukudi districts who were treated at Government Rajaji Hospital – died on Monday. The death toll touched 120. Kanniyakumari recorded 185 cases (184 of them indigenous), which is its biggest single-day spike, to take the number of active cases to 993 and the total infections to 1,491. Thoothukudi added 122 more cases that took the district’s tally to 2,385 and the number of active cases to 1,274. The district also witnessed two deaths on Monday. The total number of infections in Tirunelveli rose to 1,875 with the addition of 118 more cases, including 113 indigenous cases. The district now has 996 active cases. Tenkasi reported 39 new cases, which took the number of active cases to 394, and the death of a patient. The district’s tally is 721. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar recorded 25 new positive cases – the lowest number of fresh cases till date in July. A total of 64 people were discharged from hospitals, and the the number of active cases came down from 1,138 cases reported on Sunday to 1,099. The district’s tally is 2,099. With the death of a 72-year-old man from the district at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Monday, the district’s case count has risen to 17. Theni A total of 134 fresh cases were reported in Theni, which pushed its tally to 1,863. Theni town recorded 40 fresh cases, Cumbum 37 cases, Periyakulam 23 cases and Bodinayakkanur 19 cases. A total of 63 people were discharged from hospitals. Dindigul Dindigul recorded only two positive cases on Monday, with which its tally rose to 789. Fourteen people were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram There were 43 new cases recorded in Ramanathapuram, which now has a total case count of 1,892. Twenty-five people were discharged from hospitals. Sivaganga A total of 29 fresh cases and 24 discharges were reported in Sivaganga district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-reports-largest-spike-in-covid-19-cases/article32073480.ece
14 July 2020||NATHAM,TAMIL NADU||Bank shut||After two women staff tested positive to COVID-19 virus, a public sector bank branch here was shut on Monday. Customers, who were interacting with the two women staff were advised to approach the PHC for a swab test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-shut/article32073460.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC can decide on pleas on OBC quota for medical courses: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Madras High Court to go ahead and decide on merits all the petitions pending before it seeking 50% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota seats for medical and dental courses in Tamil Nadu. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao held that the Saloni Kumari case, which was pending in the Supreme Court and pertained to the grant of 27% OBC quota in terms of a Central Act, cannot impede the Madras High Court from deciding on the question of the grant of 50% quota for OBCs in Tamil Nadu on the basis of a State law. The High Court will begin hearing the petitions on Friday. The apex court fully agreed with the argument made by senior advocate P. Wilson that the pendency of the Saloni Kumari case, which pertained specifically to OBC reservation in Uttar Pradesh, would not bar the Madras High Court from hearing Tamil Nadu-specific petitions regarding reservation. The Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate V. Giri and Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, said the High Court should decide on all the issues highlighted on merits. The State agreed with Mr. Wilson’s submission that the High Court’s decision should be made in time for admissions during the current year. At one point during the virtual hearing, Mr. Wilson argued: “The Central government, in 2016, filed a counter-affidavit in the Saloni Kumari case, admitting that it is bound to give OBC reservations in State-surrendered seats to the all-India quota.” However, the same officer is still opposing the plea in the High Court. He argued that, therefore, the Central government is not honest in its approach and is illegally depriving tens of thousands of OBC students across the country.” The court finally disposed of the batch of petitions — including one by Tamil Nadu — filed against a June 22 order of the Madras High Court to keep the petitions in abeyance till the apex court decided the Saloni Kumari case. Tamil Nadu, in its petition, submitted that the Madras High Court’s adjournment order came soon after the Centre convinced it that an ‘identical’ case — Saloni Kumari versus Director General of Health Services — was already pending in the Supreme Court. The High Court was told that the apex court had tentatively listed the Saloni Kumari case for July 8, and that any decision ought to follow the Supreme Court’s ruling in the case. Tamil Nadu said the High Court had been completely misguided by the respondents, which included the Centre and the Medical Council of India. “The Saloni Kumari case pertains to reservation for OBCs under seats surrendered to All-India quota by medical colleges located in the State of Uttar Pradesh, and not to the rest of India or to Tamil Nadu,” the petition said. An adjournment had made the apex court’s grant of liberty to the State to approach the High Court redundant, the petition argued. “It nullified the grant of such liberty because if the Supreme Court wanted the High Court to await orders in the case relating to Saloni Kumari, it would not have felt the need to grant liberty to approach the High Court,” the State reasoned and highlighted that the adjournment by the High Court may unwittingly delay the implementation of the 50% reservation for Backward Classes and lead to same constitutional illegality being perpetrated in the current academic year, for which results were announced on April 1. It warned that the admission process was in the second stage of counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-hc-can-decide-on-pleas-on-obc-quota-for-medical-courses-sc/article32073531.ece
14 July 2020||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||One killed, one injured in attack by gang||An armed gang attacked two persons, one at Madanapuram near Adivaram and the other near Siddanathan Thirumana Mandapam, here on Monday night. While one of the victims died on the spot, the other was rushed to Palani Government Hospital in a serious condition, police said. Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya visited the scene of crime. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the gang chased Alex (27), a habitual offender, of Ayakudi and murdered him. The gang also targeted his friend Ganesan (23) of Theradi, who sustained multiple injuries. Then, the gang members chased another person, Anandan (27), who escaped from them and surrendered with the police. All three were targeted by the gang which wanted to take revenge for a crime reported last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-one-injured-in-attack-by-gang/article32073482.ece
14 July 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||MLAs aid sought to scale up testing||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao has appealed to MLAs to coordinate with health staff in identifying vulnerable areas in their constituencies. Addressing the press, Mr. Rao said legislators could help scale up testing at the constituency-level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-aid-sought-to-scale-up-testing/article32073163.ece
14 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||TNSCB houses for homeless ready||A major housing project for the homeless in Pudukottai Municipal limits is set to be commissioned soon with the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) completing construction of the tenements at Narimedu. The tenements, which has 1,920 dwelling units, have been built at a cost of Rs. 150.58 crore, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said in a statement. The tenements will be a self-contained housing complex with a park, playground, drinking water supply, markets and drainage. Drinking water supply to the tenements will be provided under a rural drinking water supply scheme of the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board. Work on laying distribution lines to the tenements from Mullur overhead tank was underway. It will be completed by August. Sewage generated from the tenements will be pumped to a treatment plant at Maruppini. Estimates at a cost of Rs. 8.60 crore have already been prepared and the TWAD Board will soon execute the work. The project will fulfill a long-felt need of the homeless people in the town, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnscb-houses-for-homeless-ready/article32073528.ece
14 July 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Ban on spitting in public places||The district administration has imposed a ban on spitting and smoking at tea shops, petty shops and public places. Instructions have been issued to initiate action against violators and commercial establishments that allow such actions, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said on Monday. Officials have been asked to monitor smoking in public places and take action. Complaints can be conveyed to Designated Officer, Food Safety, Ramesh Babu over his cell numbers 99449-59595/95859-59595.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-on-spitting-in-public-places/article32073534.ece
14 July 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman ends life abroad; family languishes in poverty||A 22-year-old woman, with her two-year-old daughter and parents, appealed to the Collector to get her relief from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund as her husband ended his life in Dubai about a month ago. Speaking to reporters, Minipriya said that her husband Kaleeswaran, a fisherman, went to Dubai in search of a job on a contract a year ago as there was mounting debt. The joblessness in the coastal hamlet made him go overseas and work with a fish exports firm. Though he went there with high hopes of earning and settling his debts, it was not so in reality, his wife said. With the COVID-19 pandemic, things turned from bad to worse, she said and added that unable to come to terms that the family was in dire straits and that he too got stuck abroad, Kaleeswaran, while on the job, allegedly jumped into the sea and died on June 16. After the body was recovered, post mortem was performed and the last rites were conducted there itself, the woman said and looked for assistance from the government. M. Karunamoorthy, district secretary CITU fishermen workers union here, said that the State government should consider the plight of the widow and offer assistance from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund. The district administration should protect the family as they had no means of survival in the present scenario, he added. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline- 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisherman-ends-life-abroad-family-languishes-in-poverty/article32073454.ece
14 July 2020||S. Sundar,TAMIL NADU||Post-Sattankulam case, policing has undergone a visible change in Madurai||Normal policing post-Sattankulam custodial deaths case has undergone a visible change in Madurai. The number of crime cases has come down in the COVID-19 lockdown period. Consequently, the number of escorts of accused too has come down. “But, definitely the burden after arrests of accused – from getting fitness certificate from medical officers to lodging them in jails – has increased manifold,” says an Inspector of Police here. After trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks died due to alleged police torture at Sattankulam police station in Thoothukudi, police stations across the State get frequent calls from the offices of Superintendents of Police/Commissioners of Police enquiring about suspects/accused in custody. Previously, the police stations used to get calls in the nights only from the Intelligence Section (in cities)/Special Branch (in rural districts) about custody particulars. “But, now our stations get at least four calls a day about the custody particulars – at 6 a.m., 2 p.m., 6 p.m. and 9 p.m.” said an Inspector. With the custody details getting updated with State police headquarters every day, even Chennai Police Control is making calls to Station House Officers in the nights to check the condition of persons in custody. “The State police want to ensure that no more Sattankulam-type of cases occur. And this has definitely put the police force on their back foot,” said another Inspector. Oral orders have been issued to stations not to arrest any person on suspicion under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Similarly, in any case that attracted a jail term of less than seven years, the police stations have been encouraged to let off the accused on station bail. Under normal circumstances, a medical fitness certificate, obtained from the Government Medical Officer under Cr.P.C. Section 54 is enough to put an accused in custody in jail. But, now, a medical certificate stating that the accused tested negative for COVID-19 has been made mandatory. “And it takes at least 36-48 hours to get swab test results,” say police officers. Police officers adopt different methods to comply with the arrest procedures. While it is mandatory to produce the accused before the judicial magistrate within 24 hours of arrest, some Judicial Magistrates insist on a COVID-19 negative certificate to issue remand order. “Hence, we need to keep them in our custody till the results are out,” an officer said. Another Inspector takes a different route. After getting the remand order, the accused is kept in the station lock-up till the swab result is out. “We make a requisition to the jail authorities, along with the COVID-19 test result certificate, to allow the delay (after getting judicial custody order) in producing them in jail,” he said. “Not only the SHOs have the responsibility in the well-being of the accused under police station custody, but also safeguard our men from the accused as they might contract COVID-19 from the accused,” he added. One Inspector in Madurai had contracted infection from an accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-sattankulam-case-policing-has-undergone-a-visible-change-in-madurai/article32073476.ece
14 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||ASHA workers demand fixed pay||Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), who are frontline workers, petitioned Chief Minister on Monday demanding permanent pay. Members of the Tamil Nadu ASHA Workers’ Association gathered at the district Collectorate urging the State government to ensure job permanency who are in the job for over 10 years and provide monthly salary of Rs. 15,000. They lamented that many among them have not received the incentive of Rs. 2,000-Rs. 3,000. K. Gomathi, district president of the organisation, said: “ASHA workers are in the frontline of COVID-19 prevention activities. They were involved in door-to-door survey and a worker is responsible for over 500 houses.” Shanthi, district convener, said the State government amid the COVID-19 pandemic has appointed health workers with pay of Rs. 20,000 to do jobs similar to that of ASHA workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asha-workers-demand-fixed-pay/article32073217.ece
14 July 2020||SALEM/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four COVID-19 patients die in western region||Three COVID-19 positive persons died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH) in Salem on Sunday and an elderly man from Tiruppur died at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Monday. According to Health Department officials, a 47-year-old woman from Sankagiri, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital for kidney ailments, was shifted to GMKMCH after she tested positive. She died soon after she was shifted to the government hospital. A 32-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at Karur Government Hospital was shifted to GMKMCH for better treatment on Sunday. However, the man died during the late hours of Sunday. According to officials, he was suffering from kidney ailments. A 45-year-old woman from Kaveripattinam in Krishnagiri was undergoing treatment at a private hospital here and was shifted to GMKMCH, where she died. The patient was suffering from kidney ailments. Tiruppur A 70-year-old man from Udumalpet, Tiruppur, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in a private hospital in Coimbatore, passed away in the early hours of Monday. He was suffering from chronic renal failure, a tweet from Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Case registered A 67-year-old woman, who was advised home quarantine, committed suicide at her residence near Nethimedu in Salem. According to Health Department officials, the woman’s daughter tested positive for COVID-19 recently and was shifted to GMKMCH. The woman tested negative and was advised home quarantine. Annadhanapatti police have registered a case. Helpline Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-covid-19-patients-die-in-western-region/article32073203.ece
14 July 2020||Special CorrespondentCHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15 held in MLA-realtor clash over land dispute||The Chengalpattu police have arrested 15 persons in connection with the clash between groups led by DMK MLA L. Idhayavarman and real estate businessman ‘Imayam’ G. Kumar over a land dispute on Saturday. According to the police, Mr. Kumar and the MLA’s family had been locked in the dispute for a few years. Mr. Kumar, accompanied by his men, created a pathway to the property, which was opposed by the MLA’s father Lakshmipathy and some villagers. In the melee, Mr. Lakshmipathy was attacked. Infuriated, Mr. Idhayavarman allegedly fired two rounds at the rival group injuring an onlooker, who was identified as Srinivasan. Three FIRs were registered based on complaints by Mr. Lakshmipathy, Mr. Kumar and Mr. Srinivasan. Mr. Idhayavarman and Mr. Kumar were arrested, along with 10 men from both sides on Sunday. On Monday, Mr. Kumar’s men — K. Raghuraman, 59, M. Shanmugam, 42, and M. Janarthanan, 43, were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-held-in-mla-realtor-clash-over-land-dispute/article32073154.ece
14 July 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||An agri entrepreneur in need of farmhands with wages, incentives||An agriculture entrepreneur S. Rajesh Kumar, 40, who returned from the US, is seeking to attract resident farmhands promising them fixed monthly wages of Rs. 12,000, incentives and accommodation with groceries among other things. He claims that those taking up the offer would also be given insurance cover, bonus twice a year and an annual leave travel allowance. He says he is looking for a person, who is passionate about farming and would tend to the crops, poultry birds and milch animals in his farmland. “All we need is a worker with a family. So that, the family members can take care of the farm in his absence,” claimed Mr. Kumar, who has advertised the job via mobile messaging platforms. He intends to grow organic vegetables and rear milch animals and claims that the selected workers would be trained in farming. The salary per se may not be that attractive (for a full-timer); but the perks are definitely, he says. “I think, a family that puts in good effort to maintain and monitor the farm would deserve it,” he adds. Irrigation system in the farm has been automated. Otherwise, for hard work like harvesting and other periodical chores, additional hands would be deployed. The farm, run by three partners, would also make a recurring deposit for the family which would be given to them, if they remain with them for a minimum period of three years, he claims. “The minimum service period is required because, I am also investing on educating them on various aspects of farming and would have to again find someone else and train them,” Mr. Kumar said. Those interested can contact — 9655458148.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-agri-entrepreneur-in-need-of-farmhands-with-wages-incentives/article32073452.ece
14 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Water release: turn system introduced at Grand Anicut||The Grand Anicut Canal will receive a steady flow of 2,000 cusecs during the next 12 days starting Monday evening as the Public Works Department has started implementing turn system for water release in the Cauvery and the Vennar from the Grand Anicut. During the same period, 1,000 cusecs will be let into the Coleroon from the Grand Anicut, according to a Public Works Department release. Under the turn system, PWD has started releasing 6,500 cusecs of water into the Vennar river system from 6 p.m. and the same quantum of release will be maintained in the Vennar till 6 p.m. on July 19. The Cauvery river system will receive 100 cusecs only during this period. From 6 p.m. on July 19, the Cauvery river system will receive 6,500 cusecs from the Grand Anicut, while 100 cusecs of water will be released into the Vennar river system till 6 p.m. on July 25. The decision to adopt the turn system of water release in the Lower Cauvery Basin has been taken in view of depletion of water level in the Stanley Reservoir, Mettur, which came down to 40.459 tmcft on July 11 from 67.102 tmcft on June 12, when the dam was opened for release of water for irrigation in the Cauvery delta. Another reason for the adoption of turn system of water release is that the PWD is trying to make best use of the available water at Mettur for providing surface water support forkuruvaiand the forthcomingsambacrop cultivation. The quantum of release from Stanley Reservoir will be maintained at 13,000 cusecs during this period when PWD officials expect a realisation of 9,600 cusecs only at the Grand Anicut, the release added. The officials have also called upon farmers to extend their support for the turn system of water release and use the supply released in the Lower Cauvery Basin irrigation system judiciously as the department aims to ensure sufficient water supply forkuruvaicultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-release-turn-system-introduced-at-grand-anicut/article32073523.ece
14 July 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Vaigai dam level raises concern over possible drinking water shortage||The scanty rainfall received during the southwest monsoon and the depleting water level in Vaigai dam have raised concern over the possible shortage in supply of drinking water to parts of Theni and Madurai districts. However, officials say that there is sufficient water to meet the drinking water needs of these districts. Despite the onset of the monsoon, Theni district recorded less rainfall. As a result, the water level in Vaigai dam stood at 32.71 feet on Monday, against the total level of 71 feet. Currently, 72 cusecs of water is discharged from Vaigai dam every day. Out of that, 48 cusecs is meant for Madurai Corporation. A total of 12 cusecs of water is released to meet the drinking water needs of Andipatti and Sedapatti. The remaining 12 cusecs is released to meet drinking water needs of Theni Allinagaram and Vadugapatti. An official from the Public Works Department (PWD) said that since the onset of southwest monsoon, the water level in Periyar dam had risen by one feet. “A total of 125 cusecs is discharged from the dam to Theni district and only around 15 cusecs reaches the Vaigai dam,” he said. The official added that though the current water availability in Vaigai dam may not be sufficient to sustain the drinking water needs for the upcoming months, the additional water received to Periyar dam can be diverted to Vaigai dam. “This will ensure that sufficient drinking water is available,” he added. A Madurai Corporation engineer said that there was sufficient water to continue the supply of drinking water on alternate days for the next three months. An official from Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board said that the recent river wetting had helped to recharge infiltration wells sunk in Vaigai riverbed. “This has ensured sufficient drinking water availability for Andipatti and Sedapatti,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaigai-dam-level-raises-concern-over-possible-drinking-water-shortage/article32073453.ece
14 July 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Shops to remain closed in Theni||Shop owners in the district decided to shut shops from July 14 to 26. A resolution was passed and the office-bearers representing the district wholesale grocery merchants, rice mill owners association, retail shop owners association, hotel and restaurant owners association among others decided to shut shop and cooperate with the district administration to break the COVID-19 virus chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-to-remain-closed-in-theni/article32073461.ece
14 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||No power generation made in TTPS for more than 8 hours||There was no power generation in Tuticorin Thermal Power Station (TTPS) for more than 8 hours on Monday as all the five units, each having the generation capacity of 210 MW, fell silent due to technical snag and two of them had been on standby mode due to surplus power generation from wind turbine generators. Sources in the TTPS said Unit V of TTPS, commissioned in March 1991, was under “maintenance” since December last and is waiting indefinitely for the arrival of spares from Punjab. The TTPS officials cite COVID-19 outbreak as the reason behind the delay in getting the spares from northwestern Indian State. However, the low demand for power saved the TANGEDCO from embarrassing situations and COVID-19-induced lockdown further brought down the demand drastically with the industrial units across the State were forced to stop production. As power generation by the wind turbine generators increased phenomenally from May onwards in the meanwhile, the TANGEDO could easily bridge the gap between demand and supply. Buoyed by the comfortable situation, the TTPS started its scheduled 2-week-long annual overhauling of Unit IV, commissioned in February 1992, on July 6. Moreover, Units I and III of TTPS, commissioned in July 1979 and April 1982 respectively, were put on standby mode due to surplus power generation by the windmills. While Unit I was on standby mode since Friday (July 10), Unit III was also stopped last Sunday after supply from windmills to TANGEDCO’s grids increased sharply. Against this backdrop, Unit II, commissioned in December 1980, tripped in the early hours of Monday forcing the officials to start Unit III, one of the two units remaining idle, which was synchronized with the grid at 11.12 a.m. “So, little over 8 hours, there was no power generation at TTPS,” said the sources. While the technical snag in Unit II would be fixed within two days, Unit I, now standby mode, is ready for power generation anytime and hence there is no need for panic”, the sources added. At the same time, Unit V will be ready for power generation only after getting the vital spares from Punjab which is likely to consume another 30 days or so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power-generation-made-in-ttps-for-more-than-8-hours/article32073456.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to hand over Salai Road to State Highways Department||The Tiruchi City Corporation has decided to hand over maintenance of Salai Road to the State Highways. The road, which runs a distance of about two km from Main Guard Gate to Woraiyur, is an arterial stretch, with a road overbridge (ROB) across the Tiruchi-Karur railway line. Heavy rain eroded a portion of the approach road to the bridge on Saturday evening. The span of the bridge over the track is being maintained by Southern Railway and the approach arms of Salai Road by the Corporation. The RoB is said to have been built with brick and lime mortar before Independence. It still serves its purpose, helped by frequent maintenance works. Considering its age, Southern Railway and the Corporation decided to replace the RoB a few years ago. After a few rounds of talks and official communication, Southern Railway came forward to allot funds to build the span of the bridge and the Corporation agreed to take care of building the approach roads on either side. The civic body decided to develop the approach roads under the Smart City Mission in 2019. Due to administrative reasons, it changed it plan and decided to seek fund from the State government for the project. Since the road serves as an important link between the Main Guard Gate, Karur Bypass Road, Woraiyur and Thillai Nagar, the Corporation decided to complete the project within a year. It went on to make alternative arrangements to divert traffic from February. However, it has reversed its decision and has now decided to hand over the road to the State Highways for maintenance. Salai Road is among the arterial roads that handles heavy volume of traffic. If it is road in a residential colony, the civic body can undertake repair and maintenance works, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian toldThe Hindu. The State Highways is the competent authority to operate and maintain the road. Hence, it has been decided to hand over the stretch to the department. A proposal to that effect has been sent to the State government. He hopes the State Highways will soon take control of the road and come up with a comprehensive plan to widen it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-hand-over-salai-road-to-state-highways-department/article32073524.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in central region||The central region on Monday saw a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases with 262 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The region also recorded eight deaths: four in Tiruchi, three in Thanjavur and one in Karur district. In Tiruchi, a 65-year-old man who was admitted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital died on Sunday after suffering acute respiratory failure. He was admitted on July 6, when he tested positive for the viral infection. A 70-year-old man hailing from Tiruchi who was admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on July 11 died after attempts by doctors to resuscitate him failed. The patient’s COVID-19 test results returned positive on Sunday. Around 6.45 am, he suffered respiratory failure. The patient had a history of hypertension. A 70-year-old woman, who suffered from hypertension, died at MGMGH of respiratory failure soon after testing positive, official sources said. A man hailing from Srirangam, who tested positive for the viral infection last week, died at the hospital on Monday. He was diagnosed with diabetes and hypertension. The patient’s family had been contacted and the body would be handed over to Tiruchi Corporation. A 32-year-old man from Karur, who suffered from an acute kidney injury, died after being diagnosed with COVID-19 at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem on Sunday. He suffered sepsis and died on Sunday evening. Two men aged 42 and 58 from Thanjavur Thanjavur Medical College Hospital died on July 9 and 11. While the former died after suffering a severe left ventricular dysfunction, the latter had co-morbid conditions of diabetes and hypertension, which led to viral pneumonia and respiratory failure. An 80-year-old woman from Thanjavur who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai died on Sunday. She was admitted to the hospital on July 3 and tested positive on July 4. She suffered respiratory failure on July 12, doctors said. Meanwhile, of the 262 patients who tested positive on Monday, 92 belonged to Tiruchi, 59 to Tiruvarur, 58 to Pudukottai, 27 to Nagapattinam, 22 to Thanjavur and two each to Karur and Perambalur. In Tiruchi, fresh cases were reported from Thennur, K. K. Nagar, Kattur, Srirangam, Gandhi Market, Mela Chinthamani, among other places. Some patients also tested positive in rural Tiruchi. They were admitted to Tiruchi MGMGH. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 1,598. Meanwhile, 50 patients were discharged from Tiruchi MGMGH after recovering from the viral infection. Another batch of 56 patients were discharged from the COVID Care Centre on Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University. A total of 58 patients tested positive in Pudukottai. Among them were 22 men, 22 women, six boys and five girls. The patients were returnees from Chennai, Thiruvallur and other districts. They were admitted to Ranee’s Government Hospital. A total of 59 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur, while 22 tested positive in Thanjavur on Monday. Of the 27 patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam, seven were local residents with no travel history, five were contacts of a single patient who tested positive. Others had travel history. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district so far stood at 374. In Perambalur, two patients, including a 19-year-old youth, tested positive. A 31-year-old man from Gandhigramam and a 23-year-old woman from Kulithalai tested positive in Karur and were admitted to Karur District Headquarters Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article32073533.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ayyarmalai temple, with 1,017 steps, likely to get rope car by November||A rope car to transport devotees to Rathinagireeswarar Temple atop Ayyarmalai, about 10 km from Kulithalai in Karur district, is expected to become operational by November. Situated at a height of 1,178 feet, the temple attracts a large number of devotees, who have to climb 1,017 steps to reach the top. Hence, they have been demanding a rope car for easy access. Seeking to fulfill the demand, the facility was sanctioned for the Saivite temple at an estimated cost of Rs. 6.17 crore. The work began in February 2017 and was scheduled to be completed by June 2018. However, the project suffered a time overrun and authorities planned to complete it last year. In May last, HR & CE Commissioner K. Phanindra Reddy inspected the progress of work and instructed officials and contractors to ensure completion of the project by October. As civil works were nearing completion, the lockdown enforced in view of the pandemic interrupted work again, sources said. According to sources, civil works, including on upper and lower terminals of the ropeway, have almost been completed. The upper terminal will be located near Amman Shrine atop the hill, while the base will be near 100 Pillar Mandapam. All equipment and material for erecting the ropeway have arrived, said Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar, who inspected the works last week. “The rope way will have four cabins each moving up and down simultaneously. Each car will have a seating capacity of two. Once commissioned, about 120 devotees can use the rope car to go up and return in an hour. The erection work will be completed soon and the facility will be brought to public use after trial runs,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ayyarmalai-temple-with-1017-steps-likely-to-get-rope-car-by-november/article32073526.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Self-help is best help: youth group||A group of young men from Krishnapuram at Edamalaipattipudur in the city have taken to self-help to repair an approach road to their locality after their pleas to authorities went in vain. The road leading to their locality was laid 18 years ago when they were young boys. “Since then, there has been no development. We have submitted petitions to officials in the corporation several times, but there has been no response,” says A Manivel, general secretary, Krishnapuram Youth Association. When they approached a civic engineer, who visited the area for survey for the underground drainage system (UGD) project, they learnt that a permanent road will come only after the work was over. “This is an old locality and we have many senior citizens here. Auto rickshaws refuse to ferry them because of the state of the roads,” Mr. Manivel rues. Thirty members of the group, led by A. Naveenkumar, pooled in funds and collected around Rs. 11,000 which they used for purchase of concrete and other materials. “We cannot lay the entire road without permission and approval. We did patchwork in all potholes as a temporary solution,” he says. With the excess material, the group is travelling across the locality and filling all potholes with debris and flattening the surfaces. “They asked us to wait for at least a year for permanent roads. With the pandemic and other delays, we are not sure when we will see it completed. We did not want to wait until soembody fall and break their back,” he said. The youth group hopes that the civic body will complete the work and lay a permanent road soon. “We are at the far end of the city, on Madurai Road, and it is easy for authorities to forget us. However, we hope the UGD will be completed soon and we will have good roads to travel on,” Mr. Naveenkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/self-help-is-best-help-youth-group/article32073530.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Manager of private bank murdered near Tiruchi||V. Pugazhendhi, 36, manager of a private bank, was waylaid and murdered by unidentified persons at Paachur Kannathoppu near Manachanallur on Monday. The victim’s friend, Satish, who works as lecturer in a private engineering college at Perambalur, suffered head injury in the attack. He is undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. Police sources said Pughazhendhi was proceeding with Sathish on a motorcycle when the attack took place. Previous enmity was suspected to be the motive behind the killing. Pugazhendhi’s brother V. Kovendran, 40, was involved in the murder of Rangaraj in 2019 and a probe was on, the sources added. Manachanallur Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manager-of-private-bank-murdered-near-tiruchi/article32073537.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi GH to have 400 more beds: Minister||The bed capacity at COVID-19 ward of Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital will be raised up to 1,000 beds within a week, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said. “The hospital has 600 beds at COVID-19 ward and 284 patients. Four hundred more beds are being set up at the nursing hostel block. This is being done on a war-footing and will be completed within a week,” he told reporters after inspecting the facilities along with Dean K. Vanitha at Tiruchi GH. The Chief Minister has instructed medical college hospitals and District Headquarters Hospitals, where COVID-19 wards are set up, to scale up bedding facility, he said. Aggressive testing strategies are being employed. “The testing centre at K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College has tested 45,000 samples so far,” he said. Mobile-testing facilities are also being employed in various districts. Facilities to supply oxygen, including tank and pipelines are being set up at hospitals across the State. Yoga and naturopathy doctors are teaching patients breathing exercises and yoga asanas, while Siddha doctors are providing patients withkabasura kudineer, he added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gh-to-have-400-more-beds-minister/article32073540.ece
14 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temporary market closed for two days||After seven vegetable vendors, including three from Anna Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai temporary market tested positive for COVID-19, the market will be closed for two days to enable civic authorities to carry out disinfection. Collector S. Sivarasu said 187 vendors were tested for COVID-19. Out of them, seven tested positive for the viral infection. Three of the vendors belonged to the city, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-market-closed-for-two-days/article32073539.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Health workers to check residents at doorstep||Even as the number of COVID -19 positive cases are on the rise, the district administration has rolled out a comprehensive plan to check every citizen at the doorstep by deploying health workers in every village within the shortest possible duration. Chairing a video conference meeting with officials held here on Monday, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said the health workers to be deployed in the village should visit every house to check if the inmates had any ailments, particularly cold and fever or other symptoms of COVID – 19. Though the anti-COVID -19 operation had moved to top gear, this door-to-door campaign to identify the people with health ailments would help the officials in isolating the people with symptoms of viral infection and rushing them to the hospital for the right line of treatment without spreading it to others. The health workers should collect information about senior citizens, pregnant women, children, patients suffering from diabetes, hypertension, cancer, renal complications etc. “If a person is found to be having COVID – 19 symptoms, the health workers should alert their higher-ups, who should ensure immediate steps to shift the patient to the hospital besides accelerating disinfection exercise in the particular area and organizing ‘fever clinics’ in the area,” Ms. Shilpa said. The Collector said the health workers should create awareness of cold, dry cough, headache, fever, fatigue and loss of taste and smell, all symptoms of COVID – 19, and tell the public to go to the nearby primary health centre immediately for appropriate medical assistance if they had these symptoms. If the employees of bigger commercial establishments were found to be having the symptoms of the viral infection, the business house concerned should take steps for testing its entire workforce for COVID-1. Sub-Collectors, Project Director of District Rural Development Agency, Commissioners of all municipalities, Assistant Commissioners of Tirunelveli Corporation, Block Development Officers of panchayat unions and Executive Officers of town panchayats participated in the videoconference. District Revenue Officer Perumal was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-workers-to-check-residents-at-doorstep/article32073457.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Custodial deaths: CBI team has a discussion with CB-CID officials||Even as the CBI team was expected to visit the Kovilpatti Government Hospital and the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail on Monday after its visit to the Sattankulam police station on Sunday in connection with the twin custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, the investigators instead had a comprehensive discussion with the CB-CID officials who were handling the case and arrested 10 police personnel until the Central agency took over the case. After interrogating the family members of Jayaraj on last Saturday, the CBI team that also visited the Sattankulam Government Hospital on the same day, visited the Sattankulam police station on Sunday evening and interrogated the policemen there from 5.15 p.m. to 7.40 p.m. Though it was widely expected that the CBI team would visit the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail as Jayaraj and Benicks had been lodged there and died subsequently in the Kovilpatti Government Hospital, the investigators had a comprehensive discussion with Anil Kumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police CB-CID and Investigating Officer of the twin custodial deaths. It is learnt that Mr. Anil Kumar, whose team had completed more than 80% of the investigation before handing over the case to the CBI as decided by the Tamil Nadu Government, came to the Circuit House in Vannarpet where the CBI officials have camped, to hand over to CBI a few more documents pertaining to the case. After prolonged discussion with Anil Kumar, the CBI team left for Madurai in the evening belying the expectation that the investigators would visit the Kovilpatti sub-jail and the government hospital there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-deaths-cbi-team-has-a-discussion-with-cb-cid-officials/article32073473.ece
14 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Bail plea dismissed as withdrawn||The bail petition filed by suspended Inspector of Police Sridhar, who has been arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks of Sattankulam, was dismissed on Monday as it was withdrawn. The bail petition filed by Sridhar’s junior colleague and suspended sub-inspector of Sattankulam, Balakrishnan, who has also been arrested along with Sridhar in the twin custodial deaths case, will come up before District Principal Sessions Judge Logeswaran for hearing on Tuesday (July 14). When the bail petitions filed by Sridhar and Balakrishnan came up for hearing on Monday, the former’s petition was dismissed as withdrawn and Balakrishnan’s bail plea will be heard on Tuesday. As Jayaraj and Benicks, who were arrested by Sridhar and his colleagues of Sattankulam police station on June 19 died mysteriously even as they were under judicial custody on June 22 and June 23, CB-CID, which was entrusted with the job of investigating the case, arrested Sridhar, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, Special Sub-Inspector Pauldurai, head constable Murugan, constables Muthuraj, Veyilumuthu, Chelladurai, Saamadurai and Thomas. While Pauldurai and Thomas are undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for ailments, others have been lodged in Madurai central jail after all the 10 accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-plea-dismissed-as-withdrawn/article32073474.ece
14 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Move to take over ESI Hospital opposed||Trade unions here opposed the move to convert the ESI Hospital into a full-fledged hospital for COVID -19 positive patients. the petitions, the trade union members said the ESI Hospital at Vannarpet here, which was serving effectively to the needs of the labourers from Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts, was to be converted into a designated hospital for treating COVID-19 positive patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-take-over-esi-hospital-opposed/article32073475.ece
14 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tenant refuses to pay rent, sets fire to beds||A woman set ablaze two beds in her rented house after allegedly refusing to pay rent in Vellakoil here on Sunday. According to the police, Kayalvizhi began staying in the house from June and had vacated on July 7. When the house owner demanded the monthly rent, she had allegedly defaulted. She also broke into the house on Sunday and set fire to the beds in the house. The accused also stole a digital video recorder of the CCTV camera and absconded. The fire was doused and there were no major damages, the police said. The Vellakoil police registered a case and are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenant-refuses-to-pay-rent-sets-fire-to-beds/article32073212.ece
14 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Coonoor Heritage Gallery opened||A heritage gallery, showcasing the history and development of Coonoor town over the last two centuries, was inaugurated by officials from the Coonoor Municipality and Coonoor MLA Shanthi A.Ramu on Monday. The “Coonoor Heritage Gallery” would serve a key role in educating visitors about the history of the Nilgiris, said K. Balu, Coonoor Municipality Commissioner. Apart from creating awareness among the public about the heritage structures in the town, the gallery would serve as a repository of information that would inspire younger generation to help protect and preserve the town and its surroundings, he said. “We have plans to bring in more exhibits and have also appealed to the public to contribute rare photos or other artefacts that can be exhibited at the gallery,” Mr. Balu said. Samantha Iyanna, Managing Trustee of Clean Coonoor, an NGO that helped design aspects of the gallery, said, “From the history of the local administration to important events in its history such as Mahatma Gandhi’s visit are all carefully charted out in the gallery.” “Other aspects of the gallery include the history of plantations and plantation crops in Coonoor, their role in growing the town as well as the natural history of the town and its surrounding forests such as the diverse species of birds, insects, animals and reptiles seen here,” said Mr. P.J.Vasanthan, trustee of Clean Coonoor. The municipality also aimed to have exhibits dedicated to the Adivasi communities in the Nilgiris, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coonoor-heritage-gallery-opened/article32073219.ece
14 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Four booked for entering Nilgiris without e-pass||The Nilgiris district police registered a case against four persons who were reportedly trying to enter the district illegally. The men had allegedly used an invalid e-pass, when they were stopped by police at a check-post. In a statement, the district police said that the four men -- Shanmugakumar, Jeyaraman, Sekar and Rajasekar --from Kancheepuram were booked under Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code. They were arrested and their car was also seized, police said. Police said stern action would be taken against people who flout rules laid down by the government preventing people from travelling between districts without valid e-passes. Checking has been stepped up at all check-posts, especially at Kunjapanai, Burliar and Geddai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-booked-for-entering-nilgiris-without-e-pass/article32073208.ece
14 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Apply for pension schemes online’||Applications seeking various types of pensions from the Revenue Department through Social Security Schemes (SSS) in Virudhunagar district can be made only through online mode. Hard copies of applications would not be entertained at the offices. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said that the Special Tahsildar (SSS) was receiving applications for Indira Gandhi National Oldage Pension, Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme, Indira Gandhi National Differently-Abled Persons Pension Scheme, Destitute Widows Pension Scheme, Differently-abled Persons Pension Scheme, Chief Minister’s Farmers Protection Pension Scheme and Elderly Unmarried Women Pension Scheme. However, the Virudhunagar district official website has made provisions for submitting online applications for the above said schemes. People can make use of the facility through e-service centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apply-for-pension-schemes-online/article32073458.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||101 persons test positive in Salem||Salem district reported 101 COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. This includes 88 indigenous cases and 13 with travel history. Of the indigenous cases, 58 were from Salem Corporation limits. Eleven persons had travel history to places such as Erode, Chennai, Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, Namakkal, Thenkasi and Vaniyambadi and two had come from Hyderabad, Health Department officials said. Among the 15 cases reported in Namakkal district, five were contacts of positive cases and five had travelled to Erode, Chennai and Salem and one had returned from Bihar. Twenty-seven persons tested positive in Coimbatore district, according to the media bulletin issued by the Health Department. However, sources in the Department said more than 70 new cases were reported from Coimbatore Corporation limits alone on Monday, which were not reflected in the bulletin. As of Monday, the district had 960 active cases of the disease. Police personnel test positive Three police personnel, one at Podanur police station and two at Thudiyalur police station, tested positive on Monday. Five personnel at the Thudiyalur station had already tested positive on Sunday. Podanur police station was closed for fumigation on Monday. It was fumigated earlier in April after four personnel contracted the disease. Income Tax office closed Following a senior official of the Income Tax department testing positive, the office was closed on Monday. It is learnt that COVID-19 tests were conducted on the officials who took part in a meeting with the senior official recently. Thirty-four persons tested positive in Erode. Health officials said 17 cases were reported in corporation limits, four in Perundurai, three each at Nambiyur and Nasiyanur, two at Gobichettipalayam, one case each at Athani and T.N. Palayam and and one case at a private hospital in the city. Two cases were from other districts and they would be added to the tally of the districts’ concerned on Tuesday. As many as 176 persons have been discharged and 239 persons are under treatment so far. Tiruppur Out of the 12 new cases reported in Tiruppur, 10 were from the Corporation limits. The remaining two were a 26-year-old man from Malayampalayam in Palladam Block and a 31-year-old man from Kaniyanpoondi in Avinashi Block, according to District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. The overall tally of Tiruppur district crossed the 300-mark on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/101-persons-test-positive-in-salem/article32073206.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC can decide on pleas on OBC quota for medical courses: SC||“However, the same officer is still opposing the plea in the High Court. He argued that, therefore, the Central government is not honest in its approach and is illegally depriving tens of thousands of OBC students across the country.” The court finally disposed of the batch of petitions — including one by Tamil Nadu — filed against a June 22 order of the Madras High Court to keep the petitions in abeyance till the apex court decided the Saloni Kumari case. Tamil Nadu, in its petition, submitted that the Madras High Court’s adjournment order came soon after the Centre convinced it that an ‘identical’ case — Saloni Kumari versus Director General of Health Services — was already pending in the Supreme Court. The High Court was told that the apex court had tentatively listed the Saloni Kumari case for July 8, and that any decision ought to follow the Supreme Court’s ruling in the case. Tamil Nadu said the High Court had been completely misguided by the respondents, which included the Centre and the Medical Council of India. “The Saloni Kumari case pertains to reservation for OBCs under seats surrendered to All-India quota by medical colleges located in the State of Uttar Pradesh, and not to the rest of India or to Tamil Nadu,” the petition said. An adjournment had made the apex court’s grant of liberty to the State to approach the High Court redundant, the petition argued. “It nullified the grant of such liberty because if the Supreme Court wanted the High Court to await orders in the case relating to Saloni Kumari, it would not have felt the need to grant liberty to approach the High Court,” the State reasoned and highlighted that the adjournment by the High Court may unwittingly delay the implementation of the 50% reservation for Backward Classes and lead to same constitutional illegality being perpetrated in the current academic year, for which results were announced on April 1. It warned that the admission process was in the second stage of counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-hc-can-decide-on-pleas-on-obc-quota-for-medical-courses-sc/article32073184.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Firefighter dies during rescue mission||Firefighter R. Rajkumar, 36, died of suffocation while attempting to rescue two labourers trapped inside a newly dug open well at Selliampalayam in Perambalur district on Sunday night. One of the trapped persons also died of suffocation. Police sources said R. Radhakrishnan, 26, along with Bhaskar, both labourers of Selliampalayam, were working inside the newly dug well in a field belonging to Murugesan when they began to feel suffocated. Explosives The sources said explosives were used inside the well a few days ago. The heavy pungent smell continued to emanate from the well and the two began to feel suffocated. The well had a few feet of water inside. As they did not come out even after a long time, the Perambalur Fire Station was alerted. A team of firefighters rushed to the spot and managed to pull out Bhaskar from the well. Fireman Rajkumar, who went inside to rescue Radhakrishnan, also began to feel suffocated. Both Radhakrishnan and Rajkumar became unconscious and they were pulled out by the other firefighters. They were rushed to the Perambalur Government Hospital but were declared brought dead. Perambalur Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firefighter-dies-during-rescue-mission/article32073538.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Coimbatore  In view of the proposed maintenance works to be undertaken at the Podanur sub-station on July 15 (Wednesday), there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas: Nanjundapuram, Vellalore, Konavaikalpalayam, Sri Ram Nagar, Indira Nagar, Anbu Nagar, JJ Nagar, Annapuram, Avvai Nagar and Easwaran Nagar.  Kurichi sub-station from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. July 16 (Thursday) : SIDCO, Podanur, Kurichi, Housing Unit, Malumichampatty one part, Sundarapuram, Eachanari and LIC Colony.  Arasur sub-station from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. July 20 (Monday): Arasur, Pothiyampalayam, Kurumbapalayam, Thennampalayam, Sengodagoundenpudur, Sellappampalayam, Pachapalayam, Vadugapalayam, Sangothipalayam, Samathuvapuram, Anbu Nagar, Annur Road, Ponnandampalayam and Molapalayam.  Erode   Collectorate electric line: July 14, 7 a.m. to 9 a.m.: Perundurai Road, Gandhi Nagar, NGGO Colony, Muthukaruppan Street, Palaniyappa Street, Ramasamy Street, Chinnamuthu Second Street, Teachers Colony, EB Colony, Mohan Kumaramangalam Street, Uzhavar Shandy, Radhakrishnan Street, New Teachers Colony, Rana Lakshmanan Nagar, Kumalankuttai, Selvam Nagar, Geetha Nagar, Sangu Nagar, Pari Nagar, Palayapalayam and Pannai Nagar.  Dairy electric line: July 15, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Periya Valasu Four Road, Bharathidasan Street, Thilagar Street, Valliyammai Street, Muniyappan Kovil Street, Kongu Nagar, Jhansi Nagar and Papathikadu.  Perundurai Sipcot 1 sub-station: July 16, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. : Perundurai North and Town areas, Sipcot premises (except South areas), Olapalayam, Tiruvachi, Kandampalayam, Velliyampalayam, Periya Madathupalayam, Chinna Madathupalayam, Maya Avenue and Sanitorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32073193.ece
14 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Book on border issue released||Seer of Chinchani Mutt Sri Allamaprabhu Swami has urged the common people to be wary of vested interests that try to divide them on emotional issues such as language. “People on the Karnataka-Maharahstra border who speak different languages have been living in peace and harmony for centuries. They don’t bother about the border dispute between the two States. But narrow-minded political forces that thrive on minor issues are trying to divide people on language. People should be wary of such forces,’’ he said. He was speaking after releasing “Supreme Angaladinda Gadi Samasyeya Pakshinota”, a Kannada book on the Karnataka-Maharashtra border issue, here recently. The mutt will commission translation of reports of the D.M. Nanjundappa Committee and Mahishi Committee so that people know what is in those books, he said. S.M. Kulkarni, member of the Karnataka Border Protection Commission, said that the case filed by Maharashtra on merger of Belagavi and other towns and villages with Maharashtra in the Supreme Court was politically motivated and low on merits. Mr. Kulkarni, a Belagavi-based advocate who has been consulted by the State government on the Karnataka-Maharashtra border dispute, described the Maharashtra petition as a document “full of lies and no substance’’. “That is why Maharashtra has been unable to defend its case in the Supreme Court. That is why Maharashtra is causing delay to the hearing of the case,’’ he said. Maharashtra approaching the Supreme Court in 2004-05 was only due to political reasons. Karnataka, on the other hand, has all proper documents to defend its claim over Belagavi and other towns. “We have submitted all records and will continue to do so whenever required. We are confident of winning the case,” he said. Author Raghavendra Joshi said that he wrote the book to create awareness about the issue among the common people. He said that he had studied several documents and government records to understand the issue in detail. “We should realise that the border issue was not a great one before Independence. But it was made into a sensational issue by some political interests,” he said. Critic P.J. Kempannanavar, activist Ashok Chandaragi and others were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-on-border-issue-released/article32073268.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Thousands leave the city in the hope of avoiding lockdown||Having experienced the uncertainty of a lockdown, thousands of families decided to leave Bengaluru - in cars, buses and vans - on Monday. Some major roads leading out of the city saw bumper-to-bumper traffic. People started leaving after the Sunday curfew ended, leading to a pile up at the Nelamangala toll gate. In an attempt to ease traffic, the police allowed motorists to cross the toll plaza without paying the fees for some time. People were carrying their household goods and even two-wheelers in vans. Private taxis who were going through a slump saw an increased demand almost overnight. Other key roads such as Mysuru Road, also increased vehicular movement. Transport officials expect a similar rush during the first half of Tuesday before restrictions come into effect at 8 p.m. KSRTC sees ridership as high as 32,000 On Monday, thousands of people gathered at major bus stands such as Majestic and Satellite stations on Mysuru Road. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated 1,100 buses from Bengaluru to other destinations meet the demand. “Last week, on an average we ran barely 350 to 400 buses from the city limits. However, on Monday for the entire day we received a demand for bus operations to various destinations such as Mysuru, Shivamogga, Davangere, Raichur, Hubballi and others,” said a KSRTC official. By Monday evening, around 32,000 people had left on KSRTC buses. Initially, KSRTC estimated that 800-900 buses would be sufficient, but with demand for seats showing no signs of easing, they increased services. “We plan to operate more services on Tuesday also,” the official added. KSRTC will be operating 1,100 buses on Tuesday from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. On Monday, people were also seen waiting for buses at various bus stops. At Nelamangala toll gate, many people were stranded for hours as their attempt to catch inter-district KSRTC buses remained futile. As per the rule to maintain social distance, one bus can carry 30 people per bus, in most of the buses most of the seats were occupied in departure points itself. “Unlike normal days, we cannot fill all the seats in a bus. We have to follow social distancing norms and only 30 people are allowed per bus. Moreover, we have to collect details of the passengers and do their temperature checks before allowing them to board,” said a KSRTC official. Seats for around 231 buses were booked online. Daily wage workers who had only just returned to the city are also going back home. Mahesh, a daily wage worker who hails from Davangere said: “After the lockdown was eased I came back to the city. Now, they are imposing the lockdown again. Leading a life without a revenue source is difficult in Bengaluru. I will come back once everything normalises, but I do not know when that will happen.” With COVID-19 cases exploding, people from other parts of Karnataka and the country are also choosing to return home. Shilpa G., who works for an IT company, said, “Earlier, we were asked by the company to work from home. Then, in between we were asked to come to the office for a few days a week. Now, the lockdown is being imposed again. There is so much uncertainty over whether it will continue or not, so I’m going back to my native place. I will work from there.”  Last week, on an average we ran barely 350 to 400 buses from the city limits. However, on Monday for the entire day we received demand for bus operations to various destinations such as Mysuru, Shivamogga, Davangere, Raichur, Hubballi and others. A KSRTC official   After the lockdown was eased, I came back to the city. Now, they are imposing the lockdown again. Leading a life without a revenue source is difficult in Bengaluru. I will come back once everything normalises, but I do not know when. Mahesh  a daily wage worker from Davangere||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/thousands-leave-the-city-in-the-hope-of-avoiding-lockdown/article32073116.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 70 deaths reported for fourth straight day||With 73 deaths reported on Monday, Karnataka reported more than 70 deaths for the fourth consecutive day. The death toll now stands at 757. With 2,738 new cases, the total number of cases has now touched 41,581. Bengaluru Urban district reported 1,315 cases and 47 deaths on Monday. The total number of cases here has touched 19,702. With 838 recoveries, a total of 16,248 persons have been discharged so far. Of the 24,572 active cases, 545 are being monitored in the ICU and the condition of the remaining patients is said to be stable. Karnataka’s Case FatalityRate (CFR) now stands at 1.82%. With 47 new deaths, the toll in Bengaluru Urban is now 321, with a CFR of 1.63%. Although the State was testing an average of 18,000 samples a day till a few days ago, the number of RT-PCR tests in the last two days have reduced. While 16,761 tests were done on Sunday, 17,074 tests were done on Monday. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who said that rapid antigen tests had begun in the city, said the data on antigen tests would be made available on Tuesday.  Meanwhile, with several healthcare workers testing positive, the Health Department on Monday issued quarantine and testing guidelines for healthcare workers who have a high risk of exposure to COVID-19 patients. While advising seven-day home isolation for those who have high-risk exposure to patients, the department said symptomatic workers would be tested immediately and asymptomatic workers on the seventh day after exposure. If they test negative, they will be allowed to resume duty, stateda circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-70-deaths-reported-for-fourth-straight-day/article32073132.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CBSE Class 12 exam: Bengaluru region registers high pass percentage of 97.05||The results of the Class 12 Senior School Certificate Examination of the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) were declared on Monday. Bengaluru region registered a high pass percentage of 97.05. Most of the 181 schools from which students appeared for the examination saw a 100% pass percentage. “This is a maiden examination for the Bengaluru region, as the new region has been established by CBSE for schools located in Karnataka,” said Vikas Arora, Regional Officer, CBSE, Bengaluru. The examination was conducted in 111 centres. According to data provided by CBSE, as many as 11,909 had registered for the examination, of which 11,864 students passed. Girls outperformed the boys with the pass percentage of 97.55. The pass percentage of boys who appeared for the exam stood at 96.64. Some exams not conducted This year, the examinations for sociology, computer science, business studies were not conducted. Manju Balasubramaniam, principal Delhi Public School – North, said the results were calculated by taking the average of the best scores of three subjects if the candidate had sat for four papers, and best of two subjects if the candidate appeared for three papers. Of the 214 candidates who wrote the exam from the school, 109 scored above 90%. Manila Carvalho, principle of Delhi Public School- East, said 300 students gave the examination from the school. “All the students had secured first class,” she said. At Harvest International School, of the 22 students who appeared for the examination, one secured above 90%, and 12 had secured above 80%. The class average is above 80%, said Dakshayini Kanna, principal. G. Thangadurai, director of Presidency Group of Schools, said 36 students appeared from school at Kasturinagar. Of these, 14 had scored above 90% and 16 scored above 80%. Two students had scored centum, one in biology and another in mathematics.  Though the results were declared in the afternoon, several students found it difficult to login, as the server kept crashing. Firdose Fathima, a differently-abled student from DPS-South, was unable to access her scores and said that her school informed her that she had scored 84.2% in humanities. Students are concentrating on preparing for the entrance examinations but said that the pandemic has left everything uncertain. Aniket Sahoo, another student from DPS-South, who scored a centum in economics, said “I have got admission in two foreign universities. But with the COVID-19 situation, I am planning on getting admitted to BITS, Goa.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbse-class-12-exam-bengaluru-region-registers-high-pass-percentage-of-9705/article32073105.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Isolation mandatory after undergoing swab test||If you have undergone a swab test, ensure that you stay at home or isolate yourself till you get the result. Failing this, you will attract legal action. The State government has made home isolation and quarantining of those who have given their samples for COVID-19 tests mandatory as they can, if they are positive, spread the infection to several others by the time their test results are ready. In a circular issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), on Monday, the government said the decision has been taken as a matter of abundant caution. “Those who have given their swabs for testing have been advised strict isolation/quarantine at home till their results are communicated,” the circular stated. “Any irresponsible behaviour by the person like going outdoors, socialising, and going to work will result in the spread of infection in the community, and consequently such acts shall invite stringent legal action under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” the circular stated. Sources said this was based on a recommendation by the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. Karnataka has reported a surge in cases in the last two weeks, making contact tracing difficult. Hence, all measures have to be taken to cut transmission at source, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/isolation-mandatory-after-undergoing-swab-test/article32073130.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Land reforms Ordinance gets Governor’s assent||Governor Vajubhai Vala signed the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, on Monday. The Ordinance brings sweeping changes to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, essentially easing restrictions on buying agricultural land, on who can buy it and the ceiling on extent of land one can hold. The amendment drops Sections 79A, 79B and 79C of the Act that imposed stringent restrictions on ownership of agricultural land. The Ordinance faced stiff resistance from the Opposition Congress that termed it “unmaking of land reforms in the State”, even as the BJP argued that it opens up agriculture sector for “those with a passion for it, much needed for its revival”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-reforms-ordinance-gets-governors-assent/article32073135.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KASSIA voices concern over Bengaluru lockdown||Karnataka Small-Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) has expressed concern over the likely consequences of the scheduled lockdown of Bengaluru from July 14 to 22 on the industry, in particular the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) which have barely recovered from the earlier lockdown. At a press conference on Monday, KASSIA office-bearers said that while it was necessary for the government to take hard and effective measures to tackle the worsening COVID-19 crisis in the city, what was worrisome was the inevitable consequences all this would have on the small-scale industry sector, which may be “completely shattered” as a result. “As we have already conveyed to the government, close to an estimated 20% SMEs have shut down in the State because of the earlier lockdown and the decision to reimpose lockdown for a week will further drive a large number of units out of business. Of MSMEs alone, Bengaluru has nearly 2,40,000 registered units, employing 25 lakh persons and with investments in the range of Rs. 40,000 crore. This is excluding the unorganised sector, which is close to the organised numbers. The economic and social impact will, therefore, be disastrous,” said K.B. Arasappa, president of KASSIA. He also said that no entrepreneur would be able to pay wages under the circumstances and tens of thousands of workers may never be re-employed, even after normality returns. The industry body asked for permission for industrial units to operate a single shift by following necessary protocols. It said that ensuring industrial units function is no less vital to the State and the economy than the supply of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kassia-voices-concern-over-bengaluru-lockdown/article32073128.ece
14 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Lockdown will not be extended in Bengaluru, stresses Yediyurappa||Trying to allay fears over a lockdown extension and in the light of hordes of migrants leaving Bengaluru, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that there is no proposal before the State Government to extend the one-week lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts coming into force from Tuesday night. “People should not be anxious and should not heed to rumours, and should cooperate with the government. There is no proposal before the government to extend the lockdown beyond one week,” he tweeted. Further, he tweeted: “The lockdown in these districts have been imposed to bring COVID-19 under control. Officials have been directed to make all necessary arrangements and set infrastructure in order.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-will-not-be-extended-in-bengaluru-stresses-yediyurappa/article32073104.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2.43 crore tax collected in tobacco raids across State||Commercial Tax officials have searched vehicles transporting tobacco and related products without proper documents, as well as undeclared godowns storing tobacco products, across the State and levied tax to the tune of Rs. 2.43 crore in 59 cases. The undeclared godowns came to light during the road vigilance efforts mounted across the State. They included those in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Kolar, Ramanagaram, Chickballapur, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Mangaluru, Udupi, Hubballi, Shivamogga, Kalaburagi, and Bidar, a note from Commercial Tax Commissioner M. S. Srikar said. Officials intercepted goods vehicles illegally transporting pan masala and tobacco products without any proper documents and levied tax and penalty as per the provisions of the Goods and Services Tax Act. Furthermore, vigilance officers in the South Zone (Enforcement) searched undeclared godowns at Jigani, Bengaluru Rural, where tobacco products had been stored without any authorisation and levied tax and penalty running up to Rs. 56.04 lakh on the stock of tobacco not covered by proper documents, the note stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-243-crore-tax-collected-in-tobacco-raids-across-state/article32073127.ece
14 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Postponed||The Legislative Assembly Secretariat has announced that all meetings of the standing committees of the legislature have been postponed indefinitely in the light of COVID-19 in the State. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri has directed all standing committee meetings to be postponed till further orders. A notification also said that earlier the committee meetings had been allowed with proper precautions such as maintaining social distance. Incidentally, nearly half a dozen legislators have tested positive, including the recent case of Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/standing-committees-meetings-postponed/article32073124.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ensure good agri production this year: CM||With the State expected to get good rains this monsoon, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday asked the district administrations to keep a watch and ensure good agricultural production this year. A note from Chief Minister’s Office said that there is a great possibility of good rains and subsequent bumper crops this. “Since there is demand for agricultural produce, it is imperative to identify godowns to stock the produce. The administration should also be wary of increase in soil moisture that can affect crops,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-good-agricultural-production-this-year-cm/article32073123.ece
14 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Special teams set up to ensure availability of ambulance services||In the wake of complaints about non-availability of ambulances to ferry COVID-19 positive patients to hospitals, the Dharwad district administration has formed special teams for the management of ambulances and Covid Care Centres. Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil on Monday said through a release that two special teams had been formed to manage the ambulances and also ensure the availability of beds at the Covid Care Centres. The special teams would also visit private hospitals and inspect the facilities made available there for treatment of COVID-19 patients, he said. Deputy Director of Land Records Najma Peerzade and Joint Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation Shankaranand Banshankari will head the teams for management of ambulances in twin cities, while the respective tahsildars will manage ambulances in the taluks. The officials can be reached on Ph: 9341015656 and 9242014944, respectively, the release said. General Manager of HESCOM Ibrahim Maigur and Administrative Officer of DIMHANS Shanmukh and RCH officer S.M. Honkeri have been deputed as in-charge for management of beds and medical requirements at Covid Care Centres. They can be reached on Ph: 9986716666, 8105077333, 8277332970, respectively.  50 % beds Meanwhile, chairing a meeting of doctors from private hospitals on Monday, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar asked them to part with 50 % of their beds to treat COVID-19 patients. Already, 17 private hospitals have been identified to provide treatment for infected persons in Hubballi-Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-teams-set-up-to-ensure-availability-of-ambulance-services/article32073279.ece
14 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Training helps women show their business skills||With the help of training as part of rehabilitation programme, a group of women, who were sex workers, have started production of phenyl, soap oil and herbal sanitisers during the COVID-19 pandemic in Hassan. Many social activists, doctors and professionals have extended support to the women in their business venture. More than 50 women, spread over eight taluks in the district, are involved in the business. Their products were launched in a formal programme in May this year. Some of the women have also worked as part of the community-based organisations engaged by Karnataka Aids Prevention Society to avoid transmission of HIV. All of them have undergone training in phenyl making conducted by the Department of Women and Child Development. “We have certificates and are qualified to make the products. Right now, we are working from our homes. We supple to a few clinics, hospitals and hostels regularly,” said an active member of the group. One litre of phenyl is sold at Rs. 60 and half a litre of soap oil costs Rs. 60. However, they are waiting for clearances from the agencies concerned to release the herbal sanitisers in the market. “We sell 20 to 30 litres of phenyl a day. We need to increase the figures to fulfil the basic needs of our families. The State government should support us by directing its offices, hostels, and hospitals to purchase our product,” said the member. They have approached the district administration for support. The officers assured the women of their support orally, but have not placed orders yet. The group has got financial support from a few in Hassan, including writer Rupa Hassan who was a member of the committee constituted by the State government to submit a report on the status of sex workers and their rehabilitation. Ms. Hassan told The Hindu that the government did not take any step to rehabilitate sex workers ready to quit their job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-helps-women-show-their-business-skills/article32073137.ece
14 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga to decide on lockdown today||Shivamogga district administration is expected to take a decision on imposing lockdown on Tuesday, Minister K.S. Eshwarappa told media persons in Shivamogga on Monday. “As the number of COVID-19 cases is on the rise, some people have stressed the need for lockdown,” he said. Shopkeepers and businessmen are already observing partial lockdown by suspending business at 3 p.m. Meanwhile, Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has decided to subject people coming from Bengaluru to the district to screening at the borders. Check-posts have been set up at Karehalli and Holehonnur to screen travellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-to-decide-on-lockdown-today/article32073284.ece
14 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases cross 700||The total number of COVID-19 cases crossed 700 in Hassan district on Monday after 25 fresh cases were reported. As on Monday, the total number of such cases stood at 711. Among them, 455 have been discharged and 235 are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, an 82-year-old woman from Arsikere taluk died on Sunday night in hospital taking the total number of COVID-19 deaths to 21 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-cases-cross-700/article32073283.ece
14 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Week-long lockdown in Kalaburagi urban areas||Taking note of the alarming rise of COVID-19 cases and deaths in the district, Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate B. Sharat imposed a week-long lockdown in urban areas, including Kalaburagi, in the district. In an order issued late on Monday under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 133 of Criminal Procedure Code 1973, Mr. Sharat, who is also the Chairman of District Disaster Management Authority, declared lockdown from July 14 to 20. Mr. Sharat said in the order that business outlets that would offer essential goods and services such as hospitals, pharmacies and grocery shops would be allowed to operate as usual. As per guidelines issued with the order, movement of vehicles, including cars, two-wheelers and autorickshaws, would not be allowed, except for emergencies; all types of goods vehicles would be allowed to operate; petrol pumps shall work only between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. The order directed private hospitals to mandatorily work as usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/week-long-lockdown-in-kalaburagi-urban-areas/article32073273.ece
14 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Health activists seek minimum wages||Accredited Social Health Activists under the banner of All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) continued their strike for the fourth day in Kalaburagi on Monday demanding minimum monthly wages of Rs. 12,000 and other benefits. They sought protective gear, including face shields, N-95 masks, hand sanitisers and gloves, to all ASHAs. The government should also provide free treatment to all COVID-19-infected ASHAs, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-activists-seek-minimum-wages/article32073272.ece
14 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Religious places to remain closed||As part of precautionary measures to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Kalaburagi district administration on Monday ordered the closure of prominent temples to avoid gathering of devotees. Following the directions of the district administration, the famous Sharanabasaveshwar temple was closed for devotees from Monday morning. The temple had remained closed for nearly three months and was re-opened in the first week of June. The other prominent religious places, including Bhagyavanti temple in Ghattarga village and Dattatreya temple in Deval Ganagapur in Afzalpur taluk, will also remain closed until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-places-to-remain-closed/article32073274.ece
14 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Free treatment in medical college hospitals in Dakshina Kannada||All COVID-19-infected patients will be given free treatment in all medical college hospitals in Dakshina Kannada, according to Minister in-charge of the district Kota Srinivasa Poojary. All such patients can avail themselves of free treatment by producing their Aadhaar cards. This applies to BPL and APL families, migrant workers and those who did not have ration cards. The Minister was speaking after visiting the KMC Hospital and reviewing the COVID-19 treatment facilities and capacities there. Mr. Poojary said that people need not be apprehensive of the spread of the disease and the government is committed to providing treatment to all. Many patients in the district have recovered from the disease, he added. Book cases Speaking on the occasion, Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel instructed the officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare to book cases against hospitals that charged hefty fee for treating COVID-19 patients crossing the limit fixed by the government. Mr. Kateel said that people have complained about some hospitals collecting hefty fee from patients for treatment. He asked the officials to provide information to the public on the rates fixed by the government for treatment. In case of emergency that required surgery, doctors should conduct it without waiting for COVID-19 test report, Mr. Kateel said. Meanwhile, speaking at a video conference with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said that the district administration has 3,500 beds ready for COVID-19 treatment. Those beds are in hospitals and government hostels which have been converted as COVID-19 care centres. She said that the district has a capacity to prepare 10,000 more beds. These beds will be ready within a week. Different halls, hostels and hospitals will be used for keeping the beds ready. The Deputy Commissioner said that 43 COVID-19-infected persons have died in the district till Sunday. Of the 36,898 persons tested in the district, infection has been found in 2,222 persons. House-to-house survey is being carried out in some areas to trace those having COVID-19 symptoms, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-treatment-in-medical-college-hospitals-in-dakshina-kannada/article32073281.ece
14 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rotary International launches channel for water conservation||Rotary Club International has launched a YouTube channel — Water is Life-Harvest Water — to spread awareness on the importance of water conservation among people. Rotary District Governor Ranganath Bhat launched the channel in the presence of District Water Committee’s chairman Rajendra Kalbavi here. Mr. Bhat said that one video pertaining to water conservation would be uploaded on the channel every week. It would be a continuous process wherein all works done in the field, people working for water conservation and initiatives by governments and NGOs would be featured, he said. Stating that the Dakshina Kannada Nirmithi Kendra was extending technical support to the project in the form of preparing and editing videos, Mr. Kalbavi noted that Rotary International had been working for water conservation and rainwater harvesting since 2004. It was now felt that instead of merely taking up work, spreading the knowledge too was equally important and hence, the initiative to launch the channel. Mr. Kalbavi said that he had been offering free technical guidance to individuals, institutions, factories and institutions on water conservation and various methods adopted for it. He said that Rotary International has identified six thrust areas to serve society with water and sanitation being the major focus area. All presidents of Rotary Clubs in the country formed Rotary India Water Mission through which Rotary India Water Conservation Trust was formed in 2003 itself. The trust was working on watershed development, awareness programmes, transforming existing water bodies, efficient use of water and rainwater harvestign methods. Rotary International has urged general public to subscribe to the channel and spread the message. Rotary Assistant Governors Shivaprasad, Gopal Shetty, Anand Shetty and Eknath Dandakery were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rotary-international-launches-channel-for-water-conservation/article32073270.ece
14 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru students excel in Class 12 CBSE exams||Most of the CBSE schools in the city have secured 100 % pass in the Class 12 examination the results of which were announced on Monday. All the 37 students of Kendriya Vidyalaya 1, Panambur, have passed. According to a press release, 30 students scored more than 75 % marks, while 10 students scored more than 90 %. Ardra Madhu topped with 480 marks, followed by Prarthan R. Talwar and Satyajit S. Meti with 476 marks. Of the 22 students, 21 passed from Kendriya Vidyalaya 2, Yekkur. Eight students scored more than 90 % and eight between 75% and 90 %. Gangandeep N.K. topped with 96.4 %, a release said. All 24 students from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Mudipu, passed by securing more than 75 % marks. Kripakara topped with 481 marks, followed by Spandana and Abdul H. Shahruk with 479 marks each, said school principal V. Srinivasan. Sharada Vidyaniketan All 28 students from Sharada Vidyaniketan passed with 27 students scoring more than 70 %. Ananya Chavali topped with 478 marks, followed by A. Rajiv (464) and Deeptan Sourish and Yashwith D. Alva with 463 marks each. In Lourdes Central School, all 87 students passed with 69 scoring more than 80 %. K. Annapoorna Prabhu topped with 97.2 %, followed by Rollin J. Fernandes 97 % and Ujwal Kumar 95.2 %, the school said in a press release. Mount Carmel Central School secured 100 % pass as all 38 students cleared the exam. Of these students, 32 scored more than 75 % marks and six scored more than 60 %. Sana Azmiya and Rihan Aaron D’Silva topped with 96.4 % followed by Rishan Joshua D’Silva 96.2 % and Leroy D’souza with 95.4 %, the school said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-students-excel-in-class-12-cbse-exams/article32073288.ece
14 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank posts all-time high quarterly net profit||Karnataka Bank posted an all-time high quarterly net profit of Rs. 196.38 crore during the first quarter of financial year 2020-21 as against the previous high of Rs. 175.42 crore recorded during the previous financial year. In the online video meeting of the Board of Directors here, the board has given approval to the financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2020. The operating profit of the bank has also increased from Rs. 350.01 crore to Rs. 677.04 crore showing a growth of 93.43 %. The Net Interest Income has increased by 8.19 % on year-on-year basis to Rs. 535.12 crore from Rs. 494.59 crore. The business turnover of the bank has touched Rs. 1,26,063.48 crore as on June 30, 2020, registering 3.89 % growth on year-on-year basis. The deposits of the bank grew from Rs. 68,520.72 crore to Rs. 71,853.98 crore and advances grew from Rs. 52,818.80 crore to Rs. 54,209.50 crore. The credit to deposit ratio was at 75.44 %, said a release from the bank. Gross NPAs declined to 4.64 % compared to 4.82 % in the sequential previous quarter. Similarly, net NPAs also declined to 3.01 % from 3.08 %. The Capital Adequacy Ratio of the bank has further improved to 13.07 % as compared to 12.70 % as on June 30, 2019. Bank Managing Director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara said that the robust performance was possible on account of various cost-reduction measures, treasury profit and decent growth in interest income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-bank-posts-all-time-high-quarterly-net-profit/article32073285.ece
14 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi dist. to decide today||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha told reporters in Udupi on Monday that the district administration will take a call on imposing lockdown after holding a meeting with elected representatives there on Tuesday. He said that the meeting will decide whether lockdown should be imposed or the borders of the district should be sealed by relaxing lockdown conditions within the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-dist-to-decide-today/article32073282.ece
14 July 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s indoor stadium to soon become a COVID-19 Care Centre||In its bid to ramp up the COVID-19 preparedness in Mysuru another 1,000-plus beds will be added for patient care with the Chamundi Vihar Indoor Stadium identified as the second COVID-19 Care Centre. “Mysuru is not facing any dearth of beds. All put together, the entire district has around 3,500 beds, which is adequate at this moment. We have identified the indoor stadium for adding 1,000-plus beds. If necessary, more such facilities will be identified as and when required based on the situation,” said Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar. Mr. Sankar said that local committees would be set up, engaging the local elected representatives, for controlling the spread in their jurisdiction. The city’s first 650-bed COVID-19 Care Centre that has come up in the academic block of the Karnataka State Open University near Mysuru airport in Mandakalli will start treating patients from Tuesday. The new cases would be shifted to this centre. The 55-room facility was readied in a record span of time after the district recorded a spike in cases over the last few weeks. At one point of time, Mysuru had no COVID-19 cases. Asymptomatic and mild cases, which are certified by healthcare professionals, are isolated in homes. Over 100 patients have been isolated in their respective homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysurus-indoor-stadium-to-soon-become-a-covid-19-care-centre/article32073107.ece
14 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Lockdown in Raichur, Sindhanur city limits from July 15 to July 22||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has said that there will be a complete lockdown in the city limits of Raichur and Sindhanur from July 15 to July 22 owing to increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases. Addressing a press conference in Raichur on Monday, Mr. Venkatesh Kumar said that the district administration decided to implement a complete lockdown in Raichur and Sindhanur city limits after holding a discussion with elected representatives, businessmen, traders and others. “As many as 250 positive cases were reported in the last 15 days. Most of them who tested positive were primary and secondary contacts of infected persons. Following this, Raichur has become a district with the highest of number of positive cases owing to primary and secondary contacts,” he said and added that a total of eight patients have died so far. Essential commodities and emergency services, including medical stores and vegetable shops, will be allowed to run business during the lockdown period. Marriage halls, Kalyan Mantaps and centres of religious activities will remain closed, while protests and functions have been prohibited for a week. However, marriages are being allowed with not more than 20 persons participating, he said. The Deputy Commissioner also said that permission has been given for essential services between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. in the areas where there is no lockdown. Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy, ZP CEO Lakshmikanth Reddy and Additional Deputy Commissioner Durgesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-in-raichur-sindhanur-city-limits-from-july-15-to-july-22/article32073275.ece
14 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Four more arrested in a case of attempt to murder ZP leader||Yadgir Police on Monday arrested four more suspected contract killers in connection with a case of an attempt on the life of the leader of opposition in the zilla panchayat Marlingappa Karnal. The police on July 4 arrested five persons suspected to be involved in the offence. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said in a release that Mahesh, Manjunath and Manas Naidu, all three from Mysuru, and Amaresh from Gonal village in Raichur district were arrested by a special team led by Circle Inspector of Police Sharanagouda Nyamannavar. The team picked up three accused in Mysuru and the fourth one at Seventh Mile Cross on the outskirts of Raichur city. All the accused were produced before court which sent them to judicial custody, Mr. Sonawane said. Mr. Sonawane said that a car which was said to be used in the crime was also seized. On June, 24, a gang attacked Mr. Karnal with lethal weapons on a stretch of road leading to Hemareddy Mallamma Nagar near Buddha Basava Nagar on Yadgir-Chittapur Main Road. Mr. Karnal received injuries on his left hand, shoulder and other parts of the body. He was immediately shifted to the district general hospital and later, rushed to Kalaburagi. Now, he is recovering. Mr. Sonawane said that the police are looking for more persons said to be involved in the case.  The police on July 4 arrested five persons suspected to be involved in the offence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-more-arrested-in-a-case-of-attempt-to-murder-zp-leader/article32073277.ece
14 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||207 fresh cases in Yadgir and Raichur districts||As many as 207 fresh cases of COVID-19 were registered in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Monday. Of these, 162 are from Yadgir and 45 from Raichur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/207-fresh-cases-in-yadgir-and-raichur-districts/article32073278.ece
14 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||ZP meeting put off||The 10th general body meeting of the Raichur Zilla Panchayat has been deferred owing to shortage of quorum, Chief Executive Officer Lakshmikanth Reddy has said. He said in a release on Monday that the next meeting will be held on July 18. The meeting was called under the chairmanship of panchayat president Adimani Veeralakshmi. Mr. Reddy deferred the meeting as there was lack of quorum at 3 p.m. on Monday. Despite waiting for hours, there were only 25 members present, though 28 of the 35 members should have come to complete quorum to hold a general body meeting, release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zp-meeting-put-off/article32073276.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Officials face CM’s wrath over handling of pandemic||With the State reporting a spike in COVID-19 cases over the last few weeks, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seems to be upset with the handling of the pandemic by the bureaucracy in the State. The Chief Minister, it is learnt, was upset with severe shortcomings in decision-making by the officials on ground in charge of handling the pandemic. Sources in the Chief Minister’s secretariat said that he had a list of issues that he raised with officials at the COVID-19 task force meeting here on Monday that included decision to hire beds on rent at a very high cost. Even on Sunday, he had vented his ire at officials over the yet-to-be-functional centralised bed allocation system. “He wanted to know with whose authorisation a huge number of cots have been hired at a very high cost. The cost of beds came to light only two days back when the Chief Minister visited the COVID Care Centre at BIEC,” sources said. The Chief Minister said that if the cots were to be purchased, they could have been given to government-run hostels or hospitals after the pandemic, sources said. Sources said that the cots have been hired at a whopping Rs. 800 per day, which translates to Rs. 24,000 a month whereas a good quality cot in the market was available between Rs. 7,000 and Rs. 10,000. “At the end of the four-month contract, the government would have spent a fortune without creating any asset,” sources said. The Chief Minister is learnt to have asked the officials to explore the possibility of buying out those beds at an acceptable rate from the contractor who has supplied them. “The contractor has also agreed to sell them to the government.” “The pace in which officials have been working came under severe criticism. Some of the decisions made nearly a fortnight ago still have to see the light of the day, which riled the Chief Minister,” sources said. Shortage of ambulances that are being highlighted in the media was among the talking points. “Despite a 15-day window, the ambulance shortage issue has not been sorted out. He wanted to know why there was a delay. He went to the extent of asking if he has to go and purchase or organise ambulances personally on ground,” sources added. Lab testing, sources said, has not seen an increase so far despite the number of cases increasing and a huge backlog. “Mr. Yediyurappa asked why laboratories were not testing adequately and wanted to know what officials have been doing to address the issue,” sources said, adding that while the officials were at the receiving end even the role of Ministers concerned were being questioned. Sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa has told officials that all the issues should be sorted out before the next meeting, and that he would not be ready to hear any explanation over non-action when he convenes another meeting after a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-face-cms-wrath-over-handling-of-pandemic/article32073121.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||People queue up for groceries, liquor||People queued up at markets, especially liquor stores, to stock up for the upcoming one-week lockdown in the city. Liquor stores, which will remain closed during the week-long lockdown, saw a rise in demand on Monday. “People experienced dry days for a couple of months during the previous lockdown. Having learned from the previous experience, they are stocking up. We saw long serpentine queues throughout the day and expect to do brisk business on Tuesday too,” said Ramanarayan, who runs a liquor store in Sahakar Nagar. Liquor store owners had a tough time ensuring social distancing. Most had barred entry of customers inside the store, and had put up a counter outside. While grocery stores will remain open till noon, citizens were seen stocking up on essentials. “We saw a huge rush at our supermarket on Monday evening. We shall remain open through the lockdown. But there seems to be this fear that they won’t be allowed to venture out of their homes even to buy essentials. Others are worried that the lockdown may be extended,” said Raju, who owns a supermarket in north Bengaluru. Despite Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa's assurance that the lockdown won’t be extended beyond a week, most citizens remain uncertain. “Going by past experience and the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the city, there is no guarantee that the lockdown won’t be extended. Moreover, until recently, the Chief Minister had repeatedly said there will not be another lockdown,” said Dhananjay N., a software engineer who went shopping on Monday evening to stock up on essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-queue-up-for-groceries-liquor/article32073110.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No passes will be issued: Bhaskar Rao||The police have decided not to issue any travel passes during the one-week lockdown. “We cannot afford to be lax. The lockdown will be strict this week,” said Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. Only emergency travel will be allowed, which will not require passes. “We request the citizens to cooperate and not roam around the city unnecessarily. The lockdown is for the good of all,” the Commissioner said. The police will shut down most of the flyovers, underpasses and put up barricades on all key main roads to enforce the lockdown and check unnecessary travel, sources said. The decision not to issue travel passes during the lockdown was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday, sources said. Briefing mediapersons after the meeting, Revenue Minister R. Ashok, on Sunday, appealed to the people to complete all their travel, even leaving the city and shopping for essentials, on Monday and Tuesday, and not ask for exemptions and travel passes during the lockdown. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired a meeting on Monday to discuss preparations for the lockdown. Sources said directions were issued to the police to avoid caning and violence on citizens during the lockdown. This was a complaint against the police during the first phase of the lockdown in the State.  Ministers get into action Eight ministers and senior IAS officers have been put in charge of the eight zones of Bengaluru. They have taken over COVID-19 administration in their respective zones. They held review meetings, met civic and health officials, representatives of private hospitals and volunteers working on contact tracing, and discussed various enforcement measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-passes-will-be-issued-bhaskar-rao/article32073108.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP chief told to appear in court via videoconference||The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the Additional Chief Secretary (Urban Development Department) and the Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to personally appear before it through videoconference on Tuesday over breach of containment zone (CZ) norms by the BBMP and the government’s failure to act against the civic body. The court found that the BBMP, despite earlier orders from the court, has not yet identified poor persons, who are in need of food, residing in around 3,200 CZs as per the CZ norms, and the government had failed to step in to enforce these norms through its machinery. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Alok Aradhe passed the order while orally observing that the past and the present conduct of the BBMP warrants suspension of the civic body. Ration kits Earlier, BBMP counsel said that the civic body has now supplied ration kits to around 1,250 families, list of which was furnished more than 10 days ago. The Counsel said that the BBMP has changed its earlier claim that it may supply food kits only as far as practicable as there was no restriction for people to move in and out of CZ to buy essentials. Meanwhile, the Bench pointed out that the BBMP, which had earlier said that no restrictions exists on people to move in and out of CZs, has even on Monday failed to show that movement has been now restricted as per the CZ norms, which bans people residing in the CZ from coming out of their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-chief-told-to-appear-in-court-via-videoconference/article32073118.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Criminal action against hospital owners if they refuse patients||Taking serious note of private hospitals and medical colleges refusing admission to patients and conduct of COVID-19 tests, the State government on Tuesday issued a stern warning that criminal action will be initiated against the owners of such private healthcare facilities. “The Medical Council of India (MCI) has also issued guidelines that the government can cancel the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) registration of such hospitals that refuse to join hands with the government in controlling the pandemic,” said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, the Minister said: “We have spoken to several hospital managements and representatives and requested them to cooperate with the government at this crucial juncture. While some have agreed, some others are not cooperating. Some hospitals are refusing admissions while some others have started COVID-19 testing labs but have not started doing the tests. If they continue to show non-cooperation, we will initiate action against the owners. We have repeatedly told the hospitals to not look at only making profits. But some hospitals are continuing to ignore our appeal and we are now forced to take action,” the Minister said. “No hospital should turn away patients - be it COVID or non-COVID. They should consider every patient as a positive case and treat with precautions,” he said. Stating that 3,571 beds, including ICU beds and beds with ventilators, are available in the city, the Minister called upon people not to panic. The Health Department has been permitted to appoint more manpower and procure digital x-rays for rapid detection of infection, he said. The salary of Group ‘D’ staff working in COVID-19 hospitals will be doubled, Mr. Sudhakar added. Earlier, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan also called upon Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to cancel the KPME registration of hospitals that do not honour the government’s appeal to set aside 50% of beds for government quota patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/criminal-action-against-hospital-owners-if-they-refuse-patients/article32073119.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tough times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tough-times/article32073287.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Notice to two pvt. hospitals||The State government has issued notices to Apollo Hospitals - Jayanagar unit and Vikram Hospital for not admitting patients under government quota. “Although they have set aside beds for COVID-19, they are not honouring their agreement to allot 50% of these beds for government referred patients. We inspected the two facilities and found that all their COVID beds are occupied by paying private patients. They have been asked to reply within 24 hours failing which their OPD will be closed and KPME registration cancelled,” said Bengaluru Urban DHO G.A. Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-two-pvt-hospitals/article32073125.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Only 25% died of COVID-19’||Although the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health Department has been recording just four non-COVID deaths, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Tuesday said 75% of the 757 deaths reported till date are due to non-COVID reasons. “Each case is being audited within a day or two. We will post the death audit on public domain. We have found that nearly 75% of the deaths of COVID-19 patients are due to underlying comorbidities such as cancer, renal and cardiac issues. Only 25% of the total deaths are actually due to COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-25-died-of-covid-19/article32073122.ece
14 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Exponential spike in Alappuzha||The COVID-19 curve is going up exponentially in Alappuzha with 119 people testing positive for the disease on Monday. The COVID-19 cluster related to the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) unit at Nooranad widened after 78 more personnel were found to have contracted the disease. Last week, 54 ITBP personnel at the unit tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, taking the tally there to 132. The unit houses 375 personnel, while some personnel along with their families live outside the compound. “Those diagnosed with COVID-19 have been admitted to hospitals and others were shifted to various facilities and put in individual quarantine. The entire barrack has been evacuated. Besides, ITBP personnel living outside have been put in home quarantine. All those tested negative for SARS- CoV-2 and observing individual quarantine will be tested again,” District Collector A. Alexander said. Earlier, three grama panchayats- Nooranad, Palamel and Thamarakulam were declared as large cluster/containment zones after ITBP personnel tested positive for COVID-19. “At present, all the ITBP personnel who contracted the disease belong to a single barrack. The personnel used to visit shops and other facilities outside their compound. This increases the risk of disease transmission,” said a Health Department official. Meanwhile, five people contracted the disease through contact (local transmission) in the district. They include a 28-year-old-woman on the contact list of a fisherman from Pattanakkad who tested positive last week; a 56-year-old man native of Pallithode on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient also from Pallithode; a 37-year-old man, part of COVID-19 prevention network, hailing from Perumbalam; a 56-year-old man native of Pallithode and a 52-year-old man from Manakodam. The source of infections of the latter two is unknown. Of the rest of the cases logged on Monday, 27 had come from abroad and nine from other States. Pulinkunnu All wards in Pulinkunnu grama panchayat were declared as containment zones. Earlier two persons from the panchayat were diagnosed with COVID-19. While one person was tested positive posthumously, another is an employee of a seafood company at Ezhupunna. So far, 30 employees of the company were diagnosed with the disease. Meanwhile, six people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 507.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exponential-spike-in-alappuzha/article32073514.ece
14 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Four cases in Idukki||Four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Monday. They were a Kodikulam resident who came in contact with a lorry driver who was diagnosed positive on July 2. The others were an Adimali resident who came from Delhi on July 1, a Thodupuzha resident who came from Doha on June 28 and an Elappara resident who arrived from Dubai on July 4. They were under home quarantine. The District Collector announced that ward number six of the Rajakkad grama panchayat would be a containment ward on Monday. This was following the death of a Rajakkad resident at a hospital at Ernakulam due to cardiac arrest on Sunday. There will be complete lockdown in the ward in view of the chances of COVID-19 spreading.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-cases-in-idukki/article32073512.ece
14 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Expert team visits DM WIMS||A team of experts led by Dr. K.V. Viswanathan, Professor, Department of General Surgery, Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, began its visit to DM Wayanad Institute of Medical Sciences (DM WIMS) at Meppadi in the district on Monday. The seven-member team was constituted as part of assessing the feasibility of the institution’s takeover by the State government. Azad Moopen, managing trustee of the institution, had expressed willingness to hand over DM WIMS Medical College, Nursing and Pharmacy Colleges and associated institutions in the district to the government. The team will submit its report in three weeks to the government. It will also hold preliminary discussions with DM WIMS officials after the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-team-visits-dm-wims/article32073379.ece
14 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Gold valued over Rs. 1 crore seized||The Customs Department seized gold valued over Rs. 1 crore from seven passengers who arrived from Dubai on two flights at the Kannur international airport on Sunday evening. They had concealed the gold in waistbands. Those arrested are Mohammed Farhan of Kozhikode, who tried to smuggle 279 grams of gold, Mohammed Marzook Moideen of Kasaragod (80 grams), Sajeer Kannadeentavide of Kozhikode (370 grams), Arshadli Naimarmoola Abbas of Kasaragod (255 grams), Danish Naseer Kalathil of Kozhikode (381 gram), Hameed Nathuruthi of Vadakara in Kozhikode (762 grams) and Mohammed Anas Ullalam Zainuddhin of Kasaragod (382 grams). In both cases, a team led by E. Vikas, Assistant Commissioner, seized the gold. Efforts to smuggle gold through the Kannur airport have seen a huge jump recently. While in 2018-19 the Customs seized 3 kg of gold at the Kannur airport, the figure in 2019-20 was 33 kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-valued-over-rs-1-crore-seized/article32073403.ece
14 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||COVID-19 prevention a priority in plans: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that local bodies should be prepared to make timely changes in project planning. COVID-19 preventive measures should be a priority in the plans. The local authorities have been instrumental in setting up quarantine centres, delivering food, and in coordinating COVID-19 prevention activities, he said, while inaugurating new facilities in a Kannur district panchayat through a videoconference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-prevention-a-priority-in-plans-cm/article32073404.ece
14 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||64-year-old woman dies in Kannur||A 64- year-old who was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Kannur died of COVID-19 on Sunday. Aisha Hajjumma, former president of Kunnothuparamba panchayat, had been undergoing treatment for cancer. She was admitted to the hospital after her husband tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, said District Medical Officer K. Narayana Nayak. Dr. Nayak said her husband had attended events in Panoor and Kozhikode. But how he contracted the disease was yet to be confirmed, he added. He is undergoing COVID-19 treatment and his condition is reportedly critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/64-year-old-woman-dies-in-kannur/article32073374.ece
14 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Volatile situation at Chellanam keeps officials on their toes||The Chellanam cluster remained a major area of concern, where 50 of the 268 RT-PCR tests conducted among symptomatic people and primary contacts had returned positive, District Collector S. Suhas said in an online briefing on Monday. A first-line treatment centre would begin functioning in the area soon, he said. Extensive list An ASHA worker, who was also a member of the Chellanam panchayat, had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 late on Sunday night. Like most other ASHA workers in the area, she had been part of a recent survey of symptomatic people in Chellanam, said panchayat president Mercy Josy. Her contact list is extensive. “She had visited the panchayat, and other ASHA workers might also be on her contact list. They are awaiting instructions on whether they must go into quarantine,” she said. The Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Chellanam, which was shut after the staff members were asked to go into quarantine, might begin functioning from Tuesday onwards with a new set of staff, health officials said. For a panchayat with limited facilities, closing of the PHC had been a major blow, Ms. Josy said. The 32 ASHA workers of the area along with a team of volunteers and some police personnel were trying to get groceries and medicines to residents. A revenue official said that the village office consisted of staff largely from Alappuzha, and most of them had not been working from the office. The Collector ordered on Monday that a rapid response team comprising health and revenue officials, and police personnel be stationed at Chellanam. The team will regulate the movement of goods vehicles and manpower necessary to keep essential services running. The Food and Civil Supplies Department will provide 5 kg of rice to residents in the containment zone area. A mobile medical team will also visit the area. Teachers and other government employees at Chellanam have been directed to take up COVID-related duty. Wards 15 and 16 of the panchayat had the most number of COVID-19 cases and most people in the two wards were in home quarantine, said P. T. George, who represents ward 15. Health officials said that the large number of positive cases in the two wards could be attributed to the fact that some of them worked on fishing boats together, and consequently, their families, who lived in close proximity in the area, had also tested positive. Their work at the harbour along with fishers from other districts could have led to the positive cases among them, they said. Other clusters The Aluva Market and Keezhmad clusters would have to be monitored closely, including the adjoining panchayats that fall in the buffer zone of the Aluva Municipality, the Collector said. Testing would be intensified in the Keezhmad area where 16 people had tested positive, he said. As many as 120 RT-PCR tests have been conducted in the area. Nineteen cases could be traced to the Ernakulam market area, where 182 RT-PCR and 126 antigen tests were conducted. “It is still an area of concern which is why the restrictions remain,” the Collector said. Wards 12 and 20 of Alangad panchayat have been added to containment zones in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/volatile-situation-at-chellanam-keeps-officials-on-their-toes/article32073388.ece
14 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||15 test positive in district||Five of the 15 COVID-19 positive cases recorded in the district on Monday were through local transmission, providing some respite from the surge in positive cases reported over the past two days. A 6-year-old from Edathala whose mother and sibling had tested positive earlier, has turned positive. The 4-year-old daughter of a COVID-19 positive headload worker at the Aluva market has also tested positive. She was staying in Kakkanad. A 25-year-old from Chellanam, who was on the contact list of another patient, has tested positive. A 29-year-old from Alangad, also on the contact list of another patient, has tested positive. A 21-year-old from Alangad who had been receiving treatment at a private hospital for another ailment, has contracted the disease and was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery. A 30-year-old, a 25-year-old and a 43-year-old who arrived from Mumbai by flight, a 24-year-old and a 23-year-old who arrived from Bengaluru by flight, a 28-year-old who arrived from Chennai, a 38-year-old from Hyderabad, a 21-year-old who arrived from Qatar, a 25-year-old and a 22-year-old from New Delhi tested positive on Monday. Twelve people recovered from the disease and 333 patients are currently being treated at hospitals. As many as 402 samples were collected for testing on Monday. Cops in quarantine  Police inspector M. Manoj and three police personnel from the Eloor police station have gone into quarantine on Monday after a person they arrested tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The police personnel were involved in arresting a person on Sunday for possession of narcotics in Cheranellore panchayat. Firemen disinfected the Eloor police station before office hours on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15-test-positive-in-district/article32073386.ece
14 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CBSE exams: good show by schools in Ernakulam||St. Paul’s International School, Kalamassery, bagged 100% pass in the CBSE exams, the results of which were announced on Monday. Twenty-nine of its 49 students secured over 90% marks. Nineteen students got distinction. Of the 107 students of Global Public School, Thiruvaniyoor, 106 passed. A total of 108 students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vaduthala, secured distinction and 17 got first class. The school achieved100% pass. All of the 193 students of Rajagiri Public school, Kalamassery, passed and 51 secured full A1. All of the 91 students of Greets Public School passed, 77 of them with distinction and 14 with first class. Of the 100 students of Georgian Public School, Maradu, 11 passed with full A1, and and 97 got distinction. Nalanda Public School, Thammanam, got 29 distinctions and 14 first classes out of the 43 students. Of the 131 students of TocH Public School, 16 secured full A1. SBOA School secured 100% pass. Of the 100 students, 79 got distinction. Of the 160 students of Assisi Vidyaniketan Public School, Kakkanad, 147 passed with distinction and 13 secured first class. Of the 34 students of Nava Nirman School, 27 got distinction. Cochin Public School achieved100% pass. Of the 37 students, 24 secured distinction and 13 students got first class. Out of the 132 students from Vidyodaya School, all passed and 128 secured distinctions and four got first class. Of the 120 students from Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Thripunithura, all passed. Sree Narayana Public School, Poothotta, secured 100% pass. Seventeen students of Choice School secured full A1. The school has also 16 high distinctions. Of the 191 students of Bhavans Vidya Mandir, Elamakkara, 169 passed with distinction and 33 secured full A1. Of the 138 studentsfrom Bhavans Adarsha Vidyalaya, Kakkanad, 126 got distinction and 12 got first class, while 14 secured full A1. Of the 104 from Bhavans, Thrikkakara, 102 got distinction and two got first class and 23 got full A1. At Bhavans, Thiruvankulam, of the 127 students, 94 got distinction, 32 got first class, and 11 secured full A1. Bhavan’s Girinagar saw 141 students appear of whom 114 achieved distinction, 26 got first class and 22 secured A1. Of the 169 students of Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Eroor, 144 got distinction, 25 got first class and 15 secured full A1. Of the 106 students from Bhavans’s Veloor, 101 won distinction, five got first class, and four secured full A1. Pragati Academy, Perumbavoor, achieved 100% results. Of the 92 students from Cochin Refineries School, 82 got distinction, 10 got first class, and 18 secured A1. Of the 192 students from Rajagiri Christu Jayanthi School, 39 secured full A1, 188 got distinction, and four students secured first class. Choice School, Thripunithura, excelled in academic prowess with 17 students securing full A1and 169 getting distinction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-exams-good-show-by-schools-in-ernakulam/article32073384.ece
14 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Confusion over collection of waste from containment zones||The collection of waste from containment zones has turned into a dilemma for civic administrators, workers on the job and residents. In the Aluva municipality area, sanitation workers have not been collecting waste for the past few days, said Timmy Teacher, health standing committee chairperson of the municipality. “Two workers come from nearby panchayats but the others stay within the municipality area. While a steering committee meeting will be held in two days to take a decision on the matter, the sanitation workers’ fear is understandable,” she said. Residents have been asked to keep their waste in buckets for now. “Households in the area have been repeatedly asked in the past to find their own solutions to biodegradable waste, but have resorted to the easy way of just handing the waste over to somebody who collects it. This situation might be a lesson,” she added. Saradha Mani, who collects waste from the Edappally area, says that households where people are living in quarantine have been asked to sprinkle bleaching powder over their biodegradable waste and keep it for a day before they collect it. Non-biodegradable waste from such houses is collected only after the quarantine period is over, she says. “We have not been tested for the virus yet and were given two pairs of gloves and masks two months ago. The fear of the disease is real, but the work cannot stop,” she says. In the Kochi corporation area, waste collection had faced a few hiccups when the police would not allow collection vehicles inside the containment zones, but collection had resumed soon, said P.D. Martin, councillor representing Girinagar. The Thripunithura Municipality is firm about not allowing sanitation workers inside containment zones. “Considering their safety, we cannot allow people from outside to enter the containment zones. Residents without composting facilities have been asked to grind their food waste and flush it down the toilet,” said Chandrika Devi, Thripunithura Municipality chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confusion-over-collection-of-waste-from-containment-zones/article32073391.ece
14 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to pay support wages at CIAL||Kerala Civil Aviation Workers’ Congress (INTUC) has demanded that around 5,000 permanent and semi-permanent employees engaged by contractors at the Cochin International Airport (CIAL) be paid Rs. 20,000 as support wages for the COVID-19 period, as they are facing a serious livelihood crisis. A statement issued by the union here on Monday said the workers had been at the forefront of all activities, including cleaning and maintaining the airport, in the face of the pandemic. However, the contracting companies have not followed the Government Order to pay full wages to them during the lockdown period, the statement claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-pay-support-wages-at-cial/article32073385.ece
14 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Interpol to be moved for Faisal’s whereabouts||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will soon move a Blue Notice to Interpol in connection with the move to extradite Faisal Fareed, an accused in the gold smuggling case in Thiruvananthapuram, from the United Arab Emirates. The agency secured an open warrant from the special court of the NIA, Kochi, on Monday. Faisal Fareed, according to the investigators, is a key link in the case. The Blue Notice is usually issued to gather additional information on the identity, location, or activities of a person suspected to be involved in a crime. Bag produced in court Meanwhile, the NIA produced before the court a trolley bag, which it had seized from a friend of Sandeep Nair, an accused in the case. The investigators told the court that the bag needed to be opened and its contents examined as they believed that it could contain crucial evidence pertaining to the smuggling case. The agency had earlier recovered the key of the bag from Sandeep. On enquiry, it was revealed that Sandeep had entrusted the bag to his friend for safe custody. The agency is likely to move a petition in the court on Tuesday to assign an official of the court to open the bag and list its contents. Change in name Another petition for correcting the name of the suspect, Fazal Fareed, was moved by the agency on the day. The agency submitted that the real name of the accused was Faizal Fareed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interpol-to-be-moved-for-faisals-whereabouts/article32073400.ece
14 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Entrance exam candidates, teacher go into quarantine||A teacher of the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Sciences, Panangad, and a few students who wrote an entrance exam there have been asked to go into quarantine after one student, who appeared for the exam, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The student, a native of Ernakulam, had appeared for the entrance exam for a postgraduate course held on June 27. She, along with others, attended the exam held at a classroom on the School of Management and Enterprises campus of the university. B. Manojkumar, Registrar of the University, said the Panangad police had sought the details of the students who appeared for the exam and the teachers who supervised it. ‘Norms followed’ The details of the students and teachers were provided to the police, he said. The examination was conducted by following physical-distancing norms and only 20 students were allotted to the classroom. A few of the applicants didn’t turn up for the exam. Thermal scanning was performed and sanitisers provided for the candidates. The invigilator had used gloves and wore face mask besides using sanitisers, said a faculty member of the university. The classrooms of the university, which remained closed for long, were opened for the conduct of the entrance exams. After the developments, the classroom where the exam was conducted was sanitised, he said. Besides the Panangad campus, the university had conducted entrance exams at SRV High School, Ernakulam, where students from other States appeared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrance-exam-candidates-teacher-go-into-quarantine/article32073389.ece
14 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam school secures 100% pass in ICSE exams||Holy Trinity Anglo-Indian International School, Thevalakkara, has secured 100% results in ICSE Class 10 and Plus Two exams, the results which were declared today. A pressnote issued here said of the 93 students who appeared for the Class X exam, 65 students got distinction and the rest first class. Distinction Among those who took Plus Two exam, 60 students got distinction and the rest first class. Mahima Susan Vaidyan, the Class X student who got 98.4% marks, and Ria Rachael Koshy, the Plus Two student who got 95% marks are the toppers, the pressnote added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-school-secures-100-pass-in-icse-exams/article32073511.ece
14 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 33 new cases||The district reported 33 COVID-19 cases and 10 recoveries on Monday. The new patients include five family members of the 74-year-old Valathungal resident who died on July 12. While 13 are from abroad, ten are the contacts of a fish vendor from Sasthamcotta who tested positive on July 6. Among the contact cases, two are from Tsunami colony in Kanyakumari. Seven primary contacts of the fish vendor including his immediate family and relatives had tested positive on July 10.  Four members of a family from Padappakara, two suspected contact cases and one person with no travel history are the others who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Rest of the patients had travelled from Saudi Arabia, Damam, Oman, Qatar and Kuwait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-33-new-cases/article32073521.ece
14 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ten more test positive in Kottayam||As many as 10 persons including two persons who were in the primary contact list of a medical doctor in Pathanamthitta who had been confirmed of contracting COVID-19, were tested positive for the virus infection here on Monday. According to officials, the 75-year-old father-in-law and a six-year-old nephew of the doctor were tested positive for the disease, taking the total number of local transmission cases in his family to 12. Meanwhile, a 27-year-old Thiruvarppu native, who is employed at the Pala municipality, too contracted the virus through local transmission. The remaining persons testing positive for the disease were; a 42-year-old Ezhacherry native who arrived from Dubai on June 30, a 30-year-old Kidangoor native who landed from Saudi Arabia , a 39-year-old Erumeli native who arrived from Qatar on July 4, a 30-year-old Vaikom resident who arrived from Dubai on July 2, a 30-year-old Velloor who arrived from Dubai on June 29; a 35-year-old Chirakkadavu native who returned from Chennai, a 14-year-old Kooropada native who returned from Chennai. Meanwhile, 12 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from the hospitals here during the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ten-more-test-positive-in-kottayam/article32073515.ece
14 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||First COVID death in district||Kottayam on Monday recorded its first COVID-19 related death as a 72-year-old Parathodu native died at the Government Medical College (GMC) here. The person, who had contracted the virus from an unknown source, had been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the GMC in Kottayam with severe fever and viral pneumonia on July 6 and was tested positive three days later. His condition remained critical since the admission and the hospital authorities declared his death on Monday morning. The deceased, an autorickshaw driver, had first approached Government Taluk hospital in Kanjirappally late last month with fever and visited the hospital again for follow-up consultations on July 2 and 4. With no travel history and no known contacts with COVID patients or people in quarantine, he was never subjected to COVID tests. As his health condition continued to deteriorate, the person was later shifted to a private hospital in Kanjirappally and then to another one in Thellakom, Kottayam. As the patient exhibited symptoms of viral pneumonia, he was referred to the GMC on the same day. Efforts are on to trace all those who had come to contact with the deceased, besides identifying the source of his infection. Meanwhile, his two sons who travelled to the Tamil Nadu border recently, have been tested negative. Protocol Officials said the death would be added to the official COVID-19 figures of the State government after availing the secondary test result. The cremation would be held in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-covid-death-in-district/article32073516.ece
14 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Drainage work on Mavoor Road nearing completion||The stormwater drain project of the Kozhikode Corporation, which has been on for more than half a decade, is nearing completion, with the civic body sanctioning Rs. 70 lakh more to clear issues associated with the project. Corporation public works standing committee chairperson T.V. Lalithaprabha said the work was ongoing, and that it would be completed in a couple of weeks. The project, which was launched under the Kerala Sustainable Urban Development Project (KSUDP), was meant to resolve waterlogging issues in the city. It became defunct midway after the KSUDP ran out of time and was withdrawn by the government. Later, the corporation took direct control of the project. But there were numerous hurdles, including public protests and underground water and electricity cables. “The drain had no openings, and hence it was impossible to clean mud and plastic waste accumulated inside. “As a result, we could not resolve the waterlogging issue,” Ms. Lalithaprabha said. Besides, the project met with public opposition near the Arayidathupalam flyover on Mavoor Road, where it was supposed to pass through the low-lying areas of Thiruthiyad and empty into the Connolly Canal. However, the authorities are now trying to connect it into an existing drain that passes below a private hospital at Arayidathupalam which also empties into the canal. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran oversaw the progress of work at Arayidathupalam recently. “Resolving waterlogging on Mavoor Road is a priority, since heavy rain is expected soon,” Ms. Lalithaprabha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drainage-work-on-mavoor-road-nearing-completion/article32073370.ece
14 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wild elephants run riot in Thamarassery||A herd of wild elephants destroyed crops in large acres of agricultural land at Melemaruthilavu near Chippilithode in Thamarassery. Around 40 acres of cultivated area nearly 3 km away from the forest border came under elephant fury on Saturday and Sunday. A land owner claimed loss of all crops in nearly an acre. The crops included plantain trees, coconut trees, cocoa plants, and arecanut palms. Agriculture Department officials said they were yet to get a clear picture of the damage. Farmers who suffered heavy loss alleged that Forest officials did not respond properly when they sought help. The response to the distress call was very casual, and no one turned up to inquire, they complained. Farmers’ organisation leaders said the installation of solar-powered fences or digging of trenches were yet to be completed in several areas. The replacement of damaged electric fences too is not being considered, they alleged. They also accused Forest officials of cold-shouldering an earlier proposal to use dismantled railway tracks to erect strong fences along vulnerable forest stretches. Though it was successfully implemented in other States, officials here have not even attempted it, they claimed. A functionary of the Indian farmers Movement said the Forest Department did not have sufficient number of watchers to be posted in vulnerable areas. “They are ill-equipped to chase even straying wild elephants. Some are even hostile towards farmers and treat them as poachers,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-elephants-run-riot-in-thamarassery/article32073373.ece
14 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Gold smuggling case galvanises UDF||Despite its organisational set-up, the Congress-Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) combine, especially in north Kerala, remained somewhat lethargic even as the LDF government received accolades for battling the COVID-19 pandemic the last four months. Past week has changed all that. Till the gold smuggling case has come in handy for the sluggish UDF to take on the ruling Left coalition, political analysts had been debating on Pinarayi Vijayan’s chances of returning to power in the State. The LDF government is seen as standing a bright chance after its deft handing of the crisis. “All our allegations have been substantiated. The Chief Minister’s Office is involved in illegal appointments. There is no justification in appointing persons on adhoc basis and regularising them later. This is sheer nepotism,” KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran told The Hindu on Monday. The Assembly elections is a little less than a year away, and the approaching three-tier local body polls in another three months will put to test the political adroitness of the main coalitions — United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) — in the emerging scenario. The UDF, Mr. Ramachandran said, would intensify its protests against the government, which he alleged was steeped in corruption. “We will be strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. We are going to take the issues to the masses. Virtual meetings have already been held to chalk out strategies for local body and Assembly polls,” he added. District- and block-level meetings will be held on Tuesday and Friday respectively. “Four regional rallies will be led by MPs and MLAs across the State on July 24. Besides, virtual rallies have been planned in all mandalams on August 2,” Mr. Ramachandran said. A section of the UDF leadership wants to rope in Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for virtual campaigning in the coming elections. “Under these circumstances, we have no yet decided on these plans. But certainly we will not stop until this government goes,” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-smuggling-case-galvanises-udf/article32073371.ece
14 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New VC promises to respect divergent views||M.K. Jayaraj, who on Monday took over as the Vice Chancellor of Calicut University, has promised to take along with him divergent views on strengthening the institution. Mr. Jayaraj said protests and agitations would help improve the administration and lead to appropriate decisions. He pointed out that anyone could tip him suggestions about academic excellence and development any time. “Conduct of exams and announcement of results on time are the popular yardsticks for a university’s performance. That way Calicut University has done well this year,” Mr. Jayaraj said. He claimed that efforts would be made to get more funds from the Kerala Infrastructure and Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). There are also plans to encourage the entrepreneurial skills of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-vc-promises-to-respect-divergent-views/article32073372.ece
14 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Water supply may be hit||Water supply in several parts of the city will be regulated on July 16 and 17 due to ongoing maintenance work on the pipeline from Pottammal tank of the Kerala Water Authority. The places that will be affected include Pottammal, Kottooli, Kuthiravattam, Puthiyapalam, Puthiyara, Azhchavattom, Kaduppini, Thenamkunnu, Tali, Mooriyad, Kothi, Payyanakkal, Marad beach, Nainamvalappu, South Beach, Chalappuram, and Kallai to Meenchanda and Mankavu to Thiruvannur stretches, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-may-be-hit/article32073380.ece
14 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Positive cases continue to rise: 47 in Malappuram, 44 in Kannur||Malappuram district recorded 47 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. As many as 21 of them were found to have got the virus through local transmission, and 19 of them were found positive in a special surveillance test conducted at Ponnani. While four new patients returned from other States, 22 came from abroad, according to District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. Twenty-eight persons returned home after recovery on Monday. The number of patients currently under treatment in Malappuram stands at 543. As many as 41,717 people are in quarantine. In Palakkad Nineteen persons, including two children, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad on Monday. All of them are returnees from abroad and other States. Five of them returned from other States and 14 from abroad. The total number of patients currently under treatment in the district has risen to 322. In Kannur Forty-four people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Nine of the new patients arrived from abroad, 11 from other States, four are firefighters and 10 Defence Security Corps (DSC) personnel. Ten others contracted the disease through local transmission. Those who were infected through local contact include three persons from Chokli and six from Panoor. A resident of Kunnothuparamba, who tested positive, died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital on Sunday.  As many as 24,806 people are under observation. In Kasaragod Nine more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod. Seven of them came from abroad, one from another State, and one contracted the disease through contact, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. As many as 6,355 people are under observation in the district. In Kozhikode More number of cases without a known source of infection are being reported from Kozhikode. Officials have reportedly identified a flat near Kozhikode beach, Kolathara, Kallai, Kundayithode, and Meenchanda as small clusters of infection where local transmission is happening. The number of fresh COVID-19 cases from the district on Monday stood at 16, of which three were through contact with infected patients, and the source of infection of five could not be immediately known. Others had returned from abroad or from other States. Eight others recovered from the infection. Curbs in Koyilandy Three shops in Koyilandy market have been closed and 10 people including labourers and shopkeepers have been asked to go in quarantine after a goods lorry driver who visited the area was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on July 11. The lorry driver had visited Koyilandy on July 5. Strict restrictions would be imposed in Koyilandy town, including at the harbour. In Wayanad The district recorded 14 COVID-19 cases and 14 recoveries on Monday. Of the patients, four arrived from abroad and 10 from other States. As many as 3,556 persons are under observation. In Thrissur The district recorded nine new cases of COVID-19 and 14 recoveries on Monday. Six of the new patients were infected through contact. They are an 8-year-old girl at Nandikkara, a 52-year-old BSF jawan from Assam at the Kainur BSF camp, three persons aged 38, 36 and 58 at the Kerala Solvent Extractions, Irinjalakuda, and a 28-year-old from Nepal working at Irinjalakuda General Hospital canteen. There are 204 persons undergoing treatment in the district. A total of 13,969 people are under observation.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/positive-cases-continue-to-rise-47-in-malappuram-44-in-kannur/article32073378.ece
14 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Parents struggle to pay medical students’ fee||Parents of medical students in the State’s private medical colleges have been miffed by the stubborn stand of the respective managements over payment of fees for the next academic year. Most of the 20-odd medical colleges in the State have been insisting that the students pay the next year’s fees by July end. Some colleges have even threatened to forbid students from attending the ongoing online classes and the university examinations if they do not pay the next year’s fee in full. Rs. 6 lakh-Rs. 7.5 lakh The colleges have ignored repeated pleas by parents either to extend the date of payment until the beginning of the next year’s classes or to allow them to pay in two or three instalments. A section of parents have been finding it tough to shell out the fees ranging from Rs. 6 lakh to Rs. 7.5 lakh as COVID-19 has turned their lives upside down. Some of them have lost jobs and been forced to return from the Gulf. Those depending on bank loans find it hard to get the loans sanctioned as some colleges say there is “uncertainty over the fee structure.” “I paid the first year’s fee with the help of my friends, and was planning to take a bank loan for the second year. But the bank insists on the fee structure, which the college is not ready to give,” said Abdul Jaleel Mampad, a parent of KMCT Medical College, Kozhikode. Mr. Jaleel said his desperate attempts to sell a piece of land to raise the fees for his daughter failed because of the lockdown. “What we need is a humanitarian consideration. And we don’t want it for all. Those affected by the current situation should be given some more time or allowed to pay in parts,” said Habeeb Rahman, a parent of MES Medical College, Perinthalmanna. Managements’ view But the college managements maintain that they were paying the teachers and other staff during the lockdown. They said they could not maintain the college and the hospital without fees on time. The wages for most staff were slashed in the lockdown. However, parents say they had already paid the fee for the year till this month end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-struggle-to-pay-medical-students-fee/article32073406.ece
14 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||KBS help for students||The Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) launched the latest edition of its charity series at Kalpathy near here on Sunday. KBS president Karimpuzha Raman inaugurated the programme, aimed at supporting students across the State. KBS, meanwhile, welcomed the Supreme Court verdict on Padmanabha Swami Temple, Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kbs-help-for-students/article32073383.ece
14 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||47 new cases in Pathanamthitta||With 47 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district has gone up to 581 as on Monday. An official bulletin released here in the evening said 86 persons have been infected through contacts, so far, and 13 of them tested COVID-positive on Monday. With one more person cured of the virus infection on Monday, a total of 297 persons have been cured of COVID-19 in Pathanamthitta, so far, the bulletin said. The total number of active SARS-CoV-2 cases in the district has been put at 283 as on Monday. Of this, 271 patients have been admitted to various hospitals in the district while 12 others are quarantined at hospitals outside the district. As per the bulletin, 34 Non-Resident Keralites in the district have tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. This is besides 13 other local transmissions, three of them with unknown source of infection, being reported from the district on Monday. The virus infections through contacts of the infected persons being reported on Monday were from Thannithodu near Konni, Thukalasserry in Thiruvalla municipality, Kulashekharapathi in Pathanamthita municipality, Pandalam, Naranganam and Pathanamthitta town. A total of 1,379 NoRKs have been placed in quarantine at 136 COVID Care Centres opened in different parts of the district as on Monday. In quarantine As per the bulletin, 5,754 persons have been placed in quarantine at various Corona Care Centres and houses in different parts of the district as on Monday. Of this, 2,419 people among them have come from various other States, 1,745 persons are those who came from abroad and 1,590 others are contacts of the infected persons..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/47-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32073518.ece
14 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Reverse quarantine needs to be strengthened: DMO||Pathanamthitta District Medical Officer A.L.Sheeja has stressed the need to strengthen reverse quarantine against the backdrop of the increasing number of SARS-CoV-2 cases in the district through contacts. Talking to The Hindu , Dr Sheeja said people above the age of 60 years and children below 10 years were the vulnerable population and steps should be taken to check their mortality rate in case of a community spread. A spurt in the number of COVID cases have been reported with a large number of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) started returning to their home villages from various affected zones across the globe. Pathanamthitta houses thousands of senior citizens above the age of 60 and below 10 years of age. According to the DMO, it is important to isolate people who are more prone to the virus infection at their own home and hence there is the need to think in terms of reverse quarantine to ensure their safety at a time when COVID cases through contacts and unknown sources are on the rise. They should stay at home itself and no outsider should be permitted to interact with them. Meanwhile, the State Disaster Management Authority, on the recommendations of the District Disaster Management Authority, has declared more panchayat-municipal wards as containment zones following detection of local transmission of COVID-19 in those areas. As many as 50 municipal-panchayat wards in Pathanamthitta district have been declared containment zones as part of the intensive pandemic prevention drive, so far. District Collector P.B.Noohu said people in these areas were directed to remain home and only essential activities would be permitted in these areas during the seven-day containment period. Not permitted Except for medical emergencies, movement of people in or out of the containment zones will not be permitted and all public transport services too remain suspended in the area during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reverse-quarantine-needs-to-be-strengthened-dmo/article32073517.ece
14 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Free coaching||The Mar Athanaseus College For Advanced Studies, Thiruvalla will conduct free online coaching for entrance exam for admission to the Master of Computer Applications (MCA) course offered by universities in Kerala. Those who wished to join the classes that begin on July 15 could register through thewww.macfast.orgor contact 9400984222, 9447918374.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-coaching/article32073513.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local transmission continues unabated||The ramping up of testing in the critical containment zones and its buffer area of the district translated to a spike in COVID-19 cases as 63 people, including two health workers and police officers each, were diagnosed with the disease on Monday. Fifty seven among the fresh cases were due to local transmission and the sources of infection were unknown in five of them. As many as 32 cases were reported from the Manikyavilakom, Poonthura, Puthenpally and the adjacent areas that form the buffer zone. The spurt comes a day after no case was reported from the three wards that together formed the critical containment zone, owing to the slump in testing after the attack on health workers and the protest of the local community two days ago. A 32-year-old employee of a food aggregator from Cheriyathura, who used to deliver parcels to Thampanoor and areas nearby, is among those who tested positive from the region. Two police officers, a 27-year-old woman civil police officer from Nedumangad and attached to the Cantonment police station, and a 34-year-old civil police officer from Panangode and attached to the Fort police station, were also diagnosed with COVID-19. With this, the number of City police personnel who have been laid low by the disease has risen to seven. Around 30 police personnel have been directed to go into quarantine in the two police stations. A 34-year-old radiographer, hailing from Perumpazhuthoor, and a 32-year-old employee of a private hospital from Pongummoodu are the health workers affected. Among the cases detected without known sources of infection are a 22-year-old inmate of a women’s hostel at PMG, a 49-year-old man who runs a poultry farm in Chirayinkeezhu, and a 15-year-old school student from Thirumala. Three people recovered from the illness on the day. Currently, 608 people, including natives of Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Wayanad and Tamil Nadu, are being treated here.  32 cases reported on Monday are from buffer zones in the capital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-transmission-continues-unabated/article32073442.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Relief after ease of some curbs||A week after the city witnessed panic buying and concerns over dwindling supplies in shops, some semblance of normalcy returned to the State capital on Monday with the triple lockdown restrictions eased in areas outside the critical containment zones and its buffer area. The partial withdrawal of restrictions led to a marked increase in vehicular flow, prompting the City police to operate traffic signals after a week on the major arterial roads during the peak hours when shops were permitted to sell essential items. Auto-rickshaws also made a comeback on the city roads following the district administration’s relaxation of curbs. While the public generally welcomed the move to ease restrictions after a week of stringent restrictions, large sections were dismayed over the move to persist with the ban on home delivery by food aggregators. Only delivery of food supplied through the 10 Janakeeya hotels in the city have been permitted. The City police booked 38 people and seized 19 vehicles for violating lockdown norms. Petty cases were also registered against 96 people who failed to wear masks outdoors. The police have also directed auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers to maintain trip-sheet books containing details of passengers and their contact numbers. Complaints Complaints regarding the functioning of such vehicles could be conveyed by contacting 0471-2558731 or 0471-2558732. Meanwhile, other local bodies in the district have begun to restrict the functioning of markets following a police advisory on the possibility of fish being supplied from COVID-19-affected coastal areas in Thiruvananthapuram as well as Kanyakumari. Attingal municipal chairman M. Pradeep said that six markets, including two private ones, were ordered to close down until further notice. Wayside sale of fish has also been prohibited. Several fish vendors from places including Anjuthengu normally bring fish in large quantities to the markets here. This was bound to increase with intense lockdown being observed in the Thiruvananthapuram city. Mr. Pradeep pointed out that the ban was implemented in view of the rising number of cases in coastal areas to prevent a possible outbreak in Attingal that is yet to witness a spike in COVID-19 cases. Review meet at Parassala C.K. Hareendran, MLA, on Monday chaired a meeting of police, Revenue, Health and local body officials to overview the COVID-19 situation in the Parassala constituency following reports of local transmission in Kollayil, Kunnathukal, Parassala, Vellarada and Perunkadavila grama panchayats. The meeting decided to step up surveillance in the panchayats bordering Tamil Nadu. Some of the people’s representatives called for lockdown in border panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-after-ease-of-some-curbs/article32073440.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||The men we need to thank and respect||Earnings for survival meant an occasional plumbing job for Shaiju, until he was chosen as a temporary employee for the upkeep of city Corporation’s aerobic bins, three years ago. After the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, the Health wing officials asked temporary workers like him about their willingness to be part of a team that would carry out burials, disnfection and other activities. Shaiju and 11 other temporary workers like him were quick to take up the offer. Over the past four months, the team of 12 have buried seven dead bodies, of those who have tested positive for COVID-19, and carried out disinfection in houses and institutions where people tested positive—jobs that involve a certain level of risk. All of them have been staying together at a nursery school building in Kamaleswaram, ever since the work began, with rare visits to their respective homes to avoid risking the lives of the elderly and babies in their families. The team includes those who used to be gas delivery agents, carpenters, auto-rickshaw drivers or other daily wage workers. “It was around the time that we started working in the Corporation that Cyclone Ockhi struck. Back then too, we were involved in carrying the bodies brought from the sea to the ambulance and other work there. We stayed there for several days, with the Health Inspector Sujith too staying with us. When the floods happened, we were part of the Corporation team that went to Chengannur and other places to clean up. So, when COVID-19 happened, the Health Inspectors asked us whether we are ready to do this. We were told to honestly tell them whether we have any fear or concern in doing this work. But seeing their dedication, we were also confident of doing it. They gave us training in handling Personal Protective Equipment, precautions in handling bodies, and in disinfecting houses,” says Shaiju. Their work these days starts early in the day and can stretch late into the night, or can happen at odd hours, depending on the place to be disinfected. No extra wages All of them are given their usual daily wage of Rs. 630, with no extra allowance for the risky work. “We don’t see this as work but as service. We are just contributing in our own way when the world is facing a crisis. There is nothing to fear once you take all precautions. We have carried out all these burials by following the rights of their respective religions,” says Jayakumar, who used to be an autorickshaw driver. As senior Health wing officials of the city Corporation attest, the team of 12 has played a key role in civic body’s pandemic response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-men-we-need-to-thank-and-respect/article32073447.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sivasankar will face action if found guilty: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar could face “stringent action” if the Central agencies probing the gold smuggling case found evidence of any wrongdoing on his part. He said rampant public speculation about Mr. Sivasankar’s alleged closeness with a “controversial woman” (Swapna Suresh) had prompted the government to remove the official from the post he held in the Chief Minister’s Office. It did not help the officer that Central agencies had named the woman as the second accused in the gold smuggling case. Ideally, Mr. Sivasankar should have exercised caution and kept such “controversial characters” at bay. A committee headed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, Rajesh Kumar Singh would probe how the woman gained employment as a marketing liaison officer of the Space Park project. (Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited (KSITIL), an appendage of the State IT Department, heads the project.) The police were investigating whether the “woman” had faked her academic credentials to gain employment in KSITIL and whether any individual or entity aided her. (The Cantonment police have registered a case against Swapna and also a global consultancy that purportedly recommended her to the job.) When pressed why the government was reluctant to suspend Mr. Sivasankar, Mr. Vijayan said the government could not act on assumptions. Welcomes probe Mr. Vijayan said he welcomed the probe by the National Investigation Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivasankar-will-face-action-if-found-guilty-cm/article32073395.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KEAM as scheduled on Thursday||KEAM 2020, the Kerala entrance examination for admission to various professional degree courses, will be held across the State and at centres in Mumbai, New Delhi, and Dubai on July 16 as scheduled earlier. A meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Monday decided to stick to the schedule notwithstanding the concerns raised by many candidates over the spike in COVID-19 cases and triple lockdown in parts of the State. The examination has been a subject of much consternation with both students and teachers demanding its postponement on account of the critical situation in the State. The demand appeared to have gained momentum after the Centre decided to postpone the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), both Main and Advanced, and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) to September. However, the government chose to go ahead with the existing plan on account of the extent of preparation gone into conducting the examination. The State has also managed to identify an alternative centre in New Delhi — JC Bose University of Science and Technology, Faridabad — after the original venue (Kerala Education Society near Mandi House metro station) was deemed unviable. According to a senior official, who attended the discussion, centres will be identified within containment zones to ensure candidates from such areas are not required to travel elsewhere. The office of the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) will reach out to these aspirants and inform them of the alternative arrangement. “If by any chance a candidate arrives at the originally allotted examination centre, they will be provided separate rooms to attend the examination. Similarly, separate rooms have been earmarked for students in quarantine, displaying symptoms, and those coming from other States ,” the official said. Nearly 340 centres are there in the State and close to 1,12,000 students have registered for the examination. It will have two papers — Paper 1: physics and chemistry and Paper 2: mathematics — that will be held from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and from 2.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. respectively. Centre change possible Candidates from the Manikyavilakam, Poonthura and Puthenpally wards that form the critical containment zone in the State capital have been requested to contact the CEE within 11 a.m. on Tuesday to request a shift to a centre in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keam-as-scheduled-on-thursday/article32073399.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Thiruvananthapuram region tops in CBSE Class 12 results||The Thiruvananthapuram region of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has maintained its dominance in the CBSE Class 12 examinations by registering a pass percentage of 97.67. The Bengaluru region is in the second position with a pass percentage of 97.05. The overall pass percentage is 88.78. The pass percentage for the Thiruvananthapuram region (which comprises Kerala and Lakshadweep). The results were declared by the CBSE on Monday.  As many as 35,368 students appeared for the class 12 examinations from the region, of whom 34,545 (16,862 boys and 17,683 girls) passed. While Kerala had a pass percentage of 97.67%, Lakshadweep, from where nine students sat for the examinations, registered 100% results. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in the region registered 100% pass this year too, while Kendriya Vidyalaya institutions had a pass percentage of 99.35, a slight dip from 99.87% last year. As many as 314 children with special needs sat for the examinations. Of them, 307 passed, a pass percentage of 97.77. Seven had more than 95% marks and 33 had more than 90%.  The class 12 examinations were disrupted owing to COVID-19. The pending examinations could not be held. The CBSE finalised an assessment criteria as per which students who had completed all exams would be evaluated based on their performance in the exams. In the case of students who appeared in more than three exams, the average of the marks obtained in best three performing subjects would be awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvananthapuram-region-tops-in-cbse-class-12-results/article32073398.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF, BJP welcome verdict||The Supreme Court verdict on Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple is a recognition of the UDF’s stanceeader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy have said. The verdict upholds the interest of devotees, Mr. Chennithala said. Ownership of the temple assets had been vested with the temple itself, he said. The verdict is a blow to the State government, Mr.Chandy said. The verdict has challenged the claims of governments that a secular government wields undisputed powers in temple administration, BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekharan said. BJP State president K.Surendran said Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran was forced to welcome the verdict. He should apologise to the people for adopting a wrong stance on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-bjp-welcome-verdict/article32073405.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Good show by city schools in CBSE Class 12 exam||City schools put up a good show in the CBSE Class 12 examinations the results of which were declared here on Monday. In Sarvodaya Central Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, Shreya Susan Mathew of Humanities topped the school with 99.6% marks. Commerce At Kendriya Vidayalaya, Pattom, Nakshatra S.P. of Shift 1 Commerce stream bagged 98% marks. In Shift 2, Harikrishnan A. and Gautham Krishna secured the top position in Science with 96.6%. Kavya R., a Humanities student of Jyothis Central School, Kazhakuttam, secured 98.8% marks to bag the first position. In Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pangode, Aparna R., a Humanities student who secured 97.8% marks, topped. Navajeevan Bethany Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, saw Akash Brijesh, a Science student, topped with 97% marks. At Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Attukal, Pritvi R. emerged first with 99% marks. Gowripriya M.R. of Humanities stream was the top scorer with 98.6% marks at Saraswathi Vidyalaya, Vattiyurkavu. First in Humanities At St. Thomas Central School, Mukkolakkal, Diya B.R. bagged the first spot with 98.4% marks in Humanities. Prathyush P.S. of the Science batch topped with 97.2% marks in Alan Feldman Public School, Kazhakuttam. In Carmel School, Peyad, Devika S. of the Commerce batch secured A1 in all the subjects. Harinadh A.S. with 97.5% marks was the top scorer in Sai Krishna Public School, Chenkal. At Army Public School, Pangode, Devika Ajith topped the school with 97.4% marks in the Science stream. Krishnendu J. secured the first position with 98.2% marks in Science at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Peroorkada. At Shanthiniketan School, Kunnumpuram, Arjun G. Ravi was the school topper with 96.2% marks. Aarsha S.S. and Madhav Manoj Nair topped St. Mary’s Central School, Poojappura, with 96.6% marks in the Science stream. Science stream Devika Prakash bagged the first position in ARR School, Nettayam, with 92% marks in Science. At St. Shantal English Medium School, Malamukal, Anupama P.S. was first with 96% marks. Aiswarya Laxmi, a Commerce student, with 96.6% marks emerged the topper at Amrita Kairali Vidya Bhavan, Nedumangad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-show-by-city-schools-in-cbse-class-12-exam/article32073436.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online teaching mode will be part of the new norm: Minister||Online instruction has begun to complement classroom teaching and blended mode of teaching will become the new normal even in the post COVID-phase, Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel says. He was speaking at a five-day ‘virtual’ workshop on virtual teaching being organised by the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC). Inaugurating it, Dr. Jaleel stressed on the need to embrace online learning in the post COVID-19 scenario. “While virtual teaching or learning is not a substitute for the ‘real’ mode, it has become the sole alternative under the existing circumstances in which physical distancing is a necessity,” he said. Digital divide Pointing out that many teachers without prior experience had to switch over to the online mode under compulsion, Mr. Jaleel said that the role of technology in teaching would prevail even after the pandemic-induced health crisis faded. Mr. Jaleel also called for steps to address the problems posed by digital divide that could upset initiatives towards ensuring equity and access. Presiding over the inaugural session, KSHEC vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal said the pandemic had been a catalyst for the growth of science and technology. “COVID-19 has contributed significantly to transform and diversify educational technology and tools. Quality online teaching, learning and evaluation tools are high-input facilities that demand considerable investment for establishing the necessary technological infrastructure,” he said. Training Three hundred teachers out of over 1,000 who have registered for the programme from colleges and universities will be imparted training organised under the auspices of the KSHEC faculty development centre. The workshop is being conducted through the video conferencing platform Cisco Webex and will involve instructions transmitted through other applications and open source learning platforms such as SWAYAM and Moodle. While eminent academicians including N.J. Rao of IISc and Chandrasekhar R. of IIIT Bengaluru led classes on online instructional methods and tools on the first day, Vice Chancellors of CUSAT and Mahatma Gandhi University, K.N. Madhusoodanan and Sabu Thomas, are among those who will speak during the subsequent sessions of the workshop. KSHEC member secretary Rajan Varughese said the council had targeted training 2,500 teachers on virtual teaching before January 2021. Study areas Study areas including software-driven course designing, web-based instruction, computer-mediated communication, mind mapping, administration of videos, imaging technology, infographic visualisation, hosting audio-video podcasts, effective management of digital content, and instructional model will be covered during the workshop.  The higher education council has targeted training of 2,500 teachers on virtual teaching before January 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-teaching-mode-will-be-part-of-the-new-norm-minister/article32073437.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fishing might be allowed with checks||With coastal livelihoods hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns triggering unrest in places like Poonthura, the government is looking at whether fishing can be allowed in a controlled environment without diluting disease containment protocols in the thickly populated coastal belt. Meantime, District Collectors have been directed to tighten safety measures in the coastal areas. The Fisheries Department has proposed that fishers may be allowed to operate in the sea regions close to their villages, but on condition that the safety measures are observed at work. “We have given a detailed note to the Chief Minister. A decision is expected in a day or two,” Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said. The proposals are designed to ensure minimum contact. Coastal areas in five districts were scheduled to go under a triple lockdown from 6 p.m. on Monday till 6 p.m. on July 23. If the proposals were accepted, boats would be allowed to venture out under an odd-even scheme on alternate days based on their registration numbersthe Minister said. The department has also suggested that the system introduced at the Neendakara harbour could be replicated in other places for the marketing of the catch. Auctions would stand banned at the harbours. Instead, traders can purchase the catch at prices fixed by the Matsyafed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishing-might-be-allowed-with-checks/article32073444.ece
14 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. for no-trust motion||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday stoutly defended Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan in the face of the Opposition’s threat to press a resolution demanding his removal in the Assembly. The United Democratic Front (UDF), which met here to discuss the strategy to be adopted, resolved to move a no-confidence motion against the government. Front convener Benny Behanan, MP, accused Mr. Sreeramakrishnan of lowering the esteem of the Speaker’s office by associating with a “controversial woman” implicated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a gold-smuggling case with consequences for national security. The UDF had tasked Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala to chart out the future course of protests. ‘Political drama’ Mr. Vijayan accused the Opposition of attempting to create political drama because they had no credible issue to take on the government. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Sreeramakrishnan had interacted with the woman (Swapna Suresh), in her capacity as a consulate official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oppn-for-no-trust-motion/article32073396.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Former Corporation councillor passes away||Punnasseri Rajan, Congress leader and a former councillor of the city Corporation from the Kamaleswaram ward, passed away here on Monday. He was 81.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-corporation-councillor-passes-away/article32073443.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power disruption||Electricity will be disrupted in the areas coming under the Thekkamoodu transformer in the Cantonment electrical section from 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Tuesday. The disruption will be due to scheduled maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-disruption/article32073438.ece
14 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital X-ray unit launched||A new digital X-ray unit has been operationalised in the Government Takuk Hospital in Valiyakunnu, Attingal. Attingal municipal chairman M. Pradeep inaugurated the facility on Monday. It has been established with the support of the Health Department at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh. The service of the X-ray unit could be accessed by those belonging to the BPL and the APL categories at rates of Rs. 80 and Rs. 120 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-x-ray-unit-launched/article32073439.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Change in fortune||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/change-in-fortune/article32073382.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Happy with the SC order||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/happy-with-the-sc-order/article32073450.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Vignettes of a rescue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vignettes-of-a-rescue/article32073520.ece
14 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balakrishna for Hindupur as headquarters for proposed dist.||Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna has rooted for Hindupur town as the headquarters for the proposed new district to be created coinciding with the boundaries of the Hindupur parliamentary constituency. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he highlighted the importance of the town and the infrastructure available in its vicinity for setting up the offices of the proposed new district. He said the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Ltd. had acquired 400 acres of land at Maluguru in Hindupur mandal close to the town on the Kadiri road, which could be utilised for construction of the proposed buildings for the new district. Well connected While the town was well connected with other major towns of the constituency by road and rail, it also developed educationally and industrially. It is 110 km from Anantapur town and 95 km from Bengaluru. Medical college Mr. Balakrishna also wrote a letter to Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and Chief Secretary Neelam Shawney urging them to establish the proposed medical college at Maluguru, where 52 acres of land was identified by the Revenue Department officials. The place was 10 km from National Highway No.44 and a 250-bed government hospital already existed in the town, which could be attached to the proposed medical college bolstering the medical facilities in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balakrishna-for-hindupur-as-headquarters-for-proposed-dist/article32073497.ece
14 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gooty railway station gets an upgrade||The South Central Railway(SCR) commissioned the largest Electronic Inter-locking Signalling System (EISS) at Gooty in Anantapur district, which would ease congestion at the major junction and facilitate running of more passenger and freight trains. A release from the Railways on Monday said the project, jointly executed by the Guntakal Division and Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), was commissioned on Sunday, along with major yard remodelling. This was the fourth-largest inter-locking system installed across the South Central Railway. The other major yards on the SCR include those at Secunderabad, Vijayawada and Kazipet Railway stations. But, they are not Electronic Inter-locking Signalling Systems. Now, the Gooty Railway Station yard can handle 343 routes.  Manpower reduction The electronic system has led to a significant decrease in physical interference in the operation of signals besides reducing the manpower requirement. From only four lines earlier available at the Gooty station yard, for the direct reception and dispatch of trains, it has been upgraded to handle trains from 11 lines with direct reception and despatch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gooty-railway-station-gets-an-upgrade/article32073495.ece
14 July 2020||BUTTAIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Multi-speciality hospitals will come up in Agency areas across the State: Health Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has said that multi-speciality hospitals will be set up under the purview of all seven ITDAs in the State. The Minister along with Polavaram MLA Tellam Bala Raju, Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana and other officials visited the site selected for construction of a multi-speciality hospital in the village on Monday. Mr. Srinivas said the proposed hospital would be constructed in ten acres at a cost of Rs. 75 crore. The multi-speciality hospital would provide treatment to the tribal and non-tribal people staying in Polavaram, Buttaigudem, Jeelugumilli, and Kukunoor mandals, he said. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on providing better treatment for tribal people in the Agency areas. The government would set up 16 more medical colleges, in addition to the existing 11. Inspects CHC The Minister directed the Collector to fill up the vacant posts in the local primary health centre and asked the doctors to be available in the hospital. The Deputy Chief Minister inspected the Buttaigudem Community Health Centre (CHC) and enquired the patients about the facilities. At a review meeting, Mr. Srinivas asked the doctors to take measures to prevent communicable diseases to the villagers during the ongoing rainy season. District Medical and Health Officer Sunanda, District Coordinator of Hospital Services Shankar, Indian Red Cross Society chairman M. Jaya Prakash, AP Medical Council board member D. Vara Prasad, Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer Y.N. Prasanna Lakshmi and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/multi-speciality-hospitals-will-come-up-in-agency-areas-across-the-state-health-minister/article32073508.ece
14 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on alert as Bengaluru goes into lockdown mode||The Chittoor district police administration has intensified vigil at the Nangili and Cheekalabailu border check-posts as Bengaluru and some districts in Karnataka are bracing up for lockdown from midnight on Tuesday. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar ordered deployment of additional personnel at the check-posts to handle the possible increase in the inter-State movement into the district. Officials maintained that the reports of Bengaluru going in for lockdown due to alarming spike in COVID-19 cases there would not have any impact at the border check-posts, as the public movement had already thinned down by more than 80% compared to the pre-lockdown period. APSRTC Regional Manager, Tirupati, T. Chengal Reddy said the corporation would be suspending all the 30 inter-State bus services to Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka from its depots of Tirupati, Chittoor, Madanapalle and Piler, till further negotiations between the two States. “Similarly, 26 services of the KSRTC to Tirupati and Puttur would be stopped during the current lockdown there,” he said. The official said that there had been a drastic fall in the occupancy rate in the corporation buses, while even the private transport was hit due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are not expecting any commotion at bus stations as was the case during the lockdown-I period. The services will be suspended from Tuesday midnight. Services with a facility to complete both the upward and downward journeys before midnight would be operated,” Mr. Reddy said. Surveillance Meanwhile, the Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said the border check-post in the sub-division was kept under strict surveillance and the inter-State vehicular movement would be under check till the situation eased out. He said that patrolling would so be intensified on the porous rural roads to prevent unauthorised entry into the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-on-alert-as-bengaluru-goes-into-lockdown-mode/article32073501.ece
14 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy ‘ends life’ after mother chides him for online games||A 14-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide in his house in Palamaner on Sunday night after his mother reportedly chided him for continuously playing games on his mobile phone ignoring online classes. According to the area police, the parents of the ninth standard student got him a new mobile phone for attending online classes. When his mother chided him for getting addicted to online games, the boy reportedly felt upset, and allegedly hanged himself in an adjoining room. Though neighbours shifted him to Palamaner area hospital and later to the Sri Venkateswara Ramnarayan Ruia Government General Hospital at Tirupati, he could not be saved. Helpline The police registered a case. Those battling suicidal thoughts can dial 100 for guidance and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-year-old-ends-life-after-mother-chides-him-for-online-games/article32072999.ece
14 July 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chilli crop: 'integrated' approach reaping the benefit||Chilli productivity increased by 12.8% in the villages that were covered under the Chilli Farm Value Chain Development (Integrated Agri Extension Platform) last year. The estimated productivity from the project (IAEP) villages was 24.1 quintals per acre (28,950 metric tonnes from 12,000 acre) against an estimated productivity of 21.3 quintals per acre from general villages. The total production in the IAEP villages was approximately 28,950 MT. Of this, 15,090 MT was sold till April and procurement is in progress. With the ‘learnings’ from 2019-20, the State government has decided to extend the scope of the project up to 25,000 acre this year (2020-21). The Horticulture Department has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the ITC. As part of it, the IAEP will be implemented in 62 villages of Krishna, Guntur, Kurnool and Prakasam districts, says Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary. The project has potential to improve crop productivity to the tune of 10-15% and improve high grade production by 8%. The benefit to the IAEP farmers over general farmers works out to be Rs. 18,949 per acre. Primarily it is due to 13% average productivity improvement and 8% average quality improvement. Also, the farmers have benefits in the market due to PHPM (Post Harvest Product Management) practice, he says. Comparison Compared to gross return of Rs. 1,63,386 per acre of the general farmer, the gross returns per acre for an IAEP farmer will be Rs. 1,89,304. Similarly, the net returns will be Rs. 79,835 per acre against net returns of Rs. 60,886 per acre of the general farmer. The IAEP will get more grade A (kg/acre) — 795 kg against 603 kg (general farmer); the talu will also be less — 159 kg against 202 kg by the general farmer, he says. There is a potential of 2.60 lakh acre in Prakasam, Krishna, Guntur, and Kurnool districts. During the first year, 12,000 acres were covered. Now, it will be 25,000 acre this year, the coverage will be extended to 1 lakh acre by fifth year from 2019-20. The objective of the IAEP is to improve the competitiveness of the chilli crop in terms of its productivity, quality, sustainability and price, so as to maximise value and ensure better returns to the farmer, through a set of physical and digital interventions to improve production, he says. As part of this programme, the ITC has deployed skilled, digitally enabled agri extension staff in the project villages. The chilli farmers have been provided access to the e-Choupal 4.0 mobile app. They can also talk to industry experts through the call centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chilli-crop-integrated-approach-reaping-the-benefit/article32073564.ece
14 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||M. Rajasekhar tipped for MLC post||Veteran YSRCP leader and former district unit president Marri Rajasekhar has been tipped to be nominated as an MLC and filled from the Governor’s quota. Mr. Rajasekhar is a two-time MLA from Chilakaluripeta and led the party in the district for 10 years. The name of Mr. Rajasekhar as a candidate for a member of the Upper House has been doing rounds for an year and finally, the party has taken a call to give him an opportunity. At present the district has two MLCs from the party — Ummareddy Venkateswarlu and Dokka Manikya Vara Prasad. With Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao being elected to the Rajya Sabha, it is likely that Mr. Rajasekhar would be given a Cabinet berth. Member of Parliament Lavu Krishnadevarayulu backed the candidature of Mr. Rajasekhar and ensured that the senior leader was given his due. It would also be a fulfilment of a promise made by party chief Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy during his election campaign. Strong leader Mr. Rajasekhar is a veteran leader and son-in-law of Somepalli Sambaiah, former Congress leader, and had a strong base in Chilakaluripeta. The elevation of Mr. Rajasekhar could also change the political equation in the sensitive constituency. Vidadala Rajani, a BC woman leader, has emerged in her own right as a leader but in doing so, has done some polarisation in the constituency. The elevation of Mr. Rajasekhar could set the balance right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/m-rajasekhar-tipped-for-mlc-post/article32073345.ece
14 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRMIST cancels engg. entrance exam||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) has cancelled the SRM Joint Engineering Entrance Exam (SRMJEEE) for B.Tech admissions 2020, that was planned in 127 Indian cities and five overseas centres in Dubai, Doha, Muscat, Bahrain and Kuwait. The B. Tech admissions for 2020 will now be based on plus 2 /pre-university / equivalent marks in physics, chemistry and mathematics/biology. The new admission process will apply to all campuses of SRMIST— Kattankulathur (main campus), Ramapuram, Vadapalani and NCR New Delhi; SRM University, AP – Andhra Pradesh; SRM University Haryana, Sonepat; and SRM University Sikkim. Those who scored in JEE Main and SAT are encouraged to apply. The forms for providing the plus 2 / pre-university / equivalent marks and JEE (Main) / SAT score are available on the university website. (www.srmist.edu.in). Applicants can swiftly update and complete their forms. In case the results of the Class 12 Board examination are not declared, the marks can be uploaded as soon as the results are known.  Scholarship criterion SRMIST will continue to award a wide range of scholarships for deserving candidates, including the ones who scored high in the JEE Main and SAT examinations, on joining. However, the SRMJEEE rank-based scholarships will not be available. The classes for the freshers is scheduled to commence in September 2020, be it on campus, online or combination of both, adhering to the government notification and norms, and taking into account the safety and security of students. Further details or any clarification may be obtained from multiple channels of communication: by calling our Helpdesk at +91 (044) 27455510, 47437500 Monday – Saturday (except public holidays) 8.30 am to 6 pm or through email to admissions.india@srmist.edu.in, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srmist-cancels-engg-entrance-exam/article32073561.ece
14 July 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor sees a spike in cases as social distancing goes for a toss||Violation of social distancing norm has become the order of the day in several parts of Chittoor district, while the total number of cases is inching close to 3,500 with the reporting of 168 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. The cases in the district have been on a steady spike since June in the district, with its porous borders with Tamil Nadu on the eastern side and with Karnataka in the west. July reported an average of 150 to 200 cases per day with growing number of red zones and containment areas. Since a few days, the municipalities of Punganur and Madanapalle too are registering steady increase in positive cases. Though the civic authorities have imposed restrictions in business hours at the vegetable markets in Chittoor and Tirupati municipal corporations and elsewhere, social distancing is largely violated. With summer temperature yet to come down, many people are seen rushing to the vegetable and meat markets between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. Liquor outlets In thickly populated areas, liquor outlets are witnessing big crowds. The consumers keep competing with each other in getting their quota, unmindful of social distancing and mask guidelines. In Tirupati, long queues in violation of social distancing norms are a common sight at liquor outlets. It is observed that the police officials are concentrating on implementing the mask rule, while seriousness is missing when it comes to social distancing. “When there is a stipulation of business hours till 11 a.m., it would be difficult to impose the social distancing norm. Everybody wants essential commodities such as milk and vegetables. On Sundays, it gets even more difficult to control the crowds at market places. Before the deadline, they have to return. Any serious intervention on our part will only lead to an embarrassing situation,” said a police officer in Chittoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-sees-a-spike-in-cases-as-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss/article32073499.ece
14 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coast Guard seizes Sri Lankan fishing vessel off Kakinada coast||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG- Kakinada) seized a Sri Lankan fishing vessel and detained six crew members off the Kakinada coast on Sunday night. A total of 600 kg of Tuna fish catch was also seized. According to an official release issued by Deputy Director (I&PR, East Godavari district) G. Manoranjan, the Sri Lankan fishing vessel Priyadarshini was seized based on a tip off by the ICG Regional Office (Visakhapatnam). On June 28, the Sri Lankan fishing vessel had reportedly entered Indian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) from Devinuwaraand with sufficient fuel, water, and ration with an intention to remain for a longer period in the area. Registered at Mattara, the vessel bears the details Reg. No. IMUL-A - 1235-MTR. The official note said that the Sri Lankan vessel had violated the Maritime Zones of India (Regulation of fishing by foreign vessels) Act, 1981 and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), 1982. The vessel along with the six-member crew is expected to arrive Kakinada port by Monday evening for trial. The Kakinada port is the nearest designated port for trial under the existing laws. IB Investigation On arrival of the vessel and the crew, the joint investigation and rummaging will be carried out by the Marine Police, Customs, and Intelligence Bureau. “The investigation by the Intelligence Bureau is considered in the wake of prevailing security scenario owing to the ongoing Sino-Indian boundary dispute and also inputs were received from various sources regarding intrusion from sea route,” said the official release. The vessel will be handed over to the Marine police for custody and legal proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coast-guard-seizes-sri-lankan-fishing-vessel-off-kakinada-coast/article32073005.ece
14 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Plans for Godavari flood mitigation ready, says Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that the State government has prepared a plan for mitigation of the Godavari floods in East and West Godavari districts. “A special officer will be deputed to each habitation that falls under the Polavaram project submergence area. The availability of Panchayat Secretariat staff will be an advantage for the flood mitigation and evacuation operation at the ground level,” the Agriculture Minister told the media here on Monday. Ambulance services The Collectors of East and West Godavari districts have been instructed to remain alert to the flood situation. The ‘108’ and ‘104’ ambulance services have been made available to the Agency areas to respond to the emergency during the flood time, said Mr. Kannababu. The Minister further said that special measures were being taken to ensure power supply to the island habitations during the floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plans-for-godavari-flood-mitigation-ready-says-minister/article32073545.ece
14 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven-year-old girl drowns in drain||A seven-year-old girl is feared drowned in a municipal drain after she slipped into it at Mandapeta town in East Godavari district on Sunday. Palivela Chanda Kala reportedly slipped into the drain when she attempted to collect her footwear that fell into it. The incident occurred while she was walking alongside the drain to buy milk. Mandapeta police said her body was found in the drain a few minutes after she slipped into it during a search by the locals. The body has been sent to the Mandapeta area hospital, where post-mortem was performed on Monday. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-year-old-girl-drowns-in-drain/article32073506.ece
14 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown in Rajahmundry, Kakinada||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that lockdown would come into force in Rajamahendravaram and Kakinada urban and rural areas from Tuesday as part of the containment strategy. According to the fresh guidelines, shopping malls, liquor shops and street vending points would be allowed only between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. However, these restrictions do not apply to medical shops. 367 cases in a day Mr. Muralidhar said that the highest single-day spike of 367 cases has been recorded over the past 24 hours across the district. Presently, there are 1,883 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-in-rajahmundry-kakinada/article32073502.ece
14 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco Board decides to cut crop size in State||Anticipating reduced global demand for tobacco in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tobacco Board will go for crop reduction in Andhra Pradesh for 2020-21. Inaugurating the market intervention operation by Markfed at the Kandukur auction platform in Prakasam district on Monday, its Chairman Y. Raghunatha Babu said the board saw a reduced global demand for the crop this year. Ruling out crop holiday as demanded by a section of growers who were worried over depressed market condition, Mr. Raghunatha Babu said: “We will transform the tobacco market from a buyer’s market to a seller’s one by reducing the crop size.” “Crop holiday is not a solution as the country will lose its global market share and will go against the interests of all stakeholders, including farmers, in the long run,” he explained. The Tobacco Board has already reduced the crop size for Karnataka from 99 million kg to 88 million kg for this year. The exact crop size and per barn quota for each farmer for the rabi crop would be arrived at after holding parleys with farmers and traders, he said.  Market intervention The size for the winter crop would be fixed taking into account the carryover stocks with Markfed which had entered the market to make purchases on no profit, no loss basis, he added. The market intervention from July 1 has had a positive impact with the growers getting over 20% more price than that was prevailing before that, the Chairman said. Markfed District Manager N. Nalini Devi said Markfed had procured over one million kg, including low grade varieties which faced rejection from traders, at an average price of Rs. 86.97 per kg till Saturday last, she said after overseeing market intervention operation at the Kandukur I and II, Kanigiri, Kaligiri and Tangutur I auction platforms.  e-auctions A section of traders, who had kept away from the market in the absence of confirmed orders from overseas buyers, would have no option but to buy from Markfed to fulfil their overseas commitments, Mr. Raghunatha Babu said. “We will ensure e-auctions begin soon after Sankaranti every year and are completed by May,” he added. Farmers in the traditional tobacco-growing areas in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts have so far marketed 41.43 million kg, realising an average price of Rs. 130.47 per kg and are left with another 48.63 million kg, board sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-board-decides-to-cut-crop-size-in-state/article32073560.ece
14 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more succumb to virus in Prakasam, Nellore||Five deaths were reported from the two south coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 12 in Nellore district and eight in Prakasam. In an alarming rise, 103 persons tested positive for the disease in Prakasam district, pushing up the tally to 1,505. Kandukur division accounted for a maximum of 48 new cases followed by Markapur division with 29 and Ongole division with 25 cases in the district. With 13 fresh cases, Ongole city accounted for a maximum of 287 confirmed cases in the district. Markapur town registered 17 new cases followed by Kandukur with ten, Pamur with nine, Chirala, Lingasamudram and Kanigiri with six cases each, Darsi with five cases and Tarlupadu and Ulavapadu with four cases each. Positive cases also came from the villages of Darimadugu, C.S.Puram, Taniruvaripalem, Kavurivaripalem, Medarmetla, Nallaguntla, Dorna, Pedaraveedu, T.B.V.Palem, Pedanagulavaram and Ghadiyapudi during the period. Meanwhile, in Nellore district, the city reported a maximum of 31 cases, including 10 cases in Kisan Nagar, six in Nawabpeta, four in Dargamitta and three in NTR nagar. New cases came also from Podalakur(3), while Naidupeta, Sangam, Kota and Vidavaluru reported two each. One case each was registered in Varikondapadu, Atmakur, Kavali, Indukurpeta, Kovur, T.P.Gudur, Venkatachalam, Kaligiri, Dagadarthi, Ojili and Marripudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-succumb-to-virus-in-prakasam-nellore/article32073504.ece
14 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home quarantine only option for new patients||Home quarantine is the only option left for new patients of Coronavirus in the near future, thanks to limited availability of beds in the COVID-19 hospital and COVID care centres in the district. As many as 1,700 beds are available in GEMS-COVID-19 hospital and around 2,000 are ready in the three COVID Care Centres located at Patrunivalasa, Chilakapalem and Santabommali. Compared to GEMS COVID hospital, facilities are relatively fewer in care centres with the lack of sufficient number of doctors, nurses and medical staff. Patients with mild symptoms are sent to cae centres, while serious cases are referred to the COVID-19 hospital. Meanwhile, the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) is mostly used for non-COVID cases to ensure treatment for patients with regular diseases. As many as 1,752 positive cases have been registered in Srikakulam district so far and the number is expected to soon double as more than 100 positive cases are reported each day. As many as 1.2 lakh migrant labourers, and employees with various private organisations, have returned to their native places in the last three months. As many as 1.05 lakh persons have been tested so far. The government is unable to conduct tests for all returnees as a majority of them are coming by private vehicles. The data of returnees is available only when they come by APSRTC buses. The officials fear that the number of cases could go up quickly in Srikakulam district due to multiple reasons. At least 10,000 beds are needed if cases increase. Anticipating a shortage of beds in near future, the district administration is asking new patients to be in home quarantine if they have exclusive rooms in their houses. Previously, all patients who tested positive were admitted to hospital for at least 14 days. But sources told The Hindu that patients without exclusive room facility were asked to undergo home quarantine as the district was unable to bear the expenditure in hospitals. The district administration could get around Rs. 10 crore for COVID-19 operations but the amount may not be sufficient as the government officials have to ensure food for patients as well as returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-quarantine-only-option-for-new-patients/article32073494.ece
14 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Politicos among COVID-19 patients in Srikakulam||Many public representatives and officials have contracted COVID-19 in Srikakulam district. Palakonda MLA V. Kalavati tested positive a few days ago and a senior doctor Daneti Sridhar, who recently joined the YSR Congress Party, was diagnosed with COVID-19 on Monday. A few family members of Ms. Kalavati were also infected causing concern among her followers and loyalists. She recently participated in several official programmes along with Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitaram and Minister for Roads and Buildings Dharmana Krishnadas. Many political leaders and officials attended the inauguration of a statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Amadalavalasa on July 8. That day saw a massive gathering and violation of COVID-19 protocol like social distancing and wearing of masks. The District Medical and Health Department conducted COVID-19 tests for all the prominent people and advised them to be cautious at least for a few weeks in spite of the initial negative reports. The doctors advised them to be in isolation and avoid all public meetings. Consequently, Mr. Sitaram and Mr. Krishnadas reportedly directed all the officials and party functionaries not to organise any meetings for a couple of weeks.  Meanwhile, the district police have also been on a high alert with the identification of positive cases among two DSP-rank officials. A few cases were also reported in the Armed Reserve police battalion also. Many doctors and medical staff of Srikakulam, Sompeta, Gara and other areas have also tested positive for COVID-19. However, all of them are said to be recovering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/politicos-among-covid-19-patients-in-srikakulam/article32073562.ece
14 July 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of discharges more than active cases in Visakhapatnam district||While the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district has seen a steep rise in the last one month taking the total to 2,078 as on June 13th morning, the brighter side has been the number of discharges. Visakhapatnam is one among the few districts where the number of discharges are more than the active cases. While on June 13th morning, the number of active cases stand at 971, the discharges have been 1,082. One reason for the more number of discharges, as per the health officials, is that the number of people who tested positive from hotspots have been discharged in large numbers. A number of cases that were reported within a short time from hotspots such as Peda Jalaripeta, Anakapalle and Appughar. The same people were discharged in the last few days, which has shot up the discharge count. Another aspect that has increased the count of discharges in the recent times is the new Government Instant Order No. 62. As per the order, every positive person is to be treated for a period of 10 days, instead of the earlier 14 days and discharged without a swab test. Elaborating on it, a senior doctor with the Health Department in the COVID frontline said, “Earlier, after a period of 10 days of treatment, swab was taken on the 11th day, the report was given on the 12th day and on the 13th day the case was examined by the discharge committee and the patient was then released on the 14th day. Now, as per the new order, if a person has no symptoms on the 10th day, he or she is released without the swab test. Thereafter, they are put into one-week home quarantine and their health condition is monitored by a separate team. This how we are saving three days and that is why the discharges are higher,” he said. Pressure for beds rises But sources say that since the pressure for beds are on the rise with the steep increase in cases, which has been averaging over 100 in the last few days, the district authorities are under pressure for beds in the designated COVID hospitals. The logic is simple, more the discharges, the more will be the availability of beds, said a doctor. To handle the situation, the district authorities have set up COVID Care Centres (CCC), to admit the asymptomatic persons, so that beds are available in the hospitals for those who need treatment. According to District Collector V. Vinay Chand, the target is to have at least 7,000 beds in CCC and about 5,000 beds ready in hospitals with at least 2,000 connected to oxygen or ventilators. According to a senior doctor, the treatment is basically symptomatic with focus on stabilising the co-morbidities. But for critical cases and those in ventilators or administered oxygen, the treatment is different and the protocol is different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/number-of-discharges-more-than-active-cases-in-the-district/article32073577.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delhi HC issues notices to EC, Jagan’s party on use of name||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued notices to the Election Commission of India (ECI) and Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress (the party founded by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy) upon hearing a writ petition filed by Anna YSR Congress Party president S. Mahabub Basha for de-recognition of the ruling party in Andhra Pradesh under Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order of 1968. Justice Jayant Nath posted the next hearing to September 3, by which time the respondents have to submit their replies. In his petition, Mr. Basha argued that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s party (2nd respondent) was obliged as per the ECI (first respondent)’s directions to use the name ‘Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party’ and not its abbreviated form ‘YSR Congress Party’, which is an integral part of the name ‘Anna YSR Congress Party’. ‘Wilful disobedience’ The petitioner contended that the second respondent was guilty of wilful disobedience of the ECI’s directions, which was aggravated by the fact that it (2nd respondent)’s application for the right to use the abbreviation ‘YSR Congress’ was rejected in the past. Mr. Basha further stated that the second respondent had been selectively representing itself as ‘Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party’ in all its filings and communications before the ECI, but blatantly doing the opposite in general elections and political documents such as the show-cause notice issued to Narasapuram Lok Sabha member K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju in the name of the ‘YSR Congress Party’. Mr. Basha was represented by senior advocates Meenakshi Arora and Vipin Nair. It may be noted that Mr. Ramakrishna Raju earlier had filed a petition in the Andhra Pradesh High Court challenging the validity of the letterhead on which Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy served a show-cause notice on him for allegedly indulging in anti-party activities. The ECI, Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress, Anna YSR Congress and Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy were the respondents in the petition which Mr. Ramakrishna Raju filed in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delhi-hc-issues-notices-to-ec-jagans-party-on-use-of-name/article32073549.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 2,000 ‘social media activists’ under scanner||Police investigating cybercrime and bullying cases have identified more than 2,000 self-proclaimed social media activists who were targeting individuals and trying to tarnish the image of the government and welfare schemes by posting malicious content in social media groups. The Crime Investigation Department (CID), the Cyber Crime wing and the law and order police of the State have arrested more than 25 such individuals in the last few days. Many cases are under investigation in the State, said the police. Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said some people and agencies were using social media as a tool by posting malicious content and resorting to methods like morphing and other false means to target bureaucrats, public representatives and some VIPs. “The persons who post false information on individuals, religions, groups, shrines and government departments with an intention to provoke violence and create enmity will be booked and those who forward or promote such comments and content will not be spared either,” Mr. Sawang said. Expressing concern over the spurt in cybercrime in the State, CID Additional DGP P.V. Sunil Kumar said the persons who misuse Internet or any other electronic means to harass any individual, group or an organisation would be booked under the provisions of the IT Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).  Tough laws CID Superintendent of Police G.R. Radhika said offenders are liable for punishment under Section 505 of IPC. If any social media user seeks to insult a religion by words or signs, action would be taken under Sections 298, 295 (a) and 153 (a), the SP said. Obscene posts “Persons posting false and obscene messages and those resorting to cheating by impersonation will be booked under Section 499 and 500. Similarly, those sending obscene messages, photographs and sexually explicit material can be arrested under Section 67 or 67 (a),” Ms. Radhika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-2000-social-media-activists-under-scanner/article32073074.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aarogyasri to cover all medical expenditure exceeding Rs. 1,000||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials of Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department to ensure that the Aarogyasri scheme is applicable to all cases where the expenditure exceeds Rs. 1,000 in Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam, Guntur, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, beginning July 14 (Tuesday). During a review meeting with YSR Aarogyasri Trust CEO A. Mallikarjuna and other officials on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that he had promised in the run-up to 2019 elections that cases where patients had incurred expenditure more than Rs. 1,000 would be brought under the purview of the Aarogyasri scheme. “As many as 2,146 types of diseases have been brought under the ambit of the Aarogyasri scheme. No effort should be spared in implementing it in letter and spirit. Even type of cancer has been included in the list of diseases covered under the scheme. Only 1,059 types of diseases were covered during the TDP regime,” said the Chief Minister. ‘Pay salaries to contract workers on time’ Meanwhile, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to pay salaries to the workers hired by various government departments on contract basis on time through the ‘green channel’. He said that all contract workers engaged in departments, societies and universities must get their salaries like other government employees and the amounts need to be directly credited into their bank accounts. He pointed out that the previous government had announced a minimum time-scale salary to about 54,000 contract employees just before the Assembly elections, but had done nothing for them. “It was only from July 2019 that the minimum time-scale salary to contract employees was being implemented. There was a hike of 88% to 95 % in the salaries when compared to that of March 31, 2017,” said the Chief Minister.  Social security benefits Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also directed the officials to prepare a report prepare a report on the social security benefits to contract workers and submit it to the government at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aarogyasri-to-cover-all-medical-expenditure-exceeding-rs-1000/article32073350.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to introduce host of passenger-friendly services||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation is planning to introduce ‘O’ account wallet, city buses in 25 proposed districts, battery buses, restroom buses, sight-seeing services and bus stations development to encourage the public transport system, said outgoing Public Transport Department Commissioner and APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Madireddi Pratap. Listing the initiatives taken up in the last few months at a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Pratap said RTC is planning to issue ‘O’ account wallet based on Aadhaar cards to villagers. The accounts would be opened with the help of a social startup company. Once the driver enters the destination, the fare will be displayed and the passenger has to show his or her card to the machine and accordingly the fare would be deducted.  Electric buses RTC had drawn up plans to introduce metro network. Under this system, a bus terminal will be set up every 500 metres connecting industrial areas, markets and other public places. The corporation has prepared a detailed project report to introduce city services in the proposed 25 districts. “Initially, we are planning to launch them in Kakinada, connecting Samalkot, Ramachandrapuram, Peddapuram, Karapa and other places,” Mr. Pratap said. As electric buses were not fully viable, RTC has plans to run buses with battery swap technology in cities, which will help reduce pollution. Discussions were held with the Sun Mobility Company, which was supplying batteries to autos. One Saptagiri bus in Tirupati was converted into an electric bus and a Veera bus would be operated on an experimental basis. “ We are planning to run electric buses from August 15,” he said.  Commercial space The RTC is planning to enhance commercial space at bus stations which would generate an estimated revenue of Rs. 180 crore per year, and the tender process would begin soon. Space would be given on lease for setting up 79 petrol bunks across the State at its bus stations and depots, Mr. Pratap said, adding that the corporation was planning a tie-up with Flipkart and Amazon and some international courier services to offer more services, he said. Executive Directors K.S. Brahmananda Reddy and A. Koteswara Rao were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-to-introduce-host-of-passenger-friendly-services/article32073556.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID patients left in the lurch’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday accused the State government of not providing even basic facilities for the COVID-19 patients at government quarantine centres. Mr. Naidu, on Monday, tweeted that the YSRCP was making tall claims of spending huge amounts on the recovery of patients, but the facilities being provided at the field level were far from satisfactory. The people’s insecurities were increasing on seeing the deteriorating conditions at the quarantine centres. ‘Prove commitment’ The government should take up activities that instil confidence among people about the services being rendered, but such a situation was not prevailing in the State. The TDP president advised the Chief Minister to prove his commitment to public service in deeds but not in statements. Mr. Naidu made this criticism in response to a video that showed patients at a quarantine centre complaining about poor quality food . The patients flayed the government for not providing even basic facilities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-patients-left-in-the-lurch/article32073547.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual hearing at High Court till Aug. 3||The Registrar General of High Court has issued a fresh notification to the effect that the judicial work in the court, State Legal Services Authority and the Arbitration and Mediation Centre working under the control of the HC will be done through video- conferencing only from July 14 to August 3 due to the alarming rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. It has also been stipulated that filing of cases should be only through e-filing (cases sent through e-mail will not be entertained). The hearing of all cases will be through Blue Jeans video-conferencing application or any other one approved by the High Court. The judges will have the liberty to continue virtual courts from their residences. The cases filed from June 24 will be listed case-by-case for motion hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virtual-hearing-at-high-court-till-aug-3/article32073070.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Replacing all BLOs not necessary, says TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member Varla Ramaiah wrote a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer and Ex-Officio Principal Secretary on Monday requesting him to direct the District Collectors and District Election Officers to replace the existing BLOs only in the case of a “genuine need and necessity” with village/ward secretariat employees. Mr. Ramaiah, referring to the instructions issued by the CEO, said it was unjustified to remove Anganwadi teachers/workers as booth level officers (BLOs) and appointing village/ward secretariat employees in their place. As per the commission vide its letter no. 23/BLO/2010-ERS dated 03.11.2010, it had only recommended a suggestive list of categories of government/semi government employees that could be appointed as BLOs. “As Anganwadi teachers/workers have been working as BLOs since long they are experienced and have discharged their duties efficiently in the past. We came to know that in some villages or municipalities all the existing BLOs were replaced with village/ward secretariat employees,” he said. Such a step would create problems as new staff would lack experience, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/replacing-all-blos-not-necessary-says-tdp/article32073069.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD lending in State touches all-time high||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Chief General Manager Sudhir Kumar Jannawar has said the loans disbursed by the NABARD Andhra Pradesh Regional Office reached an all-time high of Rs. 27,992 crore. It includes Rs. 20,515 crore refinance support extended to the banks in the State for supporting their short-term crop loans and long-term farm loans. The NABARD also disbursed more than Rs. 2,000 crore for the implementation of infrastructure projects in the State as per the priorities of the State government, which includes Polavaram Project and Chintalapudi Lift-Irrigation Project, he said. Mr. Jannawar was addressing ‘Digital Choupal’, an online event organised in connection with the 39th Foundation Day of the bank. The event was hosted on YouTube and Facebook on Monday. The NABARD also extended support of more than Rs. 4,000 crore to AP State Civil Supplies Corporation for paddy procurement operations. To meet the liquidity needs of the RRBs and cooperative banks in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Rs. 2,500 crore was released under the Special Liquidity Facility, he said. During 2019-20, the NABARD Andhra Pradesh Regional Office supported many promotional and developmental programmes to the tune of Rs. 30 crore. As many as 100 farm producer organisations and 50 tribal development projects were supported by NABARD so far, he said. Literacy camps Mr. Jannawar also indicated that in order to strengthen the banking network and to promote inclusive banking, the NABARD would continue to support financial inclusion initiatives in the State such as conducting financial and digital literacy camps, conducting street-plays on financial literacy, supporting mobile demonstration vans-cum-micro-ATMs for doorstep banking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nabard-lending-in-state-touches-all-time-high/article32073068.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC alleges harassment of senior civil servants||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLC Buddha Venkanna has alleged that the State government is “harassing and frequently transferring” IAS and other senior civil servants. The civil servants were being transferred and posted at the whims and fancies of the ruling party leaders and in utter disregard for the Constitution, he alleged while addressing the media here on Monday. ‘Unconstitutional’  Mr. Venkanna said it was unconstitutional on the part of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to use civil servants by denying them their constitutional roles. The Chief Minister’s advisors were acting as “extra-constitutional authorities with unlimited powers”. Civil servants such as L.V. Subrahmanyam, Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, P.V. Ramesh and Jasthi Krishna Kishore faced harassment and victimisation. The Chief Minister was not conscious of the fact that the IAS officers were appointed at the national level and that they were bound to act by the Constitution. “Only out of ignorance, Mr. Reddy has appointed 33 advisors to run an extra-constitutional government without involving civil servants, Ministers or departmental heads in the decision-making process,” he said. It was because of Mr. Reddy’s reluctance to follow the advice of IAS officers that his government’s decisions suffered strictures from the courts for over 60 times. Still Mr. Reddy did not change and was continuing to undermine IAS officers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-alleges-harassment-of-senior-civil-servants/article32073067.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drive to protect kids from virus||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) in association will other departments will conduct a week-long joint campaign titled Operation Muskaan COVID-19 from July 14. The objective of the drive is to protect children from the virus in view of Unlock-2. Labour, Women Development and Child Welfare and Police officials will take part in the drive. CID Additional DGP P.V. Sunil Kumar spoke with all Police Commissioners and SPs on the launch of the programme on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drive-to-protect-kids-from-virus/article32073073.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight CETs postponed||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh has said the government has postponed eight Common Entrance Tests (CETs) in the State. The new dates for the tests would be announced later, Mr. Suresh said after releasing the new syllabus for undergraduate courses for the 2020-21 academic year, on Monday. In the wake of COVID-19, EAMCET, ECET, LAWCET, PGCET and other tests have been postponed. Mr. Suresh said degree exams have been postponed and the first and second year students will be promoted, and final year exams may be held by September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-cets-postponed/article32073554.ece
14 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 6.87 crore sanctioned for power works of Kadapa Steel||The State government has given administrative sanction for a fund of Rs. 6.87 crore to meet the expenditure incurred by power requirement of A.P. High Grade Steels Limited, a special purpose vehicle formed under the Companies Act, 2013 for setting up an integrated steel plant in Kadapa district. G.O. issued A notice in this regard has been issued by the Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL), according to the G.O. 143 issued by Special Chief Secretary (industries and commerce) R. Karikal Valaven. It was mentioned in the G.O. that the A.P. High Grade Steels Limited had applied for a load of 10,000 KVA for the construction works related to its power requirement and the SPDCL had taken the necessary steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-687-crore-sanctioned-for-power-works-of-kadapa-steel/article32073548.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up care centres in all constituencies, officials told||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has directed the officials concerned to survey all possible locations in different Assembly constituencies in the district for establishment of COVID-19 care centres, and report to him by Tuesday evening. The Collector held a review meeting with the revenue and medical officials on the COVID-19 measures being taken in the district on Monday. He said that in view of the extensive spread of new cases in both rural and urban areas, the State government has directed that COVID-19 care centres should be established at centrally-located places in the purview of different constituencies. In view of the increase in mild, very mild and asymptomatic cases, arrangements were being made to admit these type of cases into the treatment centres and provide care to them. The supervision of the care centres would be the responsibility of the Revenue Divisional Officers. A Special Officer each would be posted for the constituency-level care centre. He directed the doctors of the network hospitals under AP Vaidya Vidhan Parishad to ensure that each care centre has at least 300 beds, triax facility, testing facilities like X-Ray, ECG and blood tests. Truenat, Rapid Antigen tests should be made available. Testing centres should be opened at all PHCs and CHCs in the district and isolation beds should be kept ready at Area Hospitals and Community Health Centres. An ambulance should be invariably stationed at the COVID care centre and medical officers and staff should be available round the clock. At the mandal-level, if 200 to 300 beds were available, quarantine centres should be kept ready and the Tehsildar concerned would be in charge of that centre. Food should be supplied to the patients in accordance with the prescribed menu and availability of water, fans, lights and proper sanitation of the toilets should be ensured. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector Arun Babu, DRO Sridevi, Visakhapatnam, Anakapalle and Narsipatnam RDOs P. Kishore, Sitarama Rao and Lakshmi Sivajyothi, DM & HO S. Tirupathi Rao, AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar, D CHS Lakshman Rao and GVMC CMOH Sastry were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-care-centres-in-all-constituencies-officials-told/article32073571.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sw eet pickle turns bitter for Haripalem||The pickle-makers of Haripalem village in the district are hit hard by COVID-19. The rapid spread of the virus at a time when they are preparing to market their produce has put a question mark on sales this year. Their work starts with the procurement of raw mangoes from nearby villages in April. The raw mangoes are cut, soaked in salt water and later dried in sunlight. Jaggery, spices and oil are added to the dried mango pieces and the mixture is preserved in a container for a month, after which the pickle is ready to be savoured. “Huge stocks of pickle are left unsold this year due to COVID-19 and the restrictions on transport. Consequently, the prices have fallen. This year we have no hope of recovering our investment and repaying our bank loans will be tough,” laments P. Hymavathi, who runs a unit.  Haripalem on the Anakapalle-Atchutapuram route has an over five-decade-old tradition of making the sweet mango pickle but is not known to many, though located hardly 45 km from the city. It began with one or two families procuring the ‘Collector’ and other mango varieties from nearby villages, and starting the pickle business in a small way. Over a period, most of the families in the village jumped into the fray and the mango pickle business has developed into a cottage industry. “Today, around 150 families are directly dependent on it and double that number are indirectly involved in it. The cement concrete road in between the houses in the colony and some rooftops are used to dry the mango pieces,” says a pickle-maker P. Rambabu. Bulk producers “Some families make small qualities but there are a few who produce up to 1,000 kg of pickle. The bulk sellers transport the product by sea to Port Blair, Paradeep and West Bengal where they market it themselves or through their representatives sent from here. They generally stay there for a few months till they exhaust the stocks,” says Pentakota Varaha, who frequents Port Blair to sell the pickle. The villagers also sell the pickle at Vaddadi, Paderu, Chintapalli and some places in Srikakulam. They usually carry small quantities in baskets and reach those places by bus and return home in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sw-eet-pickle-turns-bitter-for-haripalem/article32073558.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||More govt. hospitals will be converted into COVID facilities: Vinay Chand||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that more government hospitals in the district will be converted into COVID hospitals. The Collector visited the Government ENT Hospital, Government Hospital for Mental Care and the RCD Hospital on Monday. He directed the officials concerned to arrange the necessary infrastructure at these hospitals in this regard. He saw the collection of swab from suspected patients and registration being done at the ENT Hospital apart from inspecting the supply of oxygen and issued instruction to the Superintendent. Joint Collector-2 P. Arun Babu, COVID-19 Regional Coordinator P.V. Sudhakar and DMHO S. Tirupathi Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-govt-hospitals-will-be-converted-into-covid-facilities-vinay-chand/article32073574.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘ends life’ after wife’s death||A man in his late twenties allegedly ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan at his home at Simhagiri Colony here on Monday. According to the police, Sravan Kumar allegedly ended life three days after his wife died while giving birth to a baby boy. Those in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-ends-life-after-wifes-death/article32073581.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees four more deaths, 118 new cases||The district recorded 118 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,196 cases so far. The district also recorded four deaths taking the total to 29. At the same time there were 76 discharges, which puts the discharges at 1,158. With the 118 new cases, the number of active cases are 1009. According to district COVID-19 Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, very active clusters are 119, active clusters 211, dormant 101 and denotified clusters are 39.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-four-more-deaths-118-new-cases/article32073580.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to Mudragada||Kapu movement leader and former Minister Mudragada Padmanabham should reconsider his decision to distance himself from the movement, appealed K.V.V.V. Satyanarayana, president of Kapu Elite, Visakhapatnam. In a statement here on Monday, Mr. Satyanarayana said that Mr. Padmanabham’s services to the community during the last 25 years were unparalleled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-mudragada/article32073569.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM conducts online exams, declares results||GITAM Deemed to be University has conducted 18,504 examinations online for final year students, with 99.88 % attendance, and declared the results. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has made it mandatory for universities and colleges to conduct the final year examinations by the end of September 2020 in online/offline/blended mode. Vice-Chancellor K. Sivarama Krishna said that grade cards, provisional and migration certificates would be issued soon. Supplementary examinations for backlog subjects would be conducted from July 16. For students, who wish to improve their grades, an opportunity would be provided to take the betterment examinations at a later date. The university has prepared the academic calendar for 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-conducts-online-exams-declares-results/article32073568.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PDS rice seized, 2 held||Based on reliable information, the City Task Force (CTF) team led by ACP A. Trinad Rao raided a premises at Chaitanya Nagar under MVP Police Station limits on Monday and apprehended two persons Dumpa Gurumurthy and Patlada Appalaraju and seized 2.1 tonnes of PDS rice from their possession. The apprehended persons and the seized materials were handed over to the MVP police, for further action. In another raid, the CTF team conducted raids at Arilova and Gajuwaka and apprehended 10 persons for indulging in gambling. The CTF team seized over Rs. 50,000 from the raids. The CTF also conducted a counselling session for rowdy-sheeters from PM Palem and Aanandapuram police stations, at the CTF office. Mr. Trinad Rao warned them not to indulge in any criminal activities, settlements, land grabbing and breach of peace and public tranquillity. In another raid at a pan shop near NAD Kotha Road, the CTF team apprehended one person Goddu Balakrishna and seized 42 liquor bottles. The apprehended person along with the seized bottles were handed over Airport Police Station, for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pds-rice-seized-2-held/article32073579.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to conduct online course on ‘pranayama’||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, will be conducting an online one-month course on ‘pranayama’ to develop immunity to fight COVID-19 pandemic. The classes will be held from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. For more details call: 8985947523.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-to-conduct-online-course-on-pranayama/article32073578.ece
14 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing equipment donated||Coromandal International Limited (CIL) donated 305 oximeters, 305 thermometers and 305 BP appratus, all worth Rs. 20 lakh, for the testing of COVID-19 patients. The CIL officials handed over the equipment to District Collector V.Vinay Chand at the Collectorate on Monday. M. Kurareson, vice president, K. Rangakumar, head HR, and Sharma, PR consultant, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-equipment-donated/article32073573.ece
14 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders plan voluntary lockdown||All markets in Vizianagaram will remain closed between July 16 and 21 as part of the 'voluntary lockdown', according to Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy. While addressing the media on Monday, Mr. Swamy said that the lockdown was necessitated with the increase in the coronavirus cases in the Fort City and surrounding areas. He said another lockdown would begin on August 1 and continue for ten days. However, the shops will function as usual between July 22 and 31 to meet the customers’ needs in auspicious Sravanam. Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce representatives informed Collector M.Hari Jawaharlal and SP B. Rajakumari over the decision of the trade body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traders-plan-voluntary-lockdown/article32073505.ece
14 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader stabbed||A local BJP leader, Kalla Narayana Rao, received serious injuries when he was stabbed allegedly by ruling party activists in Vizianagaram on Monday night. His condition is said to be critical, and he was shifted to a hospital in Visakhapatnam.Mr. Rao reportedly had arguments with local YSRCP leaders who allegedly stabbed him on his stomach multiple times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leader-stabbed/article32073546.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brimming reservoirs kindle hope among Krishna delta farmers||Even as the southwest monsoon is advancing over large parts of the state, the good news for farmers is that all the major reservoirs in Krishna Basin are brimming with flood waters. With heavy rainfall in the catchment areas and copious inflows into the reservoirs in the Krishna basin upstream Prakasam Barrage, the delta farmers now can look forward to a good cropping season. The water levels at Alamati reservoir stand at 1,698.33 feet, just a few notches below the full reservoir level of 1,705 feet. The dam, at present, is holding 98.51 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) of water as against its gross capacity of 129.21 tmcft. Jurala dam is brimming as the water levels are touching 1,042.91 feet when compared to its full reservoir level (FRL) of 1,045 feet, while the same for Narayanpur reservoir is 1,612.9 feet as against its FRL of 1,615 feet. Same is the situation at Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar, which are also important to the delta farmers. Srisailam reservoir is receiving heavy inflows, with its water levels touching 815 feet as against the FRL of 885 feet, while Nagarjuna Sagar is maintaining a water level of 530 feet as against the FRL of 590 feet. The Nagarjuna Sagar has 168.15 tmcft of water as against its capacity of 312 tmcft.  Cropping activities This scenario is quite in contrast to the previous years when the reservoirs upstream Prakasam Barrage would go dry, delaying the cropping activities in the delta region. Delay in the release of water into the Krishna Western Delta and Krishna Eastern Delta would force the farmers to undertake the sowing of paddy only towards the end of July, affecting the yield. With the reservoirs brimming to their capacities now, the government could plan for the early release of water by the third week of this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brimming-reservoirs-kindle-hope-among-krishna-delta-farmers/article32073553.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buffer zone mandatory for all hazardous industries: panel||The high-power committee which probed into the styrene leak incident at the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, in its report, has said that the industries dealing with hazardous chemicals must maintain buffer zones and the areas should not be used for any other purpose. If the technical suggestions made by the panel for such industries located close to residential areas are to be implemented in toto, sources say many units including several PSUs need to do think about relocation. The 400-page report submitted by the panel has not only highlighted the lapses that caused the styrene leak at the LG Polymers, but also recommended a slew of measures for the hazardous industries and the regulatory bodies to prevent such accidents. “All the industries dealing with hazardous chemicals and those operating in the vicinity of residential areas should maintain buffer zones with fail. And these zones must not be used for any other purpose,” the HPC lead by Neerabh Kumar Prasadsaid in the report. The report clearly mentioned that residential areas had mushroomed near the LG Polymers in the last two decades and permissions were accorded to more than 50 layouts in the vicinity of the plant, in violation of the buffer zone norms. The panel, in its report, said that of the 265 industries— 75 categorised as red, 85 orange and 105 green—operating in the limits of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), 15 were ‘hazardous’ units. Storing of chemicals The panel has recommended that hazardous industries located close to residential areas should not store chemicals in tanks beyond 500 KL capacity on the plant premises. The chemicals should be stored in bulk only in the locations away from habitations. The report has insisted on constant monitoring of onsite and offsite emergency plans, regular mock drills and supervision on the emission of gases by regulatory authorities such as Inspector of Factories, pollution control boards . Plans for emergency It has suggested installation of sensors in plants to detect the release of hazardous gases. “Sensors should alert the officials of local police stations, nearest fire station, SDRF cell at the Collectorate, the Inspector of Factories and APPCB,” said Mr. Neerabh Kumar. Speaking to The Hindu, N. Kalidas of the Institute for Solid Waste Research & Ecological Balance (INSWAREB), said it was time the suggestions made by the HPC were implemented in toto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buffer-zone-mandatory-for-all-hazardous-industries-panel/article32073551.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood of opportunity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-of-opportunity/article32073076.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veggie delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veggie-delight/article32073510.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||What a catch!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/what-a-catch/article32073567.ece
14 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||This narrow bridge is lifeline of Bhadrachalam Agency||Although the existing bridge across the Godavari in Bhadrachalam town completed 55 years on Monday much to the delight of denizens of the temple town, the long awaited relief from the frequent traffic snarls on the narrow bridge continues to elude them. The bridge was opened by the then President of India S Radhakrishnan on July 13, 1965. Since then, it has been serving as a lifeline for the vast tribal hinterland spanning large swathes of forest fringe areas in Bhadrachalam Agency and the neighbouring States. To address the recurring problem of traffic congestion on the decades old bridge, a new bridge was sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs. 98.45 crore nearly six years ago. Construction of the new bridge of 1.20 km length and 12 metre width began parallel to the existing bridge across the Godavari in 2015. Work on the bridge came to a standstill in March this year apparently under the impact of the coronavirus crisis after completion of nearly 70 % of the works of the major components of the project, sources said. The executing agency has missed several deadlines for completion of the new bridge much to the disappointment of residents of the temple town and other road users. The suspension of works on the new bridge midway by the firm tasked with its construction citing the pandemic induced crisis is highly deplorable, flayed Raju, a resident of bridge centre in Bhadrachalam. Hundreds of heavy trucks and other vehicles pass through the vital inter-State road link causing frequent traffic snarls at the narrow stretch of the existing bridge, he pointed out. It is imperative to complete the new bridge on a mission mode to reduce traffic congestion in the historic temple town of Bhadrachalam, said Bhadrachala Prantha Parirakshana Committee chairman B Shankar Reddy. The new bridge under construction forms a crucial link of the National Highway-30 (Old NH 221), he noted, underscoring the urgent need for its speedy completion to improve the inter-State road connectivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/this-narrow-bridge-is-lifeline-of-bhadrachalam-agency/article32073352.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Too many patients, too few care providers||Gandhi Hospital may be identified as a ‘Centre of Excellence for COVID Care’ but niggling issues continue to hamper its reputation. Complaints have surfaced of COVID patients on oxygen support waiting for hours on end for their soiled diapers to be changed, leading to embarrassment. There are around 100 patient care providers at the hospital who are divided into batches to work three shifts a day. Around 30 of them per shift have to attend patients on oxygen support. As on Sunday, there were 438 patients at the hospital who were on oxygen or continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) support. Patients and their attendants have put forth the issue before authorities for redressal. Doctors and staff opine more patient care providers are needed to address the issue at the earliest as existing patients are in distress and the situation will take a turn for the worse as cases are increasing. Only patients with moderate to severe form of COVID are admitted at Gandhi Hospital. Doctors said patients on oxygen support should not move away from the bed for using bathrooms or any other purpose as they may collapse leading to other injuries as it had happened on a few occasions. Heavy workload Urine bags are attached to beds, and diapers are provided so that patients don’t get off the beds. “The diapers have to be changed every time it is soiled. We change it at least twice at the start and end of our shift. But this is not the only task. We have to make their beds and feed the elderly patients. How can 20 patient care providers attend more than 400 patients,” a patient care provider asked. Doctors said every day they get requests from patients for a patient care provider. “Picture this: an adult who was able to walk around and do their work until a few days ago falls so sick that they need someone has to change their diapers. Now imagine them being in bed with soiled, smelly diapers for long hours, shouting for help. They direct their frustration at doctors and nurses, and complain to their family members. The current staff cannot attend all patients as they are insufficient in numbers,” said a doctor who has been attending COVID patients since March. ‘Attract with incentives’ The doctors said that there is a definite need for more staff who can attend such duties. “People are hesitating to join duty at Gandhi Hospital because of stigma attached to COVID patients. This, despite our appeals which are clearly not working. Attractive salary along with daily incentives, and assurance that all safety gear will be provided might help in recruiting more people for the job,” sources at the hospital said. Doctors said that though hundreds of patients in critical condition were being discharged from Gandhi Hospital after full recovery, the above issues were overshadowing their good work. “COVID patients with cancer, cardiac issues and other serious complications have recovered at this government hospital. All those patients thank us. But people do not get to know about it,” another doctor rued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/too-many-patients-too-few-care-providers/article32073302.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Make stance clear on online classes: HC||Come with a clear stand on permitting private schools conducting online classes to students, the Telangana High Court told the State government on Monday. Resuming the hearing of a PIL plea challenging the action of private schools holding online classes to students, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy observed that the government was making contradictory statements on the matter. On one hand the State government said it had not permitted private schools to convene classes online and on the other it maintained that the Centre had issued guidelines permitting online classes for school students. If the Centre’s decision was binding on the State on the issue of online classes, then what was the point in claiming that it was not permitting private schools to do so, the bench sought to know. Special government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar told the bench that the State government’s policy on the issue was under preparation. The bench asked the SGP how much time the government would require to finalise the policy. The SGP replied that in 10 days the government would issue notification on the matter. Referring to the SGP’s statement that the academic year for 2020-21 for schools had not yet begun, the bench said the government’s stand on the whole issue was unclear. “It is like BCCI deciding not to permit a cricket match and yet you want one of the players to hit a sixer in the first over,” the CJ remarked. Lawyer Adinarayana Rao, appearing for private schools following Central board curriculum, said syllabus and subjects were cut down for online classes. Wondering how primary school students would focus on online classes, the bench asked the lawyer what would be ‘attention span’ of a first standard student in online class. The lawyer said it was the parents’ responsibility to ensure the students paid attention to online classes. “When grown up children are not listening to the parents, will kids of primary school follow parents’ advisory?” the bench remarked. The CJ said the Centre had said the subject and content of the online classes would not be part of the syllabus for the exams to be held in the future. If the content of online classes is not part of the syllabus of exams to be held at a later date, the students would not be interested in attending the same, he said. It would be better to give a comic book to the student instead of compelling him to attend online classes not connected to their syllabus, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/make-stance-clear-on-online-classes-hc/article32073312.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Curb on oxygen cylinder sale deals blow to home-quarantined patients||The recent crackdown on unlicensed supply of oxygen cylinders across Telangana may have exposed the black marketeers, but has also, once again, opened a demand-supply gap that social activists and NGOs were trying to fill. Social activists had stepped in to facilitate supply of oxygen cylinders for emergency use by COVID-19 patients and suspects who were quarantined at home and unable to immediately get admitted to government hospitals, given that admission in State-run health facilities can be a notoriously slow process. Then there were some others who had booked the cylinders in advance anticipating that the patient or suspect at home might develop respiratory problems. However, the police department and Drug Control Administration (DCA) conducted inspections recently and nabbed a few persons for illegally hoarding oxygen cylinders. DCA officials found discrepancies at 14 cylinders distribution units and one manufacturing unit. They cited threat of explosion, need for medical supervision and permissions as reasons for the inspections. Doctors, too, advised against administering oxygen at home as a patient or suspect’s condition has to be assessed before deciding whether the person needs oxygen support through the cylinder or mechanical ventilator. No more involvement In view of the inspections and associated risks of using an oxygen cylinder without medical advice, social activists and NGOs can no longer be involved in the supply process. The relative of a COVID patient explained that the reasons for booking or buying an oxygen cylinder are many — inordinate delay in admission at a government hospital, concerns over affordability in case of checking into a private hospital, being redirected from one hospital to another in search of a bed, etc. “Family members of the patients or suspects suffering from shortness of breath used to request for oxygen cylinders until they found a hospital bed. We helped them in getting oxygen cylinders only under medical supervision. We have a team of doctors who review condition of the patient and advise the amount of oxygen that needs to be administered. In some cases, patients are suggested hospitalisation rather than home care by doctors. But there were a few others who were scared to get admitted to hospitals and requested for a cylinder at home. However, we stopped providing them help from Friday,” said Mujtaba Askari, trustee at Helping Hand Foundation. K. Sai Teja, a social activist, said that they too had extended help in getting cylinders to people who experienced delay in getting admitted to government hospitals, but are no longer able to do so, leading to gaps in the healthcare delivery system. This could be resolved if patients or suspects are shifted from their home in ambulances and admitted to government hospitals without delay, he suggests.  There were a few people who were scared to get admitted to hospitals and requested for a cylinder at home. But, we stopped providing them help from Friday. Mujtaba Askari, Trustee at Helping Hand Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/curb-on-oxygen-cylinder-sale-deals-blow-to-home-quarantined-patients/article32073300.ece
14 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Doctor turns tractor driver to take victim’s body for funeral||In a touching culmination of a COVID-19 tragedy, a doctor in Peddapalli district drove a tractor to ferry the body of a 45-year-old to the burial ground on Sunday. The heart-warming gesture by Pendyala Srinivasa Sriram, a video of which went viral on social media, came at a time when there have been instances of mishandling of COVID victims’ bodies across the country. Clad in personal protective equipment (PPE), Dr. Sriram, who works at Peddapalli Government Hospital and is also the District COVID-19 Surveillance Officer, took to the wheels of a municipal tractor after its driver refused to carry the dead bodies to burial ground, fearing contamination. With no ambulance available, the hospital staff requested the municipality to provide a tractor to shift the body to burial ground, which was two kilometres away. The driver reached the spot, but after he learnt that a body of a man infected with the virus was to be shifted, he refused. When Dr. Sriram came to know about the incident, he rushed to the spot, get up on the tractor and drove the body to the burial ground, accompanied by four family members. He even waited till the last rites were completed. The doctor said there is a lack of awareness and knowledge about the infection and its spread. “When handled with proper PPE, the spread of virus can be checked. Generally, the bodies are disinfected and packed properly,” he added. Since it was the first death at Peddapalli government hospital, the authorities did not know how to handle the bodies with standard operating procedure and were in a hurry to dispose of it. But, Dr Sriram, being a passionate farmer, knew how to drive a tractor and helped the victim’s family cremate the body with dignity.  When handled with proper PPE, the spread of virus can be checked. Generally, the bodies are disinfected and packed properly. Pendyala Srinivasa Sriram, COVID-19 Surveillance Officer, Peddapalli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctor-turns-tractor-driver-to-take-victims-body-for-funeral/article32073307.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Initiative for budding ventures||For start-ups struggling in the face of COVID-19 impact on business, the Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) in association with some of the prominent incubators in the city has rolled out a programme to help such budding ventures rejig their strategies. The Re-jig.HydStartups initiative will be powered by incubators like T-Hub, CIE-IIITH, IKP, RICH and TiE. Startups from various domains will be enabled through domain-specific mentoring and market access. The sectors targeted are— EdTech, FinTech, FMCG, Manufacturing, Agri/Food tech, Med/Life sciences and emerging technologies, a release from IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s office said. IKP Chairman and CEO Deepanwita Chattopadhyay said the collective initiative will help start-ups in securing funding to tide over the crunch period. The application process for Rejig.HydStartups have opened and close on July 20. The programme will be for four weeks and conclude with the demo days to investors and corporates in mid-August. All the shortlisted start-ups will be provided three weeks of mentoring to review their strategy and re-fine it to address present business climate and constraints, specifically identify promising domains and target companies, and revise the positioning and pitch, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/initiative-for-budding-ventures/article32073314.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steady rise in flights at RGIA||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport is steadily showing an improvement in passenger footfalls from 3,000 a day when the flights resumed on May 25 — after a hiatus of two months due to COVID-19, to around 12,000 passengers in July first week. During the last 40 days or so, there has been a three-fold growth in daily air traffic movement from around 40 arrivals and departures to around 120 plus domestic flights movement. It has re-connected with 44 destinations across the country out of the 55 domestic destinations or about 80% reconnect compared to that of pre-COVID times, said an official spokesman on Monday. Data gathered from the airport sources show that about 40% of the total passenger movement from Hyderabad includes the connections to the metro cities while it is gradually showing encouraging signs from other Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities. The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport has also taken a slew of measures with focus on a seamlessly contact-less boarding experience for passengers, including some stringent safety measures in a bid to bolster the confidence of the air passenger. Thermal scanning of every departing passenger, availability of automatic hand sanitiser dispensers at various places, sanitisation tunnels for luggage trolleys, placing floor markers, staggered seating arrangements, allocation of entry gates and check-in islands for departure passengers to encourage compliance of social distancing norms and minimising human contact at the airport have become the norm. At its peak before the pandemic-induced lockdown and subsequent restrictions in flights movement, the airport used to have movement of about 60,000 passengers and around 500 flights — domestic and international.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steady-rise-in-flights-at-rgia/article32073319.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL plans 500 MW floating solar power plants||After diversifying into thermal and solar (land-based) power generation in addition to its core business area of coal mining, the public sector Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has now plans to enter the floating solar power generation with more and more reservoirs holding water throughout the year becoming available in the State. After getting a study conducted by the Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation (TSREDC) on the possibility of floating solar plants in the State, the company management has decided to go far by establishing 500 MW floating solar plant/s. The renewable energy corporation officials made PowerPoint presentation to Chairman and Managing Director of SCCL N. Sridhar on their study and the possibility of floating solar plants in the State. The possibilities of having the 500 MW plant at one place (reservoir) or at five places (5×100 MW) was discussed at the meeting, particularly in the reservoirs available in the erstwhile Karimnagar and Warangal districts. Mr. Sridhar asked the TSREDC officials to prepare specific proposals on the floating solar plants since they would not cause any problem to the water bodies and water drawl from them. As part of its diversification, SCCL has already established 2×600 MW thermal power plant at Pegadapalli in Mancherial district and a 10 MW solar power plant on the 50 acres land available on the premises of the thermal plant. Besides, work on setting up solar plants in nine mining areas of the company are also in different stages of progress. The company has plans to establish a total of 220 MW land-based solar plants. Mr. Sridhar stated that after finalisation of the detailed project report for the floating solar plant/s, they would enter into power purchase agreement with the two power distribution companies in the State before embarking upon setting up the floating solar plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-plans-500-mw-floating-solar-power-plants/article32073342.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Parcel train with dry chilly chugs to Bangladesh||South Central Railway (SCR) has loaded a special parcel train to Benapole in Bangladesh with dry chillies from Reddipalem in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh. Farmers and merchants in and around Guntur have been transporting dry chillies by road to Bangladesh in small quantities and that was costing around Rs. 7,000 per tonne but during lockdown period, they could not move this essential commodity by road. Railway officials approached the consignors and explained the facilities to transport by rail following which the commodities have been moved in bulk through goods trains up to a maximum of 500 tonnes in each trip. A special parcel express train consisting of 16 bogies moved to Benapole with each one loaded with 466 dry chillies bags, weighing around 19.9 tonnes and the total weight carried being 384 tonnes. Cost per tonne for carrying by special parcel express is just Rs. 4,608 much less than road transport, said an official spokesperson. Electronics Interlocking Zone’s largest Electronic Interlocking (EI) system at Gooty yard along with major yard remodelling was launched on Monday. It is the most advanced and modern signalling system for free handling of trains on 343 routes at Gooty Railway Station in Guntakal Division. Jointly executed with Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL), about 14 hand operated points were converted into motor operated points with a single control resulting in the yard able to handle 11 lines in four important directions – Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore and Secunderabad/Hyderabad. This will facilitate running of more trains - freight and passenger trains said General Manager Gajanan Mallya in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parcel-train-with-dry-chilly-chugs-to-bangladesh/article32073344.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water released to Jurala canals||Release of water to the canal systems under Priyadarshini Jurala project in Jogulamba-Gadwal district has commenced from Sunday night as the project has been getting inflows in some measure or the other for over three weeks now, and a total of over 5 tmc ft water has already reached the reservoir this monsoon season. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy formally released water to the Right and Left Canals on Sunday night. According to officials, it has been planned to give water to the entire 1.02 lakh acres ayacut under the Right and Left canals of Jurala, 1.3 lakh acres under Nettempadu lift, 1.7 lakh acres under Bheema lift and 0.32 lakh acres under Koilsagar lift. The three lifts would source water from Jurala reservoir or its back waters. Besides, the officials have also decided to give water to 3.5 lakh acres under Kalwakurthy lift, which draws water from Srisailam, and another 42,000 acres under the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS) in the combined Mahabubnagar district this year. “Many of the 6,425 minor irrigation tanks in the combined Mahabubnagar district already have water ranging from 25% to 50% as they were replenished even in May. Vaanakalam crops have already been raised in over 11.75 lakh acres in the combined Mahabubnagar district out of the planned extent of over 19.24 lakh acres for the season. The extent would shoot up once the transplantation of paddy gains momentum, the officials said. Sources in the Irrigation Department told The Hindu that drawl of water by Nettempadu lift commenced on July 5 and by Bheema lift on July 6 and they are drawing about 1,400 cusecs together. Lifting of water by Koilsagar also commenced on Monday. “With the release of flood from Narayanpur increasing to over 45,000 cusecs by lifting seven crest gates, release of water to the river course from Jurala too is expected to begin soon through power generation,” the sources explained. On the flood to Almatti, a flood monitoring engineer said it is continuing at over 55,000 cusecs although the forecast was that it would fall. “Even if the water release from Almatti to Narayanpur continues for another couple of days, sizeable inflows would continue into Jurala till the week-end,” the engineer stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-released-to-jurala-canals/article32073331.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eco-park, medical college inaugurated in Mahabubnagar||Country’s largest eco-park, as claimed by the State government, spread over 2,087 acres land near Mahabubnagar was inaugurated by Minister for Urban Development, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao on Monday. He also inaugurated a Government Medical College established with Rs. 450 crore. Developed as Mayuri Urban Eco-Park, it was renamed as KCR Eco-Park on the occasion. Speaking after inaugurating the park along with Ministers V. Srinivas Goud (Excise) and E. Rajender (Health), Mr. Rama Rao said Palamuru was known as the most backward area in the State once but after formation of Telangana, it transformed into a progressive district with the increased irrigation facilities. He stated that the government is committed to complete Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation project in spite of obstructions being created by forces inimical to the State’s interests. Later, speaking after inaugurating the medical college, the minister said the maternal and infant mortality rate in the State had come down considerably after the implementation of KCR kit scheme. On the State’s response to Covid, he alleged that the Opposition parties were trying to project it as a major failure of the government as if it was controlled better elsewhere in the country, including in the States under their rule. Health Minister Mr. Rajender stated that four medical colleges were sanctioned after formation of the State and the Government Medical College and Hospital at Mahabubnagar would provide medical care to the needy on par with private hospitals. A 100-bedded ward for Covid treatment along with testing facility would also be made functional soon, he said. District Collector S. Venkata Rao, Mahabubnagar MP Manne Srinivas Reddy, Zilla Parishad Chairperson Swarna Sudhakar Reddy and others attended. The district administration has taken up plantation of 5 lakh saplings/seedlings on the occasion of Mr. Rama Rao’s visit to the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eco-park-medical-college-inaugurated-in-mahabubnagar/article32073333.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Measly pay for a gut-churning job||A revolting stench penetrates their double masks and hits their nostrils as they change the soiled diapers of patients on oxygen support. This is the everyday story of patient care providers at the Gandhi Hospital here. Apart from this duty, they have to clean the beds of patients and feed them too. “We sweat profusely while working in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and change gloves frequently. Wearing the PPEs, we have to hold plate in one hand and feed the patient with the other hand. We get requests from multiple patients to change their diapers. Though we do all this work, we are paid only Rs. 9,500 per month,” said a patient care provider at the State-run hospital. These caregivers have been working at the hospital for the past five to 10 years. Since it is a contractual job, after cuts, they get Rs. 8,400 in hand a month. If they take leave apart from four weekly offs, Rs. 300 is deducted per day. “This work is tough and unpleasant. A lot of our colleagues have quit which officials know about. Whoever has left is ready to return to work. But we appeal to authorities to hike our salary to Rs. 18,000 per month and regularise our jobs,” another care provider said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/measly-pay-for-a-gut-churning-job/article32073303.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH researchers study dengue pathogenesis||There is no specific drug or potential vaccine for dengue though about 40% of the world’ s population is at the risk of dengue virus infections. There is also a complete lack of understanding of the pathogenesis or the manner of development of the diseases and it has been one of the hurdles for developing antivirals for this virus infection. A group of researchers from the University of Hyderabad (UoH) School of Life Sciences department of biochemistry led by Dr. M. Venkata Ramana and Prof. Naresh Babu Sepuri claim to have found the manner in which the virus attacks the host cells and this could lead to research into potential drugs to treat dengue. The ~11 kb size gnome (RNA) genome of dengue virus has three structural and seven non-structural (NS) proteins along with two untranslated regions one each on both ends. Dengue protease or NS3 among them plays a pivotal role in virus multiplication and contributing to disease development. The non-structural protein-3 (NS3) enters the host mitochondria - a cell’s powerhouse converting energy from food into energy for biological processes, and cuts through a very important matrix protein or GrpEL1 which is essential for major functions of the mitochondria. The UoH study states that this is the first ever report, for human and animal viruses, where it is shown how an important viral protein like NS3 enters the mitochondrial matrix. This was observed in severe dengue infected clinical samples obtained from Dr. V.S.V. Prasad, The Lotus Children’s Hospital, here. It suggested that mitochondrial dysfunction might be one of the reasons for the decrease in the number of platelets that results in ‘thrombocytopenia,’ a condition in dengue patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-researchers-study-dengue-pathogenesis/article32073315.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medical treatment appeal for Varavara Rao||Human Rights Forum, through a statement on Monday, appealed to the authorities concerned to ensure that well-known revolutionary poet and writer P. Varavara Rao be given appropriate and expert medical treatment immediately. ‘Life at extreme risk’ By all accounts, the health condition of the 80-year-old poet is precarious, as he is diagnosed with low levels of potassium and sodium, the note said, and reminded that he had been already suffering from several other ailments, including a heart condition. “In recent conversations over the phone with his family, he has been unusually incoherent. It is evident that his life is at extreme risk and he requires to be shifted out of prison to a specialised hospital without further delay,” the statement said. The Indian Association of Peoples Lawyers too has launched a campaign titled ‘Don’t Kill Varavara Rao in Jail!’ to secure medical support for the incarcerated poet and writer from Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medical-treatment-appeal-for-varavara-rao/article32073308.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to distribute home isolation kits||GHMC has finally begun to display the location wise details of COVID-19 positive cases in the city on its website. Through a press statement on Monday, the civic body has informed that the information pertaining to the positive cases including patient’s ID, ward, circle and zones will be uploaded to the website, and updated daily. Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar has asked the residential and colony welfare associations to access the information and cooperate in controlling the spread of the virus. The corporation has assumed an initiative to distribute home isolation kits to the mild COVID-19 positive patients who have been advised self-isolation as against hospitalisation. A total of 20,000 home isolation kits have been ordered through GHMC, of which 15,000 have already been distributed. More kits will be ordered based on the requirement. As per the guidelines issued by the Central government, the patients should be in home isolation for 17 days after testing positive. The home isolation kits will have nine different articles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-to-distribute-home-isolation-kits/article32073325.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Availability of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab checked||In the past few days, there have been distress messages from people asking or medicines used in COVID treatment. To ensure that people do not have to go out of hospital pharmacies to procure these medicines, Telangana Drug Control Administration (DCA) officials checked supply, availability and consumption of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in corporate hospitals in Hyderabad on Monday. Officials also looked into the sale of the medicines in black market. Names of hospitals which are supplied the drugs by depots were listed . DCA director Dr Preeti Meena said that separate teams of drug inspectors were formed who simultaneously visited corporate hospitals and depots which supply the medicines. They noted down the current availability of the medicines how the drugs are supplied from manufacturer to hospitals. The drug inspectors checked registers of hospitals to know the amount of medicines supplied. Dr Meena said that their teams cross- checked the patient details to find out the vials consumed. DCA Joint Director Y Navin Kumar said that while scarcity of Remdesivir will be resolved in one to two days, it will take a week to ten days to address shortage of Tocilizumab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/availability-of-remdesivir-tocilizumab-checked/article32073304.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO-TITA pact for COVID patient tracking app||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) have joined hands to implement an automated management of patient’s software SAMPARC — Smart Automated Management of Patients and Risks for COVID-19. The pilot project for the DRDO-deviscd software for enforcement of quarantine or isolation is likely begin shortly with both organisations entering into an agreement online on Monday. The pact was signed by DRDO’s scientist G, Center for AI & Robotics, Rituraj Kumar and TITA global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala. SAMPARC can be a handy tool for law enforcement and health officials as it enables intelligent automated tracking of those in quarantine or isolation, generating alerts in case of violations or wilful suppression of movement details. This is expected to reduce the tracking workload of law enforcement or health officials, they said. This can be used for quarantine or isolation monitoring only and not for contact tracing, and relies on the information provided by the police and health officials. It allows geofencing, face recognition and display of data on map with hotspot information if available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drdo-tita-pact-for-covid-patient-tracking-app/article32073305.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Incnut raises $4 m from RPSG Ventures||E-commerce startup Incnut Digital has raised around $4 million funding in Series A from RPSG Ventures, an early stage consumer centric venture capital fund backed by RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group. Incnut Digital owns and operates stylecraze.com, a portal focused on beauty, health and wellness and momjunction.com online platform on parenting. It is also behind two beauty care brands SkinKraft and Vedix. With the funding, it looked to strengthen and expand its research and development (R&D) labs, overall infrastructure and AI-driven data technology, a release on Monday from the startup said. “Our vision at SkinKraft and Vedix is to revolutionise beauty with customised e-commerce,” CEO Chaitanya Nallan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/incnut-raises-4-m-from-rpsg-ventures/article32073313.ece
14 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kidnapped girl rescued, two held||A two-year-old girl, who was kidnapped from Saifabad on Friday, was rescued by the police on Monday and two people who abducted the baby were arrested. The victim, Maheen, daughter of Muqhtar Begum, a alm-seeker, was sleeping near Vardhaman Bank, next to Mahaveer Hospital when the offence took place at around 1.30 a.m. on Friday. After searching for the baby in the area, Muqhtar Begum approached the police and lodged a complaint, following which a minor kidnapping case was registered and teams started the investigation, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P. Viswa Prasad. The police viewed the CCTV footage, and with the help of technology they reached Kishanbagh and rescued Maheen from the house of kidnapper Mohd Abdul Firdous and his associate Syed Shareef. Further, Firdous told police that he along with Syed Shareef, Sameena and Rizwana hatched a conspiracy and abducted the girl to engage her in begging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kidnapped-girl-rescued-two-held/article32073322.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for criminal case against KCR||The BJP on Monday demanded a criminal case be filed against CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, holding them responsible for dismantling of Nalla Pochamma temple. MLC N. Ramachander Rao accompanied by spokesperson N V Subhash and city party general secretary A. Ramakrishna lodged a complaint with Saifabad police demanding action against Mr. Rao and Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-for-criminal-case-against-kcr/article32073336.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All rules complied with in Secretariat demolition, State tells High Court||The rule 4 (3) of the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules-2016 was complied with in toto during the demolition of Secretariat buildings, the State government said. In a counter affidavit filed in response to a PIL plea challenging the pulling down of Secretariat buildings in Telangana High Court, the government assured that all aspects relating to environment would be taken care of and no person would be put to inconvenience while demolishing the buildings. Approval letters The government presented the letters of the approvals and other relevant documents for the perusal of the court. Stating that the demolition was “substantially completed and some of the blocks are standing in skeletal form,” the government said there was the risk of the buildings collapsing due to climatic conditions. The apprehensions raised by the petitioners that people’s right to clean environment is violated due to the buildings’ demolition is baseless, it said. No citizen living within the vicinity of the buildings had complained about pollution. ‘Political agenda’ The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) had granted permission for the demolition of Secretariat buildings on July 4, the affidavit said. The government said in the counter affidavit that the two petitioners filed the plea to further their political agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-rules-complied-with-in-secretariat-demolition-state-tells-high-court/article32073335.ece
14 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CBSE 12th results: several schools score 100%||Students from city schools fared well in the CBSE 12th results declared on Monday, with several schools registering 100% pass. The Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur students have once again proved their mettle with their excellent academic performance, registering 100% results. School Principal, Narasimha Reddy said that 67 students appeared for the exams including 38 in Science stream and 29 in Commerce stream. The toppers in Science stream are Vandana Vinod Sharma and Thanu Bishwanth Baji who scored 94.2% and 94% respectively. Jai Ailani topped the Commerce with 93%. Dr. Reddy said that topper Bishwanth hails from a humble background and is on a scholarship. He said the school aims for holistic development and strikes a perfect balance between curricular and co-curricular activities. Army Public School Golconda has secured 100% results with the School topper Nagendra Reddy from Science stream scoring 95.4%, followed by Abhishek Thakur and Vishal Singh who scored 95.2%. School principal, Vidya Muralidharan said 38% of students scored above 90% and the ace result was due the hard work of students and commitment of dedicated teachers. Students of Jubilee Hills Public School scaled yet another height by securing 100% results and Ooha stood as the school topper in Commerce stream securing 96.4%. The Chairman, A.Murali Mukund, Incharge Principal, G Durga and Academic Director, G Sree Devi congratulated the students for their performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cbse-12th-results-several-schools-score-100/article32073348.ece
14 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Nama: bring back 235 MBBS students stuck in Kyrgyzstan’||Khammam Member of Parliament Nama Nageswara Rao, the TRS floor leader in the Lok Sabha, urged External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to ensure safe return of 235 MBBS students from both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, presently stranded in Kyrgyzstan due to the coronavirus pandemic, to India. Mr. Rao made a request to this effect in a letter sent to the Union Minister on Monday. He sought the immediate intervention of the External Affairs Ministry to help the stranded MBBS students reach India safely from the foreign country. Of the 170 MBBS students from Telangana presently stuck in Kyrgyzstan, as many as 28 medicos hail from the old undivided Khammam district. Some of them narrated their tale of woe to Mr Rao through emails saying they were duped by a local travel agent and landed virtually on the roadside following the closure of their hostels in Kyrgyzstan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nama-bring-back-235-mbbs-students-stuck-in-kyrgyzstan/article32073353.ece
14 July 2020||NEW Delhi,TELANGANA||SC notice to TS on plea for CBI probe into BHEL staffer’s death||The Supreme Court on Monday asked Telangana government and others to respond to a plea seeking transfer of probe from the State police to the CBI in a case of alleged suicide by a woman officer of Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) due to purported harassment at her workplace. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna issued notices to the State, Telangana Police and others seeking their replies on the petition filed by the mother of the 33-year-old victim. “Issue notice, returnable within three weeks,” the bench said, adding, “liberty is granted to serve on the standing counsel for the state of Telangana“. The plea, filed through advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, has alleged that the woman was forced to commit suicide in October last year as she was “sexually harassed” and “mentally tortured” by a superior officer and some other office colleagues at Hyderabad. It has claimed that state police has not yet arrested the accused and no charge-sheet has been filed despite lapse of over eight months. It has sought the top court’s direction to BHEL to “immediately initiate appropriate inquiry under applicable departmental rules and also under the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013” against the accused persons regarding the victim’s death in a time-bound manner and under the court’s supervision. Police blamed “There is another shocking attempt of Telangana Police to blame the unfortunate suicide of deceased to her alleged mental illness despite the fact that her employer BHEL has categorically deposed that no sign of any mental illness was shown by her at her workplace,” the plea alleged. “The petitioner herein, being an aggrieved mother, is seeking justice for her daughter,” it said, adding that the victim who belonged to Madhya Pradesh had joined BHEL in July 2009. Referring to an alleged suicide note of the victim and her last telephonic conversation with her sister, the plea has claimed that it categorically establishes that some of her office colleagues had subjected her to harassment due to which she was forced to commit suicide. It has alleged that the state police is not conducting fair investigation in the case and thus, the probe should be transferred to the CBI or any other independent central agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-notice-to-ts-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-bhel-staffers-death/article32073354.ece
14 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Notices to sarpanches on graveyards||The district administration took a serious note of negligence in completing construction of Vaikuntha Dhamams (graveyards) which were supposed to be completed by July 15. There are 647 villages in the district where Vaikuntha Dhamams and dumpyards are being constructed. While the construction of dumpyards was completed in all villages, the case was not same with Vaikuntha Dhamams. The finishing work was not completed in about 30 villages. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Collector M. Hanumantha Rao held a review meeting last week. The progress was reviewed panchayat-wise and the sarpanches and secretaries were asked to tell if they are facing any problem. “We are ready to extend any assistance to complete the works. If necessary, double the man power, and we are even ready to send masons. But works must be competed by deadline. You have to be there on the spot from morning to evening and supervise the progress,” said Mr. Harish Rao during the review. The review was held with the officials and sarpanches of villages where the work progress was at a snail’s pace. Despite all this and day-long review, in 30 villages, the works were not completed. Taking serious note of this, Mr. Hanumantha Rao issued showcause notices to sarpanches and secretaries of these villages. They were asked to improve their performance within one week or face action.   Notices were also issued to municipal chairpersons and commissioners of Sangareddy, Bollaram and Sadashivapet for lack of proper planning in Haritha Haram programme. They were asked to explain their stand within three days. “Works are yet to be completed in 30 villages for which notices were issued. We are trying to get them completed before July 15. All efforts are being put in place. At Sangem in Sirgapur area, the work is at pillar-level and may not get completed. At other places, the work may be completed,” district panachayat officer V Venkateswarlu told The Hindu . Follow-up is being made at villages in Narayankhed, Pulkal, Nyalakal, Zaheerbad, Mogudampally and Andol, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-to-sarpanches-on-graveyards/article32073329.ece
14 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Five test positive after attending funeral||Five persons tested positive after attending a funeral at Royyalagudem in Andol mandal. According to sources, one person died in the village on July 6, and three of his family members tested positive. About 25 persons participated in funeral and tests were conducted to them. Five persons tested positive among them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-test-positive-after-attending-funeral/article32073339.ece
14 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Complete NH 9 and NH 44 works’||Minister T Harish Rao has directed officials to complete all the works of NH 9 and NH 44 without any delay. Mr Rao held a review meeting in Hyderabad on Monday with officials of the National Highways of India (NHAI), contractors and the district officials. He said that people are suffering due to non completion of drain works at Malkapur and the works must be completed before the end of this year. Lok Sabha members K Prabhakar Reddy and BB Patil have also expressed displeasure over slow progress of works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complete-nh-9-and-nh-44-works/article32073338.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Pune youths were in touch with city-based IS sympathiser||Two youngsters, including a woman journalism student, who were arrested by the National Investigation Agency in Pune on Monday for planning terrorist attacks in India were in touch with Hyderabad-based Islamic State sympathiser Abdullah Basith. The investigators said that Nabeel S. Khatri (27) and Sadiya Anwar Sheikh (22), both residents of Pune, were propagating the ideology of ISIS terror group as part of the activities of the outlawed Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP). While Khatri runs a gym in Pune, Sadiya is a second year student of Mass Communication and Journalism at Baramati. A case was initially registered by Delhi Police Special Cell on March 8, 2020, after the arrest of a Kashmiri couple Jahanzaib Sami Wani and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh from Jamia Nagar, Okhla Vihar, Delhi. The couple had affiliations with ISKP, and were found to be involved in subversive and anti-national activities. “The duo from Pune were in touch with Basith, who is currently lodged in Tihar jail in another NIA case (ISIS Abu Dhabi module),” an official said. The investigation by the agency revealed that Sadiya Sheikh was continuously in touch with Jahanzaib Sami, Hina Bashir Beigh and Basith on various secure messaging applications and deliberating on how to propagate the ideology of ISIS and further its activities in India. “It has also come to light that along with Jahanzeb Sami and Basith, accused Nabeel Khatri was also actively involved in the planning to carry out violent terrorist attacks in India by arranging logistic support such as procurement of weapons, fake SIM cards, assembling of Improvised Explosive Devices etc. to further the activities of ISIS,” the investigators said. It has also been revealed that Sadiya Sheikh was in contact with ISIS recruiters through social media since 2015. “She was planning to execute a terrorist attack in Jammu & Kashmir and was detained by police in the valley in 2018,” they said. The duo, who were arrested in Pune will be produced before NIA Special Court, New Delhi. Nabeel Khatri was continuously in contact with Jahanzeb on various secure messaging platforms. Prior to his arrest in August 2018, Basith had created an Instagram account by the name ‘Musaib bhai’, through which he searched for pro-ISIS groups and used at least half-a-dozen mobile phones to dodge the security agencies. The agency found that Basithentered into a conspiracy with Adnan Hassan, who was arrested by the agency in connection with the 2016 Abu Dhabi module. In June, when they were taken into custody for interrogation, Hina Bashir Beigh tested positive for coronavirus, her husband Jahanzaib Sami, and Basith were found negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pune-youths-were-in-touch-with-city-based-is-sympathiser/article32073324.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||NRTI offering B.Sc, BBA programmes||National Rail and Transportation Institute (NRTI), a deemed to be university established by Ministry of Railways in Vadodara, has announced admissions for the academic year 2020-21 for courses in B.Sc. and BBA programmes in Transportation Technology & Transportation Management respectively, as well as two new B.Tech. programmes, two new MBA programmes and four new M.Sc. programmes. It includes an international masters in railway systems engineering & integration offered in collaboration with the University of Birmingham, UK, where students will spend one year abroad. Last date for application is July 31 for BBA, B.Sc. and post-graduate programmes. Entrance test for these programmes will take place on August 23 at multiple centres around the country. B. Tech admissions will be based on JEE Mains score, last date of application is September 14 and students can obtain further details atwww.nrti.edu.in. Only online applications are accepted. Interested candidates are invited to fill in the application form, pay the application fee and register for the process by visitingwww.nrti.edu.in /data/applications.html||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nrti-offering-bsc-bba-programmes/article32073316.ece
14 July 2020||Bhopal,||Lockdown pushing construction labourers to the edge||Like every morning, Aziz Khan on Monday strutted towards the Jinsi square here, carrying chapatis and a water bottle. Laid off as a cook by a biryani restaurant, he hoped to keep up the strength to haul cement bags and bricks at a construction site at least till the evening. But like the past five days, he returned home by noon, somehow finishing the lunch at the square — swallowing some with difficulty and throwing bits at street dogs. “Maybe tomorrow,” he murmured, while dispersing along with tens of construction workers, who stood up heavily from a pavement along shops, where they waited since morning in vain to find work. “You can’t miss even a day. You never know when work comes your way,” said Mr. Khan, 28. Through the morning, every two-wheeler that stopped at the square brought hope for masons, electricians, plumbers, welders, painters and labourers gathered there. But among a mass of workers that crowded them, private contractors picked only two-three ready to work for the lowest wage, the longest. “Before the lockdown, we found work almost every other day. But now it’s just once a week if we are lucky,” said Ratan Ahirwar, a plumber. At the Jinsi square, now only 500-600 locals arrive as against 1,000 earlier, with most scrambling to secure the day’s employment in the floundering real estate sector. The suspension of public transport has clipped the supply of cheap labour from neighbouring districts, while a reduced demand has crashed wages even as the cost of construction surges. And the fear of contracting the illness has prompted households to put off renovation and construction work. “Contractors fear coming here. We don’t know where else to gather,” said Ramkaran Verma, a painter. Spiralling fuel prices had pushed prices of construction material prompting builders to postpone projects, explained Akhtar Ahmed, a contractor. A truck-load of sand now costs twice as much, cement prices have climbed and steel rods become costlier too. “Local workers are costlier... investors also stare at bleak finances,” he said. A few large-scale commercial projects, such as a 16-floor mall near the Habibganj railway station, had to push back deadlines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lockdown-pushing-construction-labourers-to-the-edge/article32073260.ece
14 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Allahabad HC overturns conviction in 1981 case||The Allahabad High Court has overturned a 37-year-old conviction under dacoity of three persons from Kanpur Dehat on the grounds that in the absence of involvement of five or more persons no conviction should be made out under clauses of dacoity. Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery overruled the judgment of a special court (dacoity) judge made on March 11, 1983, in Kanpur Dehat district of Uttar Pradesh. “The appellants are acquitted of the charges and are hereby ordered to be set at liberty forthwith,” the court said in an order dated July 9. The three had filed an appeal against their conviction under Sections 395 (dacoity) and 397 (dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt). While Balbir and Mohar Pal alias Chhakauri were awarded five years’ rigorous imprisonment, Lala Ram (who was charged under Sections 395 and 397) was given a seven-year term. They had been out on bail. The counsel for the accused cited the Supreme Court’s decisions in Raj Kumar alias Raju vs. State of Uttaranchal (Now Uttarakhand), 2008, and Manmeet Singh alias Goldie vs. State of Punjab, 2015, cases to argue that the trial court erroneously convicted the three men under dacoity. “...it is clear that in case there is a conviction of less than five persons under Sections 395/ 397 IPC, Trial Court must arrive to a finding that there was involvement of five or more persons,” the High Court observed. In absence of such finding, no conviction could be made out under aforesaid sections, the court added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/allahabad-hc-overturns-conviction-in-1981-case/article32073258.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||Man accused of killing daughter granted bail||The Bombay High Court recently granted bail to a man who allegedly killed his daughter for marrying against his wishes. Rajkumar Chaurasiya did not approve of his daughter’s marriage, and when her husband wanted to visit his home town, he did not like it as it would damage his reputation. On July 13, 2019, Mr. Chaurasiya allegedly called his daughter, killed her with a sickle, and threw her body on the footpath in Ghatkopar, a suburb in eastern Mumbai. Her body was recovered, and Mr. Chaurasiya was arrested on July 15. He was charged under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code. During a hearing on July 9, advocate Ganesh Gupta argued for bail before a single-judge Bench of Justice P.D. Naik. He said the case is based on circumstantial evidence and there is no cogent evidence against Mr. Chaurasiya. He also said Mr. Chaurasiya’s statement mentioned that a knife was used in the crime, but what was recovered was a sickle. The prosecution said there is a strong motive for the accused to commit the crime and the call detail record (CDR) shows that there were several calls between the father and the victim on the day of the incident. The court said, “Undisputedly, the case is based on circumstantial evidence, and although the body was found on the footpath in Ghatkopar, there is no eyewitness. The alleged statement mentioned that the accused was willing to show the knife used in the crime, but a sickle was recovered.” The Bench said on perusal of the police report with regard to the mobile tower location, it does not appear that the accused was in Ghatkopar. “The prosecution is also relying upon the CDR to show there were calls between the accused and the victim. Since the deceased was his daughter, no adverse inference can be drawn with regard to such calls.” The court said the accused cannot be detained further and a case for grant of bail is made out. Mr. Chaurasiya was released on a PR bond of Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-accused-of-killing-daughter-granted-bail/article32073433.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||28-year-old who abused stand-up comedian held||The Mumbai Police on Monday arrested a 28-year-old man for abusing and giving rape threats on social media to stand-up comedian Agrima Joshua. He is active on social media, and goes with the pseudonym Umesh Dada alias Imtiyaz Shaikh.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said the State government is seeking legal opinion on the stand-up comedy act by Ms. Joshua as well. “We have sought legal opinion on the content of her stand-up comedy act. We will also check if it was indeed objectionable,” he said. The minister said irrespective of the content from Ms. Joshua’s stand-up comedy act, the government will not tolerate any abuse hurled at women, or threats to her. “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj respected women. The government is committed to protecting women and punish harassers. The police will do their job,” he said. The accused has been booked under Sections 294 (obscene acts or words in public), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (a man, who assaults or uses criminal force to any woman or abets such act with the intention of disrobing), 505 (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 509 (intention to insult the modesty of any woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 67A (publication or transmission in the electronic form of any material, which contains sexually explicit act) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The Mumbai Police tweeted, “Mumbai Police’s Cyber Crime Branch has taken a suo motu action in an abusive and threatening video shared on social media by the accused operating the handle with a pseudonym Umesh Dada. He has been arrested and booked under relevant sections of IPC and IT.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/28-year-old-who-abused-stand-up-comedian-held/article32073435.ece
14 July 2020||Mumbai,||Chartered flight brings back 480 students from Russia||As many as 480 Indian medical students, who were stranded in Russia due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions, arrived in Mumbai by a private chartered flight on Monday. Some of the students thanked Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray for the help in facilitating their return. Shiv Sena’s South Mumbai MP Arvind Sawant told PTI that he advised students, who contacted him, to tweet to Mr. Thackeray for help since he is a cabinet minister and holds charge of the protocol department. The students, who returned by the Royal Flight from Russia, consisted of 470 from Maharashtra, four from the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, four from Madhya Pradesh, and two from Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chartered-flight-brings-back-480-students-from-russia/article32073434.ece
14 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||10-day lockdown in Raigad from tomorrow||A complete lockdown for 10 days will come into force in Raigad district from the midnight of July 14. Raigad Guardian Minister Aditi Tatkare, who chaired a meeting of MLAs of all parties on Monday, said with the increasing COVID-19 cases, it is necessary to break the chain and hence, the lockdown is imperative. “Local leaders had been suggesting complete restrictions for some time, and after a meeting with them, the decision was finalised. In the initial period of the State’s lockdown, Raigad did not have many cases. But with the gradual unlocking, even interiors of talukas have started reporting cases. I am aware the people would be inconvenienced but if the numbers are to be brought down, this step is necessary,” Ms. Tatkare told reporters. During the lockdown till July 25, all shops have been asked to stay closed while only home deliveries are allowed. “All the check nakas will be opened again. Those who travel for essential services from the district to other places and come back, will need a pass, while those who do not intend to come back, will not require a pass,” the minister said, adding the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been under the lockdown since July 3. Ms. Tatkare also announced setting up of control rooms at the district’s all sub-divisional offices: Mangaon, Srivardhan, Mahad, Pen, Panvel and Alibaug. Each control room, which will be headed by the sub-divisional officer, will have the block development officer, the taluka health officer, and one staffer from the zilla parishad and the revenue department as members. “The control room will inform the citizens about the steps to be followed if found positive. Depending on the symptoms and the availability of beds, guidance will be given,” Ms. Tatkare said. A laboratory to conduct COVID-19 tests will be established at Alibaug Civil Hospital, she said, adding there are also plans to increase the bed capacity in each taluka by 100 beds. On Monday, Navi Mumbai Police Commissioner Sanjay Kumar tweeted about the demise of a 45-year-old head constable, attached to the coastal security branch and a resident of Rabale, due to COVID-19. “We lost one Head Constable today noon at Fortis hospital, Vashi. He was hospitalised on 18/6 when diagnosis COVID positive and was fighting bravely with virus till date. Navi Mumbai police is pained by this irreparable loss. Heartfelt condolences to family and acquaintances,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/10-day-lockdown-in-raigad-from-tomorrow/article32073254.ece
14 July 2020||Pune,||‘No plans for lockdown in Kolhapur’||State Minister and Kolhapur’s Guardian Minister Satej Patil on Monday said no lockdown would be imposed in Kolhapur as it would adversely affect economic activity in the district. There were rumours about a possible 10-day lockdown in Kolhapur after a lockdown was imposed in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Mr. Patil, a senior Congress leader from Kolhapur, said that a lockdown was no solution to combat the COVID-19 pandemic at the moment as previous measures had already stifled economic activity. The district, which had less than 50 active cases till May 17, witnessed a remarkable surge in new cases following the influx of more than 2.5 lakh people from ‘highly infected’ districts and cities as Pune, Mumbai and areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “I would further urge the Indian Council of Medical Research to amend its regulations to allow the testing of asymptomatic patients given that there is no shortage of testing kits now,” he said. Parts of Kolhapur, especially Ichalkaranji, Shirol and Jaysingpur — the prime industrial zones of the district — have been under a partial lockdown since the past few days owing to a rise in cases in these areas. Meanwhile, Kolhapur saw a sharp spike of 78 cases on Monday, taking its total case tally to 1,252, of which 377 are active. A total of 850 patients have been discharged so far, said Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar. Kolhapur’s death toll now stands at 25. Cases continued to soar in Pune district which reported another surge of 1,678 COVID-19 cases till Monday evening. Its case tally has surged to 40,180, of which 14,591 cases were active. A total 24,508 people have been discharged in the district sofar. As per district authorities, Pune’s death toll climbed to 1,081. As many as 442 patients in the district are in a critical condition. Meanwhile, the death toll in Solapur district has climbed to 339 with 11 more fatalities being reported on Monday. The total death toll in Pune division — which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts — has now reached 1,529, as per the Pune divisional office figures. Dr. Mhaisekar said Pune division’s total case tally has reached 47,137, of which more than 17,000 are active cases, while more than 29,000 people have been discharged till date. Solapur reported a big surge of 169 cases, pushing its total case tally to 4,099, of which 1,484 are active ones. Satara, which has reported 65 deaths so far, reported 56 new cases as its total case tally shot to 1,752, of which 650 are active cases. Sangli reported 15 new cases, taking its tally to 639, of which 302 are active ones.  I urge the Indian Council of Medical Research to amend its regulations to allow testing of asymptomatic patients as there is no shortage of testing kits Satej Patil Guardian Minister of Kolhapur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-plans-for-lockdown-in-kolhapur/article32073251.ece
14 July 2020||Pune,||‘Pawar’s Saamana interview a ploy to boost sales’||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s interview by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana was merely a stunt to increase the sales of that newspaper, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Chandrakant Patil said on Monday. Speaking in Kolhapur, Mr. Patil said that Mr. Pawar, through the much-publicised interview, was trying to send a signal that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition of the Sena, the NCP, and the Congress would complete its full five-year term. Responding to allegations over the BJP attempting to subvert the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, Mr. Patil said the Congress leadership had perhaps failed to inspire confidence in several of their MLAs. ‘Modi’s leadership’ “It is consequently possible that these [Congress] legislators in Rajasthan are influenced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership…we shall soon come to know whether Deputy Chief Minister [and president of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee] Sachin Pilot joins the BJP or not,” the Maharashtra BJP chief said. Mr. Patil further refuted suggestions on the BJP engineering an ‘operation lotus’ in States like Karnataka, Goa and Madhya Pradesh to topple the non-BJP governments there, maintaining that the parties in those respective States had not been successful in winning the trust of their legislators, which had in turn caused them to gravitate towards the BJP. Slamming the BJP’s erstwhile saffron ally, the Sena, for joining hands with the ideologically opposed NCP and the Congress to form the MVA government in Maharashtra, he said the BJP never lusted for power. ‘Political ploy’ In his three-part interview in the Marathi daily, Mr. Pawar had said that his offer of supporting the BJP from the outside to form a stable government in Maharashtra following the 2014 Assembly polls was a “political ploy” directed at keeping the Sena away from its then ally. “I challenge that if all four parties had contested the State Assembly polls separately, the BJP would have come out on top, while the NCP would have secured a mere 20 seats and the Congress a paltry 10,” said Mr. Patil, responding to Mr. Pawar’s statements. He said that BJP Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis had already cornered Mr. Pawar with his recent revelations of the NCP chief’s willingness to join hands with the BJP to form a government in the State after the latter’s schism with the Sena following the Assembly poll results in October. “Now Mr. Pawar is claiming that his move in 2014 was a ploy to widen the distance between the Sena and the BJP. Mr. Fadnavis will reply to this as well in good time,” Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pawars-saamana-interview-a-ploy-to-boost-sales/article32073255.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A fresh start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-fresh-start/article32073257.ece
14 July 2020||Beijing,||China hits U.S. lawmakers, envoy with sanctions over Xinjiang||China on Monday slapped retaliatory sanctions on three senior Republican lawmakers and a U.S. envoy in a deepening row over Beijing’s treatment of Uighurs in the western Xinjiang region. Some of the most outspoken critics of China — Senators Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz along with Congressman Chris Smith — were targeted by the action, as well as the U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for international religious freedom, Sam Brownback. The unspecified “corresponding sanctions” were announced days after the U.S. imposed visa bans and asset freezes on several Chinese officials, including the Communist Party chief in Xinjiang, Chen Quanguo, over rights abuses in the region. ‘Wrong actions’ The move was “in response to the U.S.’s wrong actions”, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a regular briefing. “We urge the U.S. to immediately withdraw its wrong decision, and stop any words and actions that interfere in China’s internal affairs and harm China's interests,” she said. “China will make a further response depending on the development of the situation.” Sanctions will also be applied on the U.S. Congressional-Executive Commission on China, an agency that monitors human rights in the Asian country. The two countries have traded barbs and sanctions on a slew of issues since President Donald Trump took office, from trade to more recent spats over the coronavirus pandemic, a security law in Hong Kong, and Chinese policies in the far west regions of Tibet and Xinjiang. ‘Horrific’ abuses Witnesses and human rights groups say that China has rounded up more than one million Uighurs and other Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang in a vast brainwashing campaign aimed at forcibly homogenising minorities into the country’s Han majority. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said last week the United States was acting against “horrific and systematic abuses” in the western region including forced labour, mass detention and involuntary population control. China rejects the accusations, but it has acknowledged sending Uighurs to “vocational education centres” to learn Mandarin and job skills in a bid to steer them away from terrorism and separatism following a spate of deadly violence in the fractious region. “I have to point out that Xinjiang affairs are purely China’s internal affairs. The U.S. has no right or basis to interfere,” Ms. Hua said on Monday. China is “unwavering in its determination to fight against forces of violence and terrorism, forces of separatism, and that of religious extremism,” the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said. “Its determination to oppose any external forces’ interference in Xinjiang affairs and China's internal affairs is unwavering as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-hits-us-lawmakers-envoy-with-sanctions-over-xinjiang/article32072987.ece
14 July 2020||Chamonix,||Alpine melt yields old India headlines||The Mont Blanc glacier in the French Alps yields more and more secrets as it melts — this time a clutch of newspapers with banner headlines from when Indira Gandhi became India’s first and so far only woman Prime Minister in 1966. The copies of Indian newspapers The Hindu , National Herald and The Statesman were probably aboard an Air India Boeing 707 that crashed on the mountain on January 24, 1966, claiming 177 lives. “Indira Gandhi to be Prime Minister: 186 vote majority over Desai in leadership contest”— read the main headline on a copy of The Hindu that was found along with other newspapers. The trove was found last week by Timothee Mottin, who runs a cafe-restaurant, La Cabane du Cerro, perched at an altitude of 1,350 m near the Chamonix skiing hub. “They are drying now but they are in very good condition,” Mottin, 33, said. “You can read them.” The modest cafe is around 45 minutes by foot from the Bossons glacier where the plane mysteriously crashed. Mr. Mottin said he was lucky to discover the papers when he did because the ice in which they were encased for nearly six decades “had probably just melted”. Once the papers have dried out, they will join a growing collection of found items from the crash that Mr. Mottin has put on display at the Cabane du Cerro. He said he preferred to share his finds with visitors rather than “hide them in an attic waiting to sell them” — something he said had become a “business” for less scrupulous climbers.  The most stunning find occurred in 2013, that of a box of precious stones — emeralds, sapphires and rubies worth between $1,45,000-$2,75,000 — thought to have come from the 1966 crash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/alpine-melt-yields-old-india-headlines/article32072989.ece
14 July 2020||Paris,||Virus immunity may disappear within months of recovery: study||Patients who recover from COVID-19 infections may lose their immunity to reinfection within months, according to research released on Monday that experts said could have a “significant” influence on how governments manage the pandemic. In the first study of its kind, a team led by researchers from King’s College London examined the levels of antibodies in more than 90 confirmed virus patients and how they changed over time. Blood tests showed even individuals with only mild COVID-19 symptoms mounted some immune response to the virus. Of the study group, 60% showed a “potent” viral response in the first few weeks after infection. However, after three months only 16.7% had maintained high levels of COVID-19-neutralising antibodies, and after 90 days several patients had no detectable antibodies in their bloodstream. When the body encounters an external danger such as a virus, it mobilises cells to track down and kill the culprit. As it does so, it produces proteins known as antibodies that are programmed to target the specific antigen the body is fighting, like a key cut for a particular lock. Similar to other viruses As long as someone has enough antibodies, they will be able to snub out new infections, giving them immunity. But Monday’s research suggests immunity cannot be taken for granted and may not last more than a few months, as is true with other viruses such as influenza. Experts said the findings may change how governments plan for the next phase of the pandemic, including how they fund and organise vaccine research and development. “This is an important study that starts to define the longer-term dynamics of the antibody response to SARS-CoV-2,” said Lawrence Young, professor of Molecular Oncology at the University of Warwick, using the full name of the virus strain. “It further emphasises the need for us to better understand what a protective immune response looks like if we are to develop an effective vaccine,” said Mr. Young, who was not involved in the research. James Gill, an honorary Clinical Lecturer at Warwick Medical School, said the research reiterated the need for everyone to continue taking measures to mitigate the virus spreading, particularly at the start of Europe’s holiday season. “In the same way that these patients were surprised to have antibodies to COVID-19, we should NOT be surprised if any protective benefit is mild, or at least transient,” he said. “Even those with a positive antibody test — especially those who cannot account for where they may have been exposed — should continue to use caution, social distancing and appropriate mask use.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-immunity-may-disappear-within-months-of-recovery-study/article32072991.ece
14 July 2020||COLOMBO,||Lanka election body ‘monitoring’ virus spike||The Election Commission of Sri Lanka is “closely monitoring” the situation following a recent spike in coronavirus cases, and “hopes and prays” that the general election — that were postponed earlier — could be conducted on August 5 as scheduled, its Chairman said. Postal voting for the island nation’s parliamentary election began on Monday — with some 700,000 officials eligible to vote — amid heightened security, after health authorities reported a spike in COVID-19 cases on Friday. Nearly 500 persons at a drug rehabilitation centre in the North Central Province have since tested positive, prompting health officials to trace their contacts and test them. The government, keen on “preventing a second wave”, is yet to comment on the source of these infections — after Sri Lanka contained the spread of the virus — while senior doctors flagged a risk of community transmission. Sri Lanka’s parliamentary election — conducted at an estimated cost over LKR 5 billion — will enable voters to directly elect 196 MPs to the 225-member legislature, and 29 others through the National List, through a proportional representation system of voting. ‘Obey the guidelines’ “We are closely monitoring the situation,” Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya told The Hindu on Monday. Asked if there was provision to postpone the polls after postal voting has begun, should the need arise, he said: “Provision is there, but we hope and pray not to use it. We have already postponed the elections by more than 100 days [from original date of April 25]. The important thing is that politicians and general public must obey health guidelines.” Spike in cases As of Monday evening, Sri Lanka reported 2,642 cases, 1,981 recoveries and 11 deaths. With the recent increase in coronavirus cases, schools that had only recently reopened have shut again, while the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Party) suspended its rallies for three days. Former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, contesting polls from the opposition United National Party (UNP), has called for a postponement of polls, local media reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lanka-election-body-monitoring-virus-spike/article32072993.ece
14 July 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, July 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Thirteen prominent Hong Kong democracy activists appeared in court on Monday charged with holding an unauthorised gathering to mark the Tiananmen Square crackdown. Last month tens of thousands of Hong Kongers defied a ban on rallies to mark the June 4 anniversary of Beijing’s deadly 1989 crackdown against students pushing for democracy.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-july-13-2020-afp/article32072984.ece
14 July 2020||San Francisco,||San Francisco, July 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Top White House official Peter Navarro said he expected President Donald Trump to act firmly against the TikTok and WeChat. In an interview with Fox News on Sunday, Mr. Navarro argued that “...the data that goes into those mobile apps... goes right to servers in China, right to the Chinese military, the Chinese Communist Party.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/san-francisco-july-13-2020-afp/article32072994.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Enabling people to govern themselves||Governance systems at all levels, i.e. global, national, and local, have experienced stress as a fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. Architectural flaws have been revealed in their design. Breakdowns in many subsystems had to be managed at the same time — in health care, logistics, business, finance, and administration. The complexity of handling so many subsystems at the same time have overwhelmed governance. Solutions for one subsystem backfired on other subsystems. For example, lockdowns to make it easier to manage the health crisis have made it harder to manage economic distress simultaneously. In fact, the diversion of resources to focus on the threat to life posed by COVID-19 has increased vulnerabilities to death from other diseases, and even from malnutrition in many parts of India. A mismatch is evident Human civilisation advances with the evolution of better institutions to manage public affairs. Institutions of parliamentary democracy, for example, and the limited liability business corporation, did not exist 400 years ago. Institutions of global governance, such as the United Nations and the World Trade Organization, did not exist even 100 years ago. These institutions were invented to enable human societies to produce better outcomes for their citizens. They have been put through a severe stress test now by the global health and economic crises. The test has revealed a fundamental flaw in their design. There is a mismatch in the design of governance institutions at the global level (and also in India) with the challenges they are required to manage. Designed like machines for efficiency, they are trying to fit themselves into an organic system of the natural environment coupled with human society. It seems that government institutions are square pegs forcing themselves into round holes. Interconnected issues The global challenges listed in the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations, which humanity must urgently address now, are systemic challenges. All these systemic problems are interconnected with each other. Environmental, economic, and social issues cannot be separated from each other and solved by experts in silos or by agencies focused only on their own problems. A good solution to one can create more problems for others, as government responses to the novel coronavirus pandemic have revealed. Even if experts in different disciplines could combine their perspectives and their silo-ed solutions at the global level, they will not be able to solve the systemic problems of the SDGs. Because, their solutions must fit the specific conditions of each country, and of each locality within countries too, to fit the shape of the environment and the condition of society there. Solutions for environmental sustainability along with sustainable livelihoods cannot be the same in Kerala and Ladakh, or in Wisconsin and Tokyo. Solutions must be local. Moreover, for the local people to support the implementation of solutions, they must believe the solution is the right one for them, and not a solution thrust upon them by outside experts. Therefore, they must be active contributors of knowledge for, and active participants in, the creation of the solutions. Moreover, the knowledge of different experts — about the environment, the society, and the economy — must come together to fit realities on the ground. A case for local systems Governance of the people must be not only for the people. It must be by the people too. Gandhiji and his economic advisers, J.C. Kumarappa and others, developed their solutions of local enterprises through observations and experiments on the ground (and not in theoretical seminars in capital cities). E.F. Schumacher, founding editor of the journal, Resurgence , and author of Small is Beautiful , had pointed out by the 1970s, the flaws in the economics theories that were driving public policy in capitalist as well as communist countries. He had proposed a new economics, founded on local enterprise, very consistent with Gandhiji’s ideas. Elinor Ostrom, the first woman to win the Nobel Prize in Economics, in 2009, had developed the principles for self-governing communities from research on the ground in many countries, including India. When there are scientific explanations for why local systems solutions are the best, if not the only way to solve complex systemic problems, and when the Indian Constitution requires this too, then why does not the government devolve power to citizens in villages and towns in India for them to govern their own affairs? An Indian anthropologist gave me an insight. She said she had observed that several Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers she knew, who seemed to have more compassion for communities than their colleagues had, were involved at some time in their careers with the evolution of community-based public health and the self-help group movements in Andhra Pradesh. She contrasted their views about how change is brought about with the views of IAS officers who have implemented the Swachh Bharat programme recently. The latter, also very fine officers, saw their role as ‘deliverers of good government’. Whereas the former, through their experience, had begun to see that the role of government is perhaps to ‘enable governance’. The district Collector The key IAS functionary in India’s governance is the District ‘Collector’ — the role his forebears in the Indian Civil Services set up by the British, were expected to perform. Which was to collect revenues and to maintain law and order. When, after Independence, the Indian state took up a large welfare role, he also became the District ‘Deliverer’ of government largesse. It strengthened the image of a paternalist government taking care of its wards. The District Deliverer’s task became complicated when the numbers of government schemes multiplied — some designed by the central government, and others by State government. The schemes were managed by their own ministries and departments in the capitals, with local functionaries of those departments as the points of contact with citizens. At a meeting of IAS officers in Shimla with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), sometime in 2013, to understand why government schemes were not producing enough benefits for people on the ground, an officer presented a list of over 300 schemes that were operational in her district. The citizens did not know how many schemes there were and what they were entitled to. And even she found it hard to disentangle the schemes. The pandemic has not passed yet, but evidence is emerging that some States in India, such as Kerala, have weathered the storm better than others. And some countries, such as Vietnam and Taiwan, better than others too. A hypothesis is that those States and countries in which local governance was stronger have done much better than others. This is worthy of research by social and political scientists looking for insights now into design principles for good governance systems that can solve problems that the dominant theory of government is not able to solve. The dominant theory in practice of good government is ‘government of the people, by the government, for the people’. Which slips easily into ‘government of the people, by the government, for the political party in power’. This has been the prevalent theory in most States of India for too long. Even when government is for the people, as a deliverer of services, money into their bank accounts, (and money for building toilets), it is not good enough. The government has to support and enable people to govern themselves, to realise the vision of ‘government of the people, for the people, by the people’. Which is also the only way humanity will be able to meet the ecological and humanitarian challenges looming over it in the 21st century. Arun Maira was a member of the Planning Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/enabling-people-to-govern-themselves/article32072971.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The politics of nepotism||In recent weeks, nepotism has become centre stage in mainstream public discourse. Triggered by speculations over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the debate was initially confined to the film industry. But it has since spread to other domains. What began as a hashtag about a tragic death has acquired a life of its own. How do we understand this sudden upsurge, given that nepotism is not a new phenomenon? In India, whichever field one may consider, there is no denying the prevalence of influential families that wield nepotistic influence. But does this mean we make peace with nepotism? Certainly not. But a lot depends on how the debate is framed, and the nature of the contingent politics around the nepotism discourse. The current debate What is now derisively described as ‘nepotism’ is how things were traditionally done. In pre-modern societies, the realms of domesticity and work were merged, with the family playing a central role in determining an individual’s entry not only into an occupation, but also the public sphere. In insufficiently modernised societies such as India, this tendency remains strong. Second, traditional social norms still dictate that family comes first, caste/clan second, and everything else, including merit, last. In India, where upper caste dominance across domains is well documented, nepotism extends beyond the family and operates along the axis of caste as well. Deep historical inequalities and a dwindling welfare state have made India one of the most unequal societies in the world, with the richest 1% holding more than four times the wealth of the bottom 70%. It stands to reason, therefore, that anyone concerned about nepotism would want to attack the cause of which nepotism is the symptom: the reproduction of inequality. After all, the more unequal a society, the greater the scope and incentive for nepotism. In a hypothetical society of perfect socio-economic equality, each individual’s nepotistic reserves would cancel out that of everyone else’s. So, tackling nepotism calls for political mobilisation against socio-economic inequality. The most effective means of reducing such inequality are social justice measures such as affirmative action, universal access to public health and education, and redistributive policies such as an inheritance tax. But the theme of inequality is conspicuously absent in the nepotism discourse. Its preferred binary is not ‘privileged’ versus ‘non-privileged’ but ‘outsider’ versus ‘insider’, with all the outrage reserved for the insiders. The idea is not to call for a level playing field but to stoke the so-called outsider’s desire to displace the ‘insider’ as the new ‘insider’, without dismantling the insider-outsider structure as such. The key to understanding the nepotism discourse lies in the parallels it shares with the Anna Hazare-led anti-corruption movement. First, beneath the hood of moral righteousness, the nepotism discourse is also powered by right-wing majoritarian elements. As was the case with the anti-corruption movement, this aspect remains understated, if not hidden, thereby enabling the discourse to get traction across the political spectrum, including from liberals. Second, the nepotism discourse is right-wing populist in precisely the same way that the anti-corruption movement was, with both having the same objective: to consolidate the base of Hindutva politics by channelling public resentment against traditional elites. In politics, where the old elite, symbolically and literally, is the Nehru-Gandhi family and its allies, the strategy worked brilliantly – giving the illusion of authentic change while one faction of upper caste elites displaced another to become the ruling elite. The contours of this factional war are clear in the Bollywood context. Since 2013, several notables at the periphery of the Bollywood power structure have chosen to ally with majoritarian politics. But six years down the line, their strategic alliance with the new power elite in Delhi is yet to yield a meaningful change in their status vis-à-vis their own industry’s power centres, which continue to be the same old families. As these families continue to monopolise lucrative opportunities for those disinclined to challenge their supremacy, life could get tough for anyone who has fallen out of favour. Understandably, there is genuine cause for resentment here. Also, since many of these ambitious ‘outsiders’ to Bollywood themselves come from bubbles of privilege in terms of their class and caste origins, they are not easily silenced, unlike, say, an Adivasi or Dalit summarily displaced from her home in the rural hinterland. In a society where a feudal sense of entitlement simmers beneath a veneer of economic modernity, aspirational upper castes with bottled up resentments are legion in every domain. They represent a political resource waiting to be mobilised. The 2011 Anna Hazare movement showed how it’s done. From the same old toolkit Corruption did not peak in 2011, when the movement began. But a media-supported public campaign made it seem like it had, helping foment resentment against the UPA regime, which became synonymous with a venal elite that owed everything to the nepotistic influence of the Nehru-Gandhis. Corruption did not disappear after 2014. But the anti-corruption mobilisation had done its job — as a Trojan horse that enabled the forces of Hindu majoritarianism to capture power at the Centre. The increasing sophistication of right-wing propaganda and its layered execution through social media campaigns has meant that it rarely registers early enough on liberal radars. Nepotism is the latest instrument from the right-wing populist toolkit. As an ideological weapon, it is a missile with multiple warheads. At one level, it does what populism always does: fuel rage against an elite in the name of “the people”. At another level, Hindutva forces are using it to achieve three objectives: consolidate their upper caste base by appearing to empathise with their frustrations; translate status anxieties into resentments against sections of the elite that are yet to make a break with the Nehruvian consensus and embrace Hindutva; and, finally, communicate to recalcitrant sections of the liberal-Nehruvian elite the same message that goes out to some MLAs whenever a non-BJP government needs toppling: switch sides or face the consequences. Fomenting new social antagonisms along the axis of ‘the people’/outsider versus the elite/insider is a proven political strategy of right-wing authoritarian populists. The nepotism rhetoric is a similar operation where the resentments and frustrations of the less privileged, aspirational, upper and middle castes are sought to be weaponised against older, relatively more privileged upper caste factions, now ‘othered’ as the Nehruvian elite. The nepotism discourse, then, is another salvo in a battle between two elites: the Nehruvian ‘ancien regime’ with its pluralistic instincts, and the brash new aspirational faction that wants its share of the spoils of power. This is a share it feels entitled to on the basis of its political commitment to Hindutva. But given the heavy competition and the small size of the pie, a great many feel deprived and resentful as they see the old liberal elites continuing in their privileged perches, as they always have. It remains to be seen whether deepening this social antagonism through polarising rhetoric offers enough fuel for a propaganda campaign capable of insulating the ruling party from the political costs of governance failures and economic headwinds. sampath.g@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-politics-of-nepotism/article32072981.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||To whomsoever it may concern in the INC||India is facing turbulent times calling for statesman-like leadership to handle the complex task of rebuilding the nation affected by the twin challenges of economic troubles and the health pandemic. The premise here is that the Indian National Congress (INC) has a golden opportunity to reinvent itself as the Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government seems clueless about how revive the economy as well as gain the trust of the poor and the working class after the handling of the lockdown in an inhumane way. The INC should use the time between now and the next Lok Sabha elections, in 2024, to be in the reckoning. The interim President of the INC, Sonia Gandhi, its past President, Rahul Gandhi, and leaders such as P. Chidambaram, to name only a few, have no doubt, raised the right questions and tried to cause embarrassment to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But sadly that by itself is not enough. The party should come up with alternative policy perspectives to deal with the complex challenges facing the country. It is appropriate to recall that a few thinking members of the party, such as Shashi Tharoor, Jairam Ramesh and Sanjay Jha, have expressed opinion on the need for not only serious introspection at the top level but also institutional reforms within the party. The following are some of the suggestions if the project of a revival of the Congress party is to bear fruit. Tap talent The party should constitute a Committee comprising talented partymen and outsiders drawn from public life who carry credibility and entrust them with the task of holding organisational elections at the national and State levels in an impartial and transparent manner in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. There must be an emphasis on bringing in young blood to man party positions to keep the party future ready. Let it not be forgotten that Mrs. Indira Gandhi had Young Turks to usher in her socialist programmes after 1969; Rajiv Gandhi too had his own young team to work towards his vision of a technology-driven India. The United Progressive Alliance regimes too brought in some young people but failed to exploit their potential to the full as Sonia Gandhi who virtually held the reins of power was reluctant to give a free hand to the younger elements in the government. It is also necessary to de-emphasise the role of the high command, which is antithetical to a vibrant democratic functioning of the party. While there seems to be a strong case for the Gandhi family to be kept out, it may not happen, sadly, because of the sycophancy of the old guard with whom Sonia Gandhi is comfortable and who plead for her continuance as the party chief. The bane of the Congress leadership has been its reluctance to develop a second line of leadership that is independent of the Gandhi dynasty. Regain the social base The party needs to reinvent itself ideologically and while doing so, the narrative should be build around a broad left-of-centre position, in support of the poor and socially economically oppressed sections while also taking into account the aspirations of educated urban voters for whom ideology does not really matter. The party should address itself to the needs of farmers, small and medium-term industrialists, rather than siding with big business. It needs to make serious efforts to regain its social base among Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes, which has eroded in recent times as borne out by the outcome of the 2019 Lok Sabha and subsequent Assembly elections. Minority appeasement also will not work the way as it used to in the past.  Most crucially, the Congress has to rebuild the morale of its party workers, which stands eroded after successive defeats either electorally or losing power after being in government in rather quick succession in States. The leadership at the central and State levels will also have to accord priority to enrol new members to the party to make it cadre-based. Figures are not available about recruitment of new members to the party-fold in recent years. Side by side, serious efforts ought to be made to root out the bane of factionalism in the party. And that can happen if the leadership is persuasive and inclusive in its intent. The high command which has concentrated decision-making powers should make way for decentralised functioning of the party.  At the State level, it has to align itself with regional parties if it has to successfully capture power. More pertinently, the party State-level leadership needs to be nurtured and allowed to function independently keeping in mind the ground realities.  Project views It is high time the party set up a shadow cabinet at the central level, drew up and publicised its alternative policy prescriptions and presented them in Parliament rather than getting fixated in obstructing official business. Unparliamentary behaviour by members of the Opposition and ruling party members is detested by the public.  Additionally, the party leadership would do well to involve experts in drawing up medium- and long-term solutions to problems which are increasingly becoming complex in the interdependent and technology-driven ecosystem.  In these days of the powerful role played by the media, especially the electronic media which are owned by business houses, the party may have to take the help of some such group to project its image and points of view. The conclusion is inescapable: The Indian National Congress needs to work tirelessly and strain itself in a sustained manner on all fronts if it has to play an effective role in our democratic polity and to stake its claim for power in future. P.S. Jayaramu is a former professor of political science, Bangalore University and a former Senior Fellow, Indian Council of Social Science Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/to-whomsoever-it-may-concern-in-the-inc/article32072974.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Yet another challenge to the Dalit movement||The pandemic is forcing us to understand the changing nature of society. In north India, specifically, it has also reshaped the discourse on marginalisation. Dalit issues are part of this discourse but are submerged in the broader discussions on economic vulnerabilities highlighted by COVID-19. This pandemic has brought about two important shifts in the political discourse on the marginalised. As the lockdown caused untold suffering to poor, migrant labourers, it brought them from the margins to the centre of deliberations. Second, discussions on the space for the marginalised in the public health system and their safety are in focus. However, the concerns of Dalits remain hidden under the broader categories of poor, vulnerable, marginal, etc. Changing vocabulary In contemporary debates, there is a reappearance of class-based vocabulary. Caste-based issues have either become invisible or are only visible as part of the wider discourse. Leaders such as Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad have not been able to engage effectively with these new shifts. They have not been able to carve out a location in these new debates for their own politics. They have to reorient their exclusively caste-based language and reshape their political discourse to be in tune with the times. There are a large number of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes among the migrant labourers. But Dalit leaders in north India have not been able to represent their concerns. Their dilemma is how to address their constituencies using class terminology such as ‘labourer’ and ‘poor’ even as a majority of the migrant poor are Dalits and OBCs. This dilemma has made Dalit leaders non-assertive. It is possible that these shifts in political debates may continue in the post-pandemic phase at least for a few years as vulnerabilities of the marginalised will increase. The Dalit movement in north India is habituated in using caste-based binaries in its mobilisational language but has failed to respond to the changing political diction. In fact, leaders have not changed their political diction for 30 years, since the time of the Kanshi Ram-led Bahujan movement. The movement is facing a crisis of agendas and social programmes. The constant repetition of unfulfilled claims and commitments and slogans and promises create disillusionment among a section of their support base. Another issue is that the Dalit movement in north India is grappling with a leadership crisis. This crisis has appeared due to a break in the umbilical cord tying the movement with the party. In States such as U.P., Bihar, Punjab and Rajasthan, Dalit assertions are mostly centred around the electoral politics of Dalit-Bahujan political groups and parties. Even alternative social movements led by Jignesh Mevani and Mr. Azad seem to be caught in the logic of electoral politics. Leadership crisis During the Bahujan movement in the 1990s, the idea was that the movement and the party could facilitate each other. But the BSP, which emerged from the Bahujan social movement, developed gradually as a party structured like a pyramid. Under Ms. Mayawati, it has stopped its reciprocal relationship with the Dalit movement. In the BSP, the emergence of political leaders of various Dalit-Bahujan castes at different levels became frozen. This caused erosion in the broader social base and ultimately weakened the Dalit movement. So, while on the one hand, the Bahujan movement allowed numerically important Dalit-Bahujan communities to have political aspirations, on the other, the freeze on the emergence of leaders at various levels smashed political ambitions, destroyed the initiatives of the cadre and hampered the natural growth of the party and movement. The Dalit movement is constantly facing new challenges but its leaders are not able to change their strategies and grammar of politics to respond to them. Under the influences of the Ambedkarite ideology and the Dalit-Bahujan movements, an assertive and politically aware Dalit consciousness was being formed among a section of Dalit groups. In the meantime, interventions by Hindutva leaders among Dalits mobilised a section of the most marginalised Dalits under the Hindutva flag. Now the pandemic has posed a new challenge for the Dalit movement. Caste-based identities formed the ideological resource base, but now concerns have gone beyond caste and religion, thus posing a different challenge. The challenge may be temporary but it may lead to a paradigm shift for Dalit politics.  The Dalit movement has to evolve new social strategies for its expansion in order to keep up with the changing times. Badri Narayan is Director of the G.B. Pant Social Science Institute, Allahabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/yet-another-challenge-to-the-dalit-movement/article32072978.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The club of virus deniers||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who has managed the pandemic in the most disastrous manner, has tested positive for COVID-19. In Brazil, COVID-19 has affected more than 18,60,600 people and claimed more than 72,000 lives. Mr. Bolsonaro’s ostrich-like behaviour towards the unprecedented public health crisis has defied logic. His dismissal of the virus as “a little flu”, bragging that people like him who have had an athletic past “have nothing to worry about”, refusal to wear a mask in public until ordered by the judiciary, promotion of unproven medicinal cures for the virus, unwillingness to impose lockdown restrictions, active encouragement of mass rallies, and firing of the Health Minister (whose replacement resigned a month into the job) are all astonishingly cavalier actions. They show that the Brazilian President inhabits a parallel world. A hall of infamy However, he is not alone. There is a hall of infamy of like-minded world leaders who have deliberately denied or downplayed the dangers posed by the virus. Their callousness is leading to a large number of cases and deaths in their respective countries. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson wasted valuable months when the virus was spreading like wildfire and shied away from preventive social distancing measures. He cheerfully insisted on shaking hands in public, then got infected himself, and oversaw a health disaster that the U.K. has not suffered for generations. U.S. President Donald Trump famously said the virus will just disappear; his country has the highest number of cases and deaths in the world. Vice President Rosario Murillo invited Nicaraguans to participate in a ‘Love in times of COVID-19’ walk. Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko said that drinking vodka and working in fields with a tractor will “heal everyone”. Tanzanian President John Magufuli argued for people to flock to churches as “COVID-19 cannot survive in the body of Jesus”. Turkmenistan’s Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow urged that the use of the word ‘coronavirus’ be censored. These are all heads of government who have more or less replicated the Bolsonaro and Johnson models and plunged their societies into deep tragedy. Although the above listing of leaders has a mix of far-right and far-left populists, their common threat is the politics of extremism. They share comparable traits of mistrusting expert knowledge, stoking suspicion about formal institutions, stirring up their social base of hardcore, die-hard loyalists, cultivating a cult of personality around themselves, and maintaining a self-image as the sole guardians of the interests of the ordinary masses. Primacy of the economy An oft-observed tendency among the virus-denying leaders is the belief in the primacy of the economy as the be-all and end-all of life which should never get disrupted by “psychosis” about human health or environmental protection. These politicians are short-sighted enough to buy into the false dichotomy between livelihoods and lives, and prioritise the right of the working classes and businesses to work over the right of every citizen to receive healthcare and survive. In an abstract sense, the economy or markets shape society and politics, according to these leaders. But as the virus tears into their countries, it is painfully proving the fallacy of their overly materialistic and inhumane world view. The U.S., Brazil and the U.K., to name a few, have been saddled with the proverbial worst of both worlds — mass casualties from the virus and economic depressions not seen in a century. The club of deniers chased narrow, short-term goals of keeping the economy open and ended up with the double whammy of high cases and deaths and no GDP growth to flaunt. Given how obstinate politicians like Mr. Bolsonaro are, they may never learn from their critical mistakes until booted out of power. History will judge them harshly. Sreeram Chaulia is Dean of the Jindal School of International Affairs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-club-of-virus-deniers/article32072982.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A crisis in pause||The brewing rebellion in the Rajasthan Congress lost its fizz midway but the rivalry between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot will continue to haunt the party’s government in the State. Mr. Pilot appears to have overplayed his hand, in the process exposing himself to potential retribution by the veteran who is known to be as ruthless to adversaries as he is loyal to followers. The Deputy Chief Minister had claimed the support of 30 of the 107 Congress MLAs in the State, but the show of strength on Monday turned in a different picture. More than 100 MLAs appear to have attended a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party, which is above the halfway mark in the 200-strong Assembly. As the head of the Congress State unit, Mr. Pilot played a crucial role in the victory of the party in 2018 and his disappointment at losing the top post to Mr. Gehlot soon became a festering wound into which the latter only rubbed salt. The Gehlot camp has accused Mr. Pilot of hobnobbing with the BJP to topple the government. By going public with his resentment and marshalling legislators in his camp to BJP-ruled Haryana, Mr. Pilot gave a fillip to speculation that the BJP was involved as it was in toppling the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh in March. Any such move would have been a dishonouring of the mandate that Mr. Pilot himself laboured for in Rajasthan in 2018. Uninterested or incapable, the Congress central leadership was asleep as storm clouds were gathering over its government in Rajasthan. Factional fights have been endemic in the Congress, but ambitious and impatient leaders are usually kept in check by the alertness of the central leadership. Rahul Gandhi often takes the plea that he is not the party president and Sonia Gandhi, who is the president, defers to her son, creating a loop of power vacuum and lack of accountability in the party. There is despondency at all levels in the Congress, still reeling from two consecutive Lok Sabha election routs. Many leaders have left the party for greener pastures. The friction between Mr. Pilot and Mr. Gehlot is also emblematic of a larger issue of a halting generational transition in the Congress. To say that Mr. Pilot, who became a Member of Parliament at the age of 26, Union Minister in his mid-thirties and Deputy Chief Minister at 41, is not recognised in the Congress is laughable. At the same time, there is a strong case for infusion of younger blood on a massive scale in the party. Far from relentlessly searching for new ideas and people, the Congress leadership is throwing away the limited assets it has by sheer callousness. The averted disaster in Rajasthan will return in a new avatar if nothing is done. It will take a lot of blood and toil for the Congress to take the battle to the BJP’s camp; but before anything, the party must put its house in order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-crisis-in-pause/article32072967.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Gains from rains||So far, India appears to be having a good run with the monsoon. As of the most recent data available from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), rainfall during the season has been 14% more than what is usual for this period. The month of June only accounts for about 17% of the monsoon rainfall spanning June-September. It is the month during which the monsoon sets in and that process can sometimes be delayed for as much as a week. June is also when the monsoon begins its journey from two extremities of the country. One branch starts its journey northwards from Kerala and the other wing — called the Bay of Bengal branch — enters India from the southeast. Both branches eventually converge in the north and usually, this merging and strengthening of the monsoon currents over the mainland takes at least until July 15. The IMD never forecasts the possible rainfall likely during June because of the vagaries involved in onset and the pace of the journey. This year, two significant things happened. The monsoon set in at a textbook date of June 1. This was even after concerns that Cyclone Amphan that had ravaged West Bengal would delay the monsoon’s entry into India from the Andaman Sea. The second factor was the record pace at which the monsoon covered the country. Along with the monsoon onset this year, the IMD announced a revision to the onset and withdrawal dates across several cities. According to this, the monsoon covered India’s northern and western borders no later than July 8 as opposed to the previous historical date of July 15. This year, however, the monsoon broke even this speed limit and covered the country by June 25 — at a pace that was unprecedented since 2013. The net result of all this: more rainy days in June and a fairly even distribution across the country. The IMD’s records show that only on four days in that month did daily rainfall drop below its historical normal. Except for northwest India, which is staring at a 3% deficit, the rainfall in east, south and central India has posted surpluses of 13%-20%. While good rains in June signal farmers to prepare the soil and sow kharif crop, the most important months are July and August. These two months account for two-thirds of the monsoon rain. This is also the time the monsoon goes into so-called ‘break’ conditions. Prolonged breaks, or an absence of rainfall, can even lead to drought. In spite of significant improvements in data gathering and technological advancement, meteorological agencies cannot yet reliably forecast the advent of a break or how long it can last. What is critical is that ‘normal rains’ also obscure the possibility of heavy rains or severe droughts in districts or over larger areas. Therefore, short and medium range forecasts need to be strengthened and effectively communicated to the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/gains-from-rains/article32072966.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||U.K. Arms for South Africa||The British Prime Minister, Mr. Edward Heath, has sent a letter to the Indian Prime Minister, Mrs. Gandhi, on the subject of resuming supply of British arms to South Africa. Britain sees such resumption as a reactivation of the Simonstown agreement. The subject figured in the discussions just concluded between the American Secretary of State, Mr. William Rogers, and the British Foreign Secretary, Sir Alec Douglas-Home. According to reports, Mr. Rogers was unconvinced by the British argument in favour of ending the arms embargo against South Africa. He reaffirmed the American position that if there is any change of policy in this regard and the embargo is relaxed by a major power like Britain, the other African States will be unhappy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/uk-arms-for-south-africa/article32072976.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Control of Royal Institute (From an editorial)||The control of the Royal Institute of Science, Bombay, was the subject of an interesting correspondence between the Syndicate of the Bombay University on the one hand and the Government on the other. In presenting the case for the transfer of the control and management of the Institute to the hands of the University, the Syndicate went into the history of the origin of the institute and referred to the expectation reasonably entertained by the University from the very beginning that, in accordance with the new policy of enabling to University to undertake instruction, and specially post-graduate instruction, the working of the institute, would be entrusted to the University. Such expectations were also, as the Syndicate pointed out, strengthened from time to time by the remarks of responsible heads, like those of Lord Sydenham in his Convocation Address of 1913. Further, the very objects of the institute, provision of instruction for the B. Sc. and M. Sc. courses, of facilities for research work in science, both pure and applied, as well as the creation of an atmosphere that will be conducive to the development of the research spirit in Western India — these were more likely to be secured, according to the Syndicate, if the institute was under University control than under the ordinary service conditions in a Government department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/control-of-royal-institute-from-an-editorial/article32072975.ece
14 July 2020||Southampton,||Holder hails Gabriel and Blackwood||West Indies captain Jason Holder praised the “massive, massive heart” of Shannon Gabriel following the tourists' four-wicket win in the first Test against England here on Sunday. Fast bowler Gabriel was named Man-of-the-Match after returning match-figures of nine for 137 as international cricket returned from lockdown. Proving his fitness The 32-year-old Trinidad quick was originally named as a travelling reserve after he recovered from ankle surgery. But he proved his fitness in two intra-squad warm-up matches and then showed his class as West Indies went 1-0 up in the three-match series. Gabriel now boasts a fine career record of 142 wickets from 46 Tests at an average of under 30, with Holder telling reporters after stumps: “What Shannon has done in this game is nothing surprising. He has a massive, massive heart and he's been through a lot. “He wants success so badly. His body hasn't held up the way he would like, but to see him back out there fit and well, and bowling fast for the West Indies is always a pleasing sight. He deserves every bit of success he's had in this game,” said Holder, who himself took a Test-best six for 42 as England was bundled out for 204 in the first innings. Despite Gabriel's heroics, West Indies needed to bat well while pursuing the target of 200. It crossed the line, thanks largely to Jermaine Blackwood's 95. Lucky break Blackwood might not have played if Darren Bravo and Shimron Hetmyer had not opted out of the tour. “He had an outstanding First Class competition — his case to get back in the team was pretty strong. He's not a slouch at this level either, he has done well for us and I hope he can kick on,” said Holder about Blackwood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holder-hails-gabriel-and-blackwood/article32073081.ece
14 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Doctor at boxing camp tests positive||A doctor working with the women boxers in the National camp at NIS Patiala has tested positive for COVID-19. The test report of Dr. Amol Patil, who reached Patiala on July 6, returned positive on Monday. He had been in isolation after reaching Patiala. “I was okay when I reached Patiala and there were no symptoms. As per the Punjab government’s regulations, an inter-State traveller has to spend 11 days in isolation and seven days in home isolation. As I don’t have a home here, I have been staying in isolation,” Dr. Patil told The Hindu . Sources from Patiala said the doctor has been sent to a Government quarantine centre. Boxers and support staff began reaching NIS Patiala from the first week of this month for the National camp. Controversy erupted when it was reported that a few boxers were moving around freely inside the NIS campus without following the quarantine protocol. The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has formed a committee to look into the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/doctor-at-boxing-camp-tests-positive/article32073224.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Real plays pragmatic football: Kanoute||With Real Madrid leading the LaLiga table, one point ahead of Barcelona after 35 of 38 matches and a game in hand, Frederic Kanoute felt that the demanding fans were driving the team to high standards as much as coach Zinedine Zidane. “The team plays a very good style. The man in charge is giving the results. They have a fantastic system and play pragmatic football. There is not much room to complain,” said Kanoute, ambassador of LaLiga, who addressed the media along with Luis Garcia. Kanoute was equally confident that Lionel Messi, who leads the scoring chart with 22 goals, will continue to deliver for Barcelona and keep it in contention for the trophy. “What Messi is doing week in and week out is amazing. He is a step ahead of everyone. We are going to enjoy watching Messi for a few more years,” said Kanoute. When the question swung to Liverpool winning the Premier League title, Garcia gave a lot of credit to coach Jurgen Klopp who had “built an amazing squad”. “It is going to be the team to beat for some years as it continues to grow,” said Garcia, a former member of the Liverpool team. About competing in front of empty stands, Kanoute said professional players could motivate themselves even in training sessions and that playing without fans at the stadium had not stopped them from performing to their best, even in tough conditions. The ability of the players to adapt to the “new normal” in terms of sticking to the playing conditions emerging out of the COVID-19 pandemic also came for praise from the two ambassadors.  What Messi is doing week in and week out is amazing. He is a step ahead of everyoneKanoute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-plays-pragmatic-football-kanoute/article32073088.ece
14 July 2020||Southhampton,||Captain Stokes defends decision to drop Broad||Stand-in captain Ben Stokes won’t regret the decision to drop Stuart Broad from the side despite losing the first Test against the West Indies. “In terms of the selection, if I was to regret that, it doesn’t send a very good message to the guys who played. We went with the decision that [extra] pace would do better for us in the long run on this game. “You make decisions and you’ve got to stand by them. I’m not the type of person to look back and regret them. “We all know where we made the errors. You have to be good enough to put first-innings runs on the board, no matter what the conditions. “We put another 60, 70 or 80 runs on what they had to chase and it’s a completely different game,” said Stokes, who led in place of Joe Root, who was on paternity leave. England coach Chris Silverwood refused to give any guarantees that Broad will be recalled for the second Test, saying the spot was still up for grabs. No guarantee “Nothing is a given in this team, as we have seen, and people will be playing for their spots. Everything will be considered,” Silverwood said. The second Test starts on July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/captain-stokes-defends-decision-to-drop-broad/article32073090.ece
14 July 2020||KOCHI,||Gopal keen on putting the pieces back together||He became a Grandmaster at 18, has played in three Olympiads and has a rare Asian Games medal in chess. Ten years ago, when G.N. Gopal spoke about his big goal of chasing the 2700 Elo rating, he appeared set to get there. But things did not go as expected. “From 2007 till about 2010, my progress was quite good. But after that, whatever I did, there was no clear-cut improvement. I think it was probably because I lacked a professional world-class trainer,” said Gopal, Kerala’s first GM, in a chat with The Hindu here. “I should have got somebody like the famed Vladimir Chuchelov (the Russia-born Belgian GM), during that period. Had I done that, I would have reached a much higher rating.” When Gopal was hitting the highs — he became a GM at 18 in 2007, hit his career-best rating of 2611 in 2010 and played three consecutive Olympiads from 2008 — he believed that he could pull off big results on his own.  Missing the trick “I did not feel the importance of having a world-class trainer then. I was thinking what was the need for that. But now, if you look at (Dutch GM) Anish Giri or other students of Vladimir Chuchelov like Indian GMs Parimarjan Negi or K. Sasikiran, they have had some sudden huge leaps in their ratings. Some from 2600 to 2650 or 2700. My rating was always sort of stuck in the 2600 range. I could not go to 2650.” Gopal married Rohini, who has done her masters in psychology, in Thrissur a few days ago and now the 31-year-old has a hunch that his chess is about to turn around nicely.  The 2650 is still his target. “It’s a goal I’ve been waiting to reach for quite some time and I hope to get there in some eight to 10 months after things return to normal. Presently, I’m on 2593,” said Gopal, an Assistant Manager with the BPCL in Kochi. It looks like Gopal is getting his pieces back together again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gopal-keen-on-putting-the-pieces-back-together/article32073356.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NBA Academy continues to educate||Like all academies, the NBA India basketball academy in Greater Noida has been closed during the lockdown, but the education of the young players has not stopped though they are at home. “Our coaches and support staff are remotely monitoring the progress of the players, their fitness, nutrition. Some of the students and staff are also conducting online sessions for the NBA basketball schools project,” said Rajesh Sethi, Managing Director, NBA India. Scott Flemming, former National coach of the Indian team, is the Technical Director of the Academy. Todd Gates is the strength and conditioning coach, and Ronald Class, the player development coach. Sharing drills “The coaches are also sharing drills for the players at home. Last month, one of our academy prospects Harsh Dagar made a hoop, using raw materials at home for practice since he did not have access to any court near his home. Such developments give us pride and strengthen our commitment,” said Sethi. Having started in 2017, the NBA Academy has been able to provide a pathway for many Indian players. “Jaideep Rathore, Lokendra Singh and Jitendra Kumar Sharma were selected for the NBA Academy under-16 team. The 14 players from 12 countries in that team had a 12-day camp and had sessions with top clubs in France and Hungary. They also got to watch the NBA Paris Game between Milwaukee Bucks and Charlotte Hornets,” recalled Sethi. Among others, Jagshaanbir Singh has signed with Point Park University, while Princepal Singh has joined the NBA Global Academy in Canberra, Australia. The NBA women’s wing guided Asmat Kaur, Khushi Dongre, Sunishka Kartik, Sanjana Ramesh and Vaishnavi Yadav in their effort to join educational institutes in the US and also pursue their basketball dreams. The focus now is to reopen the academy when the government gives the green signal, and complete the fifth edition of the ACG-NBA Jump programme in order to select the next batch of players. “We will continue to grow the game with a structured approach,” assured Sethi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nba-academy-continues-to-educate/article32073223.ece
14 July 2020||SPIELBERG,||Lewis Hamilton for continuing anti-racism stance||Lewis Hamilton has called on Formula One and his fellow drivers to stay focused on the sport’s anti-racism stance, and present a less chaotic image before next Sunday’s Hungarian Grand Prix. The six-time World champion said, after winning Sunday’s Styrian GP, that a number of drivers wanted to stop the pre-race anti-racism gestures, and that he felt some teams were not doing enough to show solidarity with the movement. “The drivers spoke after the drivers’ briefing this weekend about what we intended to do and some were asking ‘why do we have to continue to do this?’’’, he said. “Some felt like once was enough last week. “I just had to encourage them that racism is here, going to be here and probably be here longer than our time here — and people of colour, who are subject to racism, don’t have time to take a moment to protest and that be it. “We’ve really got to think, as a sport, what we can do because those are nice signs, but passion is needed.” Despite Hamilton’s efforts, at least four drivers remained standing while others took a knee and several appeared to be absent when they appeared together at the front of the grid before Sunday’s race. “F1 has come forward and said they are supporting End Racism and it is amazing to see Mercedes is also doing that, but no other team has done a single thing,” said Hamilton. “The Red Bull mechanics have taken a knee, but if you look at Ferrari, they have thousands of people working for them, but I have heard no word of Ferrari saying that they hold themselves accountable and what they are going to do in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lewis-hamilton-for-continuing-anti-racism-stance/article32073079.ece
14 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Subrata has big plans for Hyderabad FC||Subrata Paul, who has a league record of 26 clean sheets in 85 ISL appearances, says when football resumes he will see himself as just another player in the Hyderabad FC camp, but also as one with a huge responsibility. “Life as a footballer has taught me to be patient, both on and off the field. From my experience and having led India, I am confident of moulding the youngsters in the right frame in Hyderabad FC,” the 33-year-old goalkeeper told The Hindu . On coach Albert Roca, Subrata said he is someone who would demand a lot from the players. “He hates to lose and we [players] have to understand this philosophy,” he said. “There’s no tomorrow in the life of a footballer and in fact no today either. It’s all about ‘right now’. It’s now or never,” the veteran said. Unifying factor “In the post COVID-19 scenario, football will be the unifying factor in the country if you look at how European leagues are already followed here,” Subrata said. “The nickname ‘Spiderman’ motivates me, but it’s past. A footballer cannot rest on past laurels,” he said. “The ISL allows transfer of knowledge from foreign recruits to Indian players and helps improve standards here.” On how his role has evolved over time, Subrata said, “The modern-day goalkeeper is not just a shot-stopper, he is the owner of the field, studying the game faster than others. So, you will always find him more vocal than maybe others in the team meetings. “Hyderabad FC will be starting from scratch and I have big personal targets set, including establishing my team as the best in the country. But we can only win it together.” Subrata said he is working on completing his coaching licences, something he recommends every footballer should do to understand the psyche of players and the importance of a proper diet. “This we missed in our formative years,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/subrata-has-big-plans-for-hyderabad-fc/article32073290.ece
14 July 2020||London,||Spurs claim local bragging rights||Toby Alderweireld’s late goal gave Tottenham a 2-1 win over Arsenal as Jose Mourinho’s men climbed above their north London rivals, while Bournemouth kept its survival hopes alive with a chaotic 4-1 victory against Leicester on Sunday. Mourinho had endured a barrage of criticism as Tottenham slipped out of the race to qualify for the Champions League with just one win in three games. But thanks to Alderweireld’s winner with nine minutes left, Tottenham took the local bragging rights and got back in contention for a place in next season’s Europa League. In LaLiga, Sevilla all but secured Champions League qualification by beating relegation-battler Real Mallorca 2-0 on Sunday. Lucas Ocampos scored a first-half penalty before Youssef En-Nesyri added a second late on to move Sevilla nine points clear of fifth-placed Villarreal. In Serie A, AC Milan kept its hopes of European football alive on Sunday with a 2-2 draw at Napoli.   The results: Premier League: Bournemouth 4 (Stanislas 66-pen, Solanke 67, 87, Evans 83-og) bt Leicester 1 (Vardy 23); Tottenham 2 (Son 19, Alderweireld 81) bt Arsenal 1 (Lacazette 16).   LaLiga: Levante 1 (Bardhi 71) lost to Athletic Bilbao 2 (Raul Garcia 4, 45+1); Leganes 1 (Perez 18-pen) bt Valencia 0; Sevilla 2 (Ocampos 41-pen, En-Nesyri 84) bt Real Mallorca 0.   Serie A: Genoa 2 (Pandev 24, Schone 54) bt SPAL 0; Cagliari 0 drew with Lecce 0; Fiorentina 1 (Cutrone 90+6) drew with Verona 1 (Faraone 18); Parma 2 (Kurtic 90+3, Inglese 90+5) drew with Bologna 2 (Danilo 3, Soriano 16); Udinese 1 (Lasagna 37) lost to Sampdoria 3 (Quagliarella 45+1, Bonazzoli 84, Gabbiadini 90+4); Napoli 2 (Di Lorenzo 34, Mertens 60) drew with AC Milan 2 (Hernandez 20, Kessie 73-pen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spurs-claim-local-bragging-rights/article32073093.ece
14 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Gurbux and Palash to get Bagan Ratna||Hockey Olympian Gurbux Singh and former Bengal cricketer and coach Palash Nandi would be honoured with the Mohun Bagan Ratna, the club’s highest order of merit, while another hockey Olympian Ashok Kumar is to get the lifetime achievement award. Owing to the pandemic, the club said it will not have a ceremony on July 29, its foundation day, and the awards will be handed over to the recipients staying in Kolkata, in accordance with the government guidelines. Those staying outside the city would be presented with the awards at a later date.   The awards: Mohun Bagan Ratna: Gurbux Singh (hockey) & Palash Nandi (cricket); lifetime achievement: Ashok Kumar (hockey), Pranab Ganguly (football), Monoranjan Porel (athletics); best footballer (2019-2020): Joseba Beitia; best youth footballer (2019-2020): Sajal Bag (U-18 team) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gurbux-and-palash-to-get-bagan-ratna/article32073225.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,||TN — high-performance centre for six sports||The Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu is planning a high-performance centre for six sports, including volleyball, for which work is likely to begin next year, according to J. Mercy Regina, senior manager, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu. Speaking in a webinar organised by Goal Quiz on Sunday for the development of women’s volleyball in the State, Regina confirmed the plans for the centre. She added more players would start getting jobs in Tamil Nadu through the 3% sports quota. Meena Mahalingam, former India player and coach, felt private companies should also be approached for jobs. “We cannot rely on government jobs alone. Employment in the private sector is crucial for the development of the game,” said Meena Another former international M. Sunitha felt participation must be encouraged at the grassroots level “Playing volleyball must be made fun in schools. It is important to broaden the base,” said Sunitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-high-performance-centre-for-six-sports/article32073138.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Leagues can start without foreigners’||The All India Football Federation plans to go ahead with the 2020-21 season even if the clubs’ foreign recruits are unable to make it due to COVID-19 travel restrictions. AIFF general secretary Kushal Das, during a webinar on Monday, said: “Leagues must go on even if it’s without foreigners. But there are other people including the league committee chairman, Mr Subrata Dutta [who need to be on the same page].” The whole of ISL could be held in Goa, Das stated, while Kolkata may end up hosting all the I-League matches as the ISL cannot be held there with the Salt Lake Stadium undergoing renovation for the women’s U-17 World Cup. The World Cup, to be held in February-March 2021 could go behind closed doors, but only in the worst-case scenario, Das said. “That will be a pity, but human lives are most important.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leagues-can-start-without-foreigners/article32073077.ece
14 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Sports School-BFC football scholarships||The Sports School, in association with Bengaluru FC (BFC), will offer football scholarships to youngsters in the under-13, 15 and 18 age categories. The scholarship will cover both sports and academics. The last date to apply for the scholarship is July 31. Trials will be held in August or September, based on government directives on the COVID-19 pandemic. The football scholarship programme will be handed to applicants who get selected in two rounds of trials — with The Sports School and BFC. This scholarship programme and BFC Soccer Schools are part of the club’s grassroot-level initiatives, BFC CEO Manhar Tamhane said at a web conference on Monday. Selected footballers will get the chance to represent the club in the Hero Junior League, he added. U.V. Sankar, Director, The Sports School, said that the scholarship programme will ensure the right balance between sports and academics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-school-bfc-football-scholarships/article32073089.ece
14 July 2020||CHENNAI,||IIT-M research inches closer to cancer cure||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras have shown that the active compound from the common household spice turmeric — curcumin — can enhance cancer cell death. Researchers from the Bhupat and Jyoti Mehta School of Biosciences, Department of Biotechnology, have found that treating leukaemia cells that cause cancer of the blood and bone marrow with curcumin, enhances cell death. The research team led by Rama Shanker Verma has published its work in Pharmacological Reports , a peer-reviewed journal. The paper was co-authored by Sridevi Surapally and Madhumathi Jayaprakasam. TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is an agent with the ability to programme cell death (apoptosis) and has triggered many preclinical studies the world over. While the anti-tumour activity of TRAIL in preclinical studies had been strong, in clinical trials, the results were so far unsatisfactory as cancer cells, when exposed long-term, seem to acquire resistance against TRAIL. The next round of research has been to find chemicals that can reverse resistance and increase sensitivity of cancer cells to TRAIL. The IIT-M research team chose curcumin as it is known to inhibit carcinogenesis and induce apoptosis in various cancer cells. The researchers isolated leukaemia cells from cancer patients and found that non-toxic concentrations of curcumin can significantly increase the efficiency of TRAIL-induced cell death. The findings showed clearly that even small concentration of curcumin could potentially enhance the sensitiveness of leukaemic cells to TRAIL, the researchers said. However, they added that the reactions were carried out with isolated cells outside the human body in a test tube. It is yet unclear if the same results can be obtained in vivo, that is inside the body. Their caution stems from the fact that absorption of curcumin in the blood from the gut and its bio-availability for therapeutic purpose is generally poor. “A few researchers have shown that compounds such as quercetin found in onions and green tea and piperazine, found in black and green pepper, enhance absorption of curcumin by the body,” added Rama Verma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/iit-m-research-inches-closer-to-cancer-cure/article32073092.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 08:45 IST,||Sudoku - July 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-14-2020/article32074032.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Soul and substance||Before the lockdown, most people apart from tech connoisseurs wanted just the basics from their PC, but in the past months of work-from-home life, the relationship between user and product has evolved and the demands from a PC are more intricate. Meeting many of these demands is the Dell XPS 13 9300, which was unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Expo 2020 in Las Vegas. It took its time to make a home in India, when it was finally launched on July 8, its timing was spot on. Packaging-wise, Dell maintains its stance on using minimal material, all of which are recyclable or reusable, such as bamboo moulded pulp. In the box is the ultrabook itself, the 45 Watt AC adaptor and charging cord, and the basic supporting documentation. My review unit was the appealing Platinum Silver variant. This 13-inch ultrabook is not only light at just over 1.2 kilograms, the aluminium body is also polished to be grip-friendly with a tempting sheen. The hinge is comfortably rigid and the device opens and closes, with ease and finality respectively. The focus remains the display. Open the ultrabook and the first thing I noticed was there was no Dell logo under the screen — something Dell users are quite used to seeing. This is to make the most of the redefined InfinityEdge display, which also facilitates the top camera placement. This larger 16:10 display ensures that whatever you are using the XPS 13 9300 for, is the focus; one can barely see the camera. The EyeSafe Technology tamps down the amount of harmful blue light, while still letting the 4K UHD+ VESA-certified DisplayHDR 400 panel sing in over 16 million colours. The XPS 13 9300 is not just for work as streaming and gaming displays come across well on this device. The display comprises a comfortable 500 nits and 100% RGB colour gamut, as well as a 0.65% anti-reflective coating to minimise glare if you work in varying lighting conditions. This means multimedia work comes across smoothly here, whether you are using Photoshop editing videos, or engaging in graphic design. The keyboard design of the XPS 13 9300 is ‘ergonomics rethought’. The keys have a satisfying curvature, so when typing, there are no awkward angles to each press, but rather an easy flow to your input. The finish on the keys have a plushness, too. And sound-wise, the typing is a relatively quiet experience, so if you are gaming or rushing to meet a deadline, your focus is on the task at hand sans the clickity-clack of keys. The palm rest is also a considerate feature; made of carbon fibre, these little ‘stitched ridges’ offer some grip for your palm while you type or browse on the sizeable trackpad. Performance, upped As expected the XPS 13 9300, despite its diminutive size, is able to handle heavy-duty activity on a robust four-cell 52 Whr (Watt hour) ‘smart’ lithium-ion battery that lasts 12 hours on switching between streaming and gaming, and 16 hours on browsing and basic work. Of course, this may vary for other users depending on standby modes and restart routines. This addition to the XPS 13 family should make the Windows 10 community proud. The latest 10th Gen Intel Core processors offer between 3.40 - 3.90 GHz, depending on your customisation of the ultrabook. Paired with a hefty Wi-Fi 6 router, the XPS 13 9300’s Killer AX1650 makes for uninterrupted online workflow or streaming. With all this, the device did not heat up as much thanks to the GORE Thermal Insulation. Prioritising a set of functions constantly means a few other features in a device get the short end of the stick. The webcam quality, unfortunately, leaves much to be desired at just 0.92 megapixels for a still image and 1280 x 720 pixels at 30 frames per second for video recording. After all, with video-chat conferences becoming more of a quotidian requirement — even before the lockdown — Dell could have upped the quality here, making for a missed opportunity. However, those who have the extra buck can invest in a standard external webcam and hook it to the system. This may not be easy with just the two Thunderbolt 3 USB-C ports, microSD card slot, and a microphone and headphone jack. Set up an adaptor system if you are planning on bringing this home. Though it defends its corner in the high-end segment, I still feel the XPS 13 9300 could offer more in terms of hardware, as do its competitors that offer ultrabooks starting at Rs. 70,000. As more people do their best to shift away from Chinese brands, US-based Dell’s products, though assembled in China still maintain its loyal user base across individual users and corporate entities. If you plan on getting this ultrabook, the in-device support module helps you find your nearest authorised service centres and get speedy help from up-to-date engineers, either virtually or in-person, depending on your issue.  The XPS 13 9300 starts at Rs. 1,44,807 and is available at major retailers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/soul-and-substance/article32073413.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Laughs and life from the 2D||The lockdown made almost everyone turn to their smartphones for entertainment. That, in turn, made a lot of content creators try out Indian-made Tweencraft, which has gone viral for its use of basic animation and voice modulation enabling users to create short dialogue-driven comic animation — most of which are memes. Using Tweencraft, one can create animation story with basic learning about the edit features. Moreover it becomes a platform to create personal stories to share on social media. Stories can be created from scratch or simply picked from any story shared created earlier and re-edited to create a new one. The app allows editing rigs (bones) of the characters for performance of specific actions. Mostly popular as forwards on WhatsApp and reposts on Instagram, Tweencraft’s most-discussed animation series are the ones that involve a mother’s sarcastic comments on exam results, lockdown preparation and bragging of boyfriends. Regional clips do well. Bengaluru-based duo of KalpKriti Inc, Soni Sahu and Dinesh Sen has been working on this app over the last four years. Soni says, “Our story is as crazy as the Tweencraft app. We quit our jobs at Intel four-and-a-half years ago. Since then we are working full-time to build this app.” Working without any funding, the two says they have been “following a Buddhist monk’s lifestyle.” “We are getting some business now,” explains Dinesh, “The last four months have been pretty good for us, giving us the much-needed morale boost. We grew from 300 daily active users to 15,000 without a marketing budget.” With so many apps available, the duo was not sure about the response for the product. “We are satisfied with the outcome. People are loving it,” says Soni. “Creating the app on a limited budget was also a challenge. We were not in a position to hire experts. We did most of the coding and hired interns and freelancers to help us,” explains Dinesh, adding that the app started to gain traction around February 2020. Reaching the masses “During February 2020 we used to get around 200 new downloads every day. The magic of numbers actually started happening in May during the lockdown, when RJ Praveen (RedFM) tried our app. In a day our views jumped to 3,87,386 with 17,000 likes,” recalls Soni. The app, which used to get about 2,000 downloads a day in April saw over 6,000 downloads daily in May. The team says the app is currently free, but they plan to have some in-app ads for revenue. Tweencraft also have had businesses contact them to create ads. Tweencraft user Mridusmita Chakraborty, a copywriter with a FM radio channel, says she chanced upon the comic animations while randomly scrolling through YouTube. Mridusmita, a Mass Communications student in Guwahati, Assam, specialising in Animation, instantly liked the comics. She says “I scrolled through the various videos but couldn’t find anything in Assamese. As a copy writer, I have a lot of thoughts and scripts which I can’t really use for radio. I downloaded [Tweencraft] and tried a few.” Mridusmita adds, “I wrote about a conversation between a girl and her boyfriend. It got me a good number of likes and shares. The comments mostly said they relate to the mindless conversations and the girl’s thought blurbs. The sarcastic mother giving the girl a roasting about her exam results or the show she is watching is also popular. In Assam, Matric results are a big thing. Friends and family actually keep a track of those who appeared for the exams and do not miss making calls to enquire about results on D-Day.” Most Tweencraft users love to portray family drama through the app — from kitchen conversations to arguments between parents or the discussions of where to eat out. Namrata Kumari and her sister, who both use the app to portray their conversations with their dad about their spending habits, have earned many laughs. “The app is easy to use if you are creative in your dialogues,” says Namrata. “All we do is repeat what our dad says about going shopping or making online purchases. There are many who relate to our content and also offer suggestions on what we could feature.” Those unfamiliar with how to create their own videos can check out tutorial videos on the Tweencraft Desi channel on YouTube.  Tweencraft is available to Android users via the Play Store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/laughs-and-life-from-the-2d/article32073421.ece
14 July 2020||July 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A waiting game||Gaming during the lockdown has offered players some semblance of control, even if it is just the virtual sort. Holding a controller in your hands and making impactful choices without physically moving can be satisfying. Ubisoft’s Sunday virtual event Ubisoft Forward or ‘UbiForward’ gave hungry gamers something to sink their teeth into for the year or so ahead. Here are some highlights from Ubisoft Foward:  Watch Dogs Legion : Set in futuristic London, Watch Dogs Legion, the sequel to Watch Dogs 2, follows everyday people banding together in a surveillance state run by private security company Albion. Release is slated for October 29 this year.  Assassin’s Creed Valhalla : When the teaser trailer for Valhalla released earlier this year, gamers were excited about the Vikings-based storyline and environments oriented around Norse mythology. This video game will be available from November 17.  Far Cry 6 : This gaming release is making waves online purely for the fact that the villain Antón Castillo will be played by Giancarlo Esposito ( Breaking Bad , Better Call Saul ). It takes place in the seemingly-idyllic island of Yara amid a revolution — but we will have to wait till February 2021 to actually play it.  Hyper Scape : Ubisoft’s new free-to-play battle-royale experience is set in the fictional city of Neo Arcadia, and through a form of VR, anyone can become someone. Eager gamers can get the open beta of the experience.  These games will be released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Stadia, with PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X versions to arrive later in the year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-waiting-game/article32073415.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases fall by 29.6% in Delhi||Delhi reported the lowest number of new COVID-19 cases in more than a month with 1,246 fresh infections being reported in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases now stands at 1,13,740, according to a Delhi government health bulletin on Monday. 40 more deaths Also, 40 more deaths have been reported, taking the toll to 3,411. Of the total cases, 91,312 people have recovered and there are 19,017 active cases. Though the total cases in Delhi have been increasing, the active cases have been decreasing since July 1. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1 and has decreased by 29.6% to reach 19,017 on Monday. There are now a total of 658 containment zones across the Capital. Though the number of new cases are low compared to Sunday, when 21,236 tests were done in 24 hours, only 12,171 tests were done in 24 hours as per Monday’s bulletin. The last time the daily new cases were less than Monday’s figure was on June 8, when 1,007 cases were reported.   Meanwhile, a plasma bank will be inaugurated in Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday, according to officials. This will be the second such facility in the Capital. “The plasma bank will be opened at 11 a.m. and there will be separate entry for people coming to donate plasma,” a hospital official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/active-covid-19-cases-fall-by-296-in-delhi/article32073238.ece
14 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab imposes complete ban on public gatherings||Amid rising cases of COVID-19, the Punjab government has put a complete bar on all public gatherings, while restricting social gatherings to five and marriages and other social functions to 30 instead of the current 50. An official statement said the decision has been taken as are part of the revised guidelines issued by the government on Monday. Mandatory FIR Mandatory FIRs shall be filed against those found violating the curb on public gatherings, which now stand strictly disallowed, said the statement, adding that joint teams of police and civil administration shall strictly enforce the restrictions on social gatherings (restricted to 5 under section 144 imposed in all districts) as well as weddings and social functions. “The management of marriage palaces, hotels shall be held responsible and shall face suspension of licence in case of violation of norms. Further, the management of marriage palaces, hotels and other commercial spaces will have to certify that adequate arrangements for ventilation of indoor spaces have been made,” it added. Increased surveillance The State government has also partnered with IIT-Chennai experts to intensify surveillance, using technology in order to identify super-spreader gatherings in the past that have resulted in spread, to guide future action. Wearing of masks has been made compulsory in work places, offices, closed places, as per the new guidelines. Public dealing in offices may be curtailed to cater to need based and urgent issues, according to the guidelines, which provide that the online public grievance redressal system recently approved by the Cabinet should be extensively popularised and used, added the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-imposes-complete-ban-on-public-gatherings/article32073249.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Nearly 3 lakh rapid antigen tests done||A total of 2,99,699 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in Delhi since June 18, stated data released by the Delhi government on Monday. While the total positivity rate in Delhi is currently around 9%, the positivity rate is 6.5% for antigen testing, the data shows. A rapid antigen test is done using the nasal swab of a person and gives a result within 30 minutes. It also stated that south-west district leads in the number of such tests done while east district has done the least tests. The south-west district has conducted 43,044 tests followed by the north district with 33,350 tests and south district with 32,190 tests as on Sunday. Also, the positivity rate of rapid antigen testing is less than RT PCR testing. In almost the same period, the positivity rate for RT PCR tests is 30.5%. Of the 658 containment zones in the city, 101 are in the south-west district followed by 97 in the west district. The north-east district with 30 containment zones has the least number of such zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nearly-3-lakh-rapid-antigen-tests-done/article32073242.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi court rejects Tahir Hussain’s bail plea in north-east riots case||Suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain allegedly used rioters as “human weapons”, who on his instigation could have killed anybody, said a Delhi court on Monday while dismissing his bail plea. Mr. Hussain is an accused in the murder case of Ankit Sharma, an employee of the Intelligence Bureau, during the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said a “powerful person” like Mr. Hussain can ‘threaten witnesses if enlarged on bail’. “I find that there is enough material on record to presume that the applicant was present at the spot of the crime and was exhorting rioters of a particular community... he did not use his hands and fists, but rioters as ‘human weapons’, who on his instigation could have killed anybody. It is apparent that witnesses whose statements have been recorded are residents of the same locality and they can easily be threatened by a powerful person like the applicant [Mr. Hussain],” the Judge said. The Judge, however, clarified that anything stated in the order was based upon “prima analysis of material available on record at this stage, which is yet to be tested on the touchstone of trial”. In the chargesheet, the police has alleged there was a deep-rooted conspiracy behind Ankit’s murder as he was specifically targeted by a mob led by Mr. Hussain. Chargesheet reveals The chargesheet said the autopsy had revealed that there were 51 injuries on Ankit’s body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-court-rejects-tahir-hussains-bail-plea-in-north-east-riots-case/article32073245.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Three of a family carrying blood plasma for newborn baby injured in car accident||Three members of a family, carrying blood plasma urgently needed for a newborn baby, were injured after their vehicle was allegedly hit by a speeding high-end car on Bhagwan Das Road in Delhi’s Tilak Marg, the police said on Monday. The car driver — 27-year-old Shah Ved Sheikh from old Delhi’’s Turkman Gate — has been arrested. Soon after the accident, he had fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. The victims — Shakti Singh (36), his wife Pushpa Rani (31) and his sister (26), — were immediately rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. They are said to be out of danger. The blood plasma was meant for Mr. Shakti’s brother’s baby girl, who had developed some complications after she was born on July 4 and was undergoing treatment at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital. The police said the accident took place on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday and the baby too died at 5 a.m. on Saturday. The family was returning to the hospital after collecting blood plasma from the Indian Red Cross Society when the accident took place. The impact of the accident was such that the victim’s vehicle toppled and the blood plasma was destroyed, a senior officer said. ‘Not under alcohol’ Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said a case has been registered against the driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC at Tilak Marg police station. The police said the driver was not under the influence of alcohol but was driving rashly. Vishal Singh said the doctor had told them to arrange for the blood plasma for his daughter as it was not available at their hospital. “It was late on Friday night when the doctor said it was urgent and since it was raining, my family members advised me against going on a bike to a blood bank,” said Mr. Singh. “So I stayed back in the hospital while my elder brother along with his wife and our sister rushed to the Indian Red Cross Society,” he added. Mr. Singh said his younger sister, who has received five-six stitches on her head, is yet to be discharged. Mr. Shakti, who was driving the vehicle, sustained at least nine stitches and has been discharged while his wifeis still undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-of-a-family-carrying-blood-plasma-for-newborn-baby-injured-in-car-accident/article32073241.ece
14 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam flood situation grim, death toll at 50||Six people drowned in Assam on Monday as the flood situation continued to deteriorate, affecting more than 21.63 lakh people across 27 of the State’s 33 districts. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said six people died in as many district as the surging waters inundated 2,763 villages and localities across the State. One of the main reasons behind the grim situation was the breaching of embankments of river Brahmaputra and its tributaries in at least 40 places. “Four people drowned or were washed away early morning while two more died during the day. The total number of people killed by two waves of floods since May 22 stands at 50, excluding 26 more who have died in rain-induced landslides,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. By Monday evening, 60,696 people had taken shelter across 173 relief camps in 16 districts. Rescue personnel had to evacuate more than 19,500 of them. Almost 90% of Kaziranga National Park has been flooded with the water level rising constantly, officials said. The park, also a tiger reserve, has a core area of 430 sq km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-flood-situation-grim-death-toll-at-50/article32073247.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||10,000 people trained to check BP, oxygen level||The New Delhi district has trained 10,000 citizens to check blood pressure, respiratory rate and oxygen levels using a pulse oximeter to prepare them to fight COVID-19, according to officials. “The idea is to make them capable of treating themselves or their family members if they contract the virus. Also, they will be deployed at COVID Care Centres which are set up in banquet halls and other places if required,” District Magistrate (New Delhi) Tanvi Garg told The Hindu . The volunteers, termed as Swasthya Doot , were trained by doctors from Delhi Medical Council (DMC) at 10 centres across the district. Vikas Kumar, 22, who lives in Inderpuri JJ Colony, was one of the 10,000 who got the training. “We were taught to check oxygen level, BP and temperature. It will be useful because many people who did not know the basics are now aware,” Mr. Kumar, a final year BA student said. “From the beginning, many have been volunteering with us for food distribution and supply of essentials and we reached out to them to be volunteers for this,” said Nitin Shakya, Nodal Officer of Swasthya Doot.  The training was held in 10 centres and 20 batches were taught in a day. “Volunteers have been made aware of the district healthcare facilities and were provided contact numbers of officials in case of an emergency. They have also been taught to ask required questions and collect details from the public,” Ms. Garg said. The district administration is also trying to distribute oximeters to the public through CSR initiative, the District Magistrate said. “I attended the training last week and learned how to check BP and oxygen level. Now I’m confident and if at some point I have to help the community, I would be able to do so,” said Megha, 35, a freelance writer from Vasant Kunj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/10000-people-trained-to-check-bp-oxygen-level/article32073239.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Tablighi Jamaat event: court grants bail to 85 foreigners||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to 85 Kyrgyzstan nationals who had been chargesheeted for attending a Tablighi Jamaat event in the city in violation of visa norms, Epidemic Diseases Act, and COVID-19 guidelines. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreigners on furnishing personal bond of Rs. 10,000 each. Till date, 532 foreigners from 34 countries who were chargesheeted in the case have been granted bail by the court. The police have chargesheeted a total of 965 foreigners in the case. The accused who were granted bail on Monday will file their plea bargaining applications on Tuesday. Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence, praying for a lesser punishment. During the hearing, all the foreigners were produced before the court through video conferencing.  Meanwhile, local courts in the city on Monday allowed several foreign nationals accused in the case to walk free upon payment of fines, after they accepted mild charges under the plea bargain process. Foreign nationals from five countries, however, have claimed trial before the court. Metropolitan Magistrate Himanshu allowed foreign nationals from Algeria, Belgium, the U.K., Egypt and Philippines to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs. 10,000 each. Metropolitan Magistrate Aashish Gupta allowed five Sudanese nationals to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs. 5,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tablighi-jamaat-event-court-grants-bail-to-85-foreigners/article32073240.ece
14 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Babri Masjid case: I am innocent, says Kalyan Singh||“I am innocent,” said Kalyan Singh, the former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, on Monday after he appeared before a special CBI court here in connection with the Babri Masjid demolition case in which he is an accused. Talking to media after recording his statement, Mr. Singh said as the Chief Minister he and his government had taken solid measures, including a three-tier security system, for the protection of the Babri Masjid. Mr. Singh was heading the State government when the Mughal-era mosque was demolished by a mob of ‘karsevaks’ in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. He alleged that the Congress government at the Centre then implicated him on baseless allegations. “There was a Congress government at the Centre then, so due to political vendetta, a case on baseless and false allegations was filed against me on the directions of the Central Government,” the BJP leader said. The former Chief Minister was assisted by two persons as he walked out of the court after over three-hour-long questioning. Mr. Singh deposed before special judge S.K. Yadav under Section 313 of the CrPC. The court had called him in order to enable him to plead his innocence, if he so wanted.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/babri-masjid-case-i-am-innocent-says-kalyan-singh/article32073246.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||Bail granted to riot accused||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to an accused in a case of communal violence in north-east Delhi in February, saying his arrest, several days after the incident, on the basis of having being named by beat constable was prima-facie a “weak kind of evidence”. The court noted that the beat constable, if he was present at the time of riots at the spot and had identified the accused as one of the rioters, then the least he should have done was to report about him at the police station, which he did not do. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted bail to Shamim on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 20,000 with one surety of like amount, in a case related to vandalising of a public school in Dayalpur by the rioters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bail-granted-to-riot-accused/article32073236.ece
14 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three minors kill man for objecting to bike stunts||Three minors have been apprehended for allegedly stabbing a man to death in west Delhi’s Khyala because he objected to biking stunts done by the accused, the police said on Monday. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said the 25-year-old victim — Manish from Raghubir Nagar — was killed on July 8. In the CCTV footage, the accused can be seen thrashing Manish mercilessly as many watch the incident. The police said they received the information from DDU Hospital that a person has been declared brought dead. On reaching the spot, they found the victim dead with multiple stab wounds. With the help of the footage, the accused were identified. During interrogation, it was revealed that prime accused used to perform bike stunts on the street where the victim lived. When the victim objected to it, the accused did it again following which they got into a fight when Manish allegedly slapped the accused. The minor then arranged two knives and committed the crime with two of his friends, the police added. Manish’s family said the victim fought for all the children residing in their street but when he was being beaten up, no one came forward to help him. His brother Arjun said the accused used to rash drive on the street where children used to play. The family also suspects involvement of Manish’s friend to whom he had lent money and was asking to return. His family said on the day of the incident, the friend had come to meet him but did not help him at the time of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-minors-kill-man-for-objecting-to-bike-stunts/article32073243.ece
14 July 2020||New Delhi,||32 held for gambling inside eatery||The police on Monday arrested 32 persons for allegedly gambling inside a restaurant in Pitampura. They said they recovered a total of Rs. 5,08,720 and some playing cards from their possession and further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/32-held-for-gambling-inside-eatery/article32073235.ece
