24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects Rajasthan Speaker’s plea to stay HC proceedings||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi’s plea to stop the State’s High Court from deciding the validity of the anti-defection notices he issued to former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident Congress MLAs. But the High Court order on July 24 will be subject to the final decision on the Speaker’s remonstrance in the top court that the HC crossed the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ and interfered with an ongoing disqualification proceedings even before he could take a final decision. The Speaker had complained that the HC had no jurisdiction to ask him to defer the disqualification proceedings till July 24. The top court scheduled a hearing on Monday (July 27). During the hearing on Thursday, a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, said the “larger question” here is whether a legislator’s “voice of dissent” can be “shut down” with the threat of disqualification. Can expressing dissent amount to “voluntarily giving up the party membership” under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution and invite anti-defection proceedings? “Can the voice of dissent [of MLAs] be shut down like this in a democracy? This is not a simple matter. These are people elected by the public. The larger question is about democracy and how it will survive like this... This for us is not about the disqualification of some people,” Justice Mishra addressed senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Speaker. “If these MLAs have to voice their dissent, let them do it in their party meetings. The disqualification petition before me says they did not attend party meetings, they attempted to destabilise their own government, they are sitting incommunicado in a Haryana hotel and making demands for a floor test in the media...,” Mr. Sibal responded to Justice Mishra. He said the July 14 notice issued by the Speaker was an opportunity for the MLAs to explain their conduct. “I, as the Speaker, am giving them a chance to respond to the petition... As to why there are holed up in a hotel? If I am satisfied with their explanation, I will not disqualify them. But no judicial authority can interfere till I make my final decision in the disqualification proceedings. That is the law you declared in Kihoto Hollohan case in 1992,” Mr. Sibal submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rejects-rajasthan-speakers-plea-to-stay-hc-proceedings/article32177502.ece
24 July 2020||Kochi,||94 local transmission cases in Ernakulam||SARS-CoV-2 infections through local transmission touched a new high in the district as it accounted for at least 94 out of the 100 COVID-19 cases reported on Thursday, as per official accounts. Take into account the five cases of untraced source of infection — one each from Choornikkara, Vengola and Kalamassery, and two from Vazhakkulam — and that number will hit 99. One person in Okkal recently returned from abroad. A home for the destitute and the elderly in Thrikkakara, which had been declared a closed cluster, accounted for the biggest surge of 26 cases, taking the total number of cases to 29, including three nuns who tested positive on Wednesday. However, Thrikkakara municipal vice-chairman K.T. Eldho said that the total number of the infected in the home had touched 33, including nine nuns, when 61 samples were tested. “Samples of 90-odd inmates, including the bed-ridden and seriously ill, were being tested. The fact that nuns from a convent in Chunagamveli where several nuns were tested positive run the home imperilled the situation,” he said. The Keezhmad cluster accounted for 11 cases, Choornikkara cluster nine cases, Alangad cluster six cases, Aluva cluster five cases, and Edathala cluster accounted for four cases. Fort Kochi accounted for five cases and Mattancherry three cases. A sigh of relief One silver lining, perhaps, was the fact that not a single case was reported from Chellanam, one of the prominent clusters in the district. The number of active cases in the district has now touched 992. Route march held Hours after curfew was imposed on the Aluva cluster, the Ernakulam Rural police held a route march there on Thursday. It was aimed at creating awareness about strict adherence to curfew norms.“Those found violating the norms will be strictly dealt with. People should realise the need to stay indoor, maintain physical distancing and wear masks,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/94-local-transmission-cases-in-ernakulam/article32177776.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,||Positive cases on the rise in Madurai||COVID-19 positive cases have been going up in Madurai Corporation with wards like Ponmeni, S. Alangulam and Chinna Anupanadi contributing the highest number of cases recorded from June 1 to July 15, reveals data got from the corporation. The ward-level data from July 16 to July 22 shows that at least two positive cases were recorded every day in Ponmeni. With S. Alangulam and Chinna Anupandi recording positive cases on a minimum of five days, officials plan intensive testing and isolation of positive cases to contain the spread of COVID-19. While a total of 43 wards had no positive case during the first 15 days of June, cases spiked eventually and spread throughout 100 wards. Wards like Anaiyur, Reserve Line, Villapuram and Mathichiyam were among the wards with the highest number of cases. An official from the health wing of the corporation said the spike in cases in Ponmeni can be attributed to a huge number of primary contacts of positive patients. In Chinna Anuppanadi, a congested area with around 10,000 houses, many positive cases were retail vegetable vendors who had visited Paravai market, said a Sanitary Officer. “In another incident, many people had gathered for a funeral. When they were screened in fever camps, they tested positive for COVID-19,” he said. The data shows that though Bethaniyapuram was not among the wards with highest number of cases during June 1 to July 15, there has been a steady number of cases recorded from July 16 to 22. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said the higher number of positive cases can be attributed to the increased screening and testing through fever camps. “We are able to identify asymptomatic patients through extensive contact tracing mechanism,” he said. The rise in COVID-19 cases was comparatively lower at Sellur. For four consecutive days from July 19, no new COVID-19 case was recorded in the ward. Sellur had the highest number of cases in the city for the initial two months since the outbreak of the pandemic. “We were able to reduce the spread of COVID-19 by setting up fever camps early and through thorough disinfection,” said the CHO. He said it was essential for symptomatic persons to come forward and get screened in fever camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positive-cases-on-the-rise-in-madurai/article32177869.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Sacked nurse moves HC against hospital||A nurse, who contracted COVID-19 while on duty, has moved the Delhi High Court challenging the termination of service of 84 nurses, including her, at HAH Centenary Hospital. She claimed it was a “retaliatory” move for having raised concerns over improper working conditions at the hospital during COVID-19 duty. Gufrana Khatoon, in her petition, claimed that the staff nurses who were sacked had demanded access to basic facilities like N95 masks, sufficient number of personal protective equipment, better working hours, drinking water, free COVID-19 tests and adequate quarantine healthcare facilities for them. In the termination order, dated July 11, the HAH Centenary Hospital of Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, a designated COVID-19 facility, stated that the nurses were being relieved because of “absence from office without sanctioned leave” and “absence without intimation”. “However, several of them were on duty till July 11 and the others were in quarantine,” her petition said. According to the plea, Ms. Khatoon tested positive for the virus on July 3 while performing duty in the COVID-19 ward. She said she was not even provided free testing by the hospital.  ‘Arbitrary decision’ The petition, filed through advocate Subhash Chandran K.R., said that the decision taken by the hospital management to dismiss the nurses was “arbitrary and clearly in violation of the government directive”. Ms. Khatoon and the other sacked nurses, represented by United Nurses Association, made a representation to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi’s Labour Minister requesting their immediate intervention in the matter. “Unfortunately, no action has been taken yet,” the plea said, seeking appropriate action against HAH Centenary Hospital. The petition also asked for formulating a COVID-19 management protocol to address the concerns relating to risks posed to the heathcare workers in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sacked-nurse-moves-hc-against-hospital/article32177677.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID in community, next 4-5 weeks crucial||The Health department on Thursday warned that the coronavirus has entered community and threatened critical conditions, particularly in Hyderabad, in the next four to five weeks on account of the possible spread of seasonal water and vector borne diseases like gastroenteritis due to rains. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and Director of Public Health G.Srinivasa Rao told a press conference that the government was well prepared to meet any emergency with adequate vacant beds in hospitals and basic drugs to treat coronavirus at an early stage. It was able to deliver well in Hyderabad but concerned about tier-II cities in erstwhile districts. The government had exhausted 2 lakh Rapid Antigen testing kits and was in the process of acquiring another 2 lakh kits. They said it was found in 80-85%t COVID patients that the symptoms were mild and vanished soon if the treatment commenced on the first or the second day. However, the symptoms were high if the treatment was delayed or patients suffered from comorbidities. Dr. Srinivasa Rao appealed to people not to ignore the slightest of symptoms like cough, cold or fever but rush to nearby primary health centre. They should not spend heavily in private hospitals as the treatment there was no different from government institutions. Dr. Ramesh Reddy said an anti-biotic treatment that could be completed at a cost of Rs. 150 to Rs. 200 with initial diagnosis of virus went into lakhs of rupees in private hospitals. The drugs were also available free of charge in government hospitals. Both government and private hospitals followed the same set of standard protocols of treatment. The treatment was also available in peripheral hospitals in districts. There was no need for patients to rush to Hyderabad. The first step of doctors at hospitals was to stabilise patients as soon as symptoms were diagnosed. Then, they shifted them to higher referral hospitals by ambulances. He urged people not to undergo tests if they did not have symptoms. It will amount to denial of chance to the needy. The government was now doing 10,000 tests a day but likely to step them up to 20,000 or 25,000 a day in future. On the newly launched WhatsApp number to receive complaints from public, they said about 125 complaints were received every day against private hospitals for charging high fees, not accepting insurance policies and insisting on cash payment. There were also some bed related issues. A project management unit was resolving the issues. They denied decrease in oxygen pressure in ventilators due to increase in patients strength. There were technical issues in oxygen supplying pipelines which was addressed. They admitted to shortage of ward boys and patient care providers as they were scared to do the job.  Don’t ignore the slightest of symptoms like cough, cold or fever, but rush to nearby primary health centre. Don’t spend heavily in private hospitals as the treatment there is no different from government institutions. G. Srinivasa Rao,Director of Public Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-in-community-next-4-5-weeks-crucial/article32177747.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Cong., BJP spar over purchases||Karnataka on Thursday saw the Opposition Congress and the ruling BJP lock horns over the expenses on managing the COVID-19 pandemic and the purchase of equipment. Stepping up his attack against the State government, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, in a press conference in the morning, alleged that there was corruption to the tune of at least Rs. 2,000 crore in the purchase of equipment and other expenses. He demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting High Court judge. Within hours, five senior Ministers of the State Cabinet held a joint press conference to deny the allegations and also accused the Congress of “playing politics” amidst the pandemic. They insisted that raising these issue at the present juncture is a “shame”, as it would end up demoralising the government which is busy fighting the pandemic. While Mr. Siddaramaiah released documents to show that the expenses incurred by various departments was Rs. 4,167 crore, the Ministers insisted that the total expenditure so far was only Rs. 2,118 crore and questioned how Mr. Siddaramaiah had arrived at that figure. However, Mr. Siddaramaiah argued that the government was only taking into account the money already released by the government, and not the procurement agreements of which some material has been supplied. The Opposition leader and the ruling party Ministers also sparred over the rates of various key purchases. For instance, Mr. Siddaramaiah asked why PPE kits were purchased at Rs. 2,117, as against the market price of Rs. 330, and N-95 masks at Rs. 126 to Rs. 150 as against the market price of Rs. 50-60. The Ministers said that Karnataka had bought the PPE kits from China, when they were not being manufactured in India, between March and May, at Rs. 2,100. It is available for Rs. 570 now, they admitted. On the masks, the Ministers argued that they were bought for around Rs. 97 when they were in short supply. These are now available at Rs. 44, they said. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that all details of purchases will be placed during the legislature session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cong-bjp-spar-over-purchases/article32177540.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Major rehaul of labour laws in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Thursday announced a major rehaul of labour laws, including the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, and the Factories Act, 1948. While trade unions have strongly opposed it, the government has said that the changes have been proposed to help industries hit by COVID-19 and to attract investments under the New Industrial Policy, 2020-2025, which was passed by the Cabinet on Thursday. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J. Madhuswamy announced that the changes to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 will exempt industries that employ up to 300 workers from the provisions of the Act, raising the limit from the current exemption of those having up to 100 workers. “The overtime limit per quarter will be increased from 75 to 125 hours with the amendments to the Factories Act, 1948. These were discussed in length at the Cabinet before arriving at the decision,” the Law Minister said. Further, the changes to the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, will exempt factories employing up to 50 workers from seeking licences, up from the 20 workers now. In another change, the applicability of the Factories Act, 1948, has been changed. Earlier, those factories, with electricity connection and employing 10 workers or more, came under under the Act. Now the limit has been raised to 20 workers. “Several industries are on the brink of closure and large industries are also in trouble. Industrial associations have been talking to us. Today several labour laws have to be amended and we have taken steps in this direction to initiate reforms,” Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said in defence of the government’s decision. While Sections 64 and 65 of the Factories Act, 1948, which deal with exemptions to industries, will also be amended, he said that the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 will be amended to change rules pertaining to contract employment and fixed term employment. “The periodicity of the revision of minimum wages will be fixed under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 and will be linked to factors like inflation and the consumer price index,” he added. Further, he said that an amendment has been made under the Factories Act, 1948, to allow women to work in night shifts, between 7 p.m. and 6 a.m., in the factories registered. “The proposed changes will put a lot of factories out of the purview of these labour legislations, which means workers will not get any protection from the government, and employers will be free to hire and fire at their discretion,” said M. Sathyanand, secretary, AITUC, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/major-rehaul-of-labour-laws-in-karnataka/article32177543.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC adjourns hearing on capital Bills to August 6||A three-Judge Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justices Rakesh Kumar, A.V. Sesha Sai and M. Satyanarayana Murthy, refused to conduct a piecemeal hearing of the writ petitions filed against the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill and APCRDA Repeal Bill and their reintroduction by the State government, saying that when a situation is developing, all the matters have to be taken up together. They gave liberty to a petitioner’s counsel to implead the Accountant-General to let them know about the costs involved in the construction of the capital and how much has been spent on it so far. Making these observations, the court posted the matters for a fresh hearing on August 6. When a counsel argued that the court may take up a petition filed for the construction of a permanent High Court building in Amaravati, the judges refused, commenting that if the State succeeds in the litigation, the High Court location could be changed and therefore there could not be any adjudication of the said writ petition at this juncture. AG’s observation Appearing for the State, Advocate-General S. Sriram told the court that a counter-affidavit filed in the matter revealed that locating the capital in Amaravati entailed a minimal expenditure of Rs. 1.50 lakh crore. The court directed the parties contesting the writ petition that was filed in 2018 challenging the competence of the State to decide on the capital, to file their counters to facilitate necessary action. The High Court was hearing a batch of writ petitions that questioned the validity of the impugned Bills, which aimed at dividing the existing Capital into Executive, Legislative and Judicial capitals proposed to be developed at Visakhapatnam, Amaravati and Kurnool respectively. This is being stiffly resisted by all opposition parties, farmers, who gave their lands under the pooling scheme for developing a green-field capital in Amaravati, and various civil society organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-capital-bills-to-august-6/article32177442.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||With 7,998 cases, COVID spike unabated in State||The State reported 61 deaths and 7,998 new COVID cases in the past 24 hours taking the death toll to 884 and tally to 72,711 as of Thursday morning. In the past two days, over 14,000 new cases were reported. On the other hand, 5,428 patients have been discharged and the number of recoveries so far is at 37, 555 which is 51% of the total cases. Remaining 34,272 patients are undergoing treatment, according to the bulletin by the Health Department. Testing Also for the first time, 58, 052 samples were tested in a day. As many as 32,434 of them are RT-PCR, TrueNat and NACO tests and 25, 618 are rapid antigen tests. The positivity rate of tests done in the past day is 14% and the overall positivity rate of 14.93% lakh samples tested so far is 4.87%.  East Godavari reported 14 new deaths and seven deaths each were reported from Guntur and Kurnool. Srikakulam and Krishna reported six new deaths each, while Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam reported five deaths each. Similarly, West Godavari, Chittoor and Prakasam reported three deaths each and Anantapur and Kadapa reported one death each. Over 1,000 cases in three districts For the first time, three districts reported over 1,000 new cases each and all other districts reported not less than 200 new cases each. An increase in incidence of COVID cases is high in four districts,where more than 50% of the new cases were reported. East Godavari alone reported 1,391 new cases while Guntur reported 1,184, Anantapur reported 1,016 and Kurnool reported 904 cases. East Godavari also crossed the 10,000-mark in the COVID tally. The remaining new cases are reported in West Godavari (748), Visakhapatnam (684), Nellore (438), Srikakulam (360), Vizianagaram (277), Chittoor (271), Krishna (230) and Kadapa (224). All the new cases are local cases and no imported cases were reported. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: East Godavari (10,038), Kurnool (8,701), Guntur (8,097), Anantapur (7,282), Chittoor (5,939), West Godavari (5,734), Krishna (4,482), Visakhapatnam (4,163), Srikakulam (3,575), Kadapa (3,573), Nellore (3,448), Prakasam (2,704) and Vizianagaram (2080).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-7998-cases-covid-spike-unabated-in-state/article32177504.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State records 1,000 plus cases for second day running||The State added another 1,078 new cases to its rapidly swelling COVID-19 case burden on Thursday, taking the State’s cumulative case numbers to 16,110. With community transmission intensifying in many parts of the State, 845 of these new cases are locally acquired infections, authorities are unable to establish an epidemiological link in 65 cases. Health-care workers are again proving to be quite vulnerable to infection, with another 32 of them testing positive on Thursday. The State recorded five deaths on Thursday, one each in Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Kannur, taking the toll in the State to 50. 432 recoveries With 432 recoveries, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals in various districts is 9,458. The total recoveries so far are 6,594. Intensive testing in the community over the past few days has been unearthing a host of positive cases. The number of samples tested by the State in the last 24 hours went up to 22,433. More areas in the State were designated as hotspots on Thursday, indicating the extensive manner in which the virus has been spreading. The number of hotspots in the State has gone up to 428. Six districts – Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Malappuram and Palakkad – have recorded the maximum disease transmission, with 65% of the positive cases reported in the past two weeks in the State being reported from these districts. Half of the active cases in the State in the last two weeks are from Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram, Alappuzha and Ernakulam. Capital tops Thiruvananthapuram continues to top the districts in the number of fresh cases reported daily, chalking up 222 cases, of which 206 were locally acquired infections. The source of infection could not be pinpointed in 16 of these cases. Containment activities More health-care workers, including those from the Ayush Department, will be engaged in the capital district for augmenting containment activities. Testing has been intensified in Chala, one of the prominent trading centres in the capital, after several workers in the market tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1000-plus-cases-for-second-day-running/article32177780.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women officers can now get permanent commission in Army||The Ministry of Defence has issued the formal Government Sanction Letter for grant of permanent commission (PC) to women officers in the Army. “In anticipation, the Army Headquarters had set in motion a series of preparatory actions for conduct of the Permanent Commission Selection Board for affected women officers. The Selection Board will be scheduled as soon as all affected Short Service Commissioned (SSC) women officers exercise their option and complete requisite documentation,” the Army said in a statement on Thursday. 10 streams The order specifies the grant of permanent commission to SSC women officers in all the 10 streams in which they presently serve — Army Air Defence, Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, Army Service Corps, Army Ordnance Corps and Intelligence Corps, in addition to the existing streams of Judge and Advocate General and Army Educational Corps, the Army said. The order follows a Supreme Court verdict in February that directed the government that women officers be granted PC and command postings in all services other than combat. Following this, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said it was an enabling one and gave a lot of clarity on how to move forward. He stated that the same procedure for male SSC officers would be followed for women to give permanent commission. About 322 women officers had approached the top court and the issue of command postings came up in the discussion on subsequent avenues after the grant of PC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/women-officers-can-now-get-permanent-commission-in-army/article32177512.ece
24 July 2020||Bhopal,||Children return to ragpicking in Bhopal||Whatever little counting Rahul Thorat*, 13, learnt at school is now helping him fetch the right price for the scrap he collects every mor-ning. “I can count up to 100,” he said, beaming with pride. His father, who is disabled, used to find work at a construction site before the lockdown kicked in, while his mother, suffering from a mental illness, stays home. Burden on children Rahul heads out for ragpicking at 10 a.m. each day, when his school, now shut owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, used to begin earlier. “I have to support my family,” said the Class II student. Besides the ration procured through the public distribution system, the Rs. 100-Rs. 150 that Rahul makes every day by salvaging scrap until 6 p.m. is helping keep the family alive at their tin shed dwelling in TT Nagar here. Like him, several children from poor families in Bhopal have returned to ragpicking or begging. “We had identified 15 children living in the sheds and gleaned them from such activities earlier. But now all of them are back at it,” said Archana Sahay, director, Aarambh, a child rights NGO. Section 76 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 prohibits employment of children for begging. At the tin sheds, Kamala Kumari* is worried her eight-year-old daughter, who she believes is a quick learner, spends more time begging in the New Market area now than reading her books. “I tell her not to go there, but she refuses to listen, and returns with samosa and poha along with her friends,” said Ms. Kumari, a mother of five and a domestic help. “We have taken up this issue with the administration. There needs to be a contingency plan for such families,” said Rakhi Raghuwanshi of Uday Samajik Vikas Sansthan, an NGO. District Education Officer Nitin Saxena said the administration had not yet come across such cases. “However, we will look into the issue raised and help resolve it.”  (*Names changed)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/children-return-to-ragpicking-in-bhopal/article32177678.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||City under most intense surveillance||Hyderabad is under the most intense surveillance in the country, according to data released by a UK-based tech firm. The city has 3,00,000 closed-circuit TV cameras in public areas, according to data collated by the firm. For every 1,000 persons, Hyderabad has 29.99 cameras. Hyderabad has been ranked 16th while Chennai was ranked 21st and Delhi 33rd based on the ratio between CCTV cameras and population. Hyderabad and London are the only two cities in democratic countries that have made it to the Top 20 list. All the 18 other cities under high surveillance are in China, which has 54% of all the CCTV cameras deployed in the world. Publicly available data from 150 countries has been used for the statistical tabulation by Comparitech. Hyderabad police have unrolled a programme called ‘Nenu Saitam’ involving the community for deploying CCTV cameras. In 2017, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy had announced a plan to deploy 10 lakh CCTV cameras in the three commissionerates of the city to tackle crime. The Integrated Control and Command Centre, where the CCTV data will be streamed, is being developed on Road No.12 Banjara Hills. It is a 47,204-square-metre 23 storied facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-under-most-intense-surveillance/article32177749.ece
24 July 2020||TENKASI,||Siddha hospital comes up near Tenkasi||A full-fledged Siddha hospital to treat COVID-19 patients has come up on Sri Ram Nallamani Yadhava College premises here, where 200 patients can undergo treatment at any given time. “We’ve created the Siddha hospital for treating COVID-19 patients below the age of 55. Apart from giving free Siddha formulations to cure the viral infection and food, we’ll teach them meditation, yoga and simple exercises to expedite cure and overcome stress,” says District Siddha Medical Officer Usha. The patients will be given rice, vegetable rice, ‘ulunthu saadham,’ ‘drumstick sambar,’ ‘pepper rasam,’ ‘ginger thuvaiyal,’ ‘buttermilk with angaaya powder,’ ‘cumin water,’ ‘amla saadham,’ ‘lemon ginger rasam,’ ‘manathakkaali keerai,’ ‘mint rice,’ ‘sesame rice,’ ‘pepper kulambu,’ ‘sundaikaai kuzhambu,’ ‘thoothuvalai thuvaiyal,’ ‘kariveppilai saadham,’ ‘kovaikaai poriyal’ shallot, green peas, ‘garlic mudakkaththaan kuzhambu,’ ‘peerkkankaai poriyal’ etc. on turn basis during the treatment. The patients, after their viral infection is detected, will have to undergo treatment and then test again on 10th day. If the test shows that patients have been completely cured, they will be discharged from the hospital on the 14th day with the advice to follow similar medication and diet for another two weeks at home. In this line, a Siddha medical care centre for COVID-19 positive patients has come up in Palayamkottai. Former professor of Government Siddha Medical College, Palayamkottai, Joseph Thas, founder of ‘Friends of Siddha’, said the district administration was taking all-out efforts to contain the infection. “Those who manifest mild symptoms of the viral infection can be treated as ‘out-patients’. If the patients manifest serious symptoms, they will be advised to get admitted in the Government Medical College Hospital,” Dr. Joseph Thas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/siddha-hospital-comes-up-near-tenkasi/article32177867.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases cross 50,000 mark in Telangana||The total number of COVID cases in Telangana crossed the 50,000 mark on Thursday with 1,567 swab samples testing positive. According to the bulletin released by the Health department, the total number of positive cases reached 50,826 on Thursday. Nine more people died due to COVID in the State, taking the tally to 447. The recovery rate was impressive at 77.3% with 37,666 patients recovering from the virus. The government has so far collected 3.22 lakh samples with an estimated 8,058 tests conducted per million. The cumulative sample positivity rate has dropped significantly from 20% a week ago to 15.8% as on date giving relief to the Health department officials. GHMC area continued to register maximum number of cases at 662. The details of the cases reported from the districts is indicative of the spreading of the virus to areas other than Hyderabad. Areas other than the metropolitan limits have started reporting huge number of COVID cases with Rangareddy district reporting 213 cases on a single day while Rajanna Sircilla registering 62 cases on Thursday. Mahabubnagar with 61 new cases, Nagarkurnool with 51, Nalgonda with 44are other districts which reported increase in the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-cross-50000-mark-in-telangana/article32177745.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Sriramulu sulking?||One of the senior Ministers in the Cabinet, Health Minister B. Sriramulu, did not speak at the press conference, while four others defended their departments by providing figures. It is learnt that Mr. Sriramulu is upset at being sidelined in the health task force and raised the issue in the Cabinet meeting on Thursday too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sriramulu-sulking/article32177542.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Fight turns fatal after man is attacked by daughter||A 46-year-old man died after he was allegedly wounded by his 15-year-old daughter at their flat in MICO Layout police station limits. The incident occurred around 1.30 a.m. on Thursday. The police said the girl, in her statement, claimed she was trying to protect herself when her father came at her with a knife. A scuffle broke out between the two, when the girl objected to her father playing the piano late at night, and tried to shut the lid on the keys. “Enraged by this, the father went to the kitchen and picked up a knife. The girl said he tried to attack her and in self-defence, she grabbed a pair of scissors on the spur of the moment and attacked him. The man was wounded on the chest and died,” the police said. The panic-stricken girl ran to her neighbour for help, who in turn alerted the police. Education hit The father, an engineer by profession, lost his wife around nine years ago and was raising their daughter and son, who according to the police, is around 10 years. “After the death of his wife, he quit his job and turned to alcohol. He did not have a good relations with neighbours,” said a police source, adding that they were still verifying details about the family. “It is also learnt that he was not keen on sending his children to school, and their education had been hampered. They were studying online,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fight-turns-fatal-after-man-is-attacked-by-daughter/article32177541.ece
24 July 2020||Mumbai,||Submit report on BJP link to social media handles: ECI to State CEO||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has sought a report from the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Maharashtra over allegations that it appointed a firm linked to a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office-bearer to handle its social media accounts in the run-up to the 2019 Assembly polls. Sheyphali Sharan, official spokesperson of the ECI, tweeted, “Regarding tweet of Mr Gokhale @SaketGokhale, Commission has sought detailed factual report in this matter from CEO Maharashtra with respect to alleged locale of the incidence immediately.” In a series of tweets, Mr. Gokhale, a social activist from Maharashtra, levelled allegations of partisan behaviour by the office of the CEO, Maharashtra. He also alleged conflict of interest in awarding the social media contract to a BJP member, when the party was in power in the State. Mr. Gokhale had tweeted, “Browsing through the old social media adverts of the Chief Electoral Officer, Maharashtra, something very strange stood out. The Chief Electoral Officer reports to the ECI. In each of the ads, the address seemed to be the same: “202 Pressman House, Vile Parle, Mumbai.”  Demanding a probe into the matter, State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant tweeted: “We demand inquiry into this serious issue by independent panel. ECI is supposed to work independently. Here a company of national office bearer of BJP youth wing was instrumental in handling social media of CEO Maharashtra. What abt EC data? Why background was not checked?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/submit-report-on-bjp-link-to-social-media-handles-eci-to-state-ceo/article32177894.ece
24 July 2020||Belagavi,||Poor farmer’s family grieves three deaths in a day||A poor farmer’s family in Panta Balekundri village was overcome with grief on Wednesday after it was forced to organise the last rites of three of its members. A 65-year-old man died of COVID-19-related causes in the district designated hospital on Wednesday. Hospital staff communicated the news to the family by afternoon. The hospital authorities told the family to collect the body and bury it as per protocol. Two youths from the family left Pant Balekundri for Belagavi to receive the body. When the family members began discussing this issue, a sister of the deceased, who lived in the same village, began suffering chest pain and died before she could be taken to hospital. This news was communicated to another sister of the deceased who lives in a nearby village. The grief of losing two siblings was too much for this woman who collapsed and died immediately. The young sons of the three siblings organised a common burial in Pant Balekundri village on Wednesday. Staff from the Health and Revenue departments were present to monitor protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poor-farmers-family-grieves-three-deaths-in-a-day/article32177715.ece
24 July 2020||MANGALURU,||Seven die in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district administration on Thursday announced the death of six men and a 58-year-old woman who tested positive of COVID-19 and had had co-morbidities. All the seven passed away on Wednesday. In Udupi district, 160 people tested positive on Thursday taking the number of active cases to 994. As many as 32 persons were discharged, said a bulletin from the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-die-in-dakshina-kannada/article32177717.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM flags violation of COVID-19 protocols||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday flagged violation of the COVID-19 protocols all around by the public as one of the primary reasons for the disease flaring across the State. He expressed his displeasure over the fact that even people’s representatives, who are supposed to lead containment activities in the community, being lax about maintaining physical distance and avoiding crowded mass gatherings. His comments came in the wake of seven Corporation councillors in Thiruvananthapuram testing positive. Mr. Vijayan claimed the State had admirably managed the first stage (January-February) and second phase (March-May) of transmission. The third phase, which began on May 4, has been testing the State’s capacity and resources in a major way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-flags-violation-of-covid-19-protocols/article32177849.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||India expects China to work sincerely: MEA||India called on China to work “sincerely” on the disengagement plan at the Line of Actual Control as agreed to by both sides, amid concerns that the process has slowed down after the People’s Liberation Army soldiers failed to withdraw from the ridges of the “Finger” areas around Pangong Tso lake. “It is our expectation that the Chinese side will sincerely work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation, and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas at the earliest, as agreed to by the Special Representatives,” said Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday. “The conduct of Chinese forces this year, including the deployment of a large body of troops and changes in behaviour, accompanied by unjustified and untenable claims, has been in complete disregard of all the mutual agreements,” he said, adding that India would not accept “any unilateral attempts to change the status quo along the LAC”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-expects-china-to-work-sincerely-mea/article32177513.ece
24 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Ready for floor test, says Ashok Gehlot||A day ahead of the crucial High Court verdict on disqualification notices issued by the Assembly Speaker to rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident MLAs, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said the Assembly session would be called soon and claimed that he had “full majority” and all legislators of the ruling party were “united.” “We will prove the mandate on the floor of the House,” he said. ‘Held hostage’ “Some of the MLAs held hostage [by the Pilot camp] will also come and vote for us... They are calling [us] and telling us that they are being held against their wishes,” he told mediapersons here after the Supreme Court allowed the Rajasthan High Court to pass orders on a writ petition of the dissident MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-for-floor-test-says-ashok-gehlot/article32177514.ece
24 July 2020||ONGOLE,||10 Dalits injured in attack||At least 10 Dalits were injured when they were allegedly attacked by a group of 50 fishermen in Ramapuram village, near Vetapalem, in Prakasam district on Thursday. According to the police, the fishermen took objection to the Dalits attending Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme works in Papayapalem hamlet. The police intervened and restored order. The injured were rushed to the Government Area Hospital for treatment. Stating that attacks on Dalits had increased of late, Dalit Hakkula Parirakshana Samiti Prakasam district president Neelam Nagendra Rao demanded criminal action against those responsible for the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-dalits-injured-in-attack/article32177505.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,||All but final year students to be promoted without exams||All undergraduate and postgraduate students pursuing arts and science, engineering and MCA courses in Tamil Nadu, except those in the final year, would be promoted to the next academic year without having to take semester examinations, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. The decision is said to be “a one-time measure” this year as semester exams scheduled to be held between March and May could not be conducted due to the extraordinary situation brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Panel’s view In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said the decision followed the recommendations made by a 11-member expert committee, constituted earlier this month, which had examined the issue of conducting semester examinations for students of arts and science, polytechnic and engineering colleges as well as those pursuing MCA programmes across the State. The students would be awarded marks in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). G.O. to be issued A G.O. in this regard would be issued by the Higher Education Department shortly, the Chief Minister said. “It is not an all-pass system wherein all students would just be given the pass marks. Marks would be awarded based on the recommendations of the expert committee as well,” a senior official told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-but-final-year-students-to-be-promoted-without-exams/article32177587.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Inject Rs. 4,000 cr. into agri marketing’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday instructed the officials to set up cold storage units in each mandal and warehouses equipped with grading and sorting machinery at each YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBK). He ordered that steps be taken for strengthening the agricultural marketing sector at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,000 crore. During a review meeting, Mr. Jagan said a software should be developed by September to help RBKs identify the crops being cultivated so that necessary market intervention measures could be taken. Mr. Jagan directed the officials to work on strengthening the cold storage chain and processing network and to ensure farmers do not run into losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inject-rs-4000-cr-into-agri-marketing/article32177510.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Curbs on bidders from few nations||The Central government on Thursday amended the General Financial Rules, 2017, to enable restrictions on bidders from countries which share a land border with India. The restrictions on public procurement from such countries can be imposed on the ground of national security. “Any bidder from such countries will be eligible to bid in any procurement whether of goods, services or works only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority,” said a Finance Ministry statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-on-bidders-from-few-nations/article32177679.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Medical fraternity appeals for restraint||The pandemic, huge surge in cases, hospital admission denials, and an increasing number of fatalities are resulting in anger building up among patients and their relatives, and under attack is the medical fraternity. Two such cases were reported in the last two days, giving rise to anxiety among the medical fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medical-fraternity-appeals-for-restraint/article32177544.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka sees 5,030 cases, 97 deaths in a day||Karnataka continued its worrying trend of climbing up the list of most-affected States in the country with as many as 5,030 new COVID-19 cases and 97 deaths being reported on Thursday. This is a new record for the State, which had posted its biggest spike yet in the number of cases on Wednesday at 4,764 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-sees-5030-cases-97-deaths-in-a-day/article32177546.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teen admitted to COVID care centre assaulted||A 14-year-old girl undergoing treatment at Sardar Patel COVID-19 care centre in south Delhi was allegedly sexually assaulted by another patient in a washroom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teen-admitted-to-covid-care-centre-assaulted/article32177683.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Less than 1,500 fresh cases in Delhi for 7th day||Delhi reported less than 1,500 new COVID-19 cases for the seventh consecutive day on Thursday. As many as 1,041 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,27,364.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/less-than-1500-fresh-cases-in-delhi-for-7th-day/article32177682.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Gambhir, Singh spar over waterlogging in Delhi||New Delhi  A meeting over the recent waterlogging in Delhi saw a sharp exchange of words between BJP’s Gautam Gambhir and AAP’s Sanjay Singh over the jurisdiction of the BJP-run municipal corporations and Delhi government-run PWD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gambhir-singh-spar-over-waterlogging-in-delhi/article32177681.ece
24 July 2020||Kolkata,||Ex-Maoist leader gets key post in TMC rejig||In a major reshuffle on Thursday, the Trinamool Congress inducted former Maoist leader Chhatradhar Mahato into its new 21-member State committee. Mr. Mahato’s appointment is believed to have been made with an eye on next year’s Assembly polls and to revive the party’s fortunes in Jangalmahal, where the BJP had won all seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The party also promoted young leaders such as former cricketer Laxmi Ratan Shukla and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra, who have been appointed district presidents of Howrah and Nadia respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-maoist-leader-gets-key-post-in-tmc-rejig/article32177836.ece
24 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases cross 50,000 in West Bengal||West Bengal’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 50,000 mark on Thursday, even as the State observed a complete lockdown. The State recorded 2,436 new cases, taking its case load to 51,757. The death toll has shot up to 1,255, with 34 deaths being reported in the past 24 hours. Of the latest victims, 19 were from Kolkata and six from North 24 Parganas district. The number of active cases has increased to 18,846.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-cross-50000-in-west-bengal/article32177835.ece
24 July 2020||Pune,||Record 298 deaths push Maharashtra toll to 12,854||A record-high COVID-19 fatality surge of 298 took Maharashtra’s death toll to 12,854 on Thursday. The State also reported a spike of 9,895 cases — its second-highest single-day jump yet — taking its total case tally to 3,47,502, of which 1,40,092 are active cases. State Health oﬃcials said that the surge had to be viewed in the perspective of a record testing of nearly 50,000 samples in the past 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 55.9%, while its case fatality rate is 3.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-298-deaths-push-maharashtra-toll-to-12854/article32177892.ece
24 July 2020||Mumbai,||Minister asks MUHS to postpone its exams||State Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh on Thursday asked Maharashtra University of Health Sciences to defer examinations of its medical courses in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Nashik-based varsity had declared that it would hold exams in August. The State has, meanwhile, permitted online classes for pre-primary students and for Classes I and II, with a daily 30-minute session five days a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-asks-muhs-to-postpone-its-exams/article32177893.ece
24 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad sees 183 new cases, two deaths||Dharwad district recorded 183 cases and two deaths on Thursday. Meanwhile, Davangere and Bagalkot recorded 107 cases each, followed by Uttara Kannada 83, Gadag 72, Vijayapura 20, Haveri 18 and Chitradurga 10. Gadag recorded two deaths, while Haveri and Vijayapura recorded one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharwad-sees-183-new-cases-two-deaths/article32177716.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,||EC defers bypolls to two constituencies||The Election Commission has deferred the bypolls to the Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyatham Assembly constituencies “in public interest” till the situation becomes conducive to holding elections. Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyatham fell vacant following the death of DMK MLAs K.P.P. Samy and S. Kathavarayan respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ec-defers-bypolls-to-two-constituencies/article32177585.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,||6,472 new COVID-19 cases recorded in T.N.||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to surge in Tamil Nadu as 6,472 more persons tested positive on Thursday. Chennai recorded 1,336 cases, while Tiruvallur, Thoothukudi and Virudhu- nagar districts each had more than 400 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6472-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-tn/article32177584.ece
24 July 2020||Chennai,||16 MoUs signed to bring in Rs. 5,137 crore investment||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday signed 16 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) for investments to the tune of Rs. 5,137 crore. The projects are expected to generate jobs for more than 6,500 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-mous-signed-to-bring-in-rs-5137-crore-investment/article32177586.ece
24 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Page 1 split||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday claimed that he had “full majority” in the House. With the High Court verdict on disqualification notices issued by the Assembly Speaker to rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident MLAs scheduled for Friday, Mr. Gehlot said those who had gone to the court after “committing mistake” had only taken exception to the disqualification notices served on them. “It has got nothing to do with the anti-defection law,” he told reporters here. The Congress has been claiming the support of 109 legislators to the Gehlot government in the 200-member House. Mr. Gehlot said two Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings were called to enable those who had gone away to come back. “Since they did not come, it looked like they had intentions of parting ways. Our chief whip then filed a petition with the Speaker in this regard.” Slams raids The Chief Minister slammed the raids being conducted by the Central agencies on the people connected with the Congress in Rajasthan, including on his elder brother’s premises in Jodhpur. He said these “intimidatory tactics” would not stop the Congress from exposing the BJP’s “fascist ideology.” “The BJP is out to kill democracy. It is only the Congress which can fight it.” Mr. Gehlot said the audio tapes containing the conversations about the plot to topple his government could be sent abroad for forensic test. Without taking Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s name, he asked why he was not coming forward to give a voice sample to the police authorities investigating the case. On his letter written recently to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Rajasthan’s political turmoil, Mr. Gehlot said he had sent it to ensure that Mr. Modi did not later say that he did not have information about the attempts made to bring down the government. “I wrote to the PM as this is a democracy. He should not say [later] that he did not know about the crisis.” Mr. Gehlot had named Union Minister Mr. Shekhawat in the letter as the one involved in horse-trading of MLAs. The letter stated: “Malicious attempts are being made to topple elected governments by way of horse-trading. I have no idea to what extent you are aware of these developments or you are being misled. History will never forgive those who take part in such acts.” Meanwhile, Mr. Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs have moved an application in the High Court seeking the inclusion of the Union government in the list of respondents. The application stated that since the Tenth Schedule’s constitutional validity was under challenge in the case, the Union of India was a necessary party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/page-1-split/article32177472.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Recoveries continue to rise||India’s actual case load of COVID-19 stands at 4,26,167 active patients with a fatality rate of 2.41% and recovery rate at 63.18 %, according to figures released by the Union Health Ministry here on Thursday. The Ministry said that for the second day in a row recoveries in a single day continue to post a significant rise. “The last 24 hours saw the highest-ever single-day number of patients cured and discharged — 29,557. While the number of recovered cases has jumped to 7,82,606, there has been growth in the recovery rate, which stands at 63.18%. Higher number of patients getting cured and discharged has contributed to the increasing gap between recovered and the active cases. It is pegged at 3,56,439,’’ said the Ministry. It has reiterated that wearing a mask while stepping out is essential to check the spread. “Take all the necessary precautionary measures to stay safe. Don’t let the infection catch you. Home-made reusable face-cover/mask is effective for personal hygiene. Physical distancing is the key to break the chain of COVID-19 transmission. Keep a safe distance from others at all times.’’ Vaccine trial hub Dr. Dangs Lab, a privately run diagnostic chain, has been selected as the central lab for processing samples, screening and safety, of the human clinical trial of Covaxin, the indigenous COVID-19 vaccine being developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Efficacy studies will be done at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The trial sites are conducting a randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled multi-centric clinical trial to test Covaxin. Arjun Dang, CEO of Dr. Dangs, told The Hindu that they had started receiving samples and that the facility was chosen by Bharat Biotech because of the location and quick turnaround time. “We are assisting in finding out how safe this vaccine is and our mandate is to be the central lab to conduct screening and safety studies of all participants. This will be done for all phases of the clinical trials,’’ said Mr. Dang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recoveries-continue-to-rise/article32177479.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||LS, Assembly bypolls put off||The Election Commission has deferred byelections to a Lok Sabha seat in Bihar and seven Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala “due to some extraordinary circumstances peculiar to these constituencies”. In Bihar, the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency fell vacant on the death of Baidyanath Prasad Mahto. The Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyattam Assembly seats are vacant in Tamil Nadu; Bulandshahr and Tundla seats in Uttar Pradesh; Sibsagar in Assam; Agar in Madhya Pradesh; and Chavara in Kerala. The deadline for filing these vacancies ranges from July 30 to September 7. The vacancies are required to be filled through byelections within six months from the date of occurrence of vacancy, provided that the remainder of the term in relation to the vacancy is one year or more. The decision to defer the byelections was taken largely in view of the COVID-19 situation and that certain States or districts would witness heavy rain and floods during the monsoon in July and August. The district administrations would be engaged in flood control and mitigation works. Centre’s views sought The EC sought the Union government’s view on the issue through a letter dated July 3, addressed to the Union Law Ministry. Through its response on July 15, the Centre concurred with the commission. Accordingly, the eight byelections that were due till September 7 were deferred. “After taking into account all the factors, the commission has decided that under these circumstances, it would not be possible to hold byelections in the various States until the monsoon has receded. It is also hoped that by that time, the COVID-19 outbreak will also subside and the SOPs, guidelines, procedures and preparation will be in place for conducting elections during the pandemic situation,” an official letter said. The EC clarified that byelections were due for 56 Assembly constituencies (including those referred to earlier), besides one Lok Sabha constituency. “....the Commission has already taken a decision to hold all by-election as per provisions of Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act. In any case, the deferring of aforementioned eight by-elections is only up to September 7, 2020. This matter of timing etc. of by-elections is also slotted for discussion in the Election Commission meeting to be held on July 24, 2020,” the EC said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-assembly-bypolls-put-off/article32177490.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Another day of 1,000-plus cases in Kerala||Kerala added 1,078 new cases to its rapidly swelling COVID-19 tally on Thursday, taking the State’s cumulative number to 16,110. With active community transmission on in many parts, 845 of the new cases were locally acquired infections. No epidemiological link was known in 65 cases. Health care workers were again shown to be vulnerable, with another 32 testing positive. The State recorded five deaths on Thursday, in Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kannur, taking the State toll to 50. With 432 recoveries, there were 9,458 patients in hospitals. Total recoveries stood at 6,596. Recent intensive testing in the community unearthed many positive cases. Samples tested by the State in 24 hours went up to 22,433. Six districts – Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alapuzha, Ernakulam, Malappuram and Palakkad – recorded the maximum disease transmission, with 65 % of positive cases in the past two weeks. Half of the active cases in the last two weeks were from Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram, Alapuzha and Ernakulam. Thiruvananthapuram continued to top in the number of fresh cases, chalking up 222, of which 206 were locally acquired. The source of infection could not be pinpointed in 16 cases.  Andhra Pradesh reported 61 deaths and 7,998 new cases in 24 hours, its total death toll rising to 884 and case tally to 72,711 on Thursday. On the other hand, 5,428 patients were discharged and recoveries stood at 37,555. The remaining 34,272 patients were under treatment, the Health Department said. For the first time, 58,052 samples were tested in a day, of which 32,434 were RT-PCR, TrueNat and NACO tests and 25,618 Rapid Antigen Tests. The positivity rate for tests in the past day was 14% and the overall positivity rate of 14.93 lakh samples 4.87%. East Godavari reported 14 new deaths and seven deaths each were reported from Guntur and Kurnool. Srikakulam and Krishna reported six new deaths each, while Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam reported five deaths each. Similarly, West Godavari, Chittoor and Prakasam had three deaths each and Anantapur and Kadapa one death each. East Godavari reported 1,391 new cases, Guntur 1,184, Anantapur 1,016 and Kurnool 904 cases. In Telangana, 1,567 samples tested positive taking the total cases to 50,826. Nine more people died due to COVID-19, raising the death toll in the State to 447. The number of cases continued to surge in Tamil Nadu as another 6,472 persons tested positive, taking the State’s overall tally to 1,92,964. Chennai’s overall tally breached the 90,000-mark as it recorded 1,336 new cases. With the majority of the fresh cases being reported in the rest of the State, three districts - Tiruvallur, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar - had over 400 cases each. Another 5,210 persons, including 1,703 persons in Chennai and 450 in Madurai, were discharged. With this, a total of 1,36,793 persons had been discharged.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-day-of-1000-plus-cases-in-kerala/article32177453.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA questions Sivasankar in airport gold seizure case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday questioned M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, in connection with its probe into the smuggling of gold into the country via air cargo shipments addressed to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates here. The optics of Mr. Sivasankar’s arrival at the Police Club, the temporary seat of the NIA team, seemed to create the perception that the agency’s high-profile probe had come awkwardly close to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). ‘On right track’ When pressed at his daily COVID-19 news briefing, Mr. Vijayan made light of the development. “The NIA is on the right track. Why should we dwell upon the probe? Let the agency strike its own course,” he said. Mr. Sivasankar, who was escorted into the building by NIA officials at 4.30 p.m., remained cooped up indoors with investigators till 9 p.m.  A State police official privy to the NIA’s procedure said the process of recording Mr. Sivasankar's statement was protracted. He said the long hours spend with the investigators were no indication of guilt. The NIA had a lot of ground to cover. The Customs had also questioned Mr. Sivasankar for several hours last week. Mr. Sivasankar's alleged association with Swapna Suresh, second accused in the case, had cast him into the vortex of two parallel probes, one by the Customs and the other by the NIA. It had also cost him his twin positions as Principal Secretary to Mr. Vijayan and chief of the IT Department. Chief Secretary probe An inquiry by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had found that Mr. Sivasankar had “made a reference to appoint a person (Swapna),” working at the time as secretary to the Consul General, UAE, as Operations Manager, Space Park. The committee had also pointed out that “such association and frequent contacts with a foreign consulate official” violated the All India Service Conduct Rules, 1968. It said it had recommended Mr. Sivasankar’s suspension from service “in view of the wider ramifications of this case”. A senior State official said the committee’s finding and statements of other accused in the case had prompted the NIA to examine Mr. Sivasankar. The question whether the proceeds from the well-entrenched smuggling operation had gone to “finance terrorism” was central to the NIA probe. The agency was also purportedly investigating whether any person had remotely aided a foreign power. Mr. Sivasankar had repeatedly maintained his innocence. He had told the Customs that he knew Ms. Swapna at a familial level and had no knowledge of the crime or other aspects of her character.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-questions-sivasankar-in-airport-gold-seizure-case/article32177440.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Modi doesn’t have a global vision’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a video blog on Thursday, alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was “100% focused on building his own image” and did not have a global vision for the country that had allowed China to take advantage. “India’s captured institutions are all busy doing this task. One man’s image is not a substitute for a national vision,” he tweeted along with a two-minute video. Lack of vision had resulted in Indians fighting Indians, he said. “We are fighting amongst each other. Just look at the politics. All day long; all day long; Indian is fighting Indian. And it is because there is no clear-cut vision going forward. His responsibility is to give the vision. It’s not there. I can tell you, guaranteed, it’s not there and that’s why China is in there today,” Mr. Gandhi stated. ‘Thinking big’ India should deal with China by thinking big and developing an international vision, he said. “Psychologically, you have to deal with the Chinese from a position of strength. If you deal with them from a position of strength, you can work with them, you can get what you need and it can be actually done. But if they sense weakness then you had it...India has to have a global vision. India now has to become an idea. And it has to become a global idea. So the thing that is going to protect India is actually thinking big,” said Mr. Gandhi. He said India could either become a major global player or irrelevant depending on the path it chose. “Of course, we have this border issue and we have to resolve this border issue. But we have to change our approach, we have to change how we think... That is why I’m aggravated. Because I can see that a huge opportunity is being lost. Why? Because we are not thinking long-term; because we are not thinking big and because we are disturbing our internal balance.” Subsequently, at a virtual press conference, party leader Ajay Maken asked the government to clarify on media reports about the presence of 40,000 Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), construction in the Depsang plains and Daulat Beg Oldi sector, among others. “Modi Government has pushed our armed forces into moving back from the ITBP Administrative Base at Finger 4 to an area between Finger 2 and Finger 3. Whereas, China continues to occupy 8 kilometres inside our LAC, our territory, between Finger 4 to Finger 8 and about 3 thousand Chinese soldiers are present there. Why?” he asked. India should restore status quo ante that existed before May last, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-doesnt-have-a-global-vision/article32177464.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||High Court posts Osmania hospital issue for August 4||With some demanding demolition of Osmania General Hospital’s old building and others opposing the proposal on the ground of its being a heritage structure, the State government had tough time to take a final call on the matter. Making this observation, Telangana High Court on Thursday adjourned hearing of two PIL pleas relating to OGH to August 4. Senior Citizen NGOs of the Society had filed a PIL plea in 2017 not to demolish OGH old building as it was a heritage structure. Due to recent heavy rains, parts of the buildings got inundated. and the issue was widely reported in the media. Healthcare Reform Doctors Association in 2019 had moved the HC, urging the government to pull down the ‘dilapidated OGH buildings’ and create better facilities. The petitioners filed a memo in the High Court furnishing the media reports about the condition of the hospital buildings. After hearing contentions of the petitioners’ counsel, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan sought to know from government counsel if the OGH old building was a heritage structure or not. The pleas were posted for August 4. In another petition, AG B.S. Prasad told the bench that government was distributing 10 kg of rice free of cost to transgenders even if they did not have white ration cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-posts-osmania-hospital-issue-for-august-4/article32177751.ece
24 July 2020||Kozhikode,||Governor seeks report from VC on marks row||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has sought a report from Calicut University Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj in three weeks on a row related to the alleged illegal award of marks to a former Students Federation of India (SFI) leader who was a student of the M.A. Women’s Studies batch of 2007-09 in the university.  Petitioners An order from Raj Bhavan said on Thursday that it was based on the petitions received from T.M. Vasudevan, president, Calicut University Teachers’ Association, T.S. Sheethal of the M.A. Women’s Studies 2016-18 batch, K.T. Thasniya, another former student in the department, and T. Mohammedali, Senate member. The allegation is that K. Dayaana, the former SFI leader, had been given 21 marks nearly 11 years after she completed the course. Similar effort The petitioners had pointed out that though a similar effort was made in 2010, it was stopped by the then head of the department, Registrar, and Vice Chancellor. The issue was taken up again in 2018 after the head of the department vacated her office in 2017, they alleged. Registrar’s stance On Thursday, however, Registrar C.L. Joshi said in a press release issued here that a section of the media was resorting to baseless campaigns against the university over the issue. The university Syndicate recently entrusted the Vice Chancellor with an inquiry into the academic qualifications of Moly Kuruvilla, who was the head of the department then, and submit a report at the next meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-seeks-report-from-vc-on-marks-row/article32177783.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India appreciates Dhaka’s Kashmir position, says MEA||India on Thursday spoke of its unique relation with Bangladesh, in response to Pakistan raising the Kashmir issue with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. In the weekly press briefing, official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said India appreciates Bangladesh’s position which regards Kashmir as an ‘internal’ matter of India. “Our ties are time-tested and historic. We appreciate Bangladesh’s stance that Jammu and Kashmir is an internal matter,” said Mr. Srivastava. Phone conversation The response came a day after Prime Minister Imran Khan raised the future of Kashmir issue with Ms. Hasina. “India and Bangladesh are celebrating the centenary event ‘Mujib barsho’ this year in memory of the founder of Bangladesh Sheikh Mujibur Rahman,” said Mr. Srivastava, highlighting the role of Sheikh Mujib who led the anti-Pakistan freedom struggle till the creation of Bangladesh in 1971. On Wednesday, Miss Hasina received a phone call from Mr. Khan and the two leaders discussed the COVID-19 situation in both the countries. Bangladesh’s official news agency said Mr. Khan discussed the pandemic preparedness with Ms. Hasina. However, the Pakistani official news agency claimed that Mr. Khan had also sought ‘peaceful’ resolution of the Kashmir issue for the prosperity of the region. The phone conversation is being interpreted as significant as it came weeks after the Bangladesh Foreign Ministry had hosted High Commissioner of Pakistan Imran Ahmed Siddiqui as Dhaka intensified anti-COVID-19 collaboration with Beijing, the traditional supporter of Islamabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-appreciates-dhakas-kashmir-position-says-mea/article32177458.ece
24 July 2020||SRINAGAR,||BJP plans 15-day programme in J&K||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning mega functions in J&K on the first anniversary of revocation of J&K’s special status. During a 15-day-long programme from August 5, the Tricolour will be unfurled in all the zonal, tehsil and district headquarters, party sources said. Besides, municipal wards and head offices, with significant presence of BJP members, will organise ceremonies to celebrate the occasion. “There are a lot of programmes on the cards. We have kept a day to remember all police martyrs and all political workers killed in the past three decades,” said BJP general secretary Ashok Koul. A number of Union Ministers will also address virtual rallies. The Centre divided the erstwhile State of J&K into two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh and scrapped its special status on August 5, 2019. Development initiatives Meanwhile, the J&K administration has stepped up development initiatives in the Union Territory (UT). Lieutenant Governor G.C. Murmu on Thursday approved a programme for 100% macadamisation of all roads in J&K, including 11,000 km of fair-weather roads. A government spokesman said a committee, comprising Financial Commissioner, Principal Secretary (Public Works, Secretary (Planning) and Secretary (Rural Development), has been constituted to prepare a roadmap and complete the work in a time bound manner. The L-G announced the release of the first tranche of Rs. 200 crore to the Public Works Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-plans-15-day-programme-in-jk/article32177462.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress has a ‘comfortable majority’, says Ajay Maken||The Congress has a “comfortable majority” in the Rajasthan Assembly but there are two views within the party on when to take a floor test, party’s central observer for Rajasthan Ajay Maken said on Thursday. Mr. Maken, who along with Randeep Surjewala has been camping in Jaipur for 12 days now, also offered an olive branch to dissident Congress leader Sachin Pilot and his supporters at a virtual press conference. He, however, added that the rebel MLAs have the support of the BJP as they were being protected by the police under the control of BJP governments. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot amply proved it. ‘Two views’ “As far as the numbers are concerned, we have no problem with the numbers and we will prove the majority on the floor of the House... So, now there are two views; one set of people here feel that we should wait for the High Court decision, while the other believe we should go for an immediate floor test ... We will take a decision soon,” Mr. Maken told presspersons. He said the party would have at least 15 to 20 more than the 101 MLAs required for a majority in the 200-member Assembly. “We have never said that you are not [from] the Congress. I have been sitting here for 12 days and don’t belong to any camp. If anything, my sympathies would be with the young leadership because I consider myself to be a part of that,” he said, on being asked if the doors are still open for the dissident MLAs. ‘Political battle’ Asked if the Supreme Court’s refusal to stay Rajasthan High Court from passing its order on a plea by rebel MLAs against the Speaker’s disqualification notice was a setback to the Congress, Mr. Maken said, “When you go to the court these days, we don’t expect favourable decision from the court. So when we go to the court, we prepare ourselves for a decision, which is not in our favour.” “It is mainly a political battle and legal battle is just a part of the entire political battle, knowing and understanding fully well that the court may not give decision in our favour. We have prepared our political plan and as I said, the most important thing is the number in the House,” he added.  We have no problem with the numbers and we will prove the majority on the floor of the House Ajay Maken Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-has-a-comfortable-majority-says-ajay-maken/article32177467.ece
24 July 2020||Kolkata,||In City of Joy, gloom grips idol makers as COVID-19 dries up puja orders||Usually by July, Kumartuli — the famed idol-makers’ colony in north Kolkata — turns into a tourist attraction, with amateur photographers and curious visitors clicking away at artisans giving shape to Goddess Durga. But this year, it is the artisans who are looking out with curiosity from their deserted workshops, wondering if those walking into their settlement are customers or members of an NGO eager to help them. And not surprisingly, the visitors are more often volunteers bringing them essential supplies than customers. Durga Puja, the largest and most eagerly awaited festival of West Bengal, is just three months away — not a long time, considering the scale of celebrations — but Kumartuli presents a depressing sight, its artisans unsure of what the autumn of 2020 holds for them in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. ‘Staying alive’ “This year we are not even thinking of income. If we manage to stay alive, that should be enough,” Mintu Pal, a well-known artisan, told The Hindu . Each idol of Goddess Durga comes as a set that also includes smaller idols of her four children — Ganesha, Lakshmi, Saraswati and Kartik — and the demon she is slaying. Kumartuli makes close to 5,000 sets every year and work begins mid-April. “By this time of the year, we usually receive more than 60% of our orders, but this year we have got not even 30%. And those who have already placed orders want smaller idols this time. Clearly, people have slashed their budgets. Not only do they lack money but they also seem to be unsure whether [the COVID-19 situation] will end by Durga Puja [which begins on October 22],” Mr. Pal said. China Pal, an artisan, said that in spite of the number of orders remaining very small this year, she is still turning down customers who are not well known to her. “What is the point in taking orders when I don’t even know how things are going to turn out? I don’t want to make idols and then let them rot in the godown. That’s what happened with so many idols of Goddess Annapurna, Sheetala, Kali and Lord Ganesha I had made [for smaller festivals] just before COVID-19 struck. Customers could not come to collect them and the idols stood in my godown, only to be destroyed by [cyclone] Amphan,” Ms. Pal told The Hindu . “Whether Durga Puja will be held this year or not, only Goddess Durga knows,” said Ms. Pal, who earned fame in 2018 when she participated in an art festival in China. Her name, however, has nothing to do with the visit and she has always been known as China. Pinch of GST The blow of the pandemic feels even harder for the idol-makers because in 2020 they were looking forward to getting more work, having felt the pinch of GST (Goods and Services Tax) last year. In 2019, they paid almost double for raw materials but were unable to pass on the burden to customers because idols are exempt from GST, as a result of which many of them hardly made any profit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-city-of-joy-gloom-grips-idol-makers-as-covid-19-dries-up-puja-orders/article32177485.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Restrictions on bidders from nations sharing land borders||The Union government on Thursday amended the General Financial Rules, 2017 to enable imposition of restrictions on bidders from countries which share a land border with India. The restrictions on public procurement from such countries can be imposed for reasons of national security and other factors directly or indirectly related to the country’s defence. A statement released by the Union Finance Ministry said the Department of Expenditure had, under the said rules, issued a detailed order on public procurement to strengthen the defence of India and national security. Mandatory registration “As per the order, any bidder from such countries sharing a land border with India will be eligible to bid in any procurement whether of goods, services (including consultancy services and non-consultancy services) or works (including turnkey projects) only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority,” the statement said. The competent authority for registration will be the registration committee constituted by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). Political and security clearance from the External and Home Ministries, respectively, will be mandatory. Banks too in list The order takes within its ambit public sector banks and financial institutions, autonomous bodies, Central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) and public private partnership projects receiving financial support from the government or its undertakings. “The State Governments too play a vital role in national security and defence of India. The Government of India has written to the Chief Secretaries of the State Governments invoking the provisions of Article 257(1) of the Constitution of India for the implementation of this Order in procurement by State Governments and state undertakings etc,” the order said. For State government procurement, the competent authority will be constituted by the States, but political and security clearance will remain necessary. Relaxation has been provided in certain limited cases, including for procurement of medical supplies for containment of COVID-19 till December 31. Exemption given “By a separate Order, countries to which Government of India extends lines of credit or provides development assistance have been exempted from the requirement of prior registration. The new provisions will apply to all new tenders,” the statement said. In respect of tenders already invited, if the first stage of evaluation of qualifications has not been completed, bidders who are not registered under the new order will be treated as not qualified. If this stage has been crossed, ordinarily the tenders will be cancelled and the process will be started de novo . The order will also apply to other forms of public procurement. It does not apply to procurement by the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restrictions-on-bidders-from-nations-sharing-land-borders/article32177588.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Minister’s complaint shuts down portal||Prompted by a complaint from Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, the Delhi police’s cyber crime unit shut down a youth-run, advocacy website,www.fridaysforfuture.in(FFF), which aided public petitions to protest against the controversial Environment Impact Assessment notification, 2020. The nature of Mr. Javadekar’s complaint could not be ascertained but it appears that a deluge of emails on the theme of ‘EIA 2020’ from the website flooded the Minister’s personal email inbox and ended up hampering access. Mr. Javadekar’s complaint prompted the Deputy Commissioner of Police Cyber Crime Unit (Delhi) to investigate and on July 8 they sent a notice to the company that hosted FFF’s website asking them to block access. The letter cites provisions to the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, which potentially entails life imprisonment, and accused the FFF website of “disturbing the peace and sovereignty of India”. Big Rock, the company, blocked FFF from July 10. A spokesperson for Mr. Javadekar said in a statement to The Hindu : “How is spamming Honourable Minister’s personal mail with a lakh mails justified, when suggestion and public comments can be sent at the official mail provided for the purpose?” However Anyesh Roy, DCP, Cyber Crime, under whose name the letter went out, said on Thursday that the notice was sent “inadvertently with unrelated sections of the law.” He said a fresh notice citing Section 66 of the IT Act was sent later. FFF denied spamming the Minister and said all they did was create an email template that people could use to mail from their own accounts criticism of the EIA, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministers-complaint-shuts-down-portal/article32177500.ece
24 July 2020||Kozhikode,||Curbs in Kerala for Id-ul-Azha||Religious services in connection with the upcoming Id-ul-Azha will be observed in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol in the State. Id will be celebrated in the State on July 31. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at a press conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday that Muslim religious leaders had assured him that the services as part of the Id festivities would be held in compliance with the protocol. The assurance was given by the religious leaders during a discussion he had with them via videoconferencing on Thursday. It was generally agreed that the religious festivities would be curtailed utmost by observing only obligatory rituals, he said. Prayer in mosques only There would be no Id-gahs this time for offering Id prayers as the community leaders expressed the view that arrangements for the prayers would be made only in mosques. Physical distancing would be ensured during the prayer, he said adding that the maximum number of people offering Id prayers in a mosque would be 100. The Chief Minister said it was agreed that those involved in slaughter of animals in connection with the Id rituals would undergo COVID-19 test. Precautions would be taken to ensure that no strangers reached mosques in town areas to offer Id prayers, he said adding the government was told that the mosques that had remained closed earlier would remain so during the Id festival. Religious leaders Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar, Syed Khaleelul Buhari, Alikutty Musliyar, Kadaykkal Abdul Azeed Moulavi, Thodiyur Muhammad Kunhu Musliyar, T.P. Abdulla Koya Madani, and Hussain Madavoor were among those participated in the videoconference with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curbs-in-kerala-for-id-ul-azha/article32177785.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Don’t insist on test report: Karnataka HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to make it clear that all hospitals, either government or private, are required to treat patients needing emergency medical services for ailments other than COVID-19 without insisting on negative report for coronavirus infection. Also,the court directed the government to update the data on availability of beds in government and private hospitals on the designated websites in Bengaluru and other districts by getting data from all the hospitals regularly. A Division Benchcomprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Alok Aradhe issued the directions while hearing PIL petitions related to issues of COVID-19 health management. In response to the court’s earlier queries, the government said there is no facility for real-time bed availability data but data on beds is being updated on dedicated websites of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and the other district administrations as and when information is received from hospitals. However, the Bench said that providing details of bed availability constantly is a crucial part of fighting COVID-19 and hence the government must ensure that every hospital must submit the data at regular intervals, to be decided by the government. As the government had only directed private hospitals to not deny admission to any patient if beds are available and the patient is ready to pay the charges, the Bench said that hospitals should be clearlytold to treat non-COVID-19 patients requiring emergency medical service without insisting on COVID-19 negative reports. The Bench also sought the government’s response on the death of Manjunath S.T., a doctor serving at a government primary health centre at Kanakapura, after he was denied admission by three private hospitals in the city for not having COVID-19 negative report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-insist-on-test-report-karnataka-hc/article32177433.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||As cases spike, Pinarayi keeps total lockdown option open||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday did not rule out a total Statewide lockdown given the worrying spike in COVID-19 infections. Mr. Vijayan said infections continued to spiral upwards with new cases marginally rising above the 1,000 mark for the second consecutive day. “The current pandemic situation is dire. Kerala cannot afford to drop its guard. The administration might be compelled to take strong measures to prevent transmission and formation of new clusters. The drastic regulations might perhaps entail a Statewide lockdown,” he said. The public should not wait for a formal announcement from the government. They should stay indoors as far as possible and venture out only for emergencies. Non-disabled and healthy persons should report for voluntary social work. Students should actively participate in the State’s bid to retard the momentum of the pandemic, he said. United efforts Mr. Vijayan called for a grassroots level people's movement to combat the epidemic. Municipalities, panchayats and neighbourhood groups would spearhead the battle against the scourge. Any decision to impose harsh restrictions on life and mobility would be taken only if a consensus emerged among political parties and disease experts. Mr. Vijayan has called an all-party meeting to discuss the advance of the disease in the State. A special meeting of the Cabinet has been scheduled for July 27 to cobble together the next phase of the State’s containment plan. The government has requested Governor Arif Mohammad Khan to defer the convening of the Legislative Assembly to pass the Finance Bill for 2020-21. The government had scheduled a single-day session on July 27. However, the threat of COVID-19 transmission has compelled the government to abandon the plan. “Many MLAs are of the age that required reverse quarantine. Thiruvananthapuram is fast emerging as an epidemic hotspot, and the air-conditioned environs of the House increased the chance of transmission. If any person contracts the disease from the Assembly, the government will find it hard to handle the guilt,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said he found it surprising that Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had said the government had walked back on convening the Assembly because it feared the no-confidence motion moved by the UDF. “He (Chennithala) had seconded the suggestion to postpone the Assembly,” he said.  The government has requested the Governor to defer the convening of the Assembly to pass the Finance Bill for 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-cases-spike-pinarayi-keeps-total-lockdown-option-open/article32177438.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Cong. alleges scam in purchase of equipment to fight COVID-19||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday demanded a judicial probe into the alleged misappropriation of Rs. 2,000 crore in the purchase of COVID-19 equipment by the Karnataka government. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the government had incurred an expenditure of Rs. 4,167 crore on purchasing the equipment and siphoned off more than Rs. 2,000 crore in the process. He released documents related to expenditure incurred by various departments and demanded probe by a sitting judge of the High Court. “The government should order a judicial probe by a sitting High Court judge as the documents are indicating rampant corruption,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said, two days after the BJP government had claimed there was no misuse of funds. Lashing out at the government for failing to reply to questions raised by the Opposition, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, “The Congress will no longer quietly watch public money being looted.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-alleges-scam-in-purchase-of-equipment-to-fight-covid-19/article32177450.ece
24 July 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Sudha has diabetes, ischemic disease’||Sudha Bharadwaj, 58, accused in the Bhima Koregaon case lodged at Byculla jail, has diabetes and ischemic disease, says a medical report submitted by the jail authorities in the Bombay High Court on Thursday. Medical officer of the Mumbai Byculla District Jail submitted the report before a division bench of justices S.S. Shinde and S.P. Tavade. The court was hearing a criminal appeal filed by Ms. Bharadwaj. The High Court had on July 10 asked for a medical report after examining Ms Bharadwaj and another report on social distancing and conditions inside Byculla jail. A medical report was submitted by the jail superintendent on July 20, but the court found it to be illegible. Ms. Bharadwaj’s interim bail plea on medical grounds was rejected by the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on May 29. She had said in her appeal that she had pre-existing medical conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and a history of pulmonary tuberculosis, making her extremely susceptible to contracting COVID-19 in Byculla jail. On July 1, NIA opposed her bail. “Ms Bhardwaj, under the garb of the current situation on account of the global pandemic COVID-19, is trying to take undue benefit of the aforesaid situation in seeking bail on the grounds mentioned in her application,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sudha-has-diabetes-ischemic-disease/article32177473.ece
24 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Bereaved families unable to provide a dignified farewell||Families in Odisha bereaved by COVID-19 are often unable to bid a dignified farewell to their loved ones as neighbours and relatives avoid them due to stigma and fear of infections. A number of instances of people shunning the time-honoured solidarity that keeps communities together has left everyone worried. At Shergarh town in Ganjam district, the body of a retired teacher had to be kept in a house for hours after his death on July 21. Neither relatives nor neighbours turned up to lend a helping hand. His offspring were away and his wife, an elderly lady, could not shift the body. Four journalists then intervened. They donned PPE (personal protective equipment) suit and took out the body from the house. The body was later sent to Berhampur where the last rites were done with the help of unknown volunteers. “Good neighbours are those who help before they are asked. Now, neighbours shut doors before they are asked. The old man died due an age-related issue. Still, no one turned up,” said Meghanad Das, a journalist who works for a vernacular daily. In neighbouring Kandhamal district, Sapana Kumar Pradhan, a doctor, suddenly took ill on Wednesday and died while being rushed to a hospital at Phulbani. When family members returned to the Malikapodi village with the body, villagers didn’t allow his burial there. Although family members tried to clarify that he was not infected with COVID-19, their appeals fell on deaf ears. Buried near forest As the uncertainty continued, the administration stepped in and tried to bury the body in another place. Residents of the other village too opposed the move. For 12 hours, family members did not know what to do with the body. “It is really unfortunate that my brother was robbed of his dignity after his death. Nobody knew if my brother was a COVID-19 patient and yet we were treated badly by our fellow villagers,” said Sumit Pradhan, brother of the deceased. Finally, the doctor was buried near a forest. Body shifted on bike In another tragic incident in Mayurbhanj district, a son had to carry his father’s body on a two-wheeler. The father, a 56-year-old Postal Department employee in Purnachandrapur village under Amarda block, had tested COVID-19 positive and recovered. He was being brought home by his son in a car as ambulance was not available. On the way, the father lost consciousness and doctors at a government hospital declared him dead. Hearing this, the car driver sped away. The son was unable to find a hearse service. He shifted his father’s body on a motorcycle and took it to cremation ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bereaved-families-unable-to-provide-a-dignified-farewell/article32177475.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India and Israel to work on rapid test||In the next few weeks, a special flight from Israel will land in India with a team of high-ranking Israeli Defence Ministry research and development team to develop rapid testing for COVID-19 in under 30 seconds along with their Indian counterparts, Israel Embassy in India said on Thursday. “The flight will also bring breakthrough emerging Israeli technologies for combating COVID-19, which have been donated by the Israeli Foreign Ministry (MFA) and private sector, meant to bolster India’s response to the outbreak. Finally, the plane will deliver mechanical ventilators which were given special permission by the Government of Israel for export to India,” the embassy said in a statement. The Israeli delegation led by the Directorate of Defense Research and Development in the Ministry of Defense, will conduct a series of tests to determine the effectiveness of a number of rapid diagnostic solutions along with Indian scientists and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). “India and Israel’s military research and development cooperation is well known for its success. I have no doubt the same will be seen in the private sector joined by brilliant scientific minds from both countries to introduce a breakthrough in swift and simple testing procedures,” Israeli Ambassador in India Ron Malka said in a teleconference. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu have held three telephonic conversations, in which they discussed mutual assistance in dealing with the virus The Israeli companies chosen by the MFA, MoD and Israel Defense Forces to be sent to India are potentially given unique access to one of the largest economies in the world to provide monitoring and treatment technologies while significantly reducing contact between the patients and medical staff, the statement said. New technologies The technologies to be tested in India include an artificial intelligence based online voice test and breathalyser test, isothermal testing and testing using polyamino acids. The voice test analyses recording of a human voice and aims to identify changes in the patient’s voice and/or deterioration in the condition of his/her respiratory system as part of system developed for detecting the virus using Terra-Hertz (THZ) waves. Isothermal testing allows detection of the virus in a saliva sample with the help of a chemical reaction and produces a result within 30 minutes, while testing using Polyamino acids too detects virus proteins in a saliva sample in a few minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-and-israel-to-work-on-rapid-test/article32177481.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Ranjan Gogoi named for House panel on external affairs||Former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who recently entered the Rajya Sabha, has been nominated as a member of the Parliamentary Committee on External Affairs, while former Prime Minister Deve Gowda finds a place in the committee on Railways. Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu finalised the selection of members on Thursday. Former Congress parliamentarians who have now joined the BJP, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Bhubaneshwar Kalita, have been placed in the committee on Human Resource Development. BJP leader from Maharashtra Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has been selected to head this committee. NCP chief Sharad Pawar retains his place on the Defence committee, while former Congress floor leader of Lok Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, is in the committee on Commerce. Former Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi, who as a Lok Sabha MP was in the Parliamentary Committee on Finance, is now in the committee on Home Affairs. JMM leader Shibu Soren is in the committee on Coal and Steel. These nominations came a day after 45 of the 61 newly elected members took oath in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ranjan-gogoi-named-for-house-panel-on-external-affairs/article32177496.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Independence Day event scaled down||The Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort will be limited to the Prime Minister’s speech, a 21-gun salute, unfurling of the national flag, the national anthem and release of tricolour balloons “keeping in view the limitations and precautionary steps” in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Home Ministry has said. The Ministry has issued detailed guidelines for the celebrations at the State, district and panchayat levels. They suggest inviting COVID-19 warriors such as doctors, health workers, sanitation workers as a recognition of their noble service. “Some persons cured from COVID-19 may also be invited,” the guidelines said. The Ministry asked different arms of the government to spread the message of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” on August 15. “It would be appropriate that the theme of Aatmanirbhar Bharat is suitably spread and publicised among the masses through various activities/messages in the functions and on social media during the Independence Day celebrations,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/independence-day-event-scaled-down/article32177498.ece
24 July 2020||Kozhikode,||GCC nations return to normalcy||With the COVID-19 cases slowly ebbing away, many Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries have cautiously opened up after several months of curfews and travel restrictions. Already the GCC nations are recording more recoveries than cases of infection on a daily basis. The recovery rate in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) is over 85%. Cautious celebrations However, the UAE government is cautious about allowing its citizens to celebrate the upcoming Id-Al-Adha holiday next week. The faithful have been asked to perform prayers at home and mosques will be permitted to operate at an increased capacity of 50% from August 3. Residents have been asked to avoid family gatherings and meetings. The UAE has also announced that a COVID-19 test will be mandatory for all passengers.  In Saudi Arabia, the land ports of Al-Khafji, Al-Raqai, Al-Batha, and King Fahd Causeway were opened to facilitate the return of citizens and family members without prior permission from the neighbouring Gulf states from Thursday. Meanwhile, the Grand Mosque at Makkah will be closed to worshippers on the Arafat Day Id-Al-Adha. In view of the improving pandemic situation in Qatar, its government has allowed 80% of the public and private sector employees to work from offices starting July 28. Qatar has also launched the Exceptional Entry Permit service to enable residents, who are currently stuck abroad owing to COVID-19, to return to the country. Applications can be submitted on the Qatar Portal from August 1. In Kuwait, 727 people recovered from the disease even as its Ministry of Health announced 687 new cases on Thursday. The recovery rate in the country is about 84%. The Bahrain Health Ministry reported 321 new cases along with 439 recoveries on Thursday. Meanwhile, Oman has imposed a complete lockdown of all governorates of the Sultanate from 7 p.m. on Saturday to August 8. Residents of Oman whose visas have expired but planning to return to the country have been asked to renew them online. The COVID-19 recovery rate in Oman is 66%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gcc-nations-return-to-normalcy/article32177782.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||SCR starts Cargo Express to Delhi||South Central Railway (SCR) has started a pilot project, a weekly ‘Cargo Express’, where a time-tabled freight train will be operated from Sanathnagar here to Adarshnagar in New Delh from August 5 for about six months to begin with. Running every Wednesday and reaching Delhi on Fridays, this novel service will allow customers to book even a single wagon material of about 60 tonnes. Chief PRO Ch. Rakesh informed on Wednesday that generally commodities moved by freight trains are bulk in nature and require transportation of huge quantity by a single train by the customers. All these freight trains are also generally loaded with a single commodity. The railways, realising that non-bulk commodities too form a significant share of the freight, has initiated steps to attract this segment. Hence, this new service will carry general cargo of various commodities in a safe and cost-effective manner apart from the regular parcel service.  General Manager Gajanan Mallya said it will be beneficial to agriculture producers, traders, cargo movers at very low tariffs. Interested parties can call round-the-clock helpline numbers: 9701371976 or 040-27821393 or check onhttps://scr.indianrailways. gov.in/cargoexpress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scr-starts-cargo-express-to-delhi/article32177767.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||India expects China to work sincerely: MEA||Indian and Chinese officials are expected to meet for a record third time in a month in the next couple of days, for a virtual conference of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India China Border Affairs (WMCC) grouping, sources said. The WMCC, which normally has only annual or bi-annual meets, has already met on June 24 and July 10 this year, while the MEA confirmed that the next meeting is expected “soon”. However, the MEA declined to respond to a question on whether holding the WMCC meeting so soon after the previous meeting indicated that there is a problem in the disengagement schedule. Based on the consensus reached at the third round of Corps Commanders talks on June 30, Indian Army and PLA soldiers have disengaged from stand-off points patrolling Galwan and Gogra, and have disengaged “partially” at Hot Springs and Pangong Tso, military sources said. At Pangong Tso, Chinese troops reportedly pulled back from the base of Finger 4, and moved to Finger 5, but they continue to be present in smaller numbers on the ridge lines of Finger 4, contrary to the agreement.   ( With inputs from Vijaita Singh )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-expects-china-to-work-sincerely-mea/article32177447.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||SC rejects Speaker’s plea to stay HC proceedings||Justice B.R. Gavai, a judge on the Bench along with Justice Krishna Murari, said the HC had, on July 21, only “requested” the Speaker to defer the disqualification proceedings till July 24. “The HC told me [Speaker] ‘you cannot decide the matter’ and ‘you extend their time to file replies to disqualification notices’. Both directions are unconstitutional. The HC cannot direct the Speaker to extend time. The HC has no jurisdiction in this issue till the Speaker made his decision on the disqualification,” Mr. Sibal, assisted by advocate Sunil Fernandes, replied. Justice Gavai asked how the Speaker was an ‘aggrieved person’ here. “I am not an aggrieved person, My Lord. But the MLAs have to reply to my notice. The HC cannot direct me to hold on,” Mr. Sibal said. Justice Mishra, at this point, suggested an adjournment, saying the issue was “very serious” and required a “prolonged hearing”. Mr. Sibal said the court should then immediately stay the HC proceedings till the apex court decided the issue. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, for the MLAs, intervened quickly. They objected to Mr. Sibal’s plea for a stay. Mr. Salve said the Speaker having once “taken a chance” and joined the HC proceedings cannot now seek a stay. The Speaker did not demur when the HC previously had twice deferred the disqualification proceedings. “The Speaker is like a tribunal. But he is acting like an aggrieved person in the Supreme Court, peppering his submissions with political overtones. All this clearly shows his actual intention,” Mr. Rohatgi argued. “We cannot hear any mala fide of the Speaker. It is not right... The question here is about democracy,” Justice Mishra told Mr. Rohatgi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-speakers-plea-to-stay-hc-proceedings/article32177446.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The fortunate prapanna||The importance of the state of mind at the moment of death is emphasised in the Upanishads and in the Bhagavad Gita. Krishna says, ‘He who at the time of death gives up his body and departs, thinking of Me alone, he comes to My state of being and is not subject to further births. Of this there is no doubt. But he who dies thinking of other objects or people becomes or attains that form in his next birth.’ So, only if one is devoted to Him during one’s lifetime will it be possible to remember Him at the end of one’s life. But, according to the doctrine of surrender, a prapanna, who has pledged his entire self to the Lord with total faith and devotion and has sought His feet seeking moksha and nitya kainkarya as the only goal, has no such constraints, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. God takes the responsibility to make him eligible for moksha at the end of his life by inculcating the necessary frame of mind at the hour of his death. But for those in bhakti yoga, much conscious effort is needed to attain salvation as is illustrated in the life of Jadabharata that is related in the Bhagavata Purana. As king Bharata, he is steeped in bhakti yoga. He then renounces his kingdom and retires to the Himalayas to do penance and service to God. As his bhakti yoga is about to mature, he gets drawn to the young one of a deer, out of compassion to it. Since he is concerned about it at the time of his death, he is born as a deer in his next birth. But there is no impairment to his bhakti even though he lives in the form of a deer. At the end of this life, he is born again as Jadabharata and attains salvation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-fortunate-prapanna/article32177486.ece
24 July 2020||Shiv Sahay kolkata,||Ex-Maoist leader gets key post in TMC reshuffle||In a major reshuffle on Thursday, the Trinamool Congress inducted former Maoist leader Chhatradhar Mahato into its new 21-member State committee. Mr. Mahato’s appointment is believed to have been made with an eye on next year’s Assembly polls and to revive the party’s fortunes in Jangalmahal, where the BJP had won all seats in the 2019 LS polls. The party also promoted young leaders such as former cricketer Laxmi Ratan Shukla and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra, who have been appointed the district presidents of Howrah and Nadia respectively. The party also announced a seven-member core panel. The induction of Mr. Mahato, who was in prison for the past 11 years, came in a reshuffle of Trinamool Congress with an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls. The BJP has won all the seats in the Jangalmahal region. Chhattadhar Mahato was the convener of the People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCPA) which the police had claimed was a frontal organisation of the banned CPI(Maoist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-maoist-leader-gets-key-post-in-tmc-reshuffle/article32177841.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,||HC moved to vacate injunction on ‘Coronil’||Patanjali Ayurved Limited on Thursday rushed to the Madras High Court with a plea to vacate an ex-parte interim injunction granted by it on July 17 restraining the company from using the term ‘Coronil’ for tablets marketed by it to boost immunity against COVID-19. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan decided to hear the plea on Friday after senior counsel P.R. Raman, representing a Chennai-based industrial equipment cleaning company which had obtained the injunction, and Satish Parasaran for Patanjali said they were prepared to argue. Arudra Engineers Private Limited from Tiruvanmiyur here had filed a civil suit for alleged trademark infringement. It had claimed to be the manufacturers of chemicals named Coronil -213 SPL and Coronil-92B, used to clean industrial machinery, since 1993. The plaintiff company said there had been press reports of yoga guru Baba Ramdev, associated with Patanjali, having made a false claim that Coronil Tablets were a cure for COVID-19. Such an act had caused irreparable damage to the reputation of the engineering company’s trademark, it claimed. On the contrary, Patanjali, in its affidavit, said it was a very successful consumer goods company and suspected a larger conspiracy being hatched across the country to scuttle its business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-moved-to-vacate-injunction-on-coronil/article32177445.ece
24 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal Governor summons CM||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday summoned Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to brief him on the “decline in the law and order situation” in the State. The Governor took to social media and said Opposition leaders were being hunted out of public space “by partisan police acting as political workers”. Mr. Dhankhar tweeted, “Given enormity of decline in law and order @MamataOfficial has urged CM to urgently brief me. This as ..political leaders and opposition MPs and MLAs being virtually hunted out of public space by partisan police acting as political workers. This cannot be allowed in democracy.” In a video message, the Governor described the happenings in the State as a “grim situation”, an “alarming decline” and a “worrisome spectacle”. “We cannot afford to have a police that does not act in accordance with law, but acts in a partisan manner like a political worker of the ruling party,” Mr. Dhankhar said. The remarks come at a time when relations between the government and Raj Bhavan have hit a new low. Mr. Dhankhar recently met the Union Home Minister and described governance in the State as being on a “cliff’s edge”. The Chief Minister has accused Mr. Dhankar of being more critical of the State government than the Bharatiya Janata Party’s spokesperson. Meanwhile, there was tension in Haroa Police Station area of North 24 Parganas district’s Basirhat subdivision on allegations of a woman being sexually assaulted. Locals protested and tried to block roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-governor-summons-cm/article32177465.ece
24 July 2020||JAIPUR,||‘Probe plaint in scam involving Shekhawat’||A sessions court in Jaipur has directed a metropolitan magistrate to send a complaint for investigation in a credit society scam, allegedly involving Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, to the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan police. The complaint had sought a probe into Mr. Shekhawat’s role as an accused. The matter, being investigated by the SOG since last year, pertains to the Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam, in which thousands of investors allegedly lost about Rs. 900 crore. The complainants alleged that money was transferred to the companies owned by Mr. Shekhawat, his wife and others, but their roles were never investigated. The FIR in the case was registered in 2019. The societyallegedly duped depositors by siphoning off money under fake loans. The order comes amid a political crisis in the State, with the ruling Congress alleging that the Union Minister was involved in a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-plaint-in-scam-involving-shekhawat/article32177468.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Madhya Pradesh Cooperatives Minister Arvind Singh Bhadoria tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a hospital here on Thursday, officials said. The BJP legislator from Ater in Bhind took part in a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. A day before, he accompanied Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP State president V.D. Sharma in a flight to Lucknow to pay respects to Governor Lalji Tandon who died there. He appealed to those who came in contact with him recently to get tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32177477.ece
24 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM announces fresh penalties||COVID-19 patients violating home isolation instructions in Punjab will have to shell out Rs. 5,000 as fine, as per the new guidelines announced on Thursday by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. He also announced imposition of Rs. 5,000 as fine for owners of restaurants violating social distancing norms.  Currently there are 951 patients in home isolation across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-announces-fresh-penalties/article32177476.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Go to govt., SC tells petitioner who sought yoga protocol||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed petitioner, advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, to withdraw his plea to direct the government to develop a “standard Yoga protocol” to enhance COVID-19 resistance. Mr. Upadhyay bowed out after a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked him to approach the government instead of the court. “After making submissions for some time, learned counsel for the petitioner seeks permission to withdraw the petition to enable him to approach the competent authorities. The writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn,” said the Bench, also comprising Justices R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, at the hearing via videoconferencing. The petition said the Ministry of AYUSH should broadcast yoga protocols for strengthening immunity. “The injury caused to the public is very large because COVID-19 is spreading rapidly and no vaccine or medicine has been discovered,” it said.  ‘Devise textbooks’ It said the Ministry had not developed customised protocols to control diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, tumours, digestive diseases, fever and infections and diarrhoeal diseases. The PIL plea sought directions to the Ministry of Human Resource Development to develop standard textbooks on ‘Environment, Health and Yoga Science’ for students of Classes I-VIII and make them compulsory throughout the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/go-to-govt-sc-tells-petitioner-who-sought-yoga-protocol/article32177483.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Employees reject Air India’s olive branch||Air India on Thursday attempted to placate its agitated employees by assuring them that there would be no lay-offs. However, this didn’t cut ice with workers’ unions demanding that the airline withdraw its controversial order on compulsory “leave without pay” as it amounted to the loss of full salary. “Unlike other carriers which have laid off large number of their employees, no employee of Air India will be laid off,” said a post on Air India’s Twitter handle. A forum of various employees’ unions rejected this announcement as “an eyewash”. “It is not a ‘lay-off’ but it is a compulsory leave without pay, which is merely a lay-off without legally due payments,” the Air India Joint Action Forum of Unions tweeted. An administrative order issued last week said the Chairman and Managing Director of the carrier had been authorised to send employees on mandatory leave without pay from six months to two years, extendable upto five years. A week later, Air India notified an empowered committee for ‘identification of redundant/ surplus manpower’. On Tuesday, pilots received only 25% of their monthly emoluments as the airline decided to implement pay cuts with retrospective effect from April 1. “The rationalisation of allowances had to be implemented on account of the difficult financial condition of the airline that has been exacerbated by COVID-19,” the airline explained in tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/employees-reject-air-indias-olive-branch/article32177482.ece
24 July 2020||Lucknow,||Masjid case: Joshi records statement||Senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi on Thursday recorded his statement before a special CBI court here in the Babri Masjid demolition case in which he is accused of criminal conspiracy. Special CBI judge S.K. Yadav recorded the 86-year-old Mr. Joshi’s statement through video conferencing. Mr. Joshi’s long-time colleague and co-accused L.K. Advani is expected to record his statement through video conferencing on Friday. The special court is in the process of recording the statements of the accused in the demolition case against the evidence submitted by the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/masjid-case-joshi-records-statement/article32177487.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||New warning on tobacco products||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has notified new sets of specified health warnings for all tobacco product packs by making an amendment to the Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products (Packaging and Labelling) Rules, 2008. The notification, dated July 21, specifies “The Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products Third Amendment Rules, 2020”. The amended rules will be applicable with effect from December 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-warning-on-tobacco-products/article32177488.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pak. failed to give access to Jadhav’||India on Thursday accused Pakistan of stalling the process of providing legal assistance to death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav. In the weekly press briefing of the Ministry of External Affairs, official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said a petition to review the death sentence by a Pakistan military court could not be filed because of the absence of the documents that required Mr. Jadhav’s signature. “In the absence of an unimpeded and unhindered consular access as well as relevant documents, as a last resort, India tried to file a petition on July 18. However, our Pakistani lawyer informed that a review petition could not be filed in the absence of power of attorney and supporting documents related to the case of Shri Jadhav,” said Mr. Srivastava. Mr. Jadhav was granted consular access on July 16 but the Indian official maintained that the Pakistan authorities had ‘scuttled’ the opportunity as they allegedly behaved in an intimidating manner during the meeting between Mr. Jadhav and two Indian diplomats from the mission in Islamabad.  The official said the lawyer was appointed as per Pakistan’s directives which demanded that relevant documents could be handed over “only to an authorised Pakistani lawyer”. He said despite Pakistan’s assurances, the lawyer was denied assistance when he approached the authorities in Islamabad. “Pakistan also created confusion over the last date of filing a petition. Initially, they indicated that a petition has to be filed by no later than July 19. Subsequently, it indicated that the time limit to file a review petition shall expire the next day,” said Mr. Srivastava. He said the whole exercise was ‘farcical’. “Pakistan has completely failed to provide the remedy as directed by the ICJ...” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-failed-to-give-access-to-jadhav/article32177460.ece
24 July 2020||Hyderabad,||97% IIIT-H graduates get placement||About 459 students and a record number of 11 PhDs and 86 masters with thesis graduated from the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) at its 19th convocation online this year, a few days ago. A total of 130 companies made job offers to these graduating students, 58 visited and 50 made offers to graduating students with 97% placements despite COVID-19, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/97-iiit-h-graduates-get-placement/article32177759.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka Cabinet nod for new industrial policy||With the aim to emerge as a global leader in manufacturing, innovation, research, and development, the State Cabinet on Thursday approved the New Industrial Policy 2020-25, offering a series of incentives to industries to invest in Karnataka, including turnover-based incentives for the first time in the country. It also proposes to attract investments outside Bengaluru by declaring backward regions as “Special Industrial Regions” (SIRs). Among those proposed include encouragement to establish private industrial parks and declaration of industrial townships. While the policy seeks to maintain the 10% industrial growth year on year, it has set an ambitious target of Rs. 5 lakh-crore investments to create employment opportunity for 20 lakh people. It aims to make the State the third largest exporter of merchandise from the current fourth place. The focus of industrial policy will be on automobile and auto component, defence, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, engineering and machine tools, knowledge-based industries, logistics, and renewable energy, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told presspersons in the post-cabinet briefing. “For the first time in the country, Karnataka will adopt a production turnover-based incentive instead of tax-based incentives to encourage production-based performance,” he added. The last industrial policy had been unveiled in 2014. Beyond Bengaluru While the bulk of industrialisation has happened in and around Bengaluru that has been classified as Zone 3, the policy has classified backward taluks and districts as Zone 1 and Zone 2. Subsidies and facilities have been extended to industries investing in Tier 2 and Tier 3 regions of the State. A sub-committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister that looks into taxes and concessions to the industries has been tasked to identify industrially-backward taluks and bring them in Zone 1 category. The first proposed SIR will be declared in Dharwad and the region around it, Mr. Shettar said, adding that similar SIRs will be declared in Shivamogga and Kalaburagi.  On the lines of Bengaluru-Chennai and Bengaluru-Mumbai industrial corridor, the State will develop Bidar-Mysuru as an industrial corridor. “It was felt that though the Bidar-Mysuru corridor exists, there is no railway connectivity. The State will seek the Centre’s help for this,” Mr. Shettar said, adding that the State would adopt technology and innovation. He said that several measures, including Karnataka Industries Facilitation Act and removal of restrictions on land purchases, have already been put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-cabinet-nod-for-new-industrial-policy/article32177434.ece
24 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Security beefed up in Bhadrachalam Agency areas||Ahead of the State bandh called by Maoists on July 25, special police teams have fanned out in the forest areas of Manuguru and its adjoining Agency mandals on Thursday, mounting an intensive search for ultras in the once naxal bastions. A massive cordon and search was launched by several dozens of police teams in the remote tribal hamlets lying along the forest fringes of Manuguru, Karakagudem and Gundala mandals in the early hours of the day to trace the rebels, sources said. Amid intermittent rain, the personnel of the anti-naxal squads scoured the forest areas spanning across the Agency mandals. The police intensified search operations in and around the Mallepallithogu forest area in Karakagudem mandal where an exchange of fire took place between Maoists and police on July 15, sources added. The Bhadrachalam sub-division police have ramped up security at vital installations in the Agency areas in the wake of Maoists torching road construction equipment at Battinapalli village in Charla mandal on Tuesday night. Meanwhile, pamphlets bearing the name of CPI (Maoist) State committee have reportedly surfaced in some remote habitations in Charla mandal in the early hours of Thursday. The rebels, through the pamphlets, renewed their appeal to the people to extend support to the July 25 State bandh called by their outfit demanding the release of ailing veteran poet Varavara Rao from Maharashtra jail, a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-beefed-up-in-bhadrachalam-agency-areas/article32177444.ece
24 July 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Riva Ganguly Das appointed Secretary (East) in MEA||The Union Government on Thursday announced the appointment of Riva Ganguly Das as Secretary (East) in the Ministry of External Affairs. She will replace Vijay Singh Thakur, who is due for superannuation on September 30. Ms. Das, a 1986 batch Indian Foreign Service officer, is presently High Commissioner of India to Bangladesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/riva-ganguly-das-appointed-secretary-east-in-mea/article32177470.ece
24 July 2020||Lucknow,||Dubey aide booked for sticking ‘fake’ Secretariat pass on SUV||Jai Bajpai, close aide of slain history-sheeter Vikas Dubey, has been booked for using a ‘forged’ Uttar Pradesh Secretariat pass on his vehicle, police said. The ‘fake’ pass, bearing the word “Vidhayak” (legislator), was found on the windscreen of one of the SUVs recovered from Bajpai, who was recently arrested, said police. The pass would have enabled Bajpai smooth entry and access into the Secretariat and the Assembly. A case was registered against him and his associate, Rahul Singh, on charges of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy at the Kakadeo police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dubey-aide-booked-for-sticking-fake-secretariat-pass-on-suv/article32177494.ece
24 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Erratic floods kill 4 more in Assam||The erratic floods in Assam have killed four more people, taking the death toll to 93, with landslides claiming 26 more lives since May 22. Officials said unlike most years, the water level across the flood-hit districts has been rising and ebbing frequently over the past two months. The affected people have consequently been moving back and forth between their now-submerged-now-liveable houses and the makeshift camps on higher grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/erratic-floods-kill-4-more-in-assam/article32177493.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||SpiceJet brings back 135 students from Kyrgyzstan||SpiceJet operated its first of nine charter flights to Kyrgyzstan on Thursday aimed at repatriation of a total 1,500 Indian students stranded there during the COVID-19 lockdown. The flights are being undertaken in collaboration with film actor Sonu Sood, who has also helped many migrants in the country return home, the airline said in a statement. Thursday’s flight brought back 135 students from Bishkek to Varanasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spicejet-brings-back-135-students-from-kyrgyzstan/article32177492.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO sets up COVID-19 testing facility at Leh||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has established a COVID-19 testing facility at the Leh-based Defence Institute of High Altitude Research (DIHAR) to enhance the rate of testing to identify COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory of Ladakh. “The testing facility at DIHAR is capable of screening 50 samples per day. The facility can also be utilised for training manpower for COVID testing...” the DRDO said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-sets-up-covid-19-testing-facility-at-leh/article32177454.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Accused in NH-74 scam case gets interim relief||The PMLA Appellate Tribunal has ordered status quo on a directive against an accused in the Rs. 215-crore scam in the National Highway-74 widening project in Uttarakhand, for takeover of assets attached by the ED. The petitions were filed by accused Dinesh Pratap Singh, his wife Alka Singh and brother Narendra Singh, for grant of ad-interim stay on an order issued by the PMLA Adjudicating Authority for taking possession of the properties. The ED submitted before the Tribunal that the accused, the then special land acquisition officer, conspired with revenue officers and middlemen to distribute “excess compensation” to farmers whose land was acquired for widening of the road, for getting monetary benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-in-nh-74-scam-case-gets-interim-relief/article32177456.ece
24 July 2020||IMPHAL,||Prime Minister lays stone for Rs. 3,054-crore Manipur water supply project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the Rs. 3,054-crore “Manipur Water Supply Project” in Imphal on Thursday through video conferencing. He said once the project is commissioned, there will be a “water revolution” in four years. He claimed that the pace of development in the State is quicker now, and law and order has improved under the BJP-led government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prime-minister-lays-stone-for-rs-3054-crore-manipur-water-supply-project/article32177455.ece
24 July 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur municipal office closed for three days||The municipal office of Ariyalur has been closed for three days after four of its employees tested positive for COVID-19. As a precautionary measure, the civic body had subjected most of its officers, sanitary workers and employees for tests and samples of three returned positive. The Municipal Commissioner was among those who tested positive. The wife of an employee also tested positive. Following this, the office was closed on Thursday to carry out fumigation. No one was allowed to visit the office. The workers applied disinfectant on floor, chairs, handrails, desks and other furniture. The vehicles were also disinfected. COVID 19 cases have seen an increase in the district recently, and 710 persons have tested positive since its outbreak. District Revenue Officer R. Jainulaptheen, a Revenue Divisional Officer and a Tashildar were among those who tested positive. They are under treatment at Government Hospital in Ariyalur. Due to the sharp rise in cases, most of the shops in Ariyalur have downed shutters since Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-municipal-office-closed-for-three-days/article32177915.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HPF moves HC against redemption of 292.71 acres of land in Ooty||Hindustan Photo Films Manufacturing Company Limited, a Central public sector enterprise, from Udhagamandalam has approached the Madras High Court with a claim that Nilgiris Collector has no authority to take back 292.71 acres of land in the company’s occupation without the approval of the Union Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises. Justice K. Ravichandrabaabu on Wednesday refrained from staying all further proceedings, pursuant to the redemption order passed by the Collector on February 19, since Advocate General Vijay Narayan pointed out that the State government had already laid a foundation stone for constructing a Government medical college and hospital on 25 acres. Though the petitioner company had also sought for an injunction restraining the State government from commencing construction activities, the judge stopped short with ordering that any development activity on the property in question would be subject to the result of the writ petition and no equity could be claimed by any party at the time of final disposal. The interim order was passed after the A-G told the court that the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests had already granted approval for the construction of the government medical college and hospital under Section 2 (de-reservation of forests and using forest lands for non forest purposes) of the Forest (Conservation) Act of 1980. Earlier, Additional Solicitor General R. Shankaranarayanan, representing the petitioner company, told the court it was inaugurated way back in January 7, 1967. Then, the State government had transferred 333.30 acres of land at Wenlockdowns Reserve Forest and Brokompton Reserve Forest free of cost for the construction of the factory and residential quarters. The company was involved in manufacturing of photo films, x-ray films, photographic printing paper, processing chemicals, magnetic tapes and so on. Over the years, about 10.65 acres of land was taken away from it and given to Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) and another 120 acres was surrendered in lieu of 90 acres of forest land on renewable lease. “Thus, the petitioner was in possession of 173.16 acres. On the contrary, the second respondent (Collector) has now ordered resumption of 292.17 acres,” an affidavit filed on behalf of the company read. The petitioner also claimed to have mortgaged all the land that was in its occupation with the Canara Bank against loans and working capital limits. In 1995-96, the net worth of the company became negative and efforts to revive it turned futile. Hence, the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) recommended winding up of the company and accordingly, the High Court took up a Company Petition in 2003. Subsequently, the petition was transferred to National Company Law Tribunal at the instance of Canara Bank. As of now, the company had only stopped its operations since 2003 and had not been wound up. Yet, under the impression that the company was not utilising the lands for the purpose for which they had been given, the Collector had proceeded with ordering resumption of the properties, the petitioner said and urged the court to quash the resumption order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hpf-moves-hc-against-redemption-of-29271-acres-of-land-in-ooty/article32177657.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another new high as 6,472 persons are infected||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to surge in Tamil Nadu as 6,472 more persons tested positive on Thursday. This new high took the State’s overall tally to 1,92,964. Chennai’s overall tally breached the 90,000-mark as the city recorded 1,336 cases. With a majority of the fresh cases being reported in the rest of the State, three districts — Tiruvallur, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar — had over 400 cases each. Another 5,210 persons, including 1,703 in Chennai and 450 in Madurai, were discharged. With this, a total of 1,36,793 persons have so far been discharged in Tamil Nadu, and 52,939 are under treatment. Eighty-eight more persons died, taking the State’s toll to 3,232. Chennai accounted for only 11 of these deaths, while there were eight deaths each in Madurai and Tiruvallur and six each in Coimbatore, Dindigul and Tiruchi. Five persons died in Kancheepuram, while four deaths each occurred in Chengalpattu and Tenkasi. Among those who died, 11 had no co-morbidities. A 24-year-old woman from Kancheepuram was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on July 17. She died on July 22, owing to cardio-respiratory failure, COVID-19, post-laparotomy, ileum resection and anastomosis. A 26-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital with coronary artery disease, systemic hypertension, chronic kidney disease and lupus nephritis on July 14. He died on July 22 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute pulmonary edema. A 96-year-old man from Chennai died at a private hospital owing to cardio-respiratory arrest and COVID-19. Virudhunagar reported 480 cases, followed by Tiruvallur and Thoothukudi with 416 and 415 cases respectively. There were 375 cases in Chengalpattu and 330 in Kancheepuram. Madurai recorded 274 cases, while Tiruneveli had 246 cases. Coimbatore reported 238 cases and Ranipet had 214 cases. A total of 190 persons tested positive in Tiruchi. Pudukottai witnessed a surge in cases at 109. The case counts in other districts are: Tiruvannamalai 192, Theni 188, Dindigul 107, Kallakurichi 132, Kanniyakumari 137, Ramanathapuram 100, Thanjavur 122, Vellore 116, and Villupuram 112. Forty-nine returnees also tested positive. A total of 62,112 samples were tested during the last 24 hours. Puducherry’s toll Puducherry reported two more COVID-19 deaths on Thursday, pushing the toll to 33, while 123 new cases were detected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-new-high-as-6472-persons-are-infected/article32177611.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10 waterbodies in Ambattur to be rejuvenated, beautified||Several waterbodies in and around Ambattur that faced the threat of encroachments would be rejuvenated in a few months. Residents of Kallikuppam said the space along the Kallikuppam main road was being restored as a waterbody. It had remained dry for many years as it was neglected and was an easy target for encroachments. Many other small waterbodies such as Thathankuppam, which were under the control of the local body, had been reduced to dry spaces. Kallikuppam pond Spread over 16 acres, the pond at Kallikuppam, near Ambattur, used to be one of the sources feeding Korattur lake. A wall is being built around the pond, which would be deepened. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation said the space would soon be turned into a recreation spot. Besides building a pathway and park, a children’s park and an outdoor gym would be developed around the pond on the lines of the Ambattur lake. This is one of the 10 waterbodies, whose area varies from a minimum of one acre to 16 acres, being restored in and around Ambattur. “We plan to construct a cut and cover channel to carry surplus water from the pond in Kallikuppam to Korattur lake,” said an official. The Rs. 27-crore project had been taken up under the Chennai Mega City Development Mission. Ambattur MLA V. Alexander said many waterbodies had remained neglected for over three decades. Some of those identified for rejuvenation include those in Ooragadam, Pattaravakkam, Pari Nagar, Karukku, Menambedu and Thathankuppam. Once restored, these ponds would serve as sources of groundwater recharge. The project was set to be completed before the onset of the northeast monsoon. Efforts were on to rejuvenate the other major waterbodies in Korattur and Ambattur, Mr. Alexander added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-waterbodies-in-ambattur-to-be-rejuvenated-beautified/article32177591.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu inks 16 MoUs for investments worth Rs. 5,137 cr.||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday signed 16 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) for investments to the tune of Rs. 5,137 crore. The projects are expected to generate jobs for over 6,500 people. The agreements were signed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in the presence of Industries Minister M.C. Sampath; N. Muruganandam, Principal Secretary, Department of Industries; and Neeraj Mittal, MD and CEO, Guidance, Industries Department. While a few MoUs were signed in the presence of company officials, the others were inked through video-conference. Earlier this week, the government signed eight MoUs, worth Rs. 10,399 crore, which will create jobs for over 13,507 people. Adani Enterprises Limited, the flagship company of the Adani Group, has signed an MoU worth Rs. 2,300 crore and Princeton Digital Group has inked a deal for Rs. 750 crore. Both projects will come up at Siruseri in Chengalpattu district. Super Auto Forge, which makes cold and warm forged steel and aluminium parts, and BPL-FTA Enterprises have committed themselves to investing Rs. 500 crore each. Airflow Equipments, a major supplier of equipment and products to the transport industries, will invest Rs. 320 crore at Kancheepuram. ATG, a fully owned subsidiary of Yokohama Rubber Co. Ltd., Japan, will invest Rs. 250 crore at Gangaikondan, Tirunelveli. The other MoUs involved Visteon (Rs. 100 crore); Srivaru Motors Pvt. Ltd. (Rs. 150 crore); Top Anil Marketing (Rs. 100 crore); Corestack (Rs. 35 crore); Swirepay (Rs. 23 crore); Radus Digital (Rs. 21 crore); bitWise Academy (Rs. 21 crore); Plethy (Rs. 22 crore); Tier1 Network Solutions Inc (Rs. 25 crore); and Continube (Rs. 20 crore). “Seven MoUs have been signed in the technology space. Of these, six [projects] will come up in Chennai and one in Coimbatore,” Mr. Muruganandam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-inks-16-mous-for-investments-worth-rs-5137-cr/article32177618.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of cases dips in Semmenchery tenements||Door-to-door surveillance and continuous awareness campaigns seem to have brought down the number of COVID-19 cases at the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements in Semmenchery. Over 6,500 families live in 10 avenues in the area. To help residents wash their hands, the Greater Chennai Corporation has installed washbasins on all the streets. “The Corporation introduced handwash facilities in the locality a few weeks ago. Initially, there was water but now the tanks are empty and are not filled regularly,” said Kanchana Krishnan of the Young Urban Women Association based in the locality. She said although the number of cases was coming down in the locality, such lapses would defeat the efforts of the civic body. “Physical distancing is enforced in shops and testing has been increased. But water supply is essential for handwashing,” she said. Meanwhile, Corporation officials said that some residents were using the water for other purposes and some children left the taps open. “Hence the tanks had become dry soon. But we refill it regularly. Besides, till a couple of weeks ago, the taps and soaps were stolen regularly. Now this has reduced,” said an official. Quick testing The official said they had increased door-to-door surveillance to identify influenza-like illnesses. “If any resident has symptoms, we immediately call for the mobile swab collection unit or take them to the nearest lab for testing. Early identification and treatment has helped bring down the cases in the locality,” said another official. Besides, all the residents had been provided masks. “Initially, we used to get 10 to 12 positive cases. Now the number has dropped to three and sometimes even one. We are taking targeted samples now. All the shopkeepers and street-vendors are tested,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-cases-dips-in-semmenchery-tenements/article32177597.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case surge sends doctors back to the districts||With cases of COVID-19 increasing in the southern districts, government doctors who were sent on deputation to Chennai are returning to their workplaces in districts like Madurai, Virudhunagar, Theni and Thoothukudi. Health Department officials said about 1,300 doctors of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services were earlier deputed from various districts to Chennai to manage the case surge in the city. However, in the past few weeks, the number of cases has been on the rise in many northern and southern districts. In the past week alone, Madurai added nearly 1,300 cases, while Virudhunagar added a little over 2,000 cases. Thoothukudi saw nearly 1,700 cases, and Theni 1,000. “Now, Chennai is witnessing a downward trend in cases. This has given us some breathing space as there are more discharges than admissions. However, the number of COVID-19 patients is rising in districts like Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli. So, we cancelled the diversion of about one-fourth of the doctors deputed from the districts to Chennai, and they are returning to their original stations,” a Health Department official said. He added that the doctors on deputation to Chennai would return to their original posts in phases. In the meantime, the bed capacity at government medical college hospitals in other parts of the State was being strengthened and necessary drugs like remdesivir, tocilizumab and low molecular weight heparin were being supplied. “The lessons learnt in Chennai are helping us manage the situation in the affected districts. We have been gradually increasing the number of beds for COVID-19 treatment at hospitals as the general patient population is less. All are aware of the protocol that hospitals are [meant to follow] for treating moderate/severe cases, while those with mild symptoms can be accommodated at COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC). The CCCs are being readied in all districts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-surge-sends-doctors-back-to-the-districts/article32177613.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||84 test positive at Raj Bhavan||Eighty-four persons at the Raj Bhavan, including security personnel living on the premises, have tested positive for COVID-19. An official press release said they had been working in the outer areas of the premises, like the main gate, and not inside the main building. “None of these persons had come into contact with either the Governor or senior officials,” the release added. 147 persons screened After a few individuals staying on the premises developed symptoms, 147 persons were tested. Of them, 84, including security personnel and fire service staff members, tested positive. “All these persons were further investigated, and have been quarantined by the Health Department. As a precautionary measure, the whole area of the Raj Bhavan, including the offices, have been disinfected and sanitised by Corporation health authorities. The Raj Bhavan is closely monitoring the situation,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/84-test-positive-at-raj-bhavan/article32177603.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Multiple-entry e-passes approved||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday approved, with certain conditions, the grant of multiple-entry monthly e-passes to workers of several companies, including some Japanese firms, for commuting regularly between Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam issued a Government Order following requests to the Industries Department by some of the companies for daily inter-State movement of their employees to Sri City, close to Chennai, in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. “E-pass with one-month validity may be given to each applicant company. The company can apply for an extension of the passes after one month if there is a requirement. Only the company must be the applicant and not any individual employee,” the order said. The companies should make arrangements to transport the employees in dedicated company vehicles, i.e. cars or buses or vans, following physical distancing norms as per the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the State government. “The requirement for passes for two-wheelers should be kept minimal. In respect of managers/supervisors who want to commute daily from their place of residence in one district to the place of work in another district, monthly passes may be issued by the Collector, in whose jurisdiction the workplace is located, and the same may be renewed on request every month,” the order said. The Consulate-General of Japan in Chennai and several Japanese companies requested the Industries Department for permission for the movement of essential manpower to neighbouring districts of Andhra Pradesh. Apollo Tyres, too, requested movement of workers to Chittoor district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multiple-entry-e-passes-approved/article32177615.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free distribution of masks in Tamil Nadu to begin soon||The free distribution of face masks through fair price shops in several urban areas of Tamil Nadu is expected to begin shortly. On Thursday, a consignment of 5.5 lakh masks was received by Revenue Department officials from one of the two companies which were chosen in the first tender. The masks will be sent for testing, and once they clear the test, they will be sent to fair price shops. In a matter of days, the first round of distribution will start, a senior official told The Hindu . The government plans to distribute two masks per beneficiary, free of cost, initially in urban areas excluding Chennai. All those enumerated in ration cards will be covered, and the total quantity required is 4.4 crore for the time being. This is being done as part of the government’s welfare measures in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Going by the stated combined production capacity of the two companies — 16.6 lakh masks per day — it would take almost a month for them to supply the entire quantity. As the government was keen on getting the distribution done at the earliest, it had decided to go for another round of tender, which was based on a fixed rate contract. In view of the price — Rs. 6.45 for a piece (excluding 5% tax) — quoted by the lowest bidder (L1) in the first round, those who had participated in the second were required to supply the masks at the stipulated price. Of the 25 companies that expressed willingness, 16 were chosen based on technical parameters, the official said. The collective capacity of these 16 firms is 1.6 crore masks a day, he added.  The government plans to distribute two masks per beneficiary, free of cost, initially in urban areas excluding Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-distribution-of-masks-in-tamil-nadu-to-begin-soon/article32177612.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Academics discuss ways to nurture innovation among research students||Introducing vocational education in schools and institutions and allowing students to learn at least one vocation will help them approach research better. This was the message from “Nurturing the innovation potential of research for students”, the fourth in The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling webinar series, presented by SRMIST, held on July 22. The speakers were T. Ramasami, the Nayudamma Abdul Wahid-Chair professor at the Department of Leather Technology, Anna University, Chennai; R. Ramanujam, professor of Theoretical Computer Science, Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai; Leena Wadia, senior fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, Mumbai; and K. Ramasamy, director of Faculty and Academics, SRMIST. The session was moderated by Shubashree Desikan, Senior Assistant Editor, The Hindu . Research was multidimensional, said Dr. Leela and cited the evolution of the smartphone as an example of innovation and research. She stressed on the importance of allotting more funds for research and innovation. She said India’s allocation of 0.7% of the GDP for research and innovation was much less than that of China (2.1%), the U.S. (2.8%), Israel (4.3%) and South Korea (4.2%). Dr. Ramasamy said as students reached higher classes, their innovative capacity dwindled as their focus shifted to their thesis. Innovation in research not only created new knowledge but added to existing knowledge too. Dr. Ramanujam explained how computational sciences, especially physics and mathematical biology, should be taken seriously. “We need different insights to do research. An important line of thinking is to not compartmentalise. A willingness to think about everything, coupled with intuition, is necessary,” he said. Dr. Ramasami said the creation of ideas was not as much an issue as converting the idea into something workable. Most teachers wanted their students to become scientists, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/academics-discuss-ways-to-nurture-innovation-among-research-students/article32177595.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Worker alleges harassment by officials, SHRC seeks report from Corporation||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Thursday sought a report from the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation following a complaint by a worker, who alleged harassment by senior officials over the pasting of COVID-19 sticker at the residence of actor Kamal Haasan. SHRC acting Chairperson D. Jayachandran asked the Corporation Commissioner to submit a report within four weeks. R. Vinoth Kumar, a contract worker with the Corporation, in his complaint said he pasted the COVID-19 sticker at the residence of Mr. Haasan on March 28, only on the instruction of his senior officers. Again on their instructions, he removed the sticker as it was later found to be a mistake, he said. Even during an inquiry over the incident by Zonal Officer J. Ravikumar, the worker said he pasted the sticker only on the instructions of AHO Saraswathi, sanitary inspector Muthurathinavel and sanitary officer Lakshmanan. The worker alleged that Mr. Muthurathinavel prevented him from joining duty on March 29 and told him that he had been suspended for 15 days. When the worker took up the issue with Joint Commissioner (Health) P. Madhusudhan Reddy, the officer informed him that he had not been suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-alleges-harassment-by-officials-shrc-seeks-report-from-corporation/article32177599.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘50% of beds vacant in govt. hospitals in city’||At least 50% beds are vacant in government medical college hospitals in Chennai, and 80% are vacant in COVID-19 care centres (CCC) in the city, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. There are 1,000 beds for COVID-19 patients at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, and another 1,000 beds are being added. “However, 50% of the beds are currently vacant at the RGGGH. At the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, 60% of the beds are vacant. From just 500 beds, the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, now has 750. There are currently 364 patients at the hospital,” he told reporters on Wednesday. At CCCs in Chennai, 80% of beds are vacant. “People should come for treatment to government hospitals,” he said when asked about private hospitals charging exorbitant rates. “Some big hospitals have come up with packages for COVID-19. This is not permitted. The government has capped the treatment cost and will take action under the Clinical Establishments Act if we receive complaints,” he said. He added that 1,000 ambulances were already deployed for COVID-19 emergencies. “The Chief Minister has approved the purchase of 500 more ambulances. Of these, we will receive 100 ambulances in a month,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-of-beds-vacant-in-govt-hospitals-in-city/article32177605.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP asks why Stalin has not condemned Karuppar Kootam||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan on Thursday questioned why DMK president M.K. Stalin had not condemned ‘Karuppar Kootam’, the YouTube channel accused of denigrating Kanda Sashti Kavasam and Lord Muruga. “Does Mr. Stalin have any links with Karuppar Kootam? He should explain to the people. Why has he not condemned the denigration of Lord Muruga by the group yet? The Hindu community will not pardon him,” Mr. Murugan charged. Addressing a press conference after members of various parties joined the BJP, Mr. Murugan asked whether Mr. Stalin would not speak up if something happens against Hindus. When asked about DMK organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi’s stand that his condemnation on the incident was Mr. Stalin’s condemnation, Mr. Murugan asked, “Why is Stalin not commenting? Who is stopping him from speaking up?” He said Mr. Stalin, who was a former Deputy Chief Minister, did not know anything about communal reservation. “He doesn’t even know that the reservation percentage changes from State to State based on population. For T.N., the SC/ST reservation must be 20%. I am asking him — when the DMK was in power in Tamil Nadu, what were they doing about this?” he said. Mr. Murugan said the DMK does not have any right to talk about social justice. On the issue of OBC reservation in all-India quota medical seats, Mr. Murugan said the case was in the Supreme Court, and the BJP was in favour of providing reservation for OBCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-asks-why-stalin-has-not-condemned-karuppar-kootam/article32177620.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bypolls to Tiruvottiyur, Gudiyatham deferred||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has deferred the bypolls in the Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyatham Assembly constituencies “in public interest” till the situation becomes conducive to holding elections. Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyatham fell vacant following the death of DMK MLAs K.P.P. Samy and S. Kathavarayan on February 26 and 27 respectively, and the deadline for filling these vacancies is August 26 and 27 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bypolls-to-tiruvottiyur-gudiyatham-deferred/article32177616.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goyal upbeat about Aatmanirbhar Bharat||Union Minister for Commerce and Industry and Railways Piyush Goyal on Thursday said Aatmanirbhar Bharat is going to be a defining moment for India’s economic future and prosperity. “Our government has identified 20 sectors where India can not only meet our own domestic needs but also become globally competitive, becoming leaders to supply to the world,” he said, addressing an Industry-Academia Global Virtual Conference on ‘Emerging Economic Scenario-Identify and Create Competencies’. The conference was organised by SRM Institute of Science & Technology and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry. Mr. Goyal pointed to sectors such as furniture, food processing, textiles and medical devices, where India can be self-sufficient and also be supplier to the world. “We should offer India’s traditional strengths to the rest of the world, while acknowledging and accepting good things we can learn from the rest of the world,” he said. Mr. Goyal also emphasised the push for technology in the current situation. “The only way to remain competitive in this globalised world is to harness new and emerging technologies. We must endeavour to reach higher levels of productivity and expand to become more competitive,” he said. Mr. Goyal said through technology more job opportunities could be created and it was a powerful tool to help democratise development, which would lead to social and economic equality. “Railways is setting up a National Rail Transportation University. We are planning training programmes for re-skilling and up-skilling the Railway men and women,” he said. FICCI also released a paper on online education in India on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goyal-upbeat-about-aatmanirbhar-bharat/article32177619.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai schools put in place safety measures||With students and parents expected to start coming in to collect provisional mark sheets and apply for copies of answer scripts from Friday, schools in the city have started preparations to ensure that safety measures are in place. The Directorate of Government Examinations had asked the government for guidelines; on Thursday, the Revenue and Disaster Management Department issued a Standard Operating Procedure. “From Monday, students will come to our school campus to collect their provisional mark sheets. We have earmarked four different corners of the school for each batch of students and parents and will use thermal scanners to check their temperature before they enter,” said G.J. Manohar, headmaster, MCC Higher Secondary School. Parents have been informed that if anyone in the family has been affected by COVID-19 or they are in a containment zone, they can send a relative to collect the mark sheets or apply for the copies of answer scripts, Mr. Manohar said. Schools have been asked to adhere to the guidelines and ensure that not more than 20 students are on campus at any point of time. “Since we have a small batch of Plus-Two students, not more than 10 students will be on campus at the same time. Physical distancing norms will also be strictly enforced,” said Martin Kennedy of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-schools-put-in-place-safety-measures/article32177614.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rejects plea to have OTP authentication for FASTag||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed two cases that challenged the implementation of FASTag, an electronic mode of toll collection using radio frequency identification technology without OTP/PIN authorisation before deducting money. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy rejected the petitions filed by Kabilan Manoharan, who contended that failure to provide Additional Factor Authorisation (AFA) such as OTP/PIN might lead to indiscriminate deduction of money even when they did not cross toll plazas. Rebutting his claim, Additional Solicitor-General R. Shankaranarayanan and Reserve Bank of India counsel Chevanan Mohan told the court that the intention behind the introduction of RFID-based toll collection was to avoid queues at toll plazas. This purpose would be defeated if AFA was insisted upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rejects-plea-to-have-otp-authentication-for-fastag/article32177589.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vels varsity offers free education to children of COVID-19 warriors||Vels University has announced a free education scheme for children of COVID-19 front-line workers. The beneficiaries, who passed Class 12 this year, can join any of the 50 undergraduate courses offered at Vels University. Around 300 students will be selected based on merit. This scheme can be availed by COVID-19 warriors, including nurses, the police, and sanitation workers. Children of those who died in the line of duty will get priority. In a statement, Chancellor Ishari K. Ganesh appealed to other private universities and institutions to offer similar schemes. Candidates can register atwww.velsuniv.ac.inor contact 9003461468, 9952018671, 8807307082, 9445507603, 9445484961, 9962014445||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vels-varsity-offers-free-education-to-children-of-covid-19-warriors/article32177593.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire at Ezhilagam building||Fire broke out in the chambers of Civil Supplies Commissioner Sajjansingh K. Chavan on the fourth floor of the Ezhilagam building at Chepauk here on Thursday. There were no casualties. The staff noticed smoke coming out of the fourth floor and alerted the Fire and Rescue Services around 11.50 a.m.  Sources said a short-circuit in an air-conditioned unit could have triggered the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-ezhilagam-building/article32177592.ece
24 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aadi Pooram events to be webcast||The HR and CE Department has made arrangements to live-stream on YouTube the Aadi Pooram celebrations on Friday from Sri Parthasarathy Swamy temple at Triplicane. Tirumanjanam will be shown at 9 a.m. followed by Tiruppavai , Nachiyar Tirumozhi recitation and Saatrumurai seva . Tiruvaimozhi recitation and Saatrumurai seva will be webcast again at 5p.m. Celebrations from Sri Kapaleeswarar Temple at Mylapore will also be webcast. The programme includes special abhishekam to Goddess Karpagambal between 7.30 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. and arati from 5.30 p.m. The events at Tiruvottiyur Vadivudaiamman Temple will be webcast from 4.30 p.m., said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aadi-pooram-events-to-be-webcast/article32177600.ece
24 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees highest single day spike with 238 cases||After seeing more than 100 COVID-19 positive cases every day for a week, Coimbatore district recorded its highest single day spike on Thursday with 238 cases. From 178 on Wednesday, the numbers rose by 60 in a day. The new cases took the district’s tally of positive cases so far to 2,777, with 1,270 of these being active cases. At the same time, 198 people recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals on Thursday, taking the total number of people who have recovered to 1,479. A media bulletin issued by the Health Department also said that six persons from Coimbatore died of the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital between July 18 and July 22, taking the total number of deaths so far to 28. Thursday’s cases were from Narasimhanaickenpalayam, Kuniyamuthur, Kovaipudur, Peelamedu, Chennappachetty Pudur, Pollachi, Karumbukadai, Kurumbapalayam, Venkatachalapathy Nagar and Poondi. 300 more beds Sources with the district administration said one more wing, with 300-odd beds, would function from Friday at the COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) established at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex. A hall with 400 beds was already functioning at the centre. Kovai Medical Center and Hospital said in a statement that on July 19 it dedicated its 100-bedded hospital at Kovilpalayam for treating COVID-19 patients. This was in addition to the 128-bedded KMCH Medical College Hospital, with access from Kalapatti Road, treating COVID-19 patients. The main hospital of KMCH, with access from Avinashi Road, remains separated from this 128-bedded facility and is exclusively for non-COVID-19 patients. In the Nilgiris, 59 persons tested positive on Thursday. The district administration stated that of the 587 people tested positive so far, 371 recovered and 214 people were under treatment. Two persons died of the disease. Salem district saw 47 new cases, of which 38 were indigenous, including 32 in the Corporation limits. Five of them returned from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand and four from Kallakuruchi, Namakkal and Dindigul. A staff at the Collectorate contracted the disease on Thursday. Namakkal district reported 40 cases. While 27 of them were contacts of previous cases, two were health inspectors. One of the other cases had a travel history to Madurai.  33 in Tiruppur With the 33 fresh cases in Tiruppur district on Thursday, the district’s tally touched 600. Twenty out of the 33 cases were from the Corporation limits. The rest were from Dharapuram, Udumalpet, Avinashi and Madathukulam, Health Department sources said. The youngest among them was a 13-year-old girl from Kombaithottam on Kangeyam Road and the oldest a 69-year-old man from Kongu Main Road. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said 15 patients were discharged and 993 swab samples were lifted across the district on Thursday. With 31 persons testing positive in Krishnagiri, the total number of active cases in the district touched 255. On Thursday, 18 persons were discharged from the hospital. Dharmapuri recorded 22 cases, taking the tally to 505. Of these, 246 patients have recovered and 257 persons are under treatment. The district has so far recorded two deaths. Erode district saw 20 fresh cases, taking the tally to 539. While 16 cases were reported in the Corporation limits, three were reported in Modakurichi and one at Chithode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with-238-cases/article32177645.ece
24 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore industries face challenges in getting e-passes||For the trade and industry in Coimbatore district, which started operations in May following relaxations in lockdown restrictions, getting e-passes to bring workers or to visit other districts for business has become a challenge. “I know of a factory owner who wanted to bring two workers from Bihar. At the time of applying for e-pass, the worker should have tested for COVID-19. The test report is valid only for two days. The factory owner took COVID-19 test for the workers and booked their tickets. But he did not get the pass for nearly a week,” says P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association. “One micro unit at Avarampalayam does job work for an industry near Palladam. If there are problems in components, the unit owner is unable to visit the industry because of need for e-pass and the delay in getting it. Though there are no restrictions on movement of materials, several MSMEs in Coimbatore that do job works for industries in Tiruppur or Erode districts are affected because they are finding it difficult to get e-passes for persons to travel. They are affected because of the delays in getting e-passes. We had written to the State government to bring e-passes under the purview of District Industries Centre (DIC) again,” said C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Tiny and Micro Enterprises Association. There were several MSMEs that did job work to larger industries in Tiruchi or Kanjikode. They all faced problems, he said. G. Ezhil, president of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen, says while it is a fact that industries face delays in getting e-passes they also understand that there are challenges because of the COVID-19 situation. “We also hear that there were instances of misuse of the pass. So, we need to take all these into account. But we plan to take up with the district administration the need to get e-passes for migrant workers,” he said. A senior official in the district administration said Coimbatore had issued the maximum number of e-passes. The applications could get rejected for several reasons such as non-availability of proper supporting documents. But, migrant workers, who returned to work, had tested positive in seven or eight industries so far. Hence, the required precautions need to be taken. A release issued by District Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday said it was found that the number of COVID-19 affected patients was on the rise in industries in Sulur, SS Kulam, Pollachi and Annur. There were reports that workers coming from other States got fake e-passes showing the destination as Kerala but got dropped in Coimbatore. And some units even engaged contractors for this. The Collector warned of stringent action against such industries. He urged the industries to take all the required precautionary measures to control the spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-industries-face-challenges-in-getting-e-passes/article32177637.ece
24 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Transport dept. officials given tablets to issue fitness certificates||All the Regional Transport Offices in Coimbatore Zone were given tablets to issue fitness certificates (FC) for vehicles on Wednesday. Transport Department sources said that the tablets were provided to all motor vehicle inspectors and Regional Transport Officers (RTO) across Coimbatore Zone, which includes Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts. In Coimbatore district, the tablets were provided at six Regional Transport Offices- Central, West, North, South, Mettupalayam and Pollachi. Each tab will be pre-loaded with ‘Vahan FC’ application, through which the motor vehicle inspector concerned will upload photographs of the vehicle in five different angles. After uploading the images, the inspector will fill in the particulars and sign the FC using the application, following which it can be printed. The introduction of tabs will make the process of issuing and renewal of FC quicker and will aid in efficiently maintaining the records of all the vehicles, according to the Transport Department sources. J.K. Baskaran, RTO – Central, said that three motor vehicle inspectors at Regional Transport Office – Central and himself have received the tablets. “We have issued FCs for about 30 vehicles on Wednesday and Thursday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-dept-officials-given-tablets-to-issue-fitness-certificates/article32177640.ece
24 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coordination meetings to chalk out COVID-19 containment strategies||With the district reporting more COVID-19 cases each day, officials with the Coimbatore Municipal Corporation, health, revenue and police departments are now having coordination meetings on alternate days to strengthen measures to prevent the spread of the disease. Apart from sharing information, the officials also discuss strategies and coordination required to contain the disease spread in the district. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, District Revenue Officer D. Ramaduraimurugan, Corporation Deputy Commissioner S. Madhuranthagi, Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar, City Health Officer S. Raja, Additional Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore rural, G.S. Anitha, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Coimbatore city, G. Stalin and two Assistant Commissioners took part in one such meeting held on Wednesday. “It was the second coordination meeting. The police get a lot of information from the field. Such information is passed to the revenue, health departments and Corporation. The meeting also facilitates better coordination of activities. The police will support other departments to contain the spread of the disease,” said Mr. Sharan. Coordination meetings will happen on every Monday, Wednesday and Friday at different offices. Mr. Saran said COVID-19 support kits comprising safety gears, sanitizer and health drink were given to 2,500 police personnel in the city on Thursday. Such kits would be distributed often to boost the spirit of police personnel who were on COVID-19 duty. Already, the police were doing various activities including crowd management, vehicle checks and patrols for COVID-19 management. The police and Corporation flying squads also conducted checks at commercial places and took action against people who did not follow precautionary measures, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coordination-meetings-to-chalk-out-covid-19-containment-strategies/article32177642.ece
24 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand e-pass for labourers||The Narayanasamy Naidu Farmers’ Association has urged the district administration to issue e-passes for farm labourers to enter the district to harvest crops. In its representation, the Association represented by State president A.S. Babu, said farmers faced shortage of labourers to harvest onion and other crops. Usually, the farmers had labourers migrating to the district from Dindigul and Dharapuram. But due to the restriction on inter-district travel, they faced shortage of labourers, the Association said and sought e-pass for labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-e-pass-for-labourers/article32177635.ece
24 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah inaugurates ‘Vriksharopan Abhiyan’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday inaugurated ‘Vriksharopan Abhiyan’, a massive plantation drive organised by NLC India Ltd (NLCIL) at Mines II in Neyveli through video-conferencing. He inaugurated the mass planting of 1,15,000 saplings at 14 project locations of NLCIL across the country. He also opened an eco park. Union Minister of Coals, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi said the ‘Going Green’ initiative was kick-started through the active participation of coal/lignite PSUs. NLCIL said the plantation drive was aimed at maximising the green cover through ecological reclamation of mined-out areas and overburden dumps, plantation in and around mines and avenue plantation. The eco park located on 15 acres at NLCIL would provide avenues for recreation, adventure, water sport and bird watching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amit-shah-inaugurates-vriksharopan-abhiyan/article32177622.ece
24 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Televised lessons to commence on August 1||The broadcasting of lessons for government school students through 14 television channels will commence on August 1, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan told mediapersons in Nambiyur, Gobichettipalayam, on Thursday. The Minister, who laid the foundation for projects worth Rs. 2 crore, said steps had been taken to start classes through television channels. He said that an 18-member committee, set up to look into reducing the syllabus, had submitted its report and the department was studying its recommendations. The Minister said that Class 12 students could apply online for revaluation of their answer scripts and this applied to students in containment areas as well. He said that 52 lakh free laptops were distributed to students, which was a first-of-its-kind move in the country. Mr. Sengottaiyan said the Athikadavu-Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme works were progressing well and would be completed on time. “Upon completion, the scheme will help recharge waterbodies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/televised-lessons-to-commence-on-august-1/article32177608.ece
24 July 2020||Kodaikanal,TAMIL NADU||Cine actors fined||Four persons, including cine actor Suri and Vimal from Chennai, were fined by forest department officials for violating the curfew orders and moving around Berijam lake, a prohibited area for the public. Social activist Mahendran had submitted a complaint with DSP Athmanabhan seeking action. In his complaint, he stated that some people were fishing in the lake and were seen consuming liquor in the open. The police informed the Forest department. On instructions from District Forest Officer Tejaswi, a team found that the four had obtained e-pass to travel from Chennai to Dindigul district. After investigation, the four were fined Rs. 2,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cine-actors-fined/article32177876.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fever camps target rural populace||The Madurai administration has conducted a total of 2,114 fever camps between July 2 and July 20 in rural areas apart from those in the corporation limits. Collector T. G. Vinay said that they have focused on panchayats with high population density. The district administration had conducted fever camps mostly through mobile units in rural areas and the coverage has been stepped up in July. “The Health Department keeps count of fever cases or those who exhibit influenza like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) symptoms through a census. We monitor out-patients who come to Primary Health Centres, General Practise Clinics and nursing homes. We ask them to visit fever clinics if symptoms persist,” he said. With testing having been ramped up, the Collector says that in the last 20 days, they have screened 99,818 patients through mobile units in rural areas between July 2 and July 20. Out of them, a total of 6,196 patients who have exhibited COVID-19 symptoms have been tested. Apart from them, 47,867 persons have been screened at Primary Health Centres (PHC) and 1,388 have been tested, he said. A majority of positive cases in Madurai’s rural areas are from Madurai West and Tirupparankundram blocks, he said. In the last week, four positive cases from Melur block have been recorded. Although many cases from Usilampatti were initially recorded in May and June, the numbers have come down since, he added. “After analysing the source of information in rural areas, we found that most positive cases are usually contacts of those who are positive. On other occasions, the positive index cases are frontline workers. These include doctors and health workers who travel to other areas for work,” he said. Dr. Vinay said that the number of people voluntarily getting tested at fever camps in rural areas has starkly increased as the administration has partnered with panchayat presidents in mobilising those with fever symptoms. “This has worked well. We have several dengue breeding checkers who visit door-to-door to ask if there is anyone with symptoms of COVID-19. Since testing is far more accessible at PHC and test results arrive quickly, more people are using the facilities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fever-camps-target-rural-populace/article32177872.ece
24 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kallar Reclamation Schools see drop in pass percentage||For the fourth consecutive year, Kallar Reclamation Schools have recorded an average pass percentage of above 90 in Class 12 State board examinations. With 1,505 students having passed the examinations, the average pass percentage stands at 92.27 this year. A total of 239 Kallar Reclamation Schools function in Madurai, Theni and Dindigul districts, said C. Amuthavalli, Joint Director of Kallar Reclamation. A total of 1,631 students from 38 schools appeared for the examinations; six from Madurai and one each from Theni and Dindigul districts recorded cent per cent pass. T. Priyadarshini, a student of a school at Vikkiramangalam in Madurai, secured the highest mark of 536. Students of schools at Poochipatti in Madurai district and Sevugampatti in Dindigul district got the second and the third highest scores respectively. Madurai recorded a pass percentage of 95.40, followed by Dindigul with 88.80 and Theni with 87.20. This year’s results showed a 4.53% drop in pass percentage from last year’s performance, which was at 96.80%. Ms. Amuthavalli said the dip in pass percentage could be attributed to confusion in conduct of examinations due to the pandemic. M. Mathivanan, Director, Most Backward and Denotified Communities Welfare said an analysis of the performance of students indicated that they could do better in English. “The top scorer had secured more than 90 marks in all subjects, except English. So, we have proposed a programme for holistic teaching of English for students from primary classes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kallar-reclamation-schools-see-drop-in-pass-percentage/article32177880.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar sees a new high||A total of 274 COVID-19 positive cases were recorded in the district on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 8,984. A total of 450 patients were discharged and active cases were at 2,836. A total of eight deaths were recorded, taking the district’s toll to 183. Five deaths were recorded in Government Rajaji Hospital, two in private hospitals and one death in railway hospital. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district saw a new high of 480 positive cases erasing the previous single-day high of 363 positive cases. With this, the total number of positive cases was inching towards the 5,000-mark and stood at 4,767. Besides, the district registered three COVID-19 deaths taking the total number of deaths to 37. However, with 312 patients getting discharged on Thursday (total discharge till date was 2,493), the total number of active cases has stood at 2,237. Among the three patients who have died one is a female. All the three deaths were reported on Tuesday. Among them, a 54-year-old man who was admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on July 14 and tested positive on July 16, died due to cardio-respiratory arrest. However, according to the media bulletin, he did not have any co-morbidity. Theni Theni recorded 188 new cases, which took the total number of positive cases to 3,087. There were 71 discharges. Dindigul In Dindigul, 68 fresh cases were recorded. The total positive cases stood at 1,930 and 68 people were discharged. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram, the new cases accounted for 100. The State medical bulletin showed 105 people had been discharged. Sivaganga In Sivaganga, 64 fresh cases were recorded taking the total positive cases to 1,824 and 30 people were discharged. Tirunelveli Thoothukudi district added 415 positive cases on Thursday. This is the largest spike the district has recorded so far in a day. The district has so far witnessed 26 deaths with 2,472 active cases. At the same time, 175 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Thursday. After witnessing 15 COVID-19 related deaths, Tirunelveli district reported 246 fresh cases that took the total number of infections to 3,219 and active cases to 1,318. Kanniyakumari recorded 137 cases on Thursday to jack up the tally to 2,858 and active cases to 1,860. Tenkasi had 68 positive cases on Thursday and it took the tally to 1,412.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-sees-a-new-high/article32177878.ece
24 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man’s gesture||For the sixth time, M. Pul Pandian 68, contributed Rs. 10,000 that he had collected by seeking alms to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to fight against COVID-19 here on Wednesday. Mr. Pandian, who usually goes to places like Thoothukudi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai, says he has been donating to government schools in these areas for infrastructural development. When the pandemic began, he has been contributing to the Madurai Collector’s office. He arrived in Madurai around two weeks before the lockdown and has been moving around the district. Mr. Pandian finds places outside small temples to sleep at night and survives on the food that strangers provide to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-mans-gesture/article32177882.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||RT-PCR machine donated to Madurai Medical College||Tamil Nadu Foundation (TNF), a non-profit organisation created by a group of Americans of Tamil origin, donated a RT-PCR machine costing Rs. 13.50 lakh to Madurai Medical College on July 20. Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar, who inspected the college on Wednesday, checked the machine and expressed his gratitude to those who donated the machine. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said that with this machine, a total of five machines were available. “This will help us to test around 4,000 samples,” he said. The TNF had earlier given a RT-PCR machine to Government Stanley Medical College in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rt-pcr-machine-donated-to-madurai-medical-college/article32177887.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam custodial death: Inspector shifted to hospital||Former Inspector of Police of the Sattankulam police station, Sridhar, who has been in judicial custody for the custodial death of a father and son, was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital from the Central Prison here on Thursday. Sources said Sridhar had complained of a spinal cord problem and related chronic neck pain when he was produced at the Special CBI Court here.  Court directive As per the court’s direction, an orthopedician attended on him in the jail. He was taken to the GRH on Thursday for medical investigation and has been kept under observation. Sridhar along with two SIs and other police personnel of Sattankulam police station have been charged with the murder of trader P. Jayaraj and his son Benicks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-shifted-to-hospital/article32177623.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water supply to be suspended on Saturday||Madurai Corporation will suspend the supply of drinking water to the following areas on Saturday as a portion of Pre Stressed Concrete pipeline under Vaigai scheme 2 will be replaced with a metal pipe: Aruldosspuram, Thathaneri, Sellur, Meenakshipuram, Kulamangalam Road, Goripalayam, Racecourse Colony, DRO Colony, P and T Colony, Narimedu, BB Kulam, K. Pudur, Anna Nagar, KK Nagar, Mathichiyam, Karumbalai, HMS Colony, Virattipathu, Ponmeni, Sammattipuram, Sundararajapuram, Jaihindpuram, TVS Nagar, Muthupatti, Alagappa Nagar, Keeratgurai and Villapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drinking-water-supply-to-be-suspended-on-saturday/article32177884.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NEET impersonation case accused seeks return of certificates||The first student accused in the NEET impersonation case moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday seeking a direction to the CB-CID to return his certificates that were taken for investigation, as he wants to pursue higher studies. The petitioner said that at the time of inquiry, the CB-CID officials had taken custody of his mobile phone and other documents such as his Class X and Class XII mark sheets, transfer certificate and community certificate. He said that the High Court Bench had granted him bail in the case and added that the CB-CID was yet to file a final report (chargesheet) in the case. Under these circumstances, he said that he had approached a few colleges in Chennai seeking admission to arts and science courses. The authorities had asked him to produce his original certificates. He said that he had requested the CB-CID officials to hand over the documents. But, they had not responded to his request. A petition filed before the Judicial Magistrate was returned stating that the documents had not been produced. Taking up the petition, Justice R. Pongiappan sought a response from the CB-CID officials and adjourned the hearing in the case till July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-impersonation-case-accused-seeks-return-of-certificates/article32177886.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail petition dismissed||The Madurai District Court dismissed the bail petition filed by Murugan, one of the constables accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, on Thursday. Sessions Judge M. Thandavan while dismissing the petition observed that considering the gravity of the offence and strong objection raised by the prosecution, the petition deserved to be dismissed. Head constable Murugan, in his petition, said that he had not committed any offence. He claimed that Jayaraj and Benicks had died of sickness and sought bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-petition-dismissed/article32177653.ece
24 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Increase the number of swab collection centres in Madurai: AIDWA||Members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) staged demonstrations in front of six Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) across the city on Thursday demanding an increase in the number of COVID-19 swab collection centres. R. Sasikala, district secretary (Urban ), AIDWA, said that COVID-19 test results must be conveyed to the patients within 24 hours. With rising COVID-19 cases, more number of doctors, nurses and sanitary workers must be deployed. “Their safety must be taken care of by providing personal protective equipment (PPE),” she said. Ms. Sasikala complained that many private hospitals were refusing treatment for pregnant women and those with non COVID-19 ailments. “The administration must intervene to address this problem,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-the-number-of-swab-collection-centres-in-madurai-aidwa/article32177874.ece
24 July 2020||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||District status has enlarged scope for tourism in Mayiladuthurai||Travellers could well expect improvement of facilities at locations of tourism importance in and around Mayiladuthurai, now that it has attained the status of a district, according to Tourism Department sources. Besides spiritual tourism, locations of sight-seeing importance also rank high in the priority list of the Tourism Department for development of infrastructure and amenities in and around Mayiladuthurai. The town, known for the Mayuranathaswami Temple, will also feature tourism-friendly features in Poompuhar and Tranquebar. The Poompuhar beach, unique for its white sand, is witnessing a steady rise in the number of visitors. The Tourism department, which has been sanctioned Rs. 2.5 crore for development of infrastructure in Poompuhar, has readied a proposal at an estimate of Rs. 75 lakh for developing facilities to increase tourist footfalls at Tranquebar where the Fort Dansborg, better known as Danish Fort, is located. According to N. Madhavan, District Tourism Officer, Nagapattinam, facilities such as approach roads, public toilets, rest sheds, changing rooms, and cloakroom would be vital factors that would attract tourists in large numbers to Mayiladuthurai, owing to its vantage location and rail and road connectivity. Backwater tourism  Likewise, there was scope for developing backwater tourism in Kodiyampalayam village in Kollidam taluk in the new Mayiladuthurai district, Mr. Madhavan said. The mangrove forests in the area would be a major attraction for tourists. There was also a high possibility for operating boat services between Kodiyampalayam and Pitchavaram in Cuddalore district, which is famed for its mangrove forests, by identifying ideal water lanes in the contiguous stretch of backwaters, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-status-has-enlarged-scope-for-tourism-in-mayiladuthurai/article32177911.ece
24 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Solatium announced||The Puducherry administration will provide solatium of Rs. 1 lakh each to the families of those who died of COVID-19 in the Union Territory, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Thursday Winding up a discussion in the Assembly, he said that as on Thursday, 33 people had succumbed to the virus. The families of those residing in containment zones would get essential items worth Rs. 700.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-announces-solatium/article32177624.ece
24 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||More beds coming up in Pudukottai||After ramping up testing for COVID-19, the district administration has taken steps to keep ready 1,250 beds at three places - 1,000 beds on Pudukottai Slum Clearance Board premises; 150 beds at the State Agricultural Extension Management Institute (STAMIN) in Kudumiyanmalai; and 100 beds at Government Polytechnic College, Pudhupatti. Collector P. Uma Maheswari who chaired a meeting with health and PWD officials on Thursday said COVID-19 patients were presently being treated at Government Ranees Hospital and Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Hospital. There were 1,000 beds for COVID-19 patients at Government Ranees Hospital, functioning under Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital; 200 beds at Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Hospital; 100 beds at Government Headquarters Hospital in Aranthangi; 123 beds at the 12 Taluk Government Hospitals; 195 beds at 13 upgraded Primary Health Centres and 121 beds in private hospitals - taking the overall tally to 1,739 beds. 608 under treatment As many as 608 patients were undergoing treatment at Government Ranees Hospital and Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Hospital. Steps had been taken to arrange 4,748 beds at 121 community centres; 27 student hostels and 121 marriage halls, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-beds-coming-up-in-pudukottai/article32177920.ece
24 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||RDO holds inquiry into police firing||The Revenue Divisional Officer and Divisional Magistrate of Pudukottai, M.S. Dhandayuthapani, who is conducting an inquiry into the police opening fire in air at Posampatti to quell a clash that broke out between two groups on Tuesday, questioned five police personnel on Thursday. Among those who attended the inquiry were Sub Inspector Saravanan of K. Pudhupatti police station who had opened one round of fire in air as the clash between the two warring groups showed no signs of relenting. Special Sub Inspector Rajkumar was also at the spot. The clash was triggered apparently by a social media post against a prominent resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rdo-holds-inquiry-into-police-firing/article32177921.ece
24 July 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||600 kg of turmeric seized||A special team led by SI Ayyappa Raja seized 600 kg of turmeric and arrested three persons on Tuesday. Superintendent of Police V Varun Kumar had formed a special team. As the car was approaching Mandapam check-post, it was intercepted. Abdul Mubarak of Vedalai, Babu Hussain and Armstrong had planned to smuggle the turmeric in a boat, belonging to Armstrong, to Sri Lanka. As turmeric was in high demand due to rise in COVID-19 in the island nation, they had been promised gold worth Rs. 6 lakh in return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/600-kg-of-turmeric-seized/article32177885.ece
24 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers condemn move to implement green corridor project||Farmers who would be affected by the Salem - Chennai green corridor project protested in front of their houses and on farmlands here condemning a petition filed by National Highways Authority of India in Supreme Court requesting early hearing against the Madras High Court order on the project. The farmers tied their hands and mouth with black clothes and hoisted black flags in their houses condemning the State and Central governments for trying to implement the project. R. Mohanasundaram, one of the farmers, said that the governments should stop its efforts to implement the project. “Why is the State and Central governments so compelled to implement this project despite protests from farmers? The reasons put forward by the Chief Minister and State government for implementing the project are nothing but lies. If the governments are really interested in reducing fatalities due to road accidents, it should first expand the Aroor Road on the National Highway to Chennai which is still a single track road”, he said. He added that they would never part away their lands for the project. M. Kavitha, another farmer here said, “even during this COVID-19 pandemic, the governments are trying to implement the project despite our opposition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-condemn-move-to-implement-green-corridor-project/article32177655.ece
24 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Professor placed under suspension||A professor in Physics Department at Periyar University was placed under suspension by Vice-Chancellor of the University on Thursday as the professor was facing charges for misappropriation of funds. According to officials, the professor with the department was facing charges allegedly for misappropriation of funds and a case was registered by Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption here in 2013 and they are investigating. Based on the charges, Vice-Chancellor P. Kolandaivel suspended him on Thursday. Mr. Kolandaivel said, “The professor was due for retirement at the end of this month and he was facing charges from DVAC. Since the charges are pending, he had to be suspended.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/professor-placed-under-suspension/article32177658.ece
24 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha worth Rs. 20 lakh seized||Salem City police on Thursday arrested two persons on the charges of smuggling gutkha and other banned products worth Rs. 20 lakh from Bengaluru to Shevapet. Police are on the lookout to two other persons in this connection. S.Senthil, Deputy Police Commissioner (Crime and Traffic), said that based on a tip-off, a truck which was travelling towards Shevapet from Bengaluru was intercepted near Karuppur and on search, police found 17 sacks of gutkha camoflauged with vegetables. Mr.Senthil said that stern action would be taken against such offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutkha-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized/article32177652.ece
24 July 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||GH gets advanced medical facilities||The Government Hospital here is getting a few advanced medical equipment at a cost of over Rs. 50 lakh due to sponsorship from a few fireworks manufacturers. Fireworks manufacturer A.P. Selvarajan said that Chief Medical Officer T. Ayyanar had sought a computerised radiography system in February, among other requirements. He ordered a CR system at a cost of Rs. 13 lakh. The machine has arrived and it is yet to be installed. The conventional X-ray machine consumes lot of time. On an average, 40 to 50 X-rays are taken. Except in the case of emergency, X-rays are developed and delivered the next day. The CR system will help us in delivering the X-ray report within a few minutes, he said. Mr. Selvarajan also bought a camera at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh for laparoscopic instrument in the operation theatre. The operation theatre got a new endoscopy equipment and an orthopaedic surgery table. Endoscopy is usually made available in district headquarters hospital. The orthopaedic surgery would be very much helpful in hip surgeries,” the CMO said. “Though we have got a central oxygen delivery system that could deliver oxygen at the rate of up to 10 litres per minute, some patients need 30 litres of oxygen per minute,” Dr. Ayyanar said. The hospital has got two such systems at a cost of Rs. 7 lakh. Another industrialist, Kodiswaran has promised to get six more high flow oxygen delivery system and they are expected here soon. Another fireworks manufacturer, K. Jeyasankar, has promised to set up a liquid oxygen plant at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh. With the works of providing centrally piped oxygen supply for 80 beds under way, the plant will provide adequate oxygen supply. While four cylinders of oxygen can last for four hours for 20 patients, the new plant would be equal to 110 cylinders ensuring continuous supply for longer hours. The GH is one of the major COVID-19 treatment facilities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gh-gets-advanced-medical-facilities/article32177873.ece
24 July 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Youth fined for trespass||Trespassing into the tiger reserve and taking bath in a stream inside the Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve cost Rs. 60,000 for a group of six youth. According to C. Nellainayagam, Range Officer, Kadayam Range, the youth – S. Anand, N. Alex Pandian, his brother N. Arun Kumar, C. Rajan, T. Raju and his brother T. Ranjit, all from Rajappanadanur – had trespassed into the forests closer to Ramanadhi dam on Tuesday. As the patrolling personnel noticed them taking bath in the stream, they were taken to Kommu Omkaram, Deputy Director of KMTR’s Ambasamudram Division, who slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000 each on Rajan and Raju while Alex Pandian, Arunkumar and Ranjit were let off with the fine of Rs. 5,000 as they accepted their wrongdoing. After Anand refused to cooperate with the officials, he was handed over a fine of Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-fined-for-trespass/article32177883.ece
24 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Know health status over phone||Health condition of COVID-19 patients under treatment and those placed under quarantine at designated centres can be ascertained over phone by the relatives. Collector M.Govinda Rao has said in a press release that information about the progress of patients undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and those housed at Slum Clearance Board quarantine facilities can be had from the Communication Officer for these centres, Gajendran, over mobile phone number 98940 41181. Such information with respect to the persons quarantined at the institutional facilities can be had from the Communication Officer for these centres, Rajeswari, by dialling 63819 69917. If the relatives wish to get further details about the health condition of those admitted at TMC hospital, they can contact Dr. Selvam (94438 66578). And those who are quarantined at Vallam SCB tenement from Palaniappa (99657 42313), at Pattukottai SCB tenement from Dharanika (94450 00636) and at the institutional quarantine facilities from Ramalingam (98653 91257) and Ms. Selvam (94438 88613), the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/know-health-status-over-phone/article32177913.ece
24 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Two more legislators test positive for infection||Peravurani MLA M. Govindarasu, 70, was on Thursday admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital (TMCH) after he tested positive for COVID-19. The AIADMK MLA reportedly had fever for more than five days. Swab and blood samples were lifted for testing on July 20. Mr. Govindarasu’s results returned positive on Wednesday. His assistant Ganesan also tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the TMCH. Thoothukudi MLA P. Geetha Jeevan, too, tested positive for the infection on Thursday. The DMK MLA was screened on Wednesday, along with her daughter and son-in-law. All three of them tested positive on Thursday and were subsequently isolated in their house in Polepettai. Meanwhile, six more employees from the Thoothukudi Corporation’s west zone tested positive for the infection on Thursday. The Assistant Commissioner of the section had tested positive on Tuesday. Nine persons from the police quarters and seven persons from the Thoothukudi VOC port employees’ quarters are still under treatment. Policemen infected A Deputy Superintendent of Police and six policemen tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore on Thursday. A Health Department official said that swabs of the policemen from the police quarters in Thittakudi were lifted after an officer tested positive a few days ago. The results of Thittakudi DSP N. Venkatesan and six others attached to the Thittakudi and Avanangudi stations returned positive. They have been admitted to the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital in Chidambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-legislators-test-positive-for-infection/article32177606.ece
24 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Missing man surfaces in Nagapattinam||Seeman, 50, a jewellery shop owner of Ooranipuram near Orathanadu, who was reported missing on Tuesday, surfaced at Thittachery in Nagapattinam district on Wednesday. His family members had lodged a complaint with the Thiruvonam police. Seeman called up his family members from his relative’s house at Thittachery on Wednesday afternoon and said he was kidnapped by a gang which demanded a ransom for his release. Subsequently, Seeman was brought to Thiruvonam police station where he disclosed the identity of the kidnappers. The police have rounded up six persons, including an electronic media representative, the mastermind, and are interrogating them. All the six persons – Mathivathanan of Ooranipuram, Anand of Pattukottai, Prakash, Mani, Kathiravan and Chinnaiyan of Thanjavur – were arrested and later remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. Meanwhile, 58 anti-social elements in Thanjavur district have been arrested and remanded in judicial custody during a special operation carried out recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-man-surfaces-in-nagapattinam/article32177914.ece
24 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||510 positive cases, eight deaths in central region||The central region recorded a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases with 510 patients testing positive on Thursday. While Pudukottai recorded a single-day high with 111 cases, Thanjavur and Tiruchi recorded 122 and 190 positive cases, respectively. Eight deaths - six in Tiruchi and one each in Perambalur and Thanjavur - were also recorded in the State Health Department’s bulletin for the day. In Tiruchi, four persons, aged 63, 37, 72 and 75 with comorbid condition of diabetes, died at private hospitals, while a 70-year-old man with chronic kidney disease and a 62-year-old man with coronary artery disease died at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. A 43-year-old man with asthma, who hailed from Thanjavur, died at a private hospital. A 40-year-old man from Perambalur died of COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory distress at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Meanwhile, Ariyalur district recorded 48 positive cases, 27 in Karur, seven in Perambalur, four in Nagapattinam and one in Tiruvarur district. Among the 190 cases in Tiruchi were three people from Railway Protection Force Training Centre and a house surgeon who had been posted in the COVID ward of the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. A few residents in Varaganeri, Woraiyur, Khajamalai, Gandhi Market and Thuraiyur tested positive. They have been admitted to MGMGH. As many as 60 people, including 55 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the MGMGH while 61, including 53 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai. Of the 122 patients in Thanjavur, more than 60 were linked to the Darasuram vegetable market. The patients included a one-year-old boy, an eight-year-old girl and a six-year-old boy. The patients are undergoing treatment at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Of the 111 cases in Pudukottai, many were primary and secondary contacts of patients who tested positive earlier. They have been admitted to Ranee’s Government Hospital. Ariyalur district saw a slight increase with 48 patients testing positive. Among them were an official of the Ariyalur municipality and two of his family members, a policeman from Jayankondam and another from T. Palur. All of them have been admitted to Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital. Meanwhile, 347 new samples were lifted from patients’ contacts and travellers and have been sent for testing. A total of 27 patients tested positive in Karur and have been admitted to Karur Government Medical Hospital. In Perambalur, seven patients, including four inter-district travellers, two primary contacts of a positive patient and a patient with influenza-like illness tested positive. Four patients have been admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital while three have been admitted to Tiruchi GH. Among the four who tested positive in Nagapattinam, one had returned from Qatar and another had travelled from Kanchipuram. Only one patient tested positive in Tiruvarur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/510-positive-cases-eight-deaths-in-central-region/article32177917.ece
24 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No sign of revival of construction sector||Though the State government has relaxed restrictions on construction activity, there is still no sign of revival of construction of apartments in the city. The city, which witnessed mushrooming of apartments in the recent years till the start of COVID 19 pandemic in March, is witnessing a recessionary trend in the real estate sector. There were days when flat promoters made a beeline to get approval. Though the demand has steadily come down over the past few years, the lockdown is believed to have further dampened the market sentiments. According to corporation sources, but for a couple of new projects on Vayalur Road, there is hardly any fresh application for medium and big projects. It is expected that there will be a marginal improvement in the situation and a few big projects with more than 25 apartments are likely to come up.  50 applications so far The corporation has received about 50 applications for plan approvals this year. But they were mostly for small projects of just six dwelling units. And most of the applications were received prior to the lockdown. “Some big projects are under construction only on Vayalur Road. There is no real momentum in Srirangam, Ariyamangalam and Golden Rock zones,” said Sivapatham, Executive Engineer of Tiruchi corporation. However, there had been some momentum on construction of individual houses, for which 860 applications for approval have been received. In most cases, the plan approvals have been issued, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-sign-of-revival-of-construction-sector/article32177926.ece
24 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers swallow bitterness of salary cut in silence||In the absence of a forum to articulate their plight, teachers employed in most of the self-financing colleges as also those employed for self-support programmes in government-aided colleges are suffering silently, as the managements are understood to have slashed their salaries citing cash crunch during the COVID 19 lockdown. Most of the college managements are known to have effected salary cuts in excess of 30% to 40% for the months during the lockdown period, resulting in the monthly emolument slipping below Rs. 10,000. Already the teachers are poorly paid, teachers’ associations point out. The plight of the guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges is worse still since they have not received their salaries for the last few months. The saving grace for them, unlike in the case of their counterparts in self-financed institutions, is that they have apparently been promised by the government that salary backlog will be cleared in full at a later point of time. “Denial of monthly salary for the teachers in these categories by the college managements at such a critical juncture is unreasonable and atrocious,” zonal secretary of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association David Livingston said. “Teachers in self-financed colleges are in a pathetic situation and can ill-afford to voice their grievances through any collective forum, lest they get sacked from their jobs by the managements,” he observed. Guest lecturers in the constituent colleges of Bharathidasan University have no complaints in this regard. Thanks to the support of teacher-organisations, there has been no salary cut for them. According to Principals of self-financing and aided colleges that run several programmes under self-support mode, there has been a severe dent in cash flow due to the COVID 19 lockdown. “A chunk of students have not paid their fee for the 2019-20 session, and it is next to impossible to ask them to clear their dues at this point of time,” a Principal said. As the institutions are run by trusts, there are limitations in having substantial cash reserves that would sustain the functioning of the institutions for months at a stretch without revenue inflow, the college head sought to explain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-swallow-bitterness-of-salary-cut-in-silence/article32177912.ece
24 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pilot’s onboard commentary in Tamil goes viral||A video clipping of a pilot providing guidance in Tamil to passengers onboard a Chennai-Madurai flight to spot the Cauvery and the Kollidam, Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam and other iconic landmarks in Tiruchi has gone viral on social media. It is rare for passengers aboard flights to hear announcements made in Tamil, many viewers said, appreciating the pilot, Capt. Priyavignesh. “The inspiration came from one of my mentors, Captain Sanjeev Kumar, a former Air Force pilot adept at identifying landmarks. He would ask passengers to take note of small waterbodies, lakes, whatever we could spot from the air,” Capt. Priyavignesh said. “Captain Sanjeev used to encourage me to spot landmarks in Tamil Nadu saying I should be able to recognise them better as I may have seen them from the ground,” he said. “Air Force pilots also practise identifying locations from the cockpit for safety purpose as they would be capable to safely handle the situation in the event of failure of aircraft navigation”. “Our cabin crew would come and tell us that the passengers usually consisting of 90% Tamils would look visibly relaxed when they heard their mother tongue,” he said. Interest in flying planes came to Chennai-based Capt. Priyavignesh from a young age. “My mother used to narrate stories of planes, pilots. Soon, I began to imagine myself as the pilot in those stories,” he said. Though from humble background — his mother was a government school teacher and his father a petty shop owner — they motivated him to pursue his ambition. “I joined the Bachelor of Arts in History at Loyola College and also managed to enrol at Madras Flying Club. My mother handed over her 30-year-old provident fund savings for this purpose, and my father pledged the only piece of land we owned as collateral for a loan,” Capt. Priyavignesh said. The land was later sold off to pay for another flying course at Ahmedabad Flying Club. “All that I am, even the skill to confidently speak in Tamil, is because of my mother,” Capt. Priyavignesh said. His mother, Thavamani Govindasamy, a Tamil teacher, encouraged him to take part in poetry recitations, elocution and other competitions. He also has a sense of fulfilment in having completed B.A. in History as it helped in assimilating the particulars about the landmarks that would be of interest for the air passengers. “I am also indebted to Indigo Airlines for permitting me to make the announcements. The company has encouraged innovative ideas at everys step,” he said. The viral video by the pilot shows passengers, many clad in personal protective gear, eagerly peering through the windows to spot the landmarks. “Amid this unprecedented pandemic, the stress gets eased for passengers due to a sudden gush of excitement spurred by Tamil announcements at least for a few minutes of travel,” Capt. Priyavignesh added.  All that I am, even the skill to confidently speak in Tamil, is because of my mother G. Priyavignesh Pilot||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pilots-onboard-commentary-in-tamil-goes-viral/article32177928.ece
24 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NABARD-funded orchard project upgrades socio-economic status of Pachamalai tribes||A NABARD-funded Integrated Tribal Development Project at Pachamalai under implementation by Hand in Hand, a non-governmental organisation, holds out promise of improving the socio-economic status of tribes in Pachamalai. Initiated in 2014, the project is aimed at reaching out to 1,322 tribal farmers for setting up orchards on Pachamalai hills straddling Tiruchi and Salem districts. It has made significant contribution to their livelihood and enabled them to earn Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000 a year. NABARD recognised the project as one of the best community farms for promotion of socio-economic growth of the tribes with an award at its annual foundation day in Chennai recently.  The key objectives achieved through the project include improving quality of life of resource-poor tribal families, providing livelihood intervention through promotion of agri-horti-forestry combination, increasing agricultural productivity through promotion of appropriate technologies, improving the socio-economic condition of women and other socially-challenged section and reducing migration and improving health and sanitation among the project community. NABARD, which sanctioned Rs. 6.9 crore for the project, has extended the project by a year by floating Pachamalai Organic Farmers Producer Company with representatives of tribals as directors. The company will produce organic products and market them even after the project period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nabard-funded-orchard-project-upgrades-socio-economic-status-of-pachamalai-tribes/article32177931.ece
24 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for more trains to Bengaluru||The Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, has urged the railways to operate a biweekly train between Tiruchi and Baiyappanahalli near Bengaluru and an additional train from Tiruchi to Bengaluru, after the lockdown. The council claimed that a proposal for operating these trains was made before the Railways Time Table Committee. “We understand that the Southern Railway has proposed the operation of a biweekly express between Tiruchi and Baiyappanahalli and an additional train from Tiruchi to Bengaluru. This will meet the long-felt need, expressed often vociferously, of people of central region in Tamil Nadu. We are glad that such a proposal has been made and we request you to issue necessary sanction,” said S. Pushpavanam, secretary of the council, in a representation to the chairman of the Railway Board. Mr.Pushpavanam also suggested that the proposed trains be run via Karur, Namakkal, Salem and Hosur. Citing the operation of a few special trains between Tiruchi and Yesvantpur in December 2018 and January 2019, he said unfortunately they could not be converted into regular trains. However, the proposal to operate a train from Tiruchi to Baiyappanahalli offered a better option, he said and expressed confidence that the trains would turn out to be very profitable. He also pointed out that more than 35 pairs of buses were being operated between Bengaluru and Tiruchi every day.   Karaikudi train  Mr.Pushpavanam also urged that railways to expedite the launch of the Tambaram-Karaikudi Express and once it is launched, the Pallavan Express can be terminated in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-more-trains-to-bengaluru/article32177924.ece
24 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murdering aunt||The Maanur police have arrested a youth for allegedly murdering his aunt. Police said Antonyraj, 30, of Kaanaarpatti near Maanur, had prior enmity with his cousin and neighbour P. Vadivelkumar, 25. Following an altercation on Wednesday, Antonyraj went to Vadivelkumar’s house in the night. After picking-up a heated argument with Vadivelkumar’s mother Antonyammal, 45, Antonyraj hacked his aunt to death. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thaazhaiyooththu, Archana, visited the spot late in the night and formed special teams to nab the culprit. The Maanur police arrested Antonyraj, who was hiding in a forest area nearby. During investigation, police found that Vadivelkumar had developed an illicit relationship with Antonyraj’s wife. As the affair continued even after Antonyraj warned them, he had gone to the house of Vadivelkumar to warn him. As Vadivelkumar was not at home, Antonyammal verbally abused Antonyraj. In a fit of rage, he hacked her to death, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-aunt/article32177890.ece
24 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Anniversary of Tamirabharani tragedy passes off peacefully||The 21st anniversary of Tamirabharani tragedy in which 17 persons drowned in the river when they tried to escape a lathi charge by the police, passed off peacefully. When workers from Maanjolai tea estate took out a rally on that day in 1999 to the Collectorate demanding increased wages, violence broke-out. As the police resorted to a lathi charge, some of them jumped into the Tamirabharani river in a bid to escape and 17 of them drowned. In their memory, cadre of various outfits paid tributes to the deceased by showering flower petals and placing garlands in the river. Thamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam cadre placed wreath at the graves of three of the deceased. In view of the pandemic, the police had restrained political parties from taking out rallies before paying tributes to the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anniversary-of-tamirabharani-tragedy-passes-off-peacefully/article32177889.ece
24 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Aavin official denies reduction in milk procurement||As milk producers in Tiruppur district claimed that Aavin had reduced milk procurement from all co-operative societies by 20 % each, a senior Aavin official denied the allegation on Thursday. Members of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association and Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Association staged a demonstration at Milk Producer’s Cooperative Society in Sedarpalayam, Uthukuli block on Thursday. The members alleged that Tiruppur District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union under Aavin asked all the societies in the district that the procurement will be reduced from 20 % this week. S.K. Kolandasami, district coordinator of Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Association, alleged that the officials cited “lack of sales” for the reduction in procurement. “They have reduced [the milk procurement] by 20 % in all societies,” he claimed. However, a senior official from Tiruppur District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union denied the allegations, noting that the Union has been procuring nearly 2.5 lakh litres of milk per day from 446 cooperative societies in the district. “We have only asked to improve the quality of milk,” he said. Claiming that there was a misunderstanding among the milk producers in the cooperative society at Sedarpalayam, the official said an inquiry was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-official-denies-reduction-in-milk-procurement/article32177638.ece
24 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Restaurant fined for violations||Tiruppur Corporation officials imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on a restaurant at Valipalayam on Thursday for not adhering to COVID-19 precautionary measures. The restaurant, which is part of a popular biriyani chain, was found to be using air-conditioners and not ensuring personal distancing on its premises, officials said.   Perundurai MLA Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam chaired a public hearing regarding laying of high tension power lines on agricultural lands at Itchipalayam near Uthukuli on Thursday. District secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association R. Kumar said that the farmers requested the MLA to not lay the power lines and construct transmission towers on agricultural lands in Tiruppur district. Mr. Venkatachalam said that he would take this issue up with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Electricity Minister P. Thangamani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restaurant-fined-for-violations/article32177641.ece
24 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Videos of monkeys rummaging through used PPE kits go viral||Pictures and videos of monkeys dragging away used Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits at a COVID-19 care facility in Udhagamandalam that went viral on social media and mobile messaging applications on Wednesday have increased the concerns about the spread of the disease here. The facility where the incident occurred is a private school where around 80 asymptomatic patients are currently being treated. One patient said the PPE kits had been disposed of in front of a building as the dustbins at the facility were full. “We did notice that the kits were not being disposed of properly and had alerted the doctors,” said one of the patients. The videos started making rounds on social media before the Health Department intervened. On Thursday, the entire facility was completely disinfected and the kits were disposed of using proper established protocols. When contacted, Deputy Director of Health Services, P. Balusamy said there had been problems on the first day when the new COVID-19 care facility was established. “However, after it came to light that the PPEs were not being disposed of correctly, we immediately intervened and made sure that adequate arrangement are made for the proper disposal of the kits,” said Mr. Balusamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/videos-of-monkeys-rummaging-through-used-ppe-kits-go-viral/article32177649.ece
24 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Residents stranded at border check-post||Two Gudalur residents, who landed at the Kozhikode International Airport, were left stranded at the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border as they were not allowed to enter the Nilgiris. The two men, who were working in the United Arab Emirates, were allowed to travel to their home town of Gudalur in the Nilgiris. However, they were prevented from entering the district at the Nadugani checkpost as their e-pass applications had not been approved. The two men had been stopped and the checkpost and were not allowed to enter the district for over 24 hours. Hearing of their plight, Gudalur MLA, M. Thiravidamani, went to the check post and contacted officials from the Nilgiris district administration. They were then given permission to enter the district but were told that they would be quarantined. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Thiravidamani said that such instances were common at the border checkposts between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. He urged the government to come up with a system which will ensure that people travelling into Gudalur from Kerala are allowed to enter without a hassle. “The fact that these two people were just standing by the side of the road for over 24 hours, possibly spreading the infection if they had contracted COVID-19, could lead to more people getting infected,” said Mr. Thiravidamani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stranded-at-border-check-post/article32177650.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth murdered in Samayapuram||The police have arrested N. Thangamani, 33, of Mahalikudi near Samayapuram on the charge of killing R. Vigneshwaran, 23, also a resident of the same place, on Wednesday. Thangamani had been running a coconut and fruit stall which remained shut since the Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram remains closed. Vigneshwaran had been frequently quarrelling with Thangamani over the name of the shop. On Wednesday, Vigneshwaran removed the nameboard. Thangamani who was on his way to the Samayapuram police station to lodge a complaint was intercepted by Vigneshwaran leading to a quarrel. Thangamani, who had a knife, stabbed Vigneshwaran. He died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital a few hours later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-murdered-in-samayapuram/article32177918.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to 10 years imprisonment||The Mahila Court in Namakkal on Thursday sentenced a man to 10 years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 13,000 on charges of posting abusive content of a young girl on internet. Abusive content According to the police, Sivakumar, a private financier in Pallipalayam has allegedly sexually harassed a young girl in 2009 and uploaded a video of the incident on internet. Based on the victim’s complaint, Pallipalayam police registered a case and they were investigating. Hearing the case on Thursday, the court sentenced the accused to 10 years of imprisonment and imposed the fine under various sections of IT Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-sentenced-to-10-years-imprisonment/article32177647.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown throws lensmen out of focus||Some photographers, videographers and studio owners in the city have taken up odd jobs to make ends meet during the lockdown. While some have set up grocery shops and vegetable stalls others have been forced to sell their equipment to sustain themselves and their families. P. Iyyappan was a photographer with over 27 years of experience until the novel coronavirus ruined his business. He had to shut down his studio as he was unable to pay the rent, and now, he has set up a roadside vegetable shop. “I have never been in such a difficult position. I used the last few thousand rupees I had saved for my son’s school books to set up the shop,” he said. Mr. Iyyapan had a studio near the Srirangam Flower Bazaar which had to be closed when the lockdown was announced in March. “I had no savings and was unable to pay the rent. Now, I am unable to even purchase school books for my son,” he rued. For three months, Mr. Iyyappan has also been unable to pay rent for the house he is residing in. “Until March, we used to get bookings for at least four events a month and if we charged Rs. 2000 - 3000, it would be enough to feed my family of four and afford rent,” he said. Now, with the vegetable stall, he is able to earn at least a meagre sum, he said. “I have promised my son that I will purchase his books next month. These days we are making around Rs. 200 a day,” he said. Another photographer, G. Mohammed Sadiq quit the business and also sold all his photography equipment. He now drives an autorickshaw in the city to feed his family of six. “My old mother and grandmother live with me, and I have three daughters. I am the only earning member of the family. How long can I be dependent on photography?” he asked. Mr. Sadiq claimed that with the introduction of mobile phones, many youngsters were taking to photography and the internet has ruined their business. “Before the lockdown, there would be around 50 to 60 muhurthams in a year. Including some school and college events and this would see us working for around 100 days”, he said. The Tiruchi Video and Photographers Association in April had submitted a petition to the Principal Secretary, Industries, seeking welfare assistance amid the lockdown. “Since then, we have written innumerable letters to the Chief Minister’s Cell, the District Collector and even made a Twitter trend, but there has been no response,” said P. Rajaram, District Secretary of the association. “Many of us, including me are clueless about what to do. We have been doing this job for 20 to 25 years, now we are afraid of trying something else,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-throws-lensmen-out-of-focus/article32177930.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vigil stepped up in residential areas of Irugur||The police increased surveillance and patrols in residential areas of Irugur after seven men were seen roaming in minimal clothes at Deepam Nagar in the early hours of Thursday. According to the police, visuals from a surveillance camera of a house at Deepam Nagar showed seven men in their underwear roaming in the locality around 3.15 a.m.Some of them had sticks in their hands. It was not clear whether they carried any weapons. The video was circulated in WhatsApp groups in Irugur and it was shared with the Singallur police. Motive not clear “Though the motive of the group was not clear, we suspect that the men could have been looking for housebreaks,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-stepped-up-in-residential-areas-of-irugur/article32177659.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||4 die of COVID-19 in western region||Four persons died of COVID-19 in the western region on Wednesday and Thursday. Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Twitter that a 59-year-old man from Priyanka Nagar, who was admitted to a private hospital on Tuesday after testing positive and later shifted to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Wednesday, died on Thursday. A 71-year-old man from S.V. Colony, who tested positive was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore, died on Wednesday. In Namakkal district, a 61-year-old man from Pallipalayam died on Wednesday. He was admitted to Pallipalayam government hospital on July 12 and after testing positive, he was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Namakkal where he died. He was suffering from hypertension and diabetes, officials said. In Krishnagiri, one person died on Thursday, taking the tally of COVID-19 deaths to 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-die-of-covid-19-in-western-region/article32177646.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 23     Persons tested +ve so far: 2,777 Indigenous cases: 2,739 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 1,270 Persons recovered: 1,479 Deaths: 28      Home quarantined: 2,877 Domestic cases: 592 Imported cases: 8 Discharged: 300 Active cases: 294 Deaths: 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32177643.ece
24 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Workers rescued from well-digging unit||Officers rescued seven workers from Chhatisgarh who were said to be working as bonded labour in a well-digging unit in Yaragatti village in Belagavi on July 17. Acting on a tip-off from members of a non-governmental organisation, Spandana, officers of the district administration, Labour Department, Women and Child Welfare and the police acted in time and rescued the workers. Labour Department officers said that a release certificate would be issued to them under the relevant Acts, after a detailed inquiry. Police officers from the Murugod Police Station have filed a first information report under the provisions of the Bonded Labour System Abolition Act, based on the raid conducted on Friday last. The group of workers includes two minors and five aged between 18 and 20. The officers who conducted the raid found that the workers were staying in a shed in difficult conditions. They were travelling in a truck that doubled as their shelter for the night. All the workers belonged to the Gond community, listed under the Scheduled Tribes. They hail from the districts of Narayanpur, Kondagaon and Kanker of Chhatisgarh. Members of Spandana told the officers that the workers had been working at borewell digging units in the State for a year now. They were getting wages less than the promised Rs. 9,000 to Rs. 15,000 every month. They said that the workers were given only between Rs. 100 and Rs. 200 apart from some personal expenses. The promises of rooms and other facilities were not met and the employer supplied insufficient ration, they said. The workers told the officers that the employer did not allow them to return to Chhatisgarh during the lockdown, and instead, forced them to stay in Belagavi. They also told the officers that they were not given any safety equipment such as masks and gloves and that they were made to work all seven days a week, without a day off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-rescued-from-well-digging-unit/article32177722.ece
24 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Four private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients||As many as four private hospitals in Belagavi have come forward to treat COVID-19 patients. This number is against the 47 that had offered to treat such patients after the State government announced a rate list. The four are KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital that is already treating patients in its COVID-19 ward, Dr. Metgud Hospital, Venugram Hospital and Lake View Hospital. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that officers would speak to directors of more private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-19-patients/article32177720.ece
24 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||14 arrested in Belagavi ambulance burning case||The Belagavi city police arrested 14 persons on charges of creating disturbance at the district COVID-19 hospital and setting fire to an ambulance on the hospital premises on Thursday. Most of them are relatives of the man who died of severe acute respiratory infection and cardiac disease on Wednesday night. Some of them are friends of the family from Ghee Galli in Belagavi. A relative of the patient, however, told the police that the 67-year-old man died because of “medical negligence”. The patient was admitted on July 19, but till Wednesday evening no doctor attended to him, he alleged. A relative who was on the hospital premises learnt that the patient was suffering from breathlessness on Wednesday evening. He then tried to speak to some doctors, but they did not respond in time, it was alleged. A junior doctor and a nurse took the patient to the intensive care unit after sometime. He was, however, brought back within minutes and declared dead, the relative told a police officer in the APMC police station. Following this, irate relatives started throwing stones and burnt the van, the police officer said. Strike by staff Hospital staff on Thursday went on a strike, seeking protection. They boycotted work and stood outside the hospital. They alleged there were no police personnel at the hospital at the time of violence. They alleged that the relatives of the deceased assaulted the staff on duty and tried to intimidate doctors. The staff resumed their duties after DeputyCommissioner M.G. Hiremath assured them of providing round the clock security and initiating strict legal action against the attackers. DC’s appeal Mr. Hiremath told journalists that a district armed police van would be stationed at the hospital at all times. He appealed to people not to resort to violence in case of death of patients in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-arrested-in-belagavi-ambulance-burning-case/article32177567.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No COVID-19 cases reported from Padarayanapura in the last 12 days||While Bengaluru is reeling under the pandemic with 2,207 COVID-19 cases recorded on Wednesday alone, one ward has remained relatively unscathed in the last two weeks. Padarayanapura, which had hit the headlines for being one of the first localities to be sealed, has not reported a single positive case for 12 days in a row. A medical officer of West zone said that Padarayanapura ward had not reported COVID-19 cases since July 12, around the same time Bengaluru was seeing over 1,000 new infections every day. The ward has a population of over 32,000 with more than 6,200 households. Parts of Padarayanapura, mainly Arafat Nagar, which were sealed on April 9 and declared a containment zone on April 19, were ‘unsealed’ on July 8. Residents were effectively living under lockdown for nearly three months. From April 6, when the first case was reported, to July 12, around 105 cases were reported in the ward. Infections peaked in May, but started declining in June with 14 cases. The number rose to 24 in early July. Of those infected, four persons lost their lives. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP War Room special officer, said that elected representatives, including the MLA and councillor, were brought on board. There was quick action and regular follow-up as soon as cases were reported. “A combination of aggressive testing, mapping, strict isolation/quarantining of primary and secondary contacts has yielded results. At the same time, we did not lose our focus on vulnerable groups,” she said. Strict follow-up and monitoring of isolating of primary and secondary contacts were the mantra of this initial success, say officials. Though residents are relieved that their sacrifices have helped, they remain vigilant and careful as adjacent and neighbouring areas, including Azadnagar (ward 136) and Goripalya (ward 137), have been reporting more cases. Fighting discrimination According to Saddam Baig, a lawyer who lives in the area, residents are on edge. “We have seen both, the soft and strict side of the police,” he said, recalling the violent protests on April 19 and the police’s response. Over a hundred people were arrested while human rights activists criticised the police for their heavy-handed approach. “Bridging the communication gap between the civic body, police and the residents was a challenge. But now, due to coordinated efforts, we are on the verge of becoming COVID-19 free,” said Imran Pasha, councillor of Padarayanapura ward, adding that close monitoring of over 1,000 primary and 1,000 secondary contacts was “quite a task”. Though many other parts of the city now have more COVID-19 positive cases than Padarayanapura, the initial stigma of ‘corona carriers’ has not faded away, feel the residents. Khizer Alam, an activist who also volunteers for quarantine monitoring in the area, said the issue unfortunately got a “communal spin”. “When cases started being reported from Padarayanapura, people and a section of the media started stigmatising us. They called us corona carriers,” he said, adding that even now the people from the area face discrimination. The discrimination plays out in the workplace, say many residents. While some were asked to get tested for COVID-19 before they resumed work, others were let go. “I work in a factory. My employer asked me not to come to work until I got a negative report. I could not get tested as I didn’t have any symptoms,” said a resident. According to Saddam Baig, some people don’t reveal where they live. “I am an advocate and an activist. There are many instances where I have claimed to be a resident of the neighbouring Goripalya, and not Padarayanapura, just to escape this stigma,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-covid-19-cases-reported-from-padarayanapura-in-the-last-12-days/article32177554.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5,030 cases, 97 deaths in a day||Karnataka continued its worrying trend of climbing up the list of most-affected States in the country with as many as 5,030 new COVID-19 cases and 97 deaths being reported on Thursday. This is a new record for the State, which had posted its biggest spike yet in the number of cases on Wednesday at 4,764 cases. According to the media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday, the total number of active cases in the State now stands at 49,931. The total number of positive cases is 80,863. 48 deaths in Bengaluru Of the 97 deaths, 48 are from Bengaluru Urban, taking the total number of COVID-19 deaths to 783. As many as 1,616 people have lost their lives in the State so far owing to the infection. Eight deaths were reported in Mysuru, seven in Dakshina Kannada, five in Ballari, four in Belagavi, three each in Bidar and Chickballapur, two each in Raichur, Dharwad, Hassan, Shivamogga, Gadag, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Mandya, and one each in Ramanagaram, Vijayapura, and Haveri. The State’s capital remains the biggest hotspot for COVID-19 cases, with close to half of the new cases being reported from Bengaluru. While Bengaluru Urban had 2,207 new cases, Bengaluru Rural reported 161 new cases. The total number of positive cases in Bengaluru Urban is now 39,200, with 29,090 being active cases. Other districts Other districts with the most number of new cases are Raichur – 258, Kalaburagi – 229, Dakshina Kannada – 218 and Belagavi – 214 cases. As for the overall number of cases, among the districts affected most apart from Bengaluru are Dakshina Kannada (4,209 total positives), Kalaburagi (3,370), and Ballari (3,153). As many as 2,071 new discharges were also reported, taking the overall number of discharges to 29,310.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5030-cases-97-deaths-in-a-day/article32177569.ece
24 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||K.R. Puram to airport metro line will claim 1,961 trees||The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) draft report estimates that 3,541 trees will be affected by the metro link to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). Of these, 1,961 trees will be “lost” during construction of elevated corridors and stations. The 38-km K.R. Puram to KIA metro link is the longest route proposed by the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) under Phase II of Namma Metro, followed by the Gottigere to Nagawara line (21 km). On the subject of compensatory afforestation, the draft report states, “Many of the affected trees will be transplanted; trees cleared shall be replaced with minimum of 10 saplings per tree cut or according to conditions specified by Tree Committee or Forest Department. The saplings will be monitored for their survival for three years. Re-plantation shall be taken up every year with new saplings where saplings or transplanted trees fail to survive.” The draft report is available on the website of Asian Development Bank (ADB), the agency that provides funds to implement the Namma Metro project. The BMRCL has already floated a tender to implement the project in three phases and hopes to take up the project in the first quarter of next year. As per the project plan, the elevated corridors will be built on Outer Ring Road from K.R. Puram to Hebbal junction and from Hebbal junction to KIA. Apart from terminal stations, metro stations will come up at Kasturi Nagar, Horamavu, HRBR Layout, Kalyan Nagar, HBR Layout, Nagawara, Veerannapalya, Kempapura, Hebbal, Kodigehalli, Jakkur Cross, Yelahanka, Bagalur Cross, Bettahalasuru, Doddajala, and the airport. The draft report states that the median of the road under the elevated corridor will be developed using native shrubs, herbs and grasses. “This green belt will provide an aesthetic view of the elevated track and also helps to serve as a dust and noise absorbent barrier,” it read. Chikkajala fort The report talks about protecting and conserving Chikkajala fort on airport road. “Care is necessary not to impact this structure, which is in the proximity of the proposed project corridor,” it noted Bus bays The BMRCL has made provision for a six-metre-wide service road around the stations for integration with BMTC buses to ensure last-mile connectivity for commuters. This move will help provide parking space for city buses that offer last-mile connectivity. In Phase I of Namma Metro, due to non-availability of bus bays at various stations, buses are forced to stop on the main lanes of roads, blocking traffic. Bus bays are available at S.V. Road and Mysuru Road stations where metro passengers board buses. BMRCL hopes to address this problem during the second phase of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kr-puram-to-airport-metro-line-will-claim-1961-trees/article32177564.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police to clear traffic for ambulances on receipt of call from drivers, hospitals||The Bengaluru city police on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that ambulance operators, both public and private, can now contact the traffic police control room to seek assistance for clearance of traffic to reach the place of the needy patients requiring emergency medical service and to shift them to hospitals. The ambulance operators will have to call 100, 08022943131, 08022943030 or 08022943663 and these numbers would be shared to all the hospitals, government and private, and private nursing homes for sharing them to their respective ambulance staff to contact the traffic control room, the State government said in its statement. This method has been devised following a court direction that a simple system should be in place till the government’s proposed hi-tech ambulance management system is implemented as the new system has not been approved by the authorities. A statement in this regard was been submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by Bharat Punarothana Trust, Bengaluru, a social organisation. The officer at the police traffic room, on receipt of a call from the ambulance staff or hospital authorities or attendants of patients, will instruct the police officers and personnel on duty en route to clear the traffic for ambulance, the government stated. The government said these numbers were being publicised on social media pages of the city police and have also been sent to the Department of Information and Public Relations for advertising in newspapers. Besides, the Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), in a communication issued on July 7, issued instructions to station house officers to collect the details of government and private hospitals, nursing homes, and their contact details. Also, the jurisdictional police have been told to sensitise hospital staff and ambulance operators to use the traffic control number for assistance. The Bench adjourned further hearing till August 13 asking the State to fix an outer limit for approving the proposed hi-tech system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-to-clear-traffic-for-ambulances-on-receipt-of-call-from-drivers-hospitals/article32177566.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical fraternity appeals for restraint, seeks police protection||The pandemic, huge surge in cases, hospital admission denials, and an increasing number of fatalities are resulting in anger building up among patients and their relatives, and under attack is the medical fraternity. Two such cases were reported in the last two days, giving rise to anxiety among the medical fraternity. Stressed patients The Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) has urged for restraint from citizens and called for cooperation from people to tide over the current crisis. H. Veerabhadrappa, president, KMC, told The Hindu that the council condemns the violence. “It is true that some patients are not getting admission as there are neither enough beds nor enough staff. Patients are also stressed and angry. But attacking doctors and hospital staff because of that is not the answer. We condemn the violence. Police protection will be ideal, particularly for COVID-19 hospitals,” he said. Prasanna H.M., president-elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANHA), said his hospital at Basaveshwaranagar too came under attack recently. “After a patient’s death, the attendees attacked the hospital premises. Our security personnel were able to avert further damage and we sounded out the local MLA and police station. A Hoysala has been stationed outside the hospital now. I think similar security is needed for other hospitals too,” he said. Two incidents On Tuesday evening, doctors at the K.C. General Hospital in Bengaluru were attacked allegedly by attendants of a COVID-19 patient who was brought to the hospital with severe acute respiratory infection and low oxygen saturation but passed away after being admitted though the hospital did not have an intensive care unit. The staff was attacked when the family demanded that the body be given to them and the hospital authorities refused stating that they needed to follow protocols as it was positive case. On Wednesday, in Belagavi, a mob allegedly set fire to an ambulance on the district hospital premises after a man’s death in the hospital alleging negligence.  We condemn the violence. Police protection will be ideal, particularly for COVID-19 hospitals. H. Veerabhadrappa,president, Karnataka Medical Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-fraternity-appeals-for-restraint-seeks-police-protection/article32177570.ece
24 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Restriction on entry to BWSSB offices till July 31||In view of COVID-19 spreading rapidly in the State, the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), as a preventive measure, has restricted entry of public to its head office, divisional, sub-divisional offices and service stations. The BWSSB, in a release, has said that to resolve the issues of its consumers relating to water supply, sanitary related complaints and grievances, it has published contact numbers of its officers on its websitewww.bwssb.gov.in. How to contact Further, the release stated that members of the public can submit their complaints or grievances on social media, such as Twitter, send email tochairman@ bwssb.gov.in,bwsssbcallcentre@gmail. com, and on WhatsApp 8762228888. They may also contact the Board’s officials on help line numbers 1916/080-22238888, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restriction-on-entry-to-bwssb-offices-till-july-31/article32177555.ece
24 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Staff nurses agree to resume work as ‘justice is delivered’||With Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil taking steps to sort out contentious issues pertaining to facilities extended to corona warriors at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi, staff nurses assured him of continuing their services. Several staff nurses resorted to an agitation on Wednesday while declining to return to work unless issues raised by them were resolved. They were also upset with administrative officer Rajashree Jainapur of KIMS who, they said, had behaved arrogantly when they took their pleas to her. They withdrew their snap protest on Wednesday only after the Deputy Commissioner intervened and called them for a meeting at his office. On Thursday, chairing a meeting of office-bearers of the KIMS Staff Nurses Association, Mr. Nitesh Patil showered praises on the staff nurses for their selfless service in the last four months and appealed to them to continue their selfless service during this time of crisis. KIMS Hospital being the designated COVID-19 hospital has 250 beds for patients of the pandemic and now, to cater to the needs of patients from other districts, bed capacity is being increased to 500. Mr. Patil told the association members that the demands of the staff would be met as per the government rules and Standard Operating Procedure.  All facilities He told them that the administration would provide them requisite PPE kits, N-95 masks, food during working hours and resting time apart from including them under the government COVID-19 insurance scheme. To ensure better coordination, the government had agreed to depute staff on rotation basis and the list of staff on COVID-19 duty would be sent to the government, he said and added that all demands of the KIMS Staff would be considered and communicated to KIMS Director. Director of KIMS Ramalingappa Antarathani, who was present in the meeting, said that there would be no discrimination while meeting the demands of the staff nurses. He lauded the services of the staff and appealed that they continue to extend their cooperation in the coming days in fighting the pandemic. Following their assurances, a representative of KIMS Staff Association Subhash Shellikeri told the meeting that the staff would continue their work as they did before. He said that justice had been delivered to the staff nurses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/staff-nurses-agree-to-resume-work-as-justice-is-delivered/article32177734.ece
24 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Women continue to wait for dues from AIDS prevention society||A group of women who have taken to household industries, after giving up sex work, are up in arms against the State government for the delay in releasing money for their job as peer group workers for the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS). After giving up sex work, they worked for the society under its Targeted Intervention (Female Sex Workers) programme, which involves spreading awareness among sex workers on avoiding the spread of HIV/AIDS infection and distributing condoms. They took up the project from KSAPS and worked in 2015-16 under the banner of the Yashaswini Mahila Shreyabhivruddi Seva Samsthe. More recently, they have started household industries. Half payment A former sex worker told The Hindu that women worked in all taluks of the district for the society. “Of the total grant of Rs. 15 lakh in 2015-16, we got half payment in two instalments after submitting our audit report and other documents. However, the remaining Rs. 7.45 lakh has not been released so far, even after repeated appeals,” she said. Now the group has taken up production of phenyl, soap water and herbal sanitiser. More than 50 women spread across the district are involved in the household industry. “We are struggling to earn money sufficient to fulfil our basic needs,” she said. The organisation had approached Hassan district administration with their plea. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish also wrote to KSAPS on their request. ‘Contacted officers’ Rupa Hassan, a writer, who worked as a member of the committee set up by the State government to submit a report on rehabilitation of sex workers, told this correspondent that she too had contacted several senior officers to get the funds released. “During our visits to district centres as part of the committee, we could understand that the total due to be paid for such workers across the State would be around Rs. 10 crore,” she said. The writer also came down heavily on the KSAPS for making the women distribute condoms. “It is an inhuman act. The society should stop it immediately. It should concentrate on spreading awareness among the women, forced into the field, on the spread of HIV infection and also encourage those women willing to get out of this profession. If at all the distribution of condoms cannot be stopped, let it install condom-vending machines,” she said. The women, even after submitting requests in writing, tried to contact KSAPS officers over the phone, but there has been no response.  Rs. 7.45 lakh has not been released so far, even after repeated appeals, said a former sex worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-continue-to-wait-for-dues-from-aids-prevention-society/article32177574.ece
24 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner inspects COVID-19 ward||Bidar Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R. on Thursday paid a visit to COVID-19 ward in the Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences and took stock of the facilities there. Wearing a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Mr. Ramachandran entered the special isolation ward and two Intensive Care Units (ICU) where COVID-19 patients in critical condition are being treated. As per sources, patients in ICUs expressed gratitude with gestures for being treated well with care. The staff members that monitor the patients in ICUs round the clock and report to experts on the response of patients to the treatment through telecommunication services, briefed the Deputy Commissioner about the functioning of ICU Tele-Services in place. Mr. Ramachandran discussed with super-speciality experts on how treatment facilities for COVID-19 patients, particularly those in ICUs, could further be improved. Earlier, the officer paid visits to the fever clinic, the rapid antigen testing centre and help desks and inspected the service mechanisms in place. “The doctors in the institute and medical officers in the district are working to contain the spread of COVID-19,” Mr. Ramachandran said after the visits. Three deaths Meanwhile, Bidar reported three more deaths of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of such fatalities to 69. As per information provided by the district administration, all the three people were aged over 65 and two of them had co-morbidities. A 65-year-old man, a 70-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man were the latest victims of the pandemic in the district. The district also reported 95 new cases taking the total number of infected persons to 1,637 which included 1,029 persons discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioner-inspects-covid-19-ward/article32177724.ece
24 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister hails govt. decision to upgrade hospital||Minister of State for Animal Husbandry, Haj and Waqf Board and Bidar in-charge Prabhu Chauhan has commended the State government for its decision to upgrade the Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences. In a media release, the Minister said that the State Cabinet has given administrative approval to upgrade the hospital and the move would strengthen health services in the region. “I had appealed to the Union government as well as the State government to upgrade the hospital for providing affordable healthcare to people in need. I had also discussed the matter with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. I am happy that my request has been considered,” Mr. Chauhan said. According to the Minister, the Union government has already allocated Rs. 36 crore to developing the hospital and Rs. 15.22 crore, which included the State’s share, has been released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-hails-govt-decision-to-upgrade-hospital/article32177738.ece
24 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man dies hearing news||Shocked after receiving the news of being infected by COVID-19, Ashok (55), an autorickshaw driver from Bhavani Nagar in Kalaburagi, collapsed at his house and died on Thursday. As per available information, after a relative of Ashok was infected by COVID-19, he and his family members underwent test 15 days ago, as they were primary contacts. The health staff called him on Thursday to tell him that he had tested positive. Just as he heard the news, he collapsed and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-hearing-news/article32177726.ece
24 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Big spike in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi reported 229 COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the total number of such cases to 3,370 which included 49 deaths and 1,895 people discharged upon recovery. Ballari reported five deaths and 164 new cases, according to information provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/big-spike-in-kalaburagi/article32177725.ece
24 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vehicles entering Udupi district being checked||Vehicles operating from Mangluru towards Udupi lined up on National Highway 66 near Hejmady Toll Plaza on Dakshina Kannada-Udupi border with the Udupi district administration resorting to checking entry of people even after throwing open the borders on Thursday. Meanwhile, residents of Karnire, Balkunje and surrounding villages in Dakshina Kannada were put to great hardship as the Udupi district administration did not remove the road barricade on Karnire-Palimar Road near the Shambhavi bridge. Residents of Balkunje and surrounding villages, who depend upon Palimar for their daily needs, were the most affected. Revenue officials at Kaup said that they have not received any direction from the Deputy Commissioner to remove the barricades yet. At Hejmady, police personnel and revenue officials checked each and every private vehicle and sent back people who they said did not have any real reasons to visit Udupi district. However, vehicles bearing registration plates of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts were allowed, eyewitnesses said. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha, while revoking the order to seal the borders through a fresh notification under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on Wednesday, had said that check-posts on the borders would continue to work till July 29. People having strong reasons and supporting documents to visit the district only would be allowed to enter, he had said and added that this was necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Bus services between Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, which had been suspended, resumed on Thursday. However, the authorities ensured that buses carried only the stipulated number of passengers. Though the borders of Udupi district were sealed, life within the district was allowed to continue as usual as per the directions of the Union Home Ministry with only night curfew in place.  Life normal Life resumed in Dakshina Kannada district as orders imposing lockdown ended on Thursday morning. City and service buses operated in limited numbers while shops and establishments carried on with regular business. Night curfew would continue to remain in force between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m., the district administration has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicles-entering-udupi-district-being-checked/article32177736.ece
24 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Soon after his nomination, Vishwanath visits Hunsur||A day after his nomination to the Legislative Council, former Minister A.H. Vishwanath visited Hunsur, the Assembly constituency from where he lost the bypolls last December, and garlanded the statue of the late Chief Minister D. Devaraj Urs. He told reporters that his nomination ensured that Hunsur is represented by two legislators. Pointing out that Hunsur was close to his heart as it gave him political rebirth, he hoped to work for its welfare with the cooperation of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/soon-after-his-nomination-vishwanath-visits-hunsur/article32177571.ece
24 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Seven rescued from flood-hit hut||As many as seven members of a family, including an elderly woman and two babies, were rescued from a small hut that was surrounded by flood waters from an overflowing stream near Koiluru village in Yadgir taluk on Thursday. Anantamma, Basavaraj, Mallappa, Roopa, Uma and the two babies were the ones rescued by a team of village youths. The hut was completely surrounded by waters from the overflowing stream. The helpless family raised an alarm, and, immediately after coming to know of the incident, 10-12 youths rushed to the spot and drew a rope between trees to rescue it. “A few of the youths entered the hut with the help of the rope and first shifted the two babies first to safety. Then, they brought out the others, one after the other,” Devaraj Nayak, who led the team, told The Hindu over phone. Now, all are safe and healthy, he said and added that it took them one-and-a-half hours to shift the family from the hut. The villagers appreciated the youths for carrying out the rescue operation and saving lives. Doddappa and Tirupathi, among others, were on the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-rescued-from-flood-hit-hut/article32177731.ece
24 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Road connectivity cut off as bridges between four villages are inundated||Torrential rain that lashed most parts of Yadgir district between 3 a.m. and 7 a.m. on Thursday has wreaked havoc. Road connectivity between Belagundi-Bhimanalli and Saidapur-Anoor (K) villages was cut off after bridges constructed between these four villages were inundated by flood waters from nearby streams. Standing crops such as paddy, green gram, cotton and red gram are said to have suffered damage after flood waters entered hundreds of acres of agricultural land across the district. Rainwater from overflowing storm-water drains entered houses in low-lying areas. According to sources, several houses collapsed in rain-related incidents in Yevur, Hemanur and Bhairamaddi villages in Shorapur taluk. But, the exact figure of such houses is yet to be confirmed by officials. According to information available, the highest rainfall of 104 mm was recorded in Kakkera, followed by Doranahalli 94 mm, Balichakra 80 mm, Wadagera 75 mm, Saidapur 74 mm, Hunsagi 58 mm and Shorapur 35 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-connectivity-cut-off-as-bridges-between-four-villages-are-inundated/article32177729.ece
24 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Man, son missing||A man and his son are suspected to have gone missing in the flood waters of Hatti Halla near Golapalli village under the Hatti Police Station in Lingsugur taluk of Raichur district. Meanwhile, the police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued two others. The names of those missing were given as Krishnappa (35) and Dhanush (5). Mahantesh and Siddanna were the rescued ones. All four are from Mudalagunda village of Deodurg taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-son-missing/article32177728.ece
24 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||257 new positive cases||As many as 257 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Raichur on Thursday taking the total to 1.395. Of these, 766 patients have been discharged, while 612 are getting treatment. Two persons died on Thursday taking the number of fatalities to 17 persons. In Yadgir, 55 fresh cases were registered. With this, the number of such cases reached 1,811. Of these, 1,507 have been discharged and 303 are getting treatment, while one person has died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/257-new-positive-cases/article32177727.ece
24 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Woman, daughter killed in road accident||A 30-year-old woman and her four-year-old daughter were killed on the spot in a road accident in LBS locality in Raichur on Thursday. The victims were identified as Eshwaramma and Vanitha. The two were travelling on a motorcycle when a truck hit them, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-daughter-killed-in-road-accident/article32177732.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP officials seal 2 flats trapping residents inside||On Thursday morning, residents of Ranka Heights were shocked to see that overzealous Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials had boarded up two flats in the apartment complex with metal sheets as one of the residents had tested positive for COVID-19. A resident and member of the managing committee took to Twitter to complain about the callousness pointing out that there were children and a senior citizen in the flats who may need urgent care. Purna Bhasin, whose flat was boarded up, said they were not informed. “It was my helper who tested positive. When she lost her sense of smell, we got the test done. The positive report came on July 18 and she is under home quarantine,” she said. The following day, the BBMP put a poster on the wall outside the flat stating that a resident, who had tested positive, would be under quarantine until July 31. The apartment’s managing committee member Satish Sangameswaran tweeted: “BBMP sealing done in our building for a confirmed Covid case. Lady with 2 small children, next door neighbours are an aged couple. What if there is a fire, @BBMPCOMM? Understand the need for containment, but this is an extremely dangerous fire hazard – please address urgently.” Around 250 citizens responded to the Tweet, with many comparing the BBMP’s action to extreme measures taken in Wuhan, China. Following a public outrage, officials removed the boards later in the day. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad admitted that it was wrong of civic officials to have boarded up the flats in such a manner. “We will initiate strict action against officials responsible for dereliction of duty,” he said. In a tweet, the civic chief said he has ensured that the barricade was removed immediately. “We are committed to treating all persons with dignity. The purpose of containment is to protect the infected and to ensure the uninfected are safe. We are committed to addressing any issues that result in stigma. Apologies for the over-enthusiasm of local staff.” A show cause notice has been issued to the Executive Engineer (Shantinagar) asking why action should not be initiated against him under Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, and Karnataka Essential Services Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-officials-seal-2-flats-trapping-residents-inside/article32177557.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Citizens take charge, more community CCCs in pipeline||Several communities in the city have gone ahead and set up a dedicated COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) or temporary holding space with minimal medical equipment in their apartment complex. There are many more who have evinced interest in doing the same. One such facility has been set up at Rohan Jharoka in Yamalur. Chitra AmzarewaleSapre, one of the three volunteers who worked with the apartment’s managing committee to set up this facility, said they first identified scenarios where such a facility could be of use. “There are some families for whom home isolation may not be possible. There may be senior citizens living alone who may not be able to handle everything by themselves. This facility will help in such a situation,” she said. While hoping the two-bed facility with an oxygen concentrator is not put to use, Ms. AmzarewaleSapre said as per estimates, residents of the community will have to pay just around Rs. 50 per month (per flat). According to Rajendra Kumar Kataria, who heads the task force responsible for setting up the CCC, many apartment communities and RWAs had come forward to set up such facilities. “At least 15 such communities have been in touch with us over the past few days,” he said and added that the Bangalore Apartments’ Federation (BAF) was also driving the initiative. Of the 41 private CCCs, including those set up by hospitals in hotels, that had applied for voluntary registration, 23 with a total bed capacity of 1,365 had been approved while 11 with 573 beds were operational. The BBMP is yet to approve seven applications with a total bed capacity of 175. Vikram Rai from BAF told The Hindu that the federation had drawn up a comprehensive programme for self-management of COVID-19 in a structured manner. BAF had tied up with SRL Laboratories for testing. Several hospitals were offering tele-consultation for those in home isolation. That apart, many home care service providers had come forward to offer assistance at the facilities set up in apartments. “Many apartments are treating this as a temporary holding space where those who have tested positive can be isolated until they find a bed in either government-run CCCs or hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-take-charge-more-community-cccs-in-pipeline/article32177560.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘5.3 lakh households in containment zones’||The BBMP on Thursday told the Karnataka High Court that the city had 9,926 active containment zones (CZs) as on July 23, and around 5.3 lakh households are covered under CZs. Meanwhile, after being repeatedly hauled up by the court for failing to adhere to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for CZs, the BBMP admitted it is duty-bound to identify and list persons requiring special needs (pregnancies, cardiac patients, and suffering from other serious ailments) in CZs with the help of RWAs. As many as 15,642 households with senior citizens; 5,536 households with elderly persons having co-morbidities like diabetic, high blood pressure, cardiac problems; 1,807 with elderly persons suffering from ILI (Influenza Like Illness)/SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness/COVID-19 symptoms); and 1,335 households with pregnant/lactating mothers have been identified so far in the CZs through an on-going health survey, the BBMP told a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Alok Aradhe during video conference hearing on PIL petitions related to COVID-19 restrictions. The BBMP accepted that it has a duty to supply food/ration kits to needy persons in CZs and said that it has estimated a requirement of around 53,000 ration kits, and around 8,000 kits have been distributed so far. If a household has ration card, then food kit would be distributed as per the entitlement. Else, the assessment is being done based on the condition of the household and the nature of work undertaken for livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/53-lakh-households-in-containment-zones/article32177562.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||99 students undergo quarantine on IIM-B campus||Ninety-five of the 99 students from the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore (IIM-B), who had returned to the campus, for a range of reasons, including lack of internet connectivity in their hometowns, have completed the required 14-day quarantine on campus. The remaining four will complete the process in due course. Responding to The Hindu on email, IIMB’s Dean (Administration) M.S. Narasimhan said the students came from different cities. None of them have any health concerns or symptoms, including the four who are in quarantine. “IIMB has followed all health and safety protocols to the letter. The students were quarantined in two different hostels within the campus. All entry points were blocked. They were supplied all meals and snacks by the institute. The Students Affairs Council has co-ordinated the quarantine process with the IIMB administration. The resident campus doctor is in touch with the students regularly on video calls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/99-students-undergo-quarantine-on-iim-b-campus/article32177572.ece
24 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Half of Alappuzha’s cases via contact||The district logged 82 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Local transmission cases formed the majority of the day’s caseload with 43 contracting the disease through contact. Three health workers, three personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police at the Nooranad unit, 22 people who came from abroad, nine who returned from other States and a 49-year-old man from Muhamma also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Muhamma native’s source of infection is unknown. The swab test results of an 85-year-old woman from Chettikkad who died on Wednesday also tested positive on the day. With this, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district touched four. Clusters Among the contact cases are six Kayamkulam natives on the contact list of COVID-19 patients associated with the Kayamkulam market; five from Vettakkal on the contact list of COVID-19 patients with links to a seafood factory at Ezhupunna; and one each from Pattanakkad and Pallithode on the contact list of patients associated with the Chellanam harbour. Rest of the contact cases are from Kadakkarappally, Mararikulam, Karuvatta, Alappuzha, Thuravoor, Pattanakkad, Punnapra, Pallana, Mavelikara, Pallithode, Eramalloor, Mannancherry, Kattoor, Kannanakuzhy, Thazhava and Ambalappuzha. Three health workers who found to have contracted the disease hail from Cherthala, Cherthala South and Mararikulam. Apart from the already identified COVID-19 clusters at Kayamkulam, Kurathikad, Nooranad, Pallithode and Ezhupunna, new clusters are feared in the district following a surge in local contact cases and cases with unknown sources of infection in recent days.  The district administration has decided to provide reverse quarantine facilities for elderly people in coastal areas in Cherthala taluk who test negative in antigen tests. District Collector A. Alexander said that reverse quarantine would be provided to people above 65 years. They would be put in quarantine at S.N. College, Cherthala and St. Michael’s College, Cherthala. Meanwhile, 40 people, including 10 ITBP personnel, tested negative on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/half-of-alappuzhas-cases-via-contact/article32177900.ece
24 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Plasma therapy at MCH||The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, has achieved self-sufficiency in convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients, MCH superintendent R.V. Ramlal has said. Dr. Ramlal said here on Thursday that plasma had been collected from Sajimon, a COVID-19 survivor from Thanneermukkom using an apheresis machine in the hospital’s blood bank the other day and was given to a COVID-19 patient. Last week, a 70-year-old man from Kuttanad, who was given plasma therapy at the MCH, was cured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plasma-therapy-at-mch/article32177898.ece
24 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||55 of 63 cases in Idukki by local transmission||Sixty-three persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Fifty-five of them contracted the disease through contact and the source of infection of two cases remains unknown. A total of 22 persons recovered from the viral infection on the day. The source of infection of a 28-year-old woman from Senapathy who runs a beauty parlour at Rajakkad and a 57- year-old woman employee of the Supplyco outlet at Cheruthoni remains unknown. Those who contracted the disease through contact include three health workers of the Upputhara community health centre and another from Rajakkad, said the officials. Other cases Other cases have been reported from Adimali, Konnathadi, Munnar, Rajakkad, Rajakumari, Mullaringadu, Vathikudi, Painavu, Cheruthoni and Karimkunnam. One who tested positive on the day came from a Gulf country and seven returned from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/55-of-63-cases-in-idukki-by-local-transmission/article32177901.ece
24 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Time for effluent treatment plant at corpn. abattoir: PCB||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has suggested the setting up of an effluent treatment plant (ETP) at the slaughterhouse run by the Kochi Corporation at Kaloor. In a report filed in the Kerala High Court, the PCB said no pollution control measures had been initiated at the slaughterhouse. Solid waste such as skin, dung, and internal parts of animals is disposed through external agencies, while blood and waste water are being discharged into the Perandoor canal without any treatment. It also noted that blood and urine were diluted before being discharged into the canal, which is unscientific and causing nuisance to the public. The PCB report suggested adoption of a slew of short- and long-term pollution control measures at the abattoir. Blood should be separated immediately after slaughter and should not be mixed with waste water. The slaughtered animal shall be dressed in the hanging position. The board also recommended that the bio-gas plant, which had not been functional, be made operational at the earliest. In fact, only partially digested intestinal waste should be fed into the plant. The corporation should ensure the daily removal of cow dung, bones, hide, and other waste. The premises of the slaughterhouse should be disinfected daily using bleaching powder. The waste water generated after removal of coarse solid particles should be collected in the existing collection tank and should be treated at the plants at Brahmapuram or Willingdon island.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-for-effluent-treatment-plant-at-corpn-abattoir-pcb/article32177792.ece
24 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ten firms evince interest in legacy waste rehabilitation||As many as 10 firms have evinced interest in the rehabilitation of nearly one lakh cubic metres of old waste lying at the Brahmapuram dumping yard. The firms participated in the online pre-bid meeting organised by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC). They include Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd; Tholani Clean Energy Pvt. Ltd; Blue Planet Environmental Solutions India Pvt. Ltd.; Zigma Global Environ Solutions Pvt. Ltd.; Res Publica Consulting; Organic Recycling Systems Pvt. Ltd.; Excel Cemfuel Ltd.; PBK Associates; New Age Environment Solutions Pvt. Ltd., and Zonta Infra Tech Pvt. Ltd., according to official sources. KSIDC, which is the nodal agency for engagement of private players for waste management solutions in the State, has fixed August 27 as the deadline for submitting technical and financial bids for the project. The government has accorded a time period of nine months to biomine waste after work order is issued to the firm chosen for the project. The Department of Local-Self Government and the Kochi Corporation will be responsible for ensuring that the firm completes the work within the stipulated time-frame. “It is intended to biomine the existing legacy waste and recover the entire area, including the land allotted to the Indian Medical Association, for the development of a biomedical treatment plant as per the conditions laid out in the Solid Waste Management [SWM] Rules, 2016,” according to the tender document. The government had taken over the task of scientific management of legacy waste accumulated at the Brahmapuram yard from the Kochi Corporation by invoking provisions under Section 24(e) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The company short-listed after verification of technical and financial bids should ensure recovery of the land by cutting and levelling it to the maximum possible extent, aimed at getting a relatively flat land after biomining. The successful bidder has to scientifically process the old garbage as per the guidelines specified in SWM Rules 2016. The project will be based on Design and Build Basis. The agency selected should submit a management plan for dump site land reclamation, excavation, screening and resource recovery, biomining of unprocessed municipal solid waste, and development of facility for scientific disposal of residual solid waste. The decision to float fresh tenders was taken as only one agency had qualified the minimum eligibility criteria when an e-tender was floated on March 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ten-firms-evince-interest-in-legacy-waste-rehabilitation/article32177798.ece
24 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||DCC alleges nepotism in WTE plant project||The District Congress Committee (DCC) has alleged nepotism and corruption in the proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Brahmapuram. T.J. Vinod, MLA and DCC president, accused the Chief Minister of aiding the interests of an American firm by cancelling the agreement between the company that had been working on the project for the last four years. He alleged that prior discussions were held between the government and the US firm. Mr. Vinod alleged that the decision to permit the firm chosen for the project to mortgage the land rights for raising funds was also taken to help the American company. “We should not forget the fact that the government delayed the execution of the earlier agreement by wasting four years for issuing 17 licences required before commissioning the project,”s he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-alleges-nepotism-in-wte-plant-project/article32177794.ece
24 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vidyasagar quits samithi post||C.K Vidyasagar, former president of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam, has resigned from the post of vice president of the Navodhana Samrakshana Samithi (Renaissance Protection Samithi) initiated by the government. He quit in protest against the autocratic style of Vellappally Natesan, general secretary of SNDP Yogam, and president of the samithi. “It's not good for the government to allow Mr. Natesan to head the samithi. It will prove costly for the government, it it continues to support him,” said Mr. Vidyasagar. A meeting of S.N. Seva Sangam held here on July 4 and attended by noted literary critic M. K. Sanoo and Vidyasagar had expressed angst at the functioning of the Yogam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vidyasagar-quits-samithi-post/article32177826.ece
24 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays order on cutting of trees on assigned land||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has stayed for two weeks a government order allowing owners of government assigned land to cut and remove trees except sandalwood standing on their assigned land. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali passed the stay order on a public interest litigation filed by One Earth One Life, an NGO in Thrissur. When the petition came up for hearing, Daisy A. Philipose, counsel for the petitioner, pointed out that the order was issued by the Revenue Department in March saying that there was some ambiguity regarding the right of the assignees over the trees growing on their land. According to the petitioner, the Kerala Land Assignment Rules, 1984 vest the government with the full ownership right over the trees on the assigned land. As per the rules, the assignees was bound to take care of such trees. Now, the government had taken away the ownership right of the trees on the assigned land or patta land by issuing the order. The petitioner contended that the order would cause heavy loss to the government as valuable trees such as ebony would be cut and removed by the owners of the patta land. The order was issued with mala fide intention. The Bench, staying the order, observed that it was prima facie of the view that the government should not permit the assignees to cut trees by altering the condition in the patta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-order-on-cutting-of-trees-on-assigned-land/article32177817.ece
24 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Moothon’ selected to NY Indian Film Fest||Geethu Mohandas’s Moothon has been selected for in the competition category at the prestigious New York Indian Film Festival to be held from July 24 to August 2, 2020. It has been nominated in four categories – best film, best director, best actor and best child actor. Moothon pivots around 14-year-old Mulla’s search for his elder brother.  Moothon is set for an OTT release on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moothon-selected-to-ny-indian-film-fest/article32177790.ece
24 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cases in Kollam cross 100 mark again||The district reported 106 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 728. It includes 94 contact cases, two Non-Resident Keralites, and nine others without any travel history. A 64-year-old Kulasekharapuram resident who died on Tuesday also tested positive for the viral infection on the day. While there are 31 recoveries, 739 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday. The Health Department has traced 4,667 primary and 1,686 secondary contacts of the new cases. Cases with no travel history have been reported from Alappad, Ezhukone, Kadakkal, Kottarakara, Chakkuvarakkal, Thadikadu, and Vettikavala. Intensive testing The district administration has directed the Health Department to conduct intensive testing in areas that reported the high number of cases. Mobile units and walk-in sample kiosks will be used to conduct maximum number of tests and more attention will be given to places such as Kottarakara, Ummannur, Chadayamangalam, Sasthamcotta, Alappad, Nilamel, and Velinallur. High-risk areas in the eastern parts of the district and migrant labourer settlements will be divided into clusters as part of strengthening containment measures. The District Collector has also directed the officials concerned to ensure the availability of foodgrain and provisions. Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Departments have been directed to make necessary arrangements. Door delivery provisions will be introduced. The district administration has also opened a collection point at T.M. Varghese Hall to equip COVID First-Line Treatment Centres with necessary materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-in-kollam-cross-100-mark-again/article32177904.ece
24 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Cases go uphill in Kottayam with 80 new patients||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise sharply in Kottayam with 80 people, including five health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Besides the health workers, 49 people contracted the infection through local transmission while 26 came from destinations outside the State. At the same time, 25 people who recovered from the disease were discharged from hospitals. There are 389 active cases in the district while 298 have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, the clusters at various locations from Changanassery to Vaikom continued to expand with more persons on the contact list of patients testing positive. While 10 cases were added to the cluster covering the Changanassery-Paippad region, eleven persons in Chingavanam, four persons at Kumarakom, and three persons at Vaikom too contracted the infection. Infected health workers The five health workers who tested positive included a 53-year-old nursing assistant at the Family Health Centre at Idamaruk, a 36-year-old health worker from the Family Health Centre, Erumeli, two health workers (53 years and 26 years) at the Vaikom Taluk Hospital, and a 25-year-old doctor at the Government Hospital, Kattampak. Of the remaining persons, the source of infection in five cases was yet to be identified. District Collector M. Anjana and Additional District Magistrate Anil Oommen were among those who went in quarantine during the day after an office assistant at the collectorate tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The person, who contracted the virus from unknown source, was subjected to a serum test on July 21. Besides the Collector and the ADM, 12 others from the collectorate too have been included on the primary contact list of the patient. The Collector and other key officials on the list will take an antigen test on Saturday. “The office of the District Collector will continue to function as e-office and any further decision will be based on the result of the antigen test,” officials said.  Clusters at various locations continue to expand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-go-uphill-in-kottayam-with-80-new-patients/article32177905.ece
24 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surveillance to be stepped up in Kozhikode||ourteen health-care staff at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, were asked to refrain from duty on Thursday, after a house surgeon and two more patients at non-COVID-19 wards tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to sources at the MCH, the risk assessment of the health-care staff was being done to figure out how many of them would have to be put in quarantine. The patients belonged to nephrology and general medicine wards. A nurse was earlier tested positive at the nephrology ward and doctors and other staff were asked to go into quarantine. Meanwhile, 67 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district, 56 of them through local transmission. Twenty-nine local transmission cases are from within Kozhikode corporation alone. Others are from Peruvayal, Villiappally, Chelannur, Thiruvalloor, Vanimel, Olavanna, Chorod, and Perumanna. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao said at a meeting of political leaders and elected representatives that surveillance would be stepped up within the corporation limits in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases. Rapid response teams would step up their work in the coastal areas and awareness campaigns would be taken up there, he said. Right now, 20 wards within the corporation had been declared as containment zones, Mayor Thottathil Raveendran said. The Beypore fishing harbour has been closed for three days after the Health Department confirmed COVID-19 in one of the fishers from the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surveillance-to-be-stepped-up-in-kozhikode/article32177789.ece
24 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four escape from mental health centre||The police have stepped up surveillance around the Government Mental Health Centre at Kuthiravattom after four inmates, including three accused in serious crimes, escaped from the facility on Wednesday night. According to police sources, three of them had been remanded in judicial custody on charges of serious crimes. It was on last Tuesday that they were brought to the Mental Health Centre for treatment, they said. Policemen who are part of the special investigation squad said it was suspected to be a well-planned escape with some external support. They also said search was in full swing in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-escape-from-mental-health-centre/article32177795.ece
24 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Children’s allegation on online classes denied||Education officials in the district have disputed the allegation of two dozen children of Kurukkankundu colony in Attappady that they could not attend a single online class as they had no power connection and mobile connectivity. They are students of Mount Carmel High School, Jellippara. “We set up two television sets with solar panels at Kurukkankundu. In fact, we walked 18 km through the forest to reach the remote hamlet of Upper Galasi. The children shocked us by staging a satyagraha,” said C.P. Vijayan, Attappady block coordinator of the Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK). “The parents used the children for another cause. Getting electricity connection is important. But it is sad that they lied,” said Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/childrens-allegation-on-online-classes-denied/article32177816.ece
24 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Horticorp to promote strawberry farming in Munnar||Horticorp is planning to augment production and marketing of vegetables and fruits as part of the government’s ambitious project to make the State self-reliant in vegetable and fruits. Better network Horticorp Managing Director J.Sajeev said Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar had announced schemes aimed at expanding the marketing network of the corporation. Mr. Sajeev said the focus was on promoting farm tourism as a key revenue mobilisation source and Horticorp was planning to launch farm tourism projects in Munnar, Wayanad, Kumarakom, Kochi, and Thiruvananthapuram. He said the strawberry park of the corporation on its 2.5-acre land in Munnar had turned out to be a success. ‘Pick and pack’ scheme The ‘pick and pack’ scheme, by which customers themselves could pluck fruit from the farm at Rs. 400 a kg, was a major attraction at the park. The corporation could produce 6.5 tonne of strawberry there, he said. Mr. Sajeev said a strawberry processing plant attached to the park had started producing value-added products of strawberry and other fruits. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Sunil Kumar said the Agriculture Department would extend strawberry farming to 100 ha this year in Munnar. The Minister said Horticorp would be opening honey parks in Thrissur, Ernakulam, and Mavelikkara this year itself. Mr. Sajeev said value-added honey and fruit products of Horticorp would be on sale at the honey parks. Procurement up Mr. Sunil Kumar said Horticorp could increase its annual vegetable procurement from Vattavada, Kanthallur, Munnar, and Devikulam from 198 tonne, worth Rs. 37.17 lakh, in 2015-’16 to 1,647.923 tonne, worth Rs. 418.42 lakh, in 2019-’20. The vegetables and fruits procured were being sold through its 100 outlets across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/horticorp-to-promote-strawberry-farming-in-munnar/article32177852.ece
24 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||14 nuns among 27 patients in Pathanamthitta||Twenty-seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. As many as 24 of the new COVID-19 patients are identified as primary contacts of infected persons and three are Non-Resident Keralites who came from the Sultanate of Oman and Tamil Nadu. Fourteen nuns at a convent in Thiruvalla, who have been identified as primary contacts of an infected nurse at a private hospital in Thiruvalla, are among those who tested positive. A total of 81 persons were cured on the day and the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district is 443. Also, 459 persons have been quarantined at various hospitals in the district, according to a bulletin. A total of 6,031 people, 3,056 of them contacts of infected persons, have been placed in quarantine. Containment zones District Collector P.B. Noohu designated 10 wards in the grama panchayats of Enadimangalam, Thanithode, Ayroor, Aerath, Pallickal, Kalanjoor, and Ezhamkulam containment zones for seven days from Thursday. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district since March 7 has touched 958.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14-nuns-among-27-patients-in-pathanamthitta/article32177906.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital records tenth death, 222 new cases||Thiruvananthapuram recorded its tenth COVID-19 death after a 73-year-old man died owing to the disease on Thursday. He hailed from Nanchamkuzhy, Parassala. Amidst other emerging reports of the death toll going up in the district, official sources confirmed the diagnosis of the disease in a 70-year-old Poonthura native who died at his house on Wednesday. He was bedridden for nearly two years and suffered from various age-related ailments. The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload remained on the higher side as 222 people, including seven health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 206 people were infected through contact transmission. The sources of infection were unknown in 16 cases. With sixty people testing negative, the total number of people being treated at various hospitals and COVID-19 first-line treatment centres in the district stood at 2,583. Three councillors Triggering concern among people’s representatives, three more councillors of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation were diagnosed with the illness on the day, taking the number of infected councillors to seven. Two of the three councillors, representing the Vanchiyoor, Thampanoor, and Chellamangalam wards, are chairpersons of standing committees. At least half of the 100 councillors in the local bodies are believed to have undergone tests. Many employees have gone into quarantine. A civil police officer attached to the Vattiyurkavu police station and a driver at the State Police Intelligence headquarters are the latest in a series of police officers to have contracted the disease in the State capital. The development pushed the Vattiyurkavu police station into further turmoil after three of its officials had earlier been diagnosed with COVID-19. Cops infected Nearly 20 police officers, including those attached to the Armed Reserve camp, Cantonment, and Fort police, have been infected in the city. A Pulluvila native who appeared for the recent KEAM examination also tested positive. The candidate took the examination from Government High School at Vanchiyoor. The number of KEAM candidates diagnosed with the disease has gone up to four in the district. A parent of another candidate also tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-records-tenth-death-222-new-cases/article32177857.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health experts alert State to the ‘new reality’||As Kerala struggles to manage the surge in the caseload of COVID-19, the challenge is to change the narrative that the State’s health system has the capacity and the expertise to contain the pandemic. The new reality is: now that the new virus has started seeding here, it will affect a significant proportion of the population before it disappears. Public health experts warn that unless this is understood by the administration and conveyed to the public, they cannot be prepared for the long haul ahead. ‘Not like Nipah’ “The fundamental aberration in Kerala’s containment strategy is that it has been built wholly around the strategy it had adopted and succeeded with Nipah. While both are airborne diseases ,the disease epidemiology of Nipah and COVID-19 are totally different. Nipah outbreaks historically have been small and self-limiting and we managed to contain it in a short time. On the other hand, even when information on the new coronavirus was trickling in from Wuhan, we were well aware of the nature and scale of the spread of the disease. Yet, no academic or technical consultations were done before it was decided that the Nipah strategy can be applied for COVID-19 containment,” says a senior public health expert. The narrative has been around ‘conquering’ COVID-19, discounting the experiences of Italy and Spain where the health systems were ravaged by SARS-CoV-2. “Their experience should have made it obvious that while we can intensify preventive and containment measures, our focus should be on extensive disease surveillance in the community and building critical care capacity to save lives. But the State has failed in picking up early warning signs about a possible silent transmission in the community and to act upon it,” he says. Many undetected cases The first phase of community/sentinel surveillance in April-May, wherein the State did approximately 8,000 PCR tests, had detected eight cases. The data, had these been properly interpreted, should have told the State that at least 20,000 undetected cases were lurking in the community at the time and that the influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) surveillance should be done in a decentralised manner. Again, for a week from June 8, the State launched sero surveillance studies across districts using antibody kits. The survey was given up after the first round results which threw up ‘unexpected results’. Official sources confide that the positivity (both IgM and IgG) reported had been in the range of 3-19%. But the report remains under wraps even now. Private sector’s role The State has now intensified surveillance amongst the high-risk population and in market places and slums. “Now that the reality of community transmission has become more acceptable, the only thing left to do is to adapt the health system to ensure that the huge spike in cases stays below the surge capacity. The next is enhancement of the surge capacity. Here, it is the private health sector, which has the bed and the critical care capacity. The government has already cleared the way to rope them in,” a senior health official said.  Kerala’s containment strategy has been built around the one it adopted with Nipah. While both are airborne diseases, their epidemiology is totally different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-experts-alert-state-to-the-new-reality/article32177803.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 engg. colleges get autonomous status||Marking the start of a new chapter in the Kerala’s higher education sector, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has conferred autonomous status to three engineering colleges. The Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology, Kochi; Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam; and Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, have earned recognition of being the first technical institutions in the State to earn autonomy. They have been granted autonomy for 10 years (from 2020-21 to 2029-30) under provisions of the UGC (Conferment of Autonomous Status Upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018. Long process After the colleges submitted their applications to the UGC in early 2019, the government constituted a three-member expert committee that comprised Kerala State Planning Board member B. Ekbal, Principal Secretary (Higher Education) Usha Titus, and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. to study the proposals. Signifying a major shift in the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s policy on granting autonomy to educational institutions, the government conveyed its approval on the basis of the panel’s recommendation. The State currently has 19 autonomous arts and science colleges (18 aided and one government), which are affiliated to the University of Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi University and University of Calicut. An official in the rank of Additional Secretary had also been nominated by the government on the UGC’s expert panel constituted to consider the applications. Finally, a standing committee on the UGC met twice on June 19 and 26 to recommend granting the autonomous status. Guidelines The UGC guidelines for the status mandated NAAC accreditation with a minimum ‘A’ grade or NBA accreditation for at least three programmes with a minimum score of 675. The college should also have at least 10 years of existence. While the institutions will continue to be affiliated to the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, they will enjoy the privileges of autonomy. Course commencement They will be free to commence undergraduate and postgraduate courses, and PhD with the approval of the Academic Councils of the colleges. However, they will be required to inform the university about the introduction of such courses. The autonomous colleges must also have a Governing Body, Academic Council, Board of Studies and a Finance Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-engg-colleges-get-autonomous-status/article32177551.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waves engulf road to airport||Strong waves have engulfed a major portion of the Shanghumughom beach and the two-lane road leading to T-1, domestic terminal of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. Under the onslaught of the high waves on Wednesday night and early on Thursday, more sections of the road running parallel to the Shanghumughom beach caved in, cutting off the connectivity to the domestic terminal.  Traffic curbs Traffic restrictions were in place through the road in front of Kerala State Industrial Enterprises (KSIE)’s Air Cargo complex to the domestic terminal and the Valiathura side. Traffic was limited to single lane following the caving in of the road. The road is part of the Thiruvananthapuram City Road Improvement Project (TCRIP). Safety cones and barricades were put up to warn motorists and the beach is out of bounds for visitors. As movement of vehicles through the other lane had turned impossible, the authorities closed the road for traffic on Thursday. The waves have engulfed the walkway, carving away portions of its foundation on many stretches. The waves have advanced further into the shore where the walkway has not been not constructed. Movement of all classes of vehicles carrying flyers to the domestic terminal has turned risky. The road from the NH-66 Kazhakuttam-Karode byapss via Ponnara bridge and Valiathura to the Shanghumghom side had been closed as part of the COVID-19 containment measures. Narrow lane The personnel of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and airlines are forced to take the narrow lane through the side of the cargo complex that leads to the old Valiathura police station near the domestic terminal. But, the narrow lane can only accommodate one-lane traffic. Oil tankers bringing aviation turbine fuel (ATF) from Kochi for aircraft will also find it difficult to move to the airport. As there has been no uplift of food for flyers from the flight kitchens in the city, the airlines and the AAI do not have to bother about the movement of these heavy vehicles. Kerala Tourism’s plan to refurbish the beach and walkway has literally run into rough weather with the onslaught of the high waves. The high-mast lights on the beach are also under threat and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has cut off the power supply to the lights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waves-engulf-road-to-airport/article32177854.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MP urges banks to reschedule loans||Shashi Tharoor, MP, on Thursday urged banks in the district to reschedule loans where repayment has been affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Inaugurating an online meeting of the district consultative committee for banking development led by lead bank Indian Overseas Bank, Mr. Tharoor said the people were in dire straits financially on account of the pandemic. Banks should avoid delays in issuing loans to self-help groups. Private banks also should increase loan disbursal, he said. Mr. Tharoor released the district credit plan for 2020-21 which envisages a credit outlay of Rs. 10,606 crore in the priority sectors. Of this, Rs. 4,706 crore is for agriculture, Rs. 2,180 crore for small industries and Rs. 3,720 crore for other priority sectors. Total bank deposits in the district, as on March 2020, stood at Rs. 1,02,021 crore and total advances, Rs. 66,445 crore. The credit-deposit ratio for the district stands at 65%. During 2019-20, banks in the district disbursed Rs. 9,067 crore as priority sector loans. Under the emergency credit line loan scheme of the centre, banks have disbursed loans to the tune of Rs. 331 crore. A total of Rs. 162 crore has been issued to Kudumbashree units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-urges-banks-to-reschedule-loans/article32177860.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Questions on total lockdown’s efficacy||As the State government is toying with the idea of a Statewide lockdown in an effort to reduce COVID-19 transmission, public health experts and clinicians are sceptical whether it will benefit Kerala now that community spread is more or less established. The State went into the first lockdown when the case burden had crossed 500. “At that time we had imagined that in a small State like Kerala, 500-plus cases is a huge number and we felt that any further rise might lead to more deaths. We are not quite worried about the mortality figures now, but as disease transmission goes up, cases will climb and mortality figures will also rise proportionately. Reducing people’s mobility is one way of reducing disease transmission and, hence, as far as the administrators are concerned, a sudden reduction in numbers can be achieved by a total lockdown. But apart from the huge economic and social costs, a lockdown may not achieve more than a temporary or artificial reduction in case numbers,” a senior public health professional said. Transmission dynamics will ensure that cases start climbing again after lockdown. A health official said in Kerala, COVID-19 at its peak would see an estimated 75,000 people at a time in hospitals. This is a huge number. Hence politically, it might suit the government to declare a lockdown. The State should examine if the disease transmission is uniformly high across the State or whether it is intense only in certain clusters. How many clusters are there, what is the positivity rates in these clusters and where are the next cases going to be are crucial questions at this point. Non-COVID-19 care The Indian Medical Association (IMA) feels that a lockdown has no relevance now that community transmission is already happening. “A cluster-wise lockdown, followed by intense testing in the area to identify, isolate and treat positive cases might be a better strategy now,” said P. Gopikumar, IMA State secretary. He said a more serious concern was the cost of lockdown on non-COVID care. “A lockdown will affect their access to care and cause much suffering to people with chronic illnesses,” he added.  A cluster-wise lockdown, followed by intense testing in the area to might be a better strategy now. P. Gopikumar IMA State secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/questions-on-total-lockdowns-efficacy/article32177804.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School reopening will take time||The State recently told the Union government that a decision on reopening schools will be taken in August after a review of the COVID-19 situation. Even as more clarity has been sought on the Union Human Resource Development Ministry’s communication to States on collecting feedback from parents on school reopening, it is clear that though the pandemic is far from over, the focus is gradually shifting to a post-COVID-19 scenario. The fresh bouts of infection in the State make it significantly difficult to set a date for school reopening. Yet, some preliminary thought has been given to how students can return to the classroom safely. This is all the more important as a transition phase seems inevitable – outbreaks cannot be ruled out even if containment is achieved. Education Department officials say that besides physical distancing, well-defined protocols for entry of students and teachers to schools, and avoiding assemblies and other gatherings in schools, the back-to-school suggestions emanating from discussions include restricting classes to a few days a week, cutting school hours, reducing classroom sizes and moving to a shift system, and hybrid offline-online learning. Classroom teaching Classroom teaching may begin only for some students initially – say class 10 and 12 students. However, primary school with fewer students could allow all students to attend, while those with more students will need to split the number of those in attendance at a given time. Attention will need to be paid to seating arrangements in classrooms and transporting students to schools. Officials say these are just some of the options that have been broadly discussed after receiving inputs from the ground level. However, these have not been finalised. They say some understanding on a tentative date for school reopening needs to be reached before proceeding with the plans. If things return to normal by September or the Union government allows reopening, then all schools can reopen. “We want to reopen, but don’t think the plans are ready for a formal discussion now,” they say. Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath says the online classes for academic engagement of students are a step towards school reopening. Also, discussions are under way on aspects such as ensuring students’ physical presence in schools after Onam depending on the COVID-19 caseload projections then or how to continue with classes in school if any outbreak does occur once schools open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-reopening-will-take-time/article32177822.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Gold smuggling spawns violent mafia with extremist fringe||Enforcement agencies have traditionally viewed gold smuggling as a non-violent crime. The vintage economic offence has few apparent victims except the public exchequer initially. However, as it happened in Mumbai decades ago, gold smuggling appears to have spawned a violent mafia in Kerala. Whether some of the cartels have extremist links is currently a subject of an investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Behera’s briefing In a heads-up to the NIA recently, State Police Chief Loknath Behera had flagged the prevalence of armed gangs that preyed on carriers who moved contraband gold and hawala money within the State. Mr. Behera had reportedly told the NIA that some of the groups had links with extremist outfits. The ongoing probe by the Customs and the NIA into the smuggling of gold into Kerala via air cargo shipments addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate has thrown the role of the armed gangs and their possible links with religious fundamentalist organisations into sharp focus. The NIA is looking into the “terrorism financing” angle of the smuggling case. In a communique to the agency, Mr. Behera had reportedly listed the individuals and organisations that profited from the illegal gold trade. He had also identified at least one set of persons who recruited women as carriers for gold smugglers and hawala networks. Inspector General of Police P. Vijayan, who had arrested a Malappuram-based gang that targeted couriers employed by hawala networks for the cash they carried on their person, told The Hindu that victims of such attacks rarely lodged an official complaint. In May 2019, the Meppayur police in Kozhikode Rural dismantled a similar gang that preyed on gold smugglers and hawala agents. The detection was reportedly just the tip of the ice-berg. Koduvally, the hub The State police have singled out Koduvally in Kozhikode as the epicentre of the contraband gold business. They have told the NIA that there are about 100 jewellery within a 400 metre radius of Koduvally, which fronted for the contraband trade. The police have pegged the annual business transacted by Koduvally set at Rs. 1,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-smuggling-spawns-violent-mafia-with-extremist-fringe/article32177820.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways deliver power tillers from State||Amidst the lockdown that has crossed 120 days, Railways have made available power tillers from Kerala to small and marginal farmers in the North East to ensure seamless farming operations. The uninterruped freight loading in the railway network following the COVID-19 safety protocol came in handy to ship the power tillers manufactured by the Kerala Agro Machinery Corporation (KAMCO), a State-owned undertaking under the Department of Agriculture. First time It is not the first time that power tillers are being shipped from the KAMCO’s units at Athani, near Aluva, and Palakkad to north-eastern States. The shipping has turned unique as KAMCO was able to deliver five consignments of 850 power tillers in the post-lockdown period in time for preparation of the land for farming. The last consignment was sent last week from Ernakulam Junction. Power tillers, which are essentially mini-tractors with two wheels and rotary tillers, are preferred over the tractors by small farmers. The Palakkad unit produces bigger-size machines used on plains while the Ernakulam unit makes small-sized power tillers used in hilly areas. Use of machines The machines can be used for a large number of specific operations such as tilling, ploughing, weeding, pumping, puddling, levelling, hulling, and ridging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-deliver-power-tillers-from-state/article32177819.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Comet NEOWISE offers a cosmic photo op||On Wednesday evening, two astrophotography enthusiasts in the State capital finally got the opportunity they were desperately waiting for. And the duo made sure they did not miss it. Fahd Bin Abdul Hasis and Kiran Mohan, scientists at the Indian Space Research Organisation’s Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) here, managed to take several snaps of the comet NEOWISE which is now bright enough in the July skies to be visible to the naked eye. Both Mr. Hasis and Mr. Mohan have a deep passion for astronomy and pursue astrophotography as a hobby. They had spent several mornings and evenings in July trying to catch a glimpse of the long-period comet. To skywatchers in Thiruvananthapuram, the comet is now visible to the northwest in the evening sky. When it was closer to the sun earlier in July, it was visible in the morning sky. But the cloudy monsoon skies over the State capital played spoilsport till Wednesday evening. Like a fuzzy star “Moreover, COVID-19 prevented us from travelling elsewhere to attempt a viewing. So we waited till the sky over Eanikkara, near Karakulam, where we live, cleared. The comet was visible like a fuzzy star,” said Mr. Hasis. Between 7.30 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday, their long wait finally paid off. They managed to take several snaps of NEOWISE using a Nikon D5300 DSLR camera armed with a Tamron 70-300 telephoto lens and mounted on the star-tracker iOptron SkyGuider Pro. Comet NEOWISE was discovered on March 27, 2020 by NASA’s Near-Earth Object Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (NEOWISE) mission. According to NASA, once the comet hurtles away into deep space, it will not be seen for another 6,800 years. It was expected to make its closest approach to earth on July 23. Though the comet is visible to the naked eye in July, its low position on the horizon when viewed from Thiruvananthapuram made photographing it a challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/comet-neowise-offers-a-cosmic-photo-op/article32177811.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More containment zones||The district administration on Thursday designated parts of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and other local bodies in the district as containment zones. Strict lockdown measures will be in force at Kazhakuttam, Cheruvaikal, Ulloor, Pattom, Muttada, Kowdiar, Kunnukuzhy, Thycaud, Karamana, Chala, Thampanoor and Poundkadavu wards of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Kottappana, Mampazhakkara, Thavaravila and Ooruttukala wards of Neyyattinkara municipality; Thalayal, Town and Idamalakuzhy wards of Balaramapuram grama panchayat; Deveswaram ward in Kilimanoor grama panchayat; Kudumbottukonam and Melammakam wards in Chenkal grama panchayat; Vilappilsala and Puliyarakonam wards in Vilappil grama panchayat; Elavupalam ward in Peringamala grama panchayat; Perinkuzhi ward in Azhoor grama panchayat; and Puthusserymadam ward in Kollayil grama panchayat, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-containment-zones/article32177859.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Collector seeks to allay fears over case surge||Seeking to allay concerns over the spike in COVID-19 cases in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa on Thursday attributed it to intensive testing among other factors. In a message circulated through social media, Ms. Khosa said 2,000 samples were being subjected to rapid antigen test in the district daily. Reworked strategy While the number of antigen tests remained at just nearly 15,000 until July 5, testing picked up as the administration reworked its containment strategy. Employing antigen tests for wider use enabled the government to ensure greater focus in areas that reported an increasing trend of cases without any known sources of infection, she said. Ms. Khosa said Thiruvananthapuram being a “capital, airport, border and coastal” district, witnessed high public movement and intermixing of population from various parts of the State and elsewhere. The Collector also issued a set of guidelines for infection control in hospitals on account of the rising number of cases being reported among hospital employees and health workers in the district. Guidelines to hospitals All hospitals, particularly those catering to tertiary-level care, should promote outpatient services through online consultation and telemedicine facility. While only one caregiver must be permitted per patient, the same person must continue for the entire period of admission. No visitors will be permitted in any hospital. Emergency cases and critical life-threatening situations must be given priority among non-COVID-19 services in government hospitals. Separate outpatient and casualty must be established for those from containment zones, other districts, and States. The order added that no hospital, including private ones, can deny services or treatment to any individual coming from containment zones (including critical containment zones).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-seeks-to-allay-fears-over-case-surge/article32177858.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Delay in accessing medical care a concern||Concerns over proper access to medical care dominated the discussions at a meeting convened by M.G. Rajamanickam, Incident Commander for the critical containment Zone II stretching from Perumathura to Vizhinjam here, on Thursday. Councillors of the Poonthura and Beemapally wards told the meeting that General Hospital, Sree Avittam Tirunal (SAT) Hospital, and Government Medical College Hospital as well as those in the private sector were reluctant to provide medical care to the patients from the containment zone, especially Poonthura. Complaints They highlighted complaints about the delay in admitting COVID-19 patients at the Covid First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs). They also pointed out that pregnant women from Poonthura were kept waiting for admission to the SAT Hospital. The Incident Commander, accompanied by the Sector Superintendent of Police K.E. Baiju and Deputy Director, Health, Jagdeesh, inspected the Valiaathura area to assess the containment situation. Councillors of Valiathura, Vettukad, and Kannanthura and officials of the Revenue, Health, police, and Civil Supplies Departments attended the meeting chaired by the Incident Commander. Mr. Rajamanickam told The Hindu that he had requested the District Collector to conduct a meeting with all the hospital authorities both from government and private to instruct them to make necessary institutional arrangements to avoid the delay in giving medical care to those from the containment zone. Transit ward The District Collector has also been asked to instruct all the government hospitals to set up a transit admission ward for pregnant women with basic facilities prior to getting admitted into wards for completing formalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delay-in-accessing-medical-care-a-concern/article32177862.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kodiyeri interacts with staff of party Ministers||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had an interaction with the private secretaries of the Ministers of the party here on Thursday. Party sources described the interaction as a routine affair and clarified that it had nothing to do with the recent developments, including the gold smuggling case. Asked whether the meeting was aimed at reinforcing a code of conduct framed by the party, the sources said that the staff attached to all offices of party nominees were functioning as per the protocol set by the party and did not need a further reminder to abide by it. The private secretaries were told to act with caution and keep off persons with dubious background from Ministers’ offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodiyeri-interacts-with-staff-of-party-ministers/article32177807.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 2 crore each for nine coastal districts in State||The State government has sanctioned an urgent financial assistance of Rs. 2 crore each to the nine coastal districts for tackling inundation. The Water Resources Department has issued orders in this regard. The money will be used to build sea walls wherever necessary and also undertake repairs, said Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty here recently. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod are the coastal districts. Coastal regions across the State, including Chellanam in Ernakulam district and several areas in Thiruvananthapuram district, have been witnessing severe coastal inundation over the past several days. Fishermen plea Fishermen organisations have been demanding urgent measures to rehabilitate affected families along the coastline which is reeling under the outbreak of COVID-19. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that squally weather was likely to prevail along and off the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-2-crore-each-for-nine-coastal-districts-in-state/article32177823.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM lauds police role||The police’s role in fighting COVID-19 pandemic has been excellent, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating six police station buildings in various districts, the Kasaragod district training centre, the police quarters at Muttambalam in Kottayam and Mankara in Palakkad, and the barracks at the Kerala Police Academy here on Thursday. He said the police were at the front in fighting the pandemic. He inaugurated the passing-out parade of 104 sub-inspectors through videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-lauds-police-role/article32177907.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||She Lodges to be set up||She Lodges will be set up in the State for women travellers to relax and stay at night without any safety concerns. The lodges will be set up by local self-government institutions and their functioning will be entrusted to the Kudumbashree or other agencies as per a contract between the local bodies and the agencies, the Chief Minister said during his COVID-19 press briefing on Thursday.  The lodges should have at least eight beds. These can be either dormitories or separate rooms. They should have clean kitchen, toilets, drinking water, TV, fridge, and WI-Fi. They should also be under complete CCTV coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/she-lodges-to-be-set-up/article32177855.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jain varsity’s Kochi centre under scrutiny||A letter shot off by a State bureaucrat has stirred a debate over the legal validity of the off-campus centre of the Bengaluru-based Jain (deemed-to-be) University functioning in Kochi since 2018. Following the University Grants Commission’s grant of graded autonomy in 2018, the centre admitted students the next year. The UGC, however, in a letter to the Higher Education Department in July 2019 said it had not granted approval to the university to establish the off-campus centre. It was asked to discontinue courses in Kochi. The UGC letter was in response to the department seeking clarification over the status of the off-campus centre and the Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Kochi. The government cautioned students over the validity of courses offered by the university. The issue reared its head again when the Higher Education Department wrote to UGC Chairman D.P. Singh on June 20 seeking action against the institution that ‘functioned without government approval.’ Usha Titus, Principal Secretary, Higher Education, said the government had received complaints regarding non-compliance with the UGC’s directive. “As far as we understand, the off-campus centre is illegal. It remains so until the UGC informs the State of having sanctioned its operations,” she said adding that the government had not issued no-objection certificate for its functioning. The government is yet to receive the UGC’s response to the letter. University’s version However, the university maintained it had been functioning in line with the regulations laid down by the UGC. “We have also obtained approval for the Kochi campus in line with the UGC (Institutions Deemed to be Universities) Regulations, 2019. We do not require the State government’s concurrence as we function under the regulations of by the Centre and the UGC,” J. Letha, Pro Vice Chancellor of the university’s Kochi centre, said. Dr. Letha said a UGC panel had inspected the premises in December 2019. The UGC met in May to discuss a compliance report submitted by the university and recommended its approval. The first batch of 1,000 students admitted in 2019, would have no difficulties in establishing the validity of their certificates, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jain-varsitys-kochi-centre-under-scrutiny/article32177809.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CEC defers bypolls||The Central Election Commission (CEC) has decided to defer the byelections in the Chavara and Kuttanad Assembly segments which were due before September. This is in response to a report forwarded to the CEC by Chief Electoral Officer Tikaram Meena who expressed his reservations in holding the bypolls when the number of COVID-19 cases was on the rise and the entire official machinery was focussing its mite to combat the virus spread all over the State. The CEC, in a communication to Mr. Meena, said the COVID-19 situation in the country had not improved and conducting elections in this situation.  Byelections were necessitated at Chavara and Kuttanad following the death of incumbents Vijayan Pillai and Thomas Chandy respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cec-defers-bypolls/article32177821.ece
24 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shinu K.S. is DMO in charge||Shinu K.S. has been appointed as Additional District Medical Officer and DMO (in-charge), Thiruvananthapuram. Preetha P.P., who had been holding the post of DMO, has been transferred and posted as Additional Director of Health Services (Family Welfare) at the Directorate of Health Services. Neena Rani, Additional DMO, has been transferred as Deputy Director, NPCB (National Programme for Control of Blindness), Directorate of Health Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shinu-ks-is-dmo-in-charge/article32177850.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One admissions on July 29||Plus One admissions for higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools will begin on July 29. These were earlier scheduled to get under way on Friday. The admission process will be completely online in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. Applications can be submitted online till August 14, the Chief Minister said in his press briefing on Thursday. Help desks with teachers and other staff will function in schools for submitting applications online. Those unable to submit the applications on their own can do it with the help of support centres at the schools nearest to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-admissions-on-july-29/article32177808.ece
24 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Project proposals invited||The Energy Management Centre has invited project proposals on the topic Smart Energy Management Systems (SEMS) using Internet of Things (IoT) to be presented at a webinar on ‘IoT’s role in Energy Management.’ The webinar session is on from July 23 to 26. Grants will be provided to the 10 best valid and viable projects. Visitwww.keralaenergy.gov.inor dial +919037984168.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-proposals-invited/article32177815.ece
24 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur records big surge in cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district is increasing rapidly. As many as 83 cases were reported in the district on Thursday, and of them, 70 were infected through local transmission. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district rose to 1,024. After reporting the country’s first case of COVID-19 in the district on January 30, the number of patients has crossed the 1,000-mark after six months. Irinjalakuda again reported the most number of cases. The Assembly constituency reported 32 cases on Thursday. Sixteen persons were infected from the KSE (Kerala Solvent Extracts) cluster. Two were infected from KLF Industries cluster. Five workers at the Fire and Rescue Station at Irinjalakuda tested positive on Thursday. A 49-year-old civil police officer at Irinjalakuda station also contracted the disease. The source of his infection is not known. Five of the guest workers, who came from Bihar for work at Puthur Zoological Park, were among the new patients. The Ottupara market has been closed after a helper in a shop in the market tested positive for the virus. Containment zones The Collector declared new 23 containment zones in the district. They are ward 2 of Kodakara panchayat, ward 3 of Pavaratty panchayat, ward 3 of Velukkara, ward 9 of Porkkulam, wards 14 and 15 of Mathilakam, wards 6,7,8 and 14 of Madakkathara, ward 3 of Puthur, ward 6 of Nenmanikkara, ward 8 of Poomangalam, wards 1 and 3 of Parappookara, division 31 of Kodungallur Municipality, divisions 40 and 44 of Thrissur Corporation, and divisions 10,11, 16,17 and 20 of Wadakkanchery Municipality. In Malappuram Rapid antigen tests for COVID-19 were conducted on 232 persons at Ponnani on Thursday. Three of them tested positive for the virus. Health officials said that the tests would continue on Friday. Meanwhile, the district registered 89 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Of them, 34 were found to have been infected through local transmission. But the source of infection in 14 of them could not be identified. A 29-year-old man from Chokad who died of heart attack on Wednesday was tested positive for the virus. He had contracted the virus while in Dubai. In Kannur Fifty-one more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Thursday. Among them, 11 persons contracted the disease through local transmission. Department closed The Orthopaedics Department of the Kannur District Hospital has been closed for the next three days after a patient admitted there tested positive for the virus. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district reported 47 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Of them, 29 were infected through contact. Among the local transmission cases were a health worker, a civil police officer, a civil excise officer and a pharmacist. There are now 4,861 persons under observation in the district. In Wayanad Ten more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Thursday. Three persons contracted the virus through contact. Meanwhile, District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared wards 14,15, 16 and 17 of Noolpuzha grama panchayat, wards 2 and 3 of Vellamunda and wards 16 and 17 of Edavaka grama panchayat as containment zones. In Palakkad Fifty-one persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday. They included 38 cases found in rapid antigen tests conducted at Pattambi. Eight of the 51 cases had come from other States and three from abroad. (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod, Wayanad, Palakkad and Malappuram bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-records-big-surge-in-cases/article32177797.ece
24 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Sub Inspectors pass out in e-parade||Probably for the first time in the country, the Kerala Police Academy auditorium at Ramavaramapuram in Thrissur on Thursday became the venue for an e-passing out parade. Sub Inspectors of 29 B and 30 batches of the Kerala Police Force, who completed nine months of training at the academy, took part in the e-passing out parade in the backdrop of COVID-19. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took the salute online. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said all police stations were Janamaithri police stations which should be service centres for the people. The e-passing out parade was conducted by maintaining the COVID-19 protocol. Facilities were arranged for the public to watch the parade live on the official Facebook page of the Kerala Police Academy. As many as 104 directly recruited Sub Inspectors, including women, participated in the parade. The training began on May 13 and July 5, 2019. The training programme was conducted through the online application KeLS developed by the academy. State Police Chief Loknath Behera, Academy Director Dr. B. Sandhya, and DIG (Training) Neeraj Kumar Gupta participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sub-inspectors-pass-out-in-e-parade/article32177793.ece
24 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Health university exams postponed||The Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) has indefinitely postponed the BSc Nursing degree final year supplementary examinations and Post Basic BSc Nursing degree second year supplementary examinations, which were scheduled from August 4, in the wake of the spread of COVID-19, according to a KUHS press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-university-exams-postponed/article32177800.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protect yourself and others from the spread COVID-19||You can reduce your chances of being infected or spreading COVID-19 by taking some simple precautions: Regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. Why? Washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands. Maintain at least 1 metre (3 feet) distance between yourself and others. Why? When someone coughs, sneezes, or speaks they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. If you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the COVID-19 virus if the person has the disease. Avoid going to crowded places. Why? Where people come together in crowds, you are more likely to come into close contact with someone that has COVID-19 and it is more difficult to maintain physical distance of 1 metre (3 feet). Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. Why? Hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. Once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. From there, the virus can enter your body and infect you. Make sure you, and the people around you, follow good respiratory hygiene. This means covering your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. Then dispose of the used tissue immediately and wash your hands. Why? Droplets spread virus. By following good respiratory hygiene, you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and COVID-19. Stay home and self-isolate even with minor symptoms such as cough, headache, mild fever, until you recover. Have someone bring you supplies. If you need to leave your house, wear a mask to avoid infecting others. Why? Avoiding contact with others will protect them from possible COVID-19 and other viruses. If you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention, but call by telephone in advance if possible and follow the directions of your local health authority. Why? National and local authorities will have the most up to date information on the situation in your area. Calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility. This will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections. Keep up to date on the latest information from trusted sources, such as WHO or your local and national health authorities. Why? Local and national authorities are best placed to advise on what people in your area should be doing to protect themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protect-yourself-and-others-from-the-spread-covid-19/article32177787.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ayurveda for Immunity||COVID-19, is at the stage of super spread now. Prevention is the only weapon, we have now, to fight against COVID-19. India’s own traditional medical system-Ayurveda mentions a number of ways by which one can boost immunity and stay healthy. Oushadhi, The Pharmaceutical Corporation (IM) Kerala Ltd., India’s largest Ayurvedic Medicine Manufacturing Unit in public sector, fully owned by govt.of Kerala, is leading the part of modernization in the Ayurvedic medicine manufacturing by providing customer friendly Ayurvedic formulation without loosing the traditional value and quality. Oushadhi, with an objective to provide quality medicines at affordable cost to the common man, is serving the society for 79 years and is one among the few public sector units which is consistently making profit. Medicines Manufactured by Oushadhi are being distributed to the public as part of the activities of The state Ayurveda Covid Response cell, constituted by Government of Kerala, for the prevention of Covid-19. Oushadhi medicines are also available at Government Ayurveda hospitals and dispensaries and also through a vast network of over 700 dealers through out the country. Ayurvedic medicines have proven efficacy in the prevention of communicable diseases. These medicines boost the natural immune system and help to prevent and fight against deadly diseases. Shadangan kashaya choornam can be boiled in water as per doctors directions and used for drinking whole day. This imparts immunity and makes body cool and is effective against fever. ‘Ayush Kwath”, a perfect blend of Thulasi, cinnamon, dried ginger and pepper can be used as tea twice daily. Indukantham Kashaya choornam/ Ghritham, Samsamani vati, Sudarsanam Gulika, Chyavanaprasam, Agasthyarasayanam etc, can be used as per doctor’s directions. for boosting immunity. Bringing the essence of Ayurveda to the common customers, Oushadhi has launched ‘Oushadhi Immunity Kit’ with 6 medicines that aid as natural immune boosters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayurveda-for-immunity/article32177788.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Image makeover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/image-makeover/article32177865.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A first of its kind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-first-of-its-kind/article32177825.ece
24 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector urged to home isolate Rayadurg MLA||Government Whip and Rayadurg MLA Kapu Ramachandra Reddy and his followers are turning “super spreaders” of COVID-19 as they are blatantly violating the protocols, senior TDP leader K. Srinivasulu has alleged. In a letter to district Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Thursday, Mr. Srinivasulu suggested that Mr. Ramachandra Reddy be advised to remain at home as he had been closely moving till Wednesday with former municipal chairman Upender Reddy, who had tested positive for the virus. “It is unfortunate that the YSRCP leaders have turned super spreaders ignoring the COVID-19 protocol in public. They did not bother to wear a mask at the Vanamahotsavam programme at Rayadurg on Wednesday. All the government officers were seen with masks. But these YSRCP leaders did not bother to wear masks at many other programmes too,” Mr. Srinivasulu alleged in his letter, and attached a few photographs to prove his point. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Srinivasulu said it was the responsibility of the MLA to be a role model. He should have gone out by wearing a mask, he said. “In its absence, the MLA should be confined to his house so that others do not suffer due to his irresponsible behaviour,” the TDP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-urged-to-home-isolate-rayadurg-mla/article32177953.ece
24 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight private hospitals roped in to treat COVID patients in Anantapur||The Anantapur district administration has identified eight private hospitals in the city to admit COVID-19 positive patients and treat them and is making efforts to increase it to 20 very soon with the help of District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar. New COVID care facilities would also be opened soon in Dharmavaram, Tadipatri, Hindupur, Kadiri, Kannekal or Kalyandurg to accommodate 200 to 300 patients in each of them so that they do not have to travel all the way to Anantapur if the symptoms are mild and they can be treated in the CCCs, Collector Gandham Chandrudu said on Thursday. Mr. Chandrudu visited the Sri Sathya Sai Super Speciality Hospital and the COVID Care Centre being run in Puttaparthi. There was a quarantine centre that was started in April near the super-speciality hospital. This quarantine centre will now be converted into a full-fledged COVID Hospital with all the critical care facilities and manned by the doctors of Sri Sathya Sai Super Speciality Hospital and Sri Sathya Sai General Hospital. Coordinators appointed After the Government General Hospital here has been declared exclusive COVID Hospital, patients are being identified as to who can be shifted to other private hospitals depending on their specialisation. Meanwhile, coordinators have been appointed at each private hospital so that the positive patients are briefed on the procedure of treatment and coordination is maintained with the doctors. With an increase in the number of tests, Anantapur district recorded the highest number of positive cases in a single day at 1,016 and Kurnool 904, taking the cumulative total of positive cases to 7,282 and 8,701 respectively at 9 a.m. on Thursday. With one death being reported in Anantapur district and seven in Kurnool, the number of cumulative deaths has reached 81 and 142 respectively. The discharge rate is good in Anantapur with 4,315 persons discharged and in Kurnool, 5,079 have been sent home after treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-private-hospitals-roped-in-to-treat-covid-patients-in-anantapur/article32177937.ece
24 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solar power projects planned on a big scale||Land has been identified for setting up 4,800 MW of solar energy-producing plants in Anantapur district and very soon acquisition notices will be given to private landholders at five places ahead of floating tenders for executing the projects in Engineering, Procurement, Construction (EPC) model. Owing to lack of power supply during day time at some places in Anantapur district, farmers like Ravindra of Rachanapalli in Anantapur Rural mandal have set up their own solar units to run motors from borewells to irrigate their horticulture crops through drip irrigation. Against this background, the State government proposes to supply free power for eight hours, preferably during day time, to farmers all over the State and has initiated this massive exercise of producing solar power on a large scale. These turnkey projects are part of the State government’s wish to set up 10,000 MW of production capacity in Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa, and Prakasam districts through AP Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL). A major chunk of it will be produced at five places in Anantapur district and for that 40,000 acres have been earmarked by the Non-conventional Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited (NEDCAP). The district administration will hold gram sabhas and give acquisition notices to assignees and pattadars, who will be offered Rs. 25,000 per acre per annum in tune with the Renewable Energy Export Policy. This type of policy was not implemented with regard to the Nambulapoolakunta NTPC 1000 MW solar power project site, and the landowners there have been demanding similar compensation. NEDCAP Project Director G. Harinath Babu told The Hindu that Vooruchintala village near Tadipatri was identified for setting up 800 MW project, 1,000 MW in nine villages of Mudigubba mandal, another 3,000 MW projects in Amaduguru, Nallamada and Obuldevaracheruvu mandals. The APGECL can lease the project land to solar power developers at a rate of Rs. 31,000 per acre per annum. Progress of other projects Meanwhile, work on 750 MW solar power project, being executed at N.P. Kunta by three foreign developers in the district, is progressing at a very slow pace due to political interference for subletting of contracts there. Another project proposed at Ramagiri more than two years ago for solar/wind power production and 10 MW storage (batteries) has not made any progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solar-power-projects-planned-on-a-big-scale/article32177955.ece
24 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs on public movement tightened||Authorities of the Chittoor Municipal Corporation have further restricted the movement of people in the corporation limits, by reducing the business hours of all establishments from Thursday. The municipalities of Palamaner, Punganur, Madanapalle, Puttur and Nagari have also imposed curbs on the movement of the people, with a sharp rise in the COVID-19 positive cases. The business hours, which used to be between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m., now have been restricted to 11 a.m. By Thursday, the number of positive cases crossed the 6,800-mark in the district, with 65 deaths. The eastern mandals of Puttur, Nagari, Narayanavanam and Satyavedu continued to register new cases daily in July with no respite. Vigil on borders The public movement across the inter-State borders through the porous rural roads continued to bother the police, revenue and medical officials on COVID-19 duties. The civic authorities had embarked on a constant tom-tom through public address system at all public places and had even taken up street-to-street announcement, urging people to immediately bring to the notice of the officials if they happened to know about the arrival of any person in their locality from Tamil Nadu, particularly from Chennai. Deputy SP (Puttur sub-division) D. Murali Dhar said police personnel had been posted at all vital junctions in Satyavedu, Nagalapuram, Pichatur, Nindra, Nagari, Puttur, Karveti Nagaram and S.R. Puram mandals to keep a vigil on public movement through the porous border with Tamil Nadu, while surveillance had been intensified at the check-posts. The police personnel have been told to prioritise implementation of the norms pertaining to wearing masks and social distancing at all public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-on-public-movement-tightened/article32177939.ece
24 July 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A bumpy ride on city outskirts||The people residing in eight villages in Krishna district have apparently learnt the art of grin and bear. Their pleas to repair the potholed Jakkampudi- Velagaleru stretch on the outskirts of Vijayawada have fallen on deaf ears. The road was not recarpeted during the last one and half years. Its condition has gone from bad to worse after recent rains, as the stretch has turned into a virtual pool at various places. The heavy vehicular traffic was diverted to this about 20-ft road that connects Bhadrachalam in Telangana and the city ever since the Kanaka Durga flyover works began a few years ago. Despite movement of heavy vehicles/ multi axle lorries on this road, steps were not taken to either widen or maintain the existing road properly.  Cause for concern The residents of Ambapuram, Kandrika, Nayanavaram, Pathapadu, Jakkampudi, Thadepalli, Kothuru Thadepalli, and Velagaleru lament that the government has ‘shown little interest’ in providing a proper road. Repeated pleas to authorities concerned have fallen flat as deep craters and potholes on the road have become a cause of worry for commuters and residents. Alleging official apathy, villagers say: “Whenever it rains the situation becomes precarious as water accumulates on the road. It becomes difficult to commute due to sludge and deep potholes, which are difficult to locate, after rain.” Two-wheeler riders and drivers of four-wheelers are always at risk while commuting on the stretch that has more than one-foot-deep potholes. They say that potholes make driving difficult and also increase wear and tear of their vehicles. “The car service centres are openly saying that they cannot offer services to cars from Tadepalli,” says K. Lakshmi Narayana, a senior citizen residing at Kothur Tadepalli. The volume of traffic increased manifold after the traffic was diverted to facilitate construction of the flyover in the city. There were frequent accidents and deaths. The government washed off its hands by laying speed breakers. The road has not been repaired or widened to suit the highway traffic, he says. Mylavaram MLA Vasantha Krishna Prasad said the government was looking into the issue. The contractor stopped the work midway. The contractor did works worth about Rs. 2 crore to Rs. 3 crore. The project to lay the 12.5-km road was worth about Rs. 13 crore. Necessary steps would be taken at the earliest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-bumpy-ride-on-city-outskirts/article32177517.ece
24 July 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNNURM houses turn a hub of anti-social activities||The houses that were constructed under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) a decade ago at Rajarajeswaripeta in the city have become a hub of anti-social activities. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) constructed as many as 512 houses in the area. The Central government sanctioned the houses under the JNNURM in 2007-08 and the construction was completed in 2010-11. Even as the VMC was gearing up to allot the houses, some moved the court claiming that the corporation had built the houses in their lands. Since then, the allotment was put on hold. The asset value of this project was Rs. 16 crore. The VMC incurred a loss of about Rs. 80 lakh as the miscreants have stolen electric panels, water supply material, doors etc. The unit cost was Rs. 3.4 lakh and beneficiaries have paid around Rs. 66,000, sources say. Not just the housing projects at Rajarajeswaripeta hit the roadblock, but the projects at Jakkampudi, Ajith Singh Nagar Kabela faced similar fate. The construction came to a grinding halt in 2010-11 for various reasons, including black listing of contractors. By then, the VMC had spent Rs. 133 crore. As many as 3,136 houses at these places are in various stages of construction despite the fact that the JNNURM programme was closed in 2014. The then government suggested the VMC to avail a bank loan of Rs. 100 crore and pool up Rs. 56 crore through the beneficiaries. The government gave guarantee for the loan, sources say. But, the residents near the unallotted blocks have grievances. "A girl, who was allegedly mentally unstable, committed suicide by jumping from one of the blocks which is yet to be allotted," recalls Yesamma, a nearby resident. The houses have been lying vacant for many years now. Many houses are also being misused by anti-social elements, while electrical equipment installed in several houses have been stolen. Wild creepers and bushes have grown around several houses. Anti-social elements are using the vacant houses for their activities, says another resident. Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) State secretariat member and convener of AP Urban Citizens' Federation Ch. Babu Rao says the case was disposed of six months ago. But the VMC has not allotted the houses, he says.       ‘List being prepared’  Corporation chief engineer Marianna says that the beneficiaries list is being prepared. Necessary repairs will be carried out as soon as the list is prepared and beneficiaries are ready to move, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jnnurm-houses-turn-a-hub-of-anti-social-activities/article32177974.ece
24 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Triage centres launched in Guntur district||At a time when the mounting COVID-19 positive cases are placing an enormous strain on healthcare systems, both government and private, the State government has come up with a triage concept to screen asymptomatic patients. With the viral case load crossing the 7,000 mark, the district administration has come up with triaging to screen patients before testing, isolation and treating suspected persons. “We have launched triage centres at Guntur, Tenali, Piduguralla, Narasaraopet and Bapatla, where a preliminary diagnosis of patients is done, including symptoms like fever, cold, loss of smell or taste and their travel history. “The case history will have basic details like name, age, address, body temperature, oxygen levels. We have also included Chest CT scan in the triaging centres,’’ said Joint Collector and Nodal Officer, Guntur, A.S. Dinesh Kumar. An expert committee of doctors has been constituted to finalise guidelines of the triage centres and a GO has also been issued specifying the modalities. 1,184 new cases Meanwhile, COVID-19 surge continues in the district with 1,184 new cases and 15 deaths reported on Thursday. The district administration has issued detailed guidelines on home quarantine as both government and private hospitals are filled to the capacity. Hospitals within the Aarogyasri network have also been included in the list of hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/triage-centres-launched-in-guntur-district/article32177523.ece
24 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||GGH made State COVID Hospital||The 1,200-bed Government General Hospital has been declared a State COVID Hospital. The district administration has also given its nod for 12 hospitals in the district to treat COVID-19 patients. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar, who convened a review meeting with doctors and health supervisors, asked the GGH administration to take steps to equip the hospital with emergency care equipment and medical facilities. He said that oxygen backup and ventilator support should be given much priority. Along with the GGH, the private hospitals which have been given permission to treat COVID-19 patients include the Amaravathi Institute of Medical Sciences, Aswini Hospitals, Vedanta Hospitals, Sri Lakshmi Hospitals, Sravani Nursing Home, Kidney Care Centre, and Tulasi Multi Specialty Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ggh-made-state-covid-hospital/article32177521.ece
24 July 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adoni youth held for ‘blackmailing’ women||A youngster from Adoni in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh was arrested by the Hyderabad police on Thursday on the charge of posting photos of women on social media platforms and, subsequently, blackmailing them to delete the photos. Recently, a young girl approached Cyber Crime police, stating that she was receiving calls from unknown numbers for the past two months, and the man on the other side demanded Rs. 10,000 to delete her photos. The accused, Mohammed Ahmed, got the mobile number and photos of the victim from her Instagram account. “He used her photograph as WhatsApp profile picture and status to trap other girls,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. Based on her complaint, a case under Section 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered and Ahmed was arrested. They also seized two smartphones from his possession. Explaining Ahmed’s modus operandi, Mr. Mohanty said that the former would collect the details and photographs of women from social media platforms and call them. “He demanded money from them to delete their photos and phone numbers. He also insisted that the women be in a relationship with him,” the officer said. Similar cases were booked against Ahmed at Kamathipura, Golconda, Narayanaguda, Mirchowk, Falaknuma, and Neredmet police stations. Police advise Mr. Mohanty advised people not to post personal pictures on social media websites and also not to accept any friend requests from unknown accounts and get victimised. He also said that in case they receive any suspicious calls, there was no need to panic and people can inform the local or cyber crime police for action. Smear campaign? A former assistant professor with a private engineering college, who posed as a film artiste, senior CBI officer, script writer, and director and abused the police in filthy language in a YouTube interview, was arrested by Keesara police on Thursday. In his interview, the accused, Ramoju Sunisith (32) of R.L. Nagar of Keesara mandal, who hails from Jangaon village, degraded the image of the police, said inspector J Narender Goud. After completing his M. Tech in 2012, Sunisith joined SR College as assistant professor and two years later, he left the job and joined Guru Nanak Engineering College. He was fired from the job for misbehaving with female students and was sent to jail. “After release from jail, he thought of getting fame by entering into the cinema industry and wanted to be an overnight star. He enrolled in a film institute,” Mr. Goud said. But as his plans became futile, the accused started a smear campaign against celebrities to become a ‘well known’ personality in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-blackmailing-women/article32177760.ece
24 July 2020||JEELUGUMILLI (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge haul of liquor seized, one arrested||In a huge catch, the Polavaram sub-division police seized 4,275 bottles of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) being smuggled from Telangana, and arrested one person. The accused was illegally transporting the liquor worth about Rs. 20 lakh, and a case has been registered under the AP Excise (Amendment) Act, 2020, said Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Kareemulla Sheriff. “Following the directions of Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik, a team led by Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) M. Venkateswara Rao and CI A.S.N. Murthy, laid a trap and seized the stocks on the AP-Telangana border,” Mr. Kareemulla told at a press conference on Thursday. Mr. Narayan Naik told The Hindu that Jeelugumilli SI Viswanadham and his team made the seizure at the border check-post. The SEB and the Polavaram DSP will conduct an investigation to identify the source of procurement of the stocks, he said. “This is the highest liquor seizure post lockdown in the State. We are trying to find out the destination of the liquor. Instructions have been given to tighten vigil on Telangana borders,” the SP said.  Check-posts under scanner Mr. Kareemulla, who inspected the other border check-posts during the day, directed the officers to deal sternly with liquor and sand smugglers. “We seized different brands of liquor in the raid. The stocks, along with the accused and the confiscated vehicle will be produced in the court,” Mr. Venkateswara Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-haul-of-liquor-seized-one-arrested/article32177524.ece
24 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI questions watchman in Viveka case||A special team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned watchman Gangaiah in the sensational Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder case, in Pulivendula on Thursday. After getting all the facts checked during the first four days, the team set in motion the process of interrogation of the suspects and witnesses on the fifth day. Ganagaiah is said to have been grilled till afternoon on the turn of events on that day that led to the murder. The other witnesses reportedly summoned are expected to present themselves before the team on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-questions-watchman-in-viveka-case/article32177435.ece
24 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP promises financial aid to rape victim||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu has announced Rs. 2 lakh ex gratia to the 16-year-old Korukonda gang-rape victim, senior party leader N. Chinarajappa has said. “The victim’s educational needs will also be met by the NTR Trust,” he said. A team of party leaders interacted with the victim on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-promises-financial-aid-to-rape-victim/article32177547.ece
24 July 2020||NIDADAVOLE (WEST GODAVARI DIST.),ANDHRA PRADESH||DIG gives safety tips to police personnel||Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao inspected the police station on Wednesday. He enquired with Kovvur Deputy SP K. Rajeswar Reddy about the implementation of ten principles aimed at protecting the personnel from COVID-19. Mr. Mohan Rao verified the general diary and other documents and enquired asked CI Swamy about the pending cases. Later, he planted saplings on the station premises. Speaking on the occasion, the DIG asked the officers and the station staff to maintain hygienic conditions at home and in the station. He gave tips on receiving petitions from the complainants and asked the CI to ensure the premises is sanitised at regular intervals. Mr. Mohan Rao directed the staff to use protective gear while discharging traffic duties, picking up the suspects, questioning them and in shifting the suspects to courts. At Machilipatnam, Krishna SP M. Ravindranath Babu, Special Branch DSP Dharmendra, Central Crime Station Deputy SP Murali Krishna, and CI Chandrashekar planted saplings at the police quarters as part of ‘Jagananna Pachhatoranam.’ ‘Green’ message The SP explained the need to increase green cover to protect the environment . He asked the personnel to guard the saplings and water them regularly. In Eluru, West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik planted saplings at Sri Suresh Chandra Bahuguna Engligh Medium School. He stressed the need to pass on a ‘green environment’ to the future generations by raising nurseries. He said cutting of trees and deforestation on the pretext of development should be discouraged .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dig-gives-safety-tips-to-police-personnel/article32177948.ece
24 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Investigation launched into Chirala Dalit youth’s death||Guntur Urban Additional Superintendent of Police D. Gangadharam on Thursday began an inquiry into the death of a Dalit youth Y. Kiran Kumar while in police custody in Chirala. The youth was picked up by the police after heated exchanges with a constable over not wearing a face mask while pillion riding in Chirala, a COVID-19 hotspot.  ‘Report in one week’ A factual report would be submitted to Guntur Range Inspector-General of Police J. Prabhakar Rao within a week to decide on the action to be taken against the personnel concerned, Mr. Gangadharam said when contacted by The Hindu.  The ASP visited the members of the bereaved family and also questioned the police personnel concerned to know exactly what happened on July 18 evening when the youth moving on a motorcycle driven by his friend Shiny Abraham. He also the recorded statements of eyewitnesses at the Kothapeta check-post. Kiran Kumar’s father Mohan Rao, who also deposed before the ASP, accused sub-inspector Vijay Kumar of causing the fatal injury. Dalit Hakkula Parirakshana Samiti and other outfits called on the ASP and demanded stern action against the personnel responsible for the death. They also demanded that the ex gratia be enhanced to Rs. 20 lakh from the Rs. 10 lakh announced by the government. Poignant scenes were witnessed during the last rites conducted in the presence of a large number of police personnel.. Meanwhile, Darsi Deputy SP K. Prakasa Rao took over the investigation from the Chirala police. The SI was sent to the vacancy reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-launched-into-dalit-youths-death/article32177549.ece
24 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two struck dead by lightning in Prakasam||Two persons were killed in two separate rain-related incidents in Chirala mandal of Prakasam district on Thursday. G. Subba Rao, 60, was charred to death after being struck by lightning while working in a farm at Gavinivaripalem. In a similar incident, D. Yesu, 40, of the same village was killed while he was grazing cattle. The bodies were shifted to the Government Area Hospital at Chirala. Pullalacheruvu received a rainfall of 25.2 mm followed by Donakonda(13.2 mm), Tripurantakam (10.6mm), Yerragondapalem(10.6 mm) and Kuruchedu (5 mm).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-struck-dead-by-lightning-in-prakasam/article32177970.ece
24 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll mounts to 45 in Prakasam, high-risk patients to be segregated||Three more patients have died of coronavirus in Prakasam district, taking the toll to 45, a health bulletin released by the government said here on Thursday. However, Nellore district has not reported any death during the the last 24 hours. The Nellore district, however, reported 122 positive cases while the same for Prakasam has been put at 140. With the new cases, the tally of Nellore and Prakasam districts have gone up to 3,119 and 2,946 respectively, the health officials said. As may as 210 patients—120 in Nellore and 90 in Prakasam —have been discharged from hospitals during the period. “Except for 33 patients who were in a critical condition, the condition of other patients remained stable,” Nellore Collector K.V.N.Chakradhara Babu told the media here on Thursday. With the sharp rise in the COVID-19 cases, stringent lockdown norms would be implemented for a week, beginning Friday in Nellore city, Gudur, Atmakur and Podalakur, he said. Meanwhile, Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar reviewed the health situation in Ongole and instructed the doctors to ensure that the virus did not spread at the community level. “High risk patients with comorbidity conditions should be segregated and provided treatment separately,” he said. Mobile testing facility hit The operation of ‘Sanjeevini’, mobile testing facility, was suspended on Thursday, after two health professionals were tested positive for the virus. As new cases were reported from remote villages following the influx of migrants from high-risk States, two new containment zones were declared, taking the number of very active clusters to 29, while the number of active clusters remains at 136. Colleges made COVID centres The district administration has converted the IIIT, Rise College, Pace College, Malleneni Engineering College, SSN Engineering College and Chirala Engineering College into COVID Care Centres with the designated COVID-19 hospitals overflowing with patients. Low-risk patients could opt for home quarantine, health officials said. Prakasam District Legal Services Authority chairperson and Principal District Judge P.Venkata Jyotirmayi helped perform the funeral of a retired school teacher who died of the virus, after the residents opposed the rituals at Pernamitta on the outskirts of Ongole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-mounts-to-45-in-prakasam-high-risk-patients-to-be-segregated/article32177944.ece
24 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ANM prevented from entering her house amid COVID concerns||Local residents reportedly did not allow an ANM to enter her house throughout Wednesday night at Alcot Thota area here as her husband tested positive for COVID-19 last week. The incident occurred after her husband was admitted to a COVID Care Centre after four-day home isolation. The incident came to light on Thursday after she posted a video online, seeking help from authorities. In her mid-30s, she serves as an ANM at Burrilanka and lives in her own house at Alcot Thota. In the video, in which she was seen waiting outside her house in rain, she alleged how she was denied entry to her house since Wednesday night. Meanwhile, the police have swung into action and counselled the locals. Two Town circle inspector B. Venkateswara Rao told The Hindu, “Last week, the ANM’s husband tested positive for COVID and was admitted to a quarantine centre after four-day home isolation. Panicked by the COVID case, the local residents did not allow her to enter her house on Wednesday night.” However, the locals allowed the ANM to stay in her house after they were counselled by the police on Thursday afternoon. The ANM was made to undergo the COVID test again and she tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anm-prevented-from-entering-her-house-amid-covid-concerns/article32177969.ece
24 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Act against police based on call data records’||Former Amalapuram MP G.V. Harsha Kumar on Thursday demanded that the State government release the phone call history of the police personnel who were involved in tonsuring a 23-year-old Dalit youth in the Seethanagaram police station on July 20. In a joint press conference addressed by Mr. Harsha Kumar and the victim here, Mr. Harsha Kumar said, “The call data of the police personnel, including Seethanagaram sub-inspector Sk. Feroz Shah, will reveal the conspiracy and the role of YSRCP local leader K. Krishna Murthy and senior police officials.” “The entire episode of the atrocity against the Dalit youth is in the knowledge of the Rajamahendravaram Urban senior police officials, including SP, DSP and circle inspector. The police did not even admit the victim to a hospital after subjecting him to physical torture in the police station,” alleged Mr. Harsha Kumar. A relay hunger strike would be launched on July 26 if the State government did not initiate action against those behind the atrocity based on the cell phone call history of the police personnel concerned, the former MP said. “We urge the CPI and CPI(M) to extend their solidarity to our fight against the recent atrocities committed by the police against the Dalits in the State,” said Mr. Harsha Kumar. Narrating the incident, the victim said, “The police had called a barber to tonsure my head in the police station.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/act-against-police-based-on-call-data-records/article32177968.ece
24 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Invisible spreaders’ become a headache for Chittoor officials||The Chittoor district officials, who are already trudging under pressure in view of the sharp spike in the COVID-19 cases, have a Herculean task at hand now as many people who have been tested positive for the virus remain untraceable. A conservative estimate suggests that as many as 236 COVID-19 patients have tiptoed out from the watch of the officials in the last ten days after their test results were confirmed positive. The officials now fear that the patients could be roaming around, spreading the virus acting as ‘invisible spreaders’. The fact came to light after the officials and ward volunteers found that the persons in question had furnished wrong telephone numbers and erroneous addresses while submitting their swab samples for testing.  Fake address, phone numbers “Even outsiders are required to mention a local address when they submit their samples for testing. The ward volunteers concerned trace them if the samples are tested positive. The issue surfaced when the ward volunteers found the address given were fake,” a senior official told The Hindu . “Now, none knows where they are. They are acting now invisible spreaders,” he said. ‘It amounts to crime’ Meanwhile, the district administration has alerted the health, police and civic officials for tracing the patients. “Those who conveniently went out of the watch of the administration do not know that it is a crime under the Pandemic Act. We are leaving no stone unturned to trace them,” the official added. Now, the officials are contemplating to verify the phone numbers of those who submit samples for testing on the spot by making One Time Password (OTP) mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/invisible-spreaders-become-a-headache-for-chittoor-officials/article32177947.ece
24 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees book tickets for ‘Varalakshmi Vratham’||The TTD has decided to perform ‘Varalakshmi Vratham’ at the Padmavathi temple at Tiruchanur on July 31 on the virtual mode. In view of the lockdown imposed in Tirupati , the TTD has announced that the vratam will be performed ‘in private’. However, the rituals will be telecast live on the Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC). Devotees are keen on participating in the ritual online. The TTD has allowed them to book tickets by visitingwww.tirupatibalaji. ap.gov.infrom July 22 to July 30. According to TTD officials, the online booking has been evoking a good response. The devotees can get their names and ‘Gotra Nama’ announced before goddess Padmavathi and ‘prasadam’ will be sent to them by post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-book-tickets-for-varalakshmi-vratham/article32177550.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Human ingenuity will prevail over COVID-19, says Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has expressed the confidence that human ingenuity and capability of innovation and adaptation will soon create a solution for COVID-19. Sharing his thoughts through a televised address on the occasion of his completion of one year in office on Thursday, Mr. Harichandan said he felt proud when he got an opportunity to serve the people of Andhra Pradesh, a progressive State having rich culture and heritage. He committed himself to act as a bridge between the Central and State governments to ensure welfare and betterment of the people of the State, and thanked the people for their love and affection, and cooperation. He said the country was witnessing a spurt in COVID-19 cases in spite of the best efforts by the governments as it was a pandemic that shook even the countries that had advanced medical and public health facilities. The Governor said both the State and the Central governments were making concerted efforts to contain the spread. Pat for frontline warriors He asserted that the four Ts (tracing, tracking, testing and treating) were the most effective way to fight against the pandemic, and advised the people to remain at home to the extent possible. Mr. Harichandan appreciated the services of the frontline warriors, members of the Red Cross, NGOs and civil society organisations in helping the people cope with the distress. He further said that while attending programmes organised by various universities and educational institutions, he stressed the need to organise voluntary blood donation camps and tree plantation. Mr. Harichandan also said he could interact with the tribal groups during his visits to the tribal areas in Srikakulam and Kurnool districts and understand their problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/human-ingenuity-will-prevail-over-covid-19-says-governor/article32177961.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP takes ‘tonsuring’ of Dalit case to the notice of NHRC||TDP general secretary Varla Ramaiah on Thursday complained to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against the YSRCP leaders and the police for “beating up and tonsuring a Dalit youth in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh,” and urged it to take cognisance of the “unchecked atrocities” being committed against Dalits in the State. In a letter to the NHRC Chairman, Mr. Ramaiah sought stringent action against those involved in the case. ‘Rising attacks’ Accusing the government of adopting an anti-Dalit stance ever since it came to power in June 2019, Mr. Ramaiah said the law and order situation in the State had deteriorated. “There has been a spurt in attacks against the Backward Classes (BCs), women and other vulnerable sections of society,” he alleged. Referring to the tonsuring incident, Mr. Ramaiah said, “The YSRCP leaders brutally attacked the youth as he stopped a vehicle carrying sand. At the police station, the youth, along with his three friends, were beaten with lathis, belts and boots. Later, the youth was tonsured and humiliated him. Tonsuring a Dalit is a punishable crime under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.” Mr. Ramaiah further told the NHRC that former MLA Venkatesh and former MP Harsha Kumar admitted the youth in a hospital upon noticing injuries on his person. Urging the NHRC to intervene and initiate stern action against the culprits, Mr. Ramaiah alleged that a section of police was acting at the behest of the YSRCP leaders. Stating that the YSRCP government had issued a G.O. that allows payment of only half the basic pay to the government officials who were kept in vacant reserve/compulsory wait, the TDP leader said that such officials, as a consequence, surrendered to the ruling party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-takes-tonsuring-of-dalit-case-to-the-notice-of-nhrc/article32177958.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: ‘women workers vulnerable to exploitation’||AP Maliha Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma stressed the need for focus on illegal trafficking of women and sexual abuse during COVID times, to reach out to the vulnerable. Ms. Padma along with several other experts took part in an online seminar conducted by the International Justice Mission (IJM) and the AP Mahila Commission on ‘Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act & Laws related to Trafficking’. Ms. Padma said that migrant women workers face a lot of hardships due to lockdown and their issues have to be addressed. She said they should be given skill training. Principal Secretary (Labour, Employment, Training and Factories) B. Udayalakshmi said that female migrant workers, particularly youngsters, would fall prey to men who trap them taking advantage of their poverty. AP Mahila Commission Director R. Suez said that the government had taken up several programmes to bring back women migrant workers stuck in other States during the lockdown. Nellore District Judge G.V. Krishnaiah, National Labour Institute Faculty member Ellina Samantroy, Madras High Court advocate Rajkumar and others spoke in the seminar. The seminar was moderated and coordinated by Alice Suganya and Gladys Finney of IJM, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-women-workers-vulnerable-to-exploitation/article32177520.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nadu-Nedu to be extended to anganwadi centres||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials concerned to extend the Nadu-Nedu initiative to anganwadi centres and develop them with 10 facilities that are being provided in the government schools. Mr. Jagan at a review meeting at his camp office with the officials also asked them to focus on the YSR Sampoorna Poshana programme to ensure quality food to children and women at anganwadi centres. He directed them to improve the quality of services at anganwadi centers for the benefit of women and children and also set up a system to closely monitor the programme.  Categorisation of services The Chief Minister asked the officials to categorise the services at anganwadi centres into two with services related to pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children aged below 36 months as one category and services related to children between 36-72 months age into another category. Mr. Jagan felt that it would be better if the pre-primary classes (LKG, UKG) were set up in primary schools instead of anganwadi centres as announced recently. However, he asked the officials to prepare an action plan after a detailed study on the modalities in a week to 10 days. The Chief Minister also directed the officials to devise a plan as to how best the pre-primary and primary school children are benefited by the programme by changing the syllabus accordingly. The Chief Minister also directed the authorities to ensure that Rs. 5,000 was provided to women under the Aarogya Asara after childbirth. At present, there are 55,607 anganwadi centers in the State and 20,957 are being operated in dedicated buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nadu-nedu-to-be-extended-to-anganwadi-centres/article32177951.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expert help just a call away in Vijayawada||The district administration has set up a helpline for the COVID-19 infected patients under home isolation in collaboration with nephrologist N. Ammanna. Dr. Ammanna’s team of doctors will attend video and telephone calls from the patients and clarify their doubts, besides supplying medicines. Patients can dial 9063921413, 9063931413, or 90639 81413 and talk to the doctors. Also, the government has set up its own helpline number, 94910 52800. Patients and people with COVID-19 symptoms can get their doubts clarified by talking to the experts. Mobile app Alternatively, people can also dial ‘104’, or use AP COVID-19 mobile app to seek further help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expert-help-just-a-call-away-in-vijayawada/article32177949.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC quashes RK plea on land to TDP office||The High Court on Thursday dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy against the allotment of a 3.65-acre land parcel to the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) at Atmakur village in Guntur district, saying that it is not maintainable. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy prayed for the cancellation of G.O. Ms No. 228 dated June 22, 2017, through which the land was leased out to the TDP for 99 years at the rate of Rs. 1,000 per acre per annum. The YSRCP MLA alleged that it was a ‘vagu poramboke’ and the allotment was not in compliance with the AP CRDA, 2014. The court questioned what was Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy’s interest in filing the PIL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-quashes-rk-plea-on-land-to-tdp-office/article32177959.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seediri meets Chief Minister||Palasa MLA Seediri Appalaraju, along with his family members, met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Thursday, a day after being sworn in as a Minister. Thanking the CM, he promised to serve the people to the best of his ability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seediri-meets-chief-minister/article32177962.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IPS officers meet DGP on remarks against EG SP||A few senior IPS officers met Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Thursday and submitted a representation on the comments made against East Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) Adnan Nayeem Asmi. ‘Disaffection’ Responding to the news published on the remarks against Mr. Asmi, the IPS officers said such comments may cause disaffection and discrimination among the cadre (direct IPS) and the State (conferred) IPS officers. The officers, while expressing concern, said because of such remarks common people may have an opinion that conferred IPS officers may not render justice to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ips-officers-meet-dgp-on-remarks-against-eg-sp/article32177975.ece
24 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Admissions for CIPET courses||The Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology, Vijayawada, has invited applications for admission into diploma and post-graduate diploma courses. Applications can be submitted online at eadmission.cipet.gov.in on or before July 31. In a release, manager Ch. Shekar said that candidates who have passed SSC or its equivalent can apply for Diploma in Plastics Mould Technology (DPMT) and Diploma in Plastics Technology (DPT) and those who completed degree or its equivalent can apply for Post Graduate Diploma in Plastics Processing and Testing (PGD-PP). Online exams will be held in Vijayawada, Vizag and Anantapur on August 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admissions-for-cipet-courses/article32177518.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge spike in COVID-19 cases puts denizens on the edge||A rapid rise in coronavirus cases across the city has left residents unable to decide on whether they should go out and get themselves tested for COVID-19, or remain confined to the safety of their homes. People are worried that symptoms such as sore throat, running nose, and fever — usual for this time of the year — are all indications of coronavirus. The district witnessed a record 1,049 cases on Wednesday, most of which were reported from GVMC limits. With the surge in cases, thousands of people are flocking to testing centres. While most of them are asymptomatic and have not come in contact with a COVID-19 patient, some people who fall in the high-risk group and are also experiencing most of the symptoms for COVID-19 are unable to get themselves tested. A man who went to a testing centre with his father, who was suffering from acute breathlessness, had to return in vain due to the heavy rush. “I then approached 13 hospitals to admit my father, but all of them refused to admit him without a test result for COVID-19. I then finally managed to get my father tested at a notified private diagnostic centre, but by then it was too late and he passed away. The test results later confirmed that he was COVID-19 positive,” he told The Hindu , requesting not to be named. Ward health centres Speaking to The Hindu , Collector V. Vinay Chand said that all 74 wards, including Anakapalle and Bheemili under GVMC (Urban) will now have a ward health centre (WHC) in each ward. “We are going by the old ward bifurcation, as people are still comfortable with it. Each ward will have a WHC, and people with symptoms such as dry cough, fever and sore throat or breathlessness can go there. They can take the help of ASHA workers, ANMs or ward volunteers if required. If the doctors present there feel that a test is necessary, he or she will be tested, and further action will be taken accordingly,” he said. “Younger people with mild symptoms will be sent to COVID Care Centres or home quarantine. Those in the high-risk group will be shifted to District COVID Hospitals or isolation wards,” he said. Apart from the existing District COVID Hospitals such as VIMS, Gayatri and GIMSR, a number of private hospitals have been roped in, and soon there will be 22 notified District COVID Hospitals in GVMC limits alone. These hospitals will have over 7,000 beds, he said. This apart, 17 other private hospitals will be declared as partial COVID hospitals, with one or two blocks or wards catering exclusively to COVID patients, said the Collector. “We are going to officially declare them in the next couple of days as COVID hospitals and there can be no refusal of patients from these private hospitals,” he added. Control room A 24/7 control room with toll-free numbers is being set up at GVMC, and the numbers will be notified shortly. People can reach out through this control room and each ward is being assigned one special officer and one medical officer with three vehicles, including an ambulance. “222 vehicles will be deployed across all the 74 wards,” he said. A separate control room is being set up for rural areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-spike-in-covid-19-cases-puts-denizens-on-the-edge/article32177984.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Isolation of asymptomatic cases key to halting surge’||The surge in COVID-19 cases happening simultaneously across the State, contrary to the assumption that it would begin with Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and then escalate in Anantapur, East and West Godavari before slowly ending up with Vizag region, sometime in August or September, is a major concern. The surge in cases is, more or less, showing a similar trend across the State. East Godavari district recorded 1,000 cases per day in the last three to four days while Visakhapatnam district registered over 1,000 cases on July 22. The big challenge for the COVID hospitals is how to cope up with the increasing cases, said Dr. K. Rambabu, vice-chairman of the Association of Physicians of India (API) and Professor of Medicine, Andhra Medical College (AMC). Public cooperation “Hospital infrastructure is limited in East and West Godavari, Prakasam and Anantapur districts compared to Vizag, Guntur and Krishna districts. Asymptomatic cases are on the rise with about 80% of the patients showing no symptoms. It is here that public cooperation will play a great role in containing the spread of the virus. Those going out for work or to public places regularly should isolate themselves at home, even if they have the slightest suspicion,” he told The Hindu on Thursday. “This can happen if there are at least two separate rooms and separate toilets, so that the person concerned could be isolated in one room. At present, home isolation is estimated at a mere 5% and it should be increased to at least 15%,” he opined. Those who did not have an additional room or have mild symptoms could opt for Covid Care Centres (CCCs), where beds were arranged in open spaces like universities, with a doctor, nurses and medical staff in attendance. COVID Hospitals should be utilised only for patients with severe symptoms as they required ventilators and other facilities. “The State government has strengthened CCCs and there are now over 60,000 beds at such facilities in Andhra Pradesh. The load on COVID Hospitals will decrease if at least 60 to 70% go to the CCCs for treatment,” he says. “The limitations in RTPCR is that the sensitivity ranges between 63 and 70% and in Rapid Antigen Test it is 60%. The remaining cases are shown as negative for COVID-19. But, the negative cases are sometimes turning out to be positive. This is making us to prescribe CT scan and X-Ray test, in all doubtful negative cases with symptoms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isolation-of-asymptomatic-cases-key-to-halting-surge/article32177965.ece
24 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘3 crore saplings will be planted in district’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that over three crore saplings would be planted acrops the district in an effort to boost afforestation. The Minister was speaking at the 71st Vana Mahotsavam celebrations held on the Andhra University campus on Thursday. “Protection of the environment is vital for the survival of mankind. Planting trees will also help to dampen the damage caused by natural calamities such as cyclones. A total of 3.31 crore saplings will be planted in the district under the Vana Mahotsavam programme,” the Minister said. Two lakh house site pattas would also be distributed in the district and the beneficiaries would be given saplings, he said. Saplings will also be planted at 1,000 parks under the purview of the GVMC and the city would be transformed into a greenery hotspot, he said. ‘Committed to growth’ The Minister appealed to the public to observe physical distancing, wear masks and use sanitisers to check the spread of COVID-19. He said that the State Government was committed to the development of all regions in the State and said Rs. 45,000 crore on welfare measures so far. He released a booklet, that was brought out by the Forest Department, on the occasion. Andhra University Registrar Krishna Mohan, RDO P. Kishore and DFOs Lakshman and Anantasagar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-crore-saplings-will-be-planted-in-district/article32177980.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focused testing to continue||Aiming to flatten the COVID-19 curve, the district administration had launched an intensive and focussed testing drive on Tuesday. On the first day (Tuesday to Wednesday) the testing drive yielded the largest spike in the district with 1,049 positive cases and as per health officials, the count on the second day has exceeded 600 cases. And significantly, a majority of the cases were recorded from GVMC limits. The district has received around 10,000 rapid antigen kits and emphasis is being laid on testing all high-risk persons in the very active clusters. “We have about 107 very active clusters in the district and the focus is on testing all high-risk persons on a priority basis in these clusters,” said Collector V. Vinay Chand. It is learnt that another set of rapid antigen kits are on their way to the city and the drive will continue for the next one week. So far, from the first batch, 8,000 tests have been conducted in the first two days and over 1,600 have tested positive. The district administration aims to conduct 20,000 to 30,000 tests in the next few day and sources in the health department say that the district is going to witness even larger spikes in coming days. Community spread “The bright side is that we are covering a large chunk of suspect cases in the very active and active clusters. Once tested and treated, we are expecting to see a decline in cases,” said District COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College Dr. P.V. Sudhakar. The spike indicates that the community spread is at its peak, as out of 8,000 tests conducted in the last two days, over 1,600 tested positive. This indicates that about 20% of the population in containment zones have been affected. “This was predicted by ICMR and we are heading towards it. The best way to contain and control is by using the 3T strategy (trace-test-treat),” said Dr. Sudhakar. The death rate is low, at around 1.2 %, as the district has recorded 57 deaths till Wednesday night, Dr. Sudhakar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focused-testing-to-continue/article32177986.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI protests ‘growing attacks’ on Dalits||The CPI City Council staged a dharna at the Gandhi statue here in protest against the growing attacks on Dalits in the State. Addressing the gathering, city council assistant secretary S.K. Rehaman said that a YSR Congress Party leader had attacked a Dalit youth at Seetanagaram in East Godavari district, when he questioned rash driving by a lorry driver at a sand quarry. A policeman, who was supposed to protect the public, shaved the head of a Dalit youth at a police station. He sought stringent action on the accused to prevent the recurrence of such incidents. He also demanded stringent punishment of the guilty in the gang rape of a married woman in West Godavari district and action against the police, who severely beat up a youth in Prakasam district for not wearing a mask. The youth had died subsequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-protests-growing-attacks-on-dalits/article32177934.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commissioner visits COVID hotspot||Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena visited Kobbarithota area and interacted with the residents there. From Kobbarithota, 80 COVID-19 positive cases have been reported and already there has been 10 deaths. “This is a hotspot in the city and people are unaware about the health protocols. Our idea is to visit such places and create awareness on the various steps to be taken to check the spread of the virus, said Mr. Meena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-commissioner-visits-covid-hotspot/article32177935.ece
24 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitisation drive at Ukkunagaram||A fresh round of spraying of sodium hypochlorite, to check the spread of COVID-19, was organised by the BJP at Ukkunagaram, here on Thursday. MLC P.V.N. Madhav, who launched the programme, said that several rounds of sanitisation were already done by the party at Ukkunagaram since the lockdown was imposed. This had helped in containing the spread of the pandemic to some extent. This round was being done with more cases surfacing in the Steel Plant township. Mr. Madhav appealed to the public to remain cautious till a vaccine was available for the pandemic. He underlined the importance of hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing masks to check the spread of the virus. Later, he distributed masks and sanitiser to the people. Several BJP leaders attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanitisation-drive-at-ukkunagaram/article32177981.ece
24 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homoeopathic medicines given to railway staff||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway has taken several initiatives to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among the staff. Apart from distribution of masks and hand sanitisers, intensive sanitisation was carried out at various railway units, offices and colonies. Further, an initiative was taken to distribute homoeopathic medicine to all the railway staff in the Division, as advised by AYUSH. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar distributed the medicines to commercial staff in the presence of DCM Ashok Rao, ACM/PRO Vijay Kumaar and ACM PP Sinha at the Divisional Railway Manager’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/homoeopathic-medicines-given-to-railway-staff/article32177978.ece
24 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union leader passes away||The CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee has expressed shock at the death of Port CITU leader Nunela Srinivas, who died at KGH late on Wednesday night. In a condolence message, City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao said that apart from fighting for the rights of workers at the port, Srinivasa Rao was also a poet. He expressed condolences to the bereaved family members. In a separate release, Sahiti Sravanthi president A.V. Ramana Roa and honorary president S. Ramanachalam expressed shock over Srinivasa Rao’s death. They said that he had endeared himself to the working class with his poetry on their travails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-leader-passes-away/article32177982.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kidnapped boy traced within 2 days||A two-year-old boy who was kidnapped from the city on July 21, was traced from Phool Bagh Colony in Vizianagaram on Thursday. Police also arrested three persons in the case. The accused have been identified as Patan Salman Khan, Sk. Subhani and Bandaru Roshan Raja. Police said that Roshan Raja has an aunt who is childless, and she had expressed her desire to adopt a child. On July 21, the trio had come to Visakhapatnam in an auto-rickshaw and after visiting Raja’s mother-in-law, they went to the APSRTC Complex to have food. There, they noticed a homeless couple along with their two-year-old son named Ganesh. They waited till late night, and kidnapped Ganesh and fled. Based on a complaint, police took up an investigation. Using CCTV footage, police identified the registration number of the auto-rickshaw and traced it to the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kidnapped-boy-traced-within-2-days/article32177988.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally rises to 5,165||The number of COVID-19 cases rose to 5,165 in the district on Thursday, with the city recording 1,733 cases in the last two days (1,049 on Wednesday and 684 on Thursday). The number of active cases is 2,904 while discharges stand at 2,200. The district also recorded six deaths in the last two days, with the death toll going up to 61. District COVID-19 Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar said there are 119 active clusters and 293 active clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-rises-to-5165/article32177989.ece
24 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Club donates van to old age home||Rotary Club Visakha Port City donated a 7-seater utility van worth Rs. 5.10 lakh on Thursday to Loyola Old Age Home, Pendurthi. Rotary Club president, Capt. R.S. Kali Prasad, said the van would help transport patients from Loyola Old Age Home to nearby hospitals for emergency medical treatment. The management of the old age home thanked Rotary Club Visakha Port City, Visakha Port City Charitable Trust and Rotary District 3020 for their gesture of donating the van.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-donates-van-to-old-age-home/article32177987.ece
24 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advantage Vizianagaram, say experts||Vizianagaram district will get many government offices if Visakhapatnam is made the Executive Capital of the State, say experts, and cite the plan to develop 500 acres of land near the upcoming Bhogapuram international airport as a clear pointer to the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s thinking. The TDP government had acquired 2,700 acres for the development of a green field airport. However, the YSRCP government allotted only 2,200 acres to the GMR Group retaining the rest with it. Strategic concept plan  The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has been asked to okay the strategic concept plan for optimum utilisation of land near Bhogapuram and it has reportedly selected a Gujarat-based organisation for consultancy services. The organisation is expected to submit its report very soon. According to sources, in the absence of sufficient land bank at one place in Visakhapatnam limits, the government might utilise the 500-acre parcel. In such a scenario, the Bhogapuram area, just 35 km from Visakhapatnam and 15 km from Vizianagaram, will turn into a major economic hub and lead to the development of a mega capital in future. AP Chambers former president G. Sambasiva Rao feels that A.P. will be able to compete with States such as like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnakata and Telangana in development only if it has a mega city. “Once the Visakhapatnam-Vizianagaram belt is developed, investments will start flowing into the North Andhra region,” he added. Confederation of Indian Industries-AP Vice-Chairman Datla Tirupathi Raju says Vizianagaram will join the league of developed districts in the near future with the reorganisation of districts and establishment of Executive Capital in Visakhapatnam. “Many more government offices are likely to come up in the Visakhapatnam-Vizianagaram belt. It will pave the way for development besides bringing administration closer to all sections of people,” he added. Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce president-elect Kapuganti Prakash says: “As Visakhapatnam has reached the saturation point, the real growth story is hidden in Vizianagaram district. Its proximity to Visakhapatnam and industrial zones at Kothavalasa and Pydibhimavaram will spur rapid development.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/advantage-vizianagaram-say-experts/article32177972.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infection count in E. Godavari goes up by 5,565 in a week||East Godavari district has reported a whopping 5,565 coronavirus cases within a week, with the highest ever single-day spike of 1,391 cases by Thursday morning. The virus has spread to 76 locations, even as Rajamahendravaram and Kakinada cities remaining the hotspots in the district. “The highest single-day spike of 351 COVID cases have been reported in Rajamahendravaram alone, while 264 people have been tested positive in Kakinada city during the last 24 hours,” said the health bulletin issued by the authorities on Thursday morning. Toll mounts to 96 With the new cases, the tally has gone up to 10,038 and the total number of deaths has been put at 96. With the sharp rise in the infection count, the district administration is strengthening the health infrastructure. As part of the move, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy inaugurated a 2,000-bed COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Bodasakurru in Amalapuram revenue division on Thursday. The APTIDCO buildings have also been converted into COVID Care Centre to cater to the needs of the patients. “At least 5,000 beds at two COVID Care Centres have been allocated to the patients in the district. In the first stage, the patients are being admitted to the CCC,” a statement quoted the Collector as saying. Action against discrimination Mr. Muralidhar Reddy has warned of stringent actions against those who discriminate the government staff on COVID duty in any form, including not allowing them to enter their own houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infection-count-in-e-godavari-goes-up-by-5565-in-a-week/article32177941.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||People hiding cold, fever fearing stigma||Even as the COVID-19 cases continue to surge by the day, people suffering from common fever, cold and cough in Vizianagaram district are growing hesitant to approach a doctor, fearing the stigma surrounding the virus. The officials say that people are hiding even common fever, fearing that they would face a social boycott. ‘No need to panic’ Saying that fever and common cold are quite common in the rainy season, especially in July and August, Vizianagaram District Medical Officer J. Ravikumar urged the people not to panic and consult a doctor without hesitation. “Loss of taste and smell are the immediate symptoms of coronavirus and people with those symptoms must undergo COVID-19 tests,” says Dr. Ravikumar. Referring to case reported from Bobbili in which a person died of heart stroke after learning that he had contracted the infection, Dr. Ravikumar says people who have been tested positive are recovering at Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), a designated COVID hospital, at Nellimarla. Services of the designated private COVID-19 hospitals would be utilised when the bed strength at the MIMS hospital and COVID Care Center at JNTU College will fall short to accommodate the patients. ‘2,000 beds available’ “We have identified private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment in view of the sharp rise in the cases. However, there is no need to take their support immediately as around 2,000 beds are available at present,” says Dr. Ravikumar. Meanwhile, Lok Satta leader Bhisetti Babji has urged the government to allow private hospitals to admit COVID-19 patients under the Aarogyasri scheme. Aarogyasri scheme “The State government is spending a huge amount of money on the Aarogyasri scheme. But, many private hospitals are unwilling to admit COVID patients saying that the government package is not adequate. The government should hold talks with private hospitals and find a solution as the available beds would not be sufficient in the coming days,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-hiding-cold-fever-fearing-stigma/article32177945.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag illusionist takes part in American reality show||B.S. Reddy from Visakhapatnam has become the first Indian illusionist to perform in the reality show ‘Penn & Teller: Fool Us’ which is telecast on the WCCW, an American television channel, a statement said here on Thursday. The show, which was shot before the lockdown, features magicians from across the globe performing tricks in front of American magician-comedian duo Penn and Teller. Mr. Reddy impressed Mr. Penn and Mr. Teller with his ‘watermelon surgery’ trick in the seventh season of the reality show. The episode was shot at the Penn & Teller Theatre in Las Vegas, U.S.A. Mr. Reddy, who has established Indian Magic Academy in Visakhapatnam, has received accolades from across the globe. His act from the ‘Penn & Teller: Fool Us’ show can be watched on YouTube Link: https://youtu.be/ZyqUyu3RARg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-illusionist-takes-part-in-american-reality-show/article32177967.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garuda Panchami fete on July 25||The annual Garuda Panchami celebrations will be organised at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala on June 25, amid restrictions imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. COVID protocols The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to confine the festival to the inner precincts of the temple and celebrate it in private (ekantham) between 5 p.m and 6 p.m. All the COVID-19 protocols will be strictly followed while performing the rituals. It is believed that propitiating the Lord on this auspicious day bestows the newly weds with healthy progeny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/garuda-panchami-fete-on-july-25/article32177946.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushed to the wall!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pushed-to-the-wall/article32177528.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Too close for comfort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/too-close-for-comfort/article32177991.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caught unawares||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caught-unawares/article32177964.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helping-hand/article32177977.ece
24 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Heavy inflows into Kinnerasani reservoir||The Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Bhadrachalam, Project Officer, P Gowtham on Thursday inspected the operation of the crest gates and flood alert system at the Kinnerasani reservoir in Palvancha mandal. Accompanied by the engineers concerned, Mr Gowtham visited the reservoir, which reached 405 feet against the full reservoir level of 407 feet on Thursday. Heavy rain in the catchment areas of Kinnerasani river brought significant inflows into the reservoir. As many as two crest gates of the reservoir were lifted to discharge surplus water downstream earlier in the day. The operating staff of the dam apprised Mr Gowtham of the operational aspects,including the maintenance of the dam, the crest gates management, the system of dissemination of flood alert information, the mandatory procedure before opening of crest gates for the discharge of flood downstream, among others, sources said. He asked the operating staff of the dam to ensure strict implementation of the safety measures governing the release of excess water from the reservoir downstream to prevent potential hazards to people living in the riverside habitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-inflows-into-kinnerasani-reservoir/article32177773.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cipla’s affordable COVID drug may hit the shelves in a week||Anti-viral and off-patent drug Favipiravir, which has shown promise in clinical trials for treatment of mild and moderate COVID-19 patients, will soon be available in large quantities and at a more affordable price with Indian pharmaceutical giant Cipla likely to release the product into the market within a week. Council of Scientific & Industrial Research announced on Thursday that Favipiravir was originally discovered by Fuji (Japan) but the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) here developed a cost-effective process using locally available chemicals to synthesise the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) and transferred the technology to Cipla in April. Cipla has now scaled up the process in its manufacturing facility and has approached the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for permission to launch the product in the country. Since DCGI has given restricted emergency use for Favipiravir already, Cipla will be launching the product to help patients suffering from COVID-19, according to top scientists. “The technology provided by us is very efficient and makes it affordable. It allows Cipla to make large quantities of the product within a short span of time,” said CSIR-IICT director S. Chandrashekar. CSIR director-general Shekhar C. Mande observed that the CSIR had been working with the industry in developing quick solutions for mitigation of COVID and partnership with Cipla was an example of how CSIR was committed to bringing ‘repurposed’ drugs on fast track. Top scientists shared that the Favipiravir had been used successfully on coronavirus patients in China, Japan and South Korea to bring down the viral load. It was in March that the CSIR-IICT had entered into a pact with Cipla to manufacture three promising chemical compounds with anti-viral properties to make the APIs. Cipla chairman Y.K. Hamied took the initiative and had sought CSIR-IICT help in making APIs for Favipiravir, Remidesivir and Bolaxavir, so that the pharma company could go for the next phase of trials, regulatory approvals and mass production of these anti-viral drugs. Dr. Chandrasekhar had then explained that scientists had narrowed down 15 compounds which had passed toxicology reports for making anti-viral drugs and the above mentioned belong to that category of drugs discovered in the last few years. But they were halted after clinical trials due to lack of demand. The CSIR-IICT modern Kilo Lab has been utilised by the scientists to develop the APIs and a small portion is given to the drug firm to follow up with its bio-equivalence testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ciplas-affordable-covid-drug-may-hit-the-shelves-in-a-week/article32177758.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID patients should get 24x7 attention: Eatala||The State government has exhorted medical authorities, especially superintendents of hospitals where COVID patients are being treated, to gear up and provide treatment on a 24x7 basis and ensure that those infected recover fast. Health Minister Eatala Rajender accompanied by Health secretary Murtaza Rizvi and other senior officials, conducted a video conference on Thursday with superintendents of hospitals to review the facilities and treatment being provided to patients suffering from COVID-19. He advised doctors and other personnel concerned not to leave anything to chance, as there was no scope for adopting a negligent attitude in providing treatment. The Minister was particular about speedy diagnosis of the ailment so that steps could be taken to save lives. “Steps should be taken to set up isolation centres and ensure that necessary manpower, including sanitation workers, lab technicians, patient care providers and nursing staff, are deployed after duly obtaining permission from the government,” he said. “Since oxygen is a key element in treating COVID-19 patients, the government has decided to supply the required oxygen cylinders. It is the responsibility of the medical personnel to instil confidence among patients. Unlike in normal times, when patients are accompanied by attendants, coronavirus patients will have none. The medical personnel should therefore take adequate care of such patients like family members and instil confidence in them,” he said. “There should be enough health staff to cover three shifts to provide round-the-clock service to patients. These teams should have personnel with commitment who are prepared to respond any time. There is no scope for negligence in this regard,” he averred. Mr. Rajender also said that the government was committed to provide facilities at all hospitals across the State on a par with Gandhi Hospital. “Hospitals in Sircilla, Nagarkurnool, Miryalaguda and other places will have the same facilities,” he said. The Health secretary wanted the officials to think about all dimensions on preparedness as “there is no scope for escape”. “Identify the bottlenecks and measures that should be taken to remove them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-patients-should-get-24x7-attention-eatala/article32177763.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘OGH closed for public to prevent trespassing’||Top health officials have denied that the iconic in-patient ward of Osmania General Hospital (OGH) was sealed in the wake of its recent flooding with rain water but asserted that it was only closed for public to prevent trespassing or any anti-social activities. Addressing a press conference, Director of Medical Education (DME) K. Ramesh Reddy and Director of Public Health (DPH) G. Srinivasa Rao said that the entire building was now vacated and not in use. ‘Govt. to take a call’ It is up to the government to decide on future plans, they said on Thursday. Dr. Ramesh Reddy said that an internal circular of the department to take steps to vacate the building had conveyed a wrong impression that it was being sealed. He added that flooding of the building with rain water was caused by a storm water drain passing underneath, which developed a clogging due to garbage dumping in adjacent Begum Bazaar. Water that gushed out of a manhole that opened up ahead of the clogging entered the wards. Blockage cleared The blockage was cleared and in spite of heavy rain on Thursday, there were no such scenes again. Dr. Reddy added that about 450 patients, who were under treatment in the building, were shifted to a newly-constructed shed on top of the out-patient block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ogh-closed-for-public-to-prevent-trespassing/article32177754.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City soaks in rain; heavy rain forecast for State||The city received extensive rains across the localities on Thursday, starting from early in the morning. The rain which began at about 6 a.m., lasted for more than three to four hours, with varying intensities across different areas. As per the data available from the automatic weather stations installed in various localities up to 7 a.m. Begum Bazaar area received the highest rainfall at four centimetres, followed by Gowliguda, Uppal, Peerzadiguda, Dabeerpura, Sardar Mahal, Osmania University, Narayanguda, Khairatabad, Ramnagar, Ramantapur, Padmarao Nagar, among several other localities. Post 7 a.m. too, the rainfall was augmented by about one to two centimetres across localities up to 4 p.m. The Meteorology Department has attributed the rain to formation of low pressure area from Chhattisgarh up to South Tamil Nadu over Telangana and Coastal Andhra Pradesh. A weather warning was issued for the next two days, portending heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places all over Telangana. Also, there will be likelihood of thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-soaks-in-rain-heavy-rain-forecast-for-state/article32177764.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paradigm shift in industry under KTR||The State has witnessed a paradigm shift in its efforts to attract investments into core sectors like Information Technology ever since its formation on June 2, 2014. Innovative policies in the IT space led by Minister K.T. Rama Rao have ensured that infrastructure is created in all corners of the State while the Ministry turned proactive in providing complete assistance to the companies that came forward to set up their units in these places. As a result of these consistent efforts, IT giant Apple inaugurated its largest development centre outside the US while another Tech major Google invested Rs. 1,000 crore to establish its south Asia’s biggest development centre in two million sq.ft facility. Another major company Amazon opened its biggest campus in the State capital while Uber had committed investments to the tune of US $ 50 million to establish a state-of-the-art facility. In addition to the IT sector, the government also focused on the other industries with value propositions. Firm on his belief that the State is geared up to offer strong value proposition to the apparel and textile industry, Mr. Rama Rao, holding the Industries portfolio, ensured that investments are channelled into high quality infrastructure through textile and apparel parks, including the Kakatiya Integrated Mega Textile Park at Warangal. The development complements the State’s progress on the aerospace and defence sectors where it emerged as hub for research and development activities. Some major initiatives of the government, considered by the brainchild of Mr. Rama Rao include the TS-iPASS through which clearances had been accorded to 12,021 firms with an estimated Rs. 1.96 lakh crore investment and offering employment potential of 1.39 lakh. GRID, Growth in Dispersion is one among the other major initiatives of the government aimed at promoting growth of the IT sector across the State capital while the Industrial Health Clinic was another unique concept that had given relief to the industrial units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paradigm-shift-in-industry-under-ktr/article32177771.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP seeks full-fledged facilities at TIMS||Telangana BJP on Thursday urged the government to provide full-fledged facilities in the newly-opened Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli for treatment to COVID patients. A three-member team led by MLC and city president N. Ramachander Rao visited the hospital and inquired about the facilities being provided. Expressing dissatisfaction over inadequate facilities, the team observed that though “it was a good project converting the sports complex into a COVID-19 centre, the government has failed to provide adequate facilities even as positive cases are increasing day by day”. The MLC urged the government to immediately recruit more doctors and para-medical staff on a regular basis to provide better services to patients as only 125 doctors, including staff appointed on a contract basis, are currently working there. He pointed out that the hospital has a capacity of 1,260 beds, but only 42 patients were admitted now. “The hospital should be utilised fully to reduce the burden on Gandhi Hospital, Chest Hospital and King Koti Hospital,” said Mr. Rao and also expressed his concern over doctors and other healthcare workers not being provided with sufficient personal protective equipment. The BJP called upon the government to take more measures for their safety as it would boost their morale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-seeks-full-fledged-facilities-at-tims/article32177755.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC to decide on media coverage of Secretariat demolition today||The Telangana High Court is likely to pass orders today (Friday) in a writ petition filed by a journalist seeking direction to the State government to permit coverage of demolition of Secretariat buildings by media. Justice Challa Kodandaram of the HC on Thursday, hearing arguments for the second consecutive day, adjourned the hearing to Friday (today). While Advocate General B.S. Prasad contended that journalists were not being permitted to cover the demolition keeping in mind their safety, the petitioner’s counsel Vasireddy Naveen argued that not permitting media amounted to stifling democracy. Contending that the government was intentionally dilly-dallying on taking a final call on allowing the media to cover the demolition work, Mr. Naveen appealed to the judge to pass interim orders on the matter. However, the AG sought time till Monday to secure specific instructions from the government and announce its stand on the matter. The petitioner’s lawyer, presenting his contention, sought to know if Secretariat building demolition was a public or a private affair. The AG took objection over the query saying the counsel was going beyond purview of the writ petition. Mr. Naveen contended that since restricting media from covering the demolition work involved infringement of fundamental rights including the freedom of press, it was a public affair. Referring to the AG’s contention that government was reluctant to allow journalists to the demolition site keeping their safety in mind, Mr. Naveen wondered how the GHMC allowed media while demolishing huge unauthorised structures. The petitioner’s counsel also argued that authorities cautioned people living in the vicinity of Secretariat buildings not to click pictures or record videos of demolishing Secretariat buildings. As the AG sought time till Monday, Mr. Naveen said the AG had already claimed 90% of the demolition work was over. By Monday, there would be open land in the place of Secretariat buildings and nothing would be left for the media to cover the demolition work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-to-decide-on-media-coverage-of-secretariat-demolition-today/article32177766.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||13 social welfare college students secure admission in TISS||Thirteen social welfare degree college students and one student from tribal welfare degree college shined in the national level entrance exam being conducted by Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai. The students of the welfare degree colleges proved their mettle in the entrance exam and personal interviews. Selected students will pursue post-graduation in courses like women studies, natural resources and governance, public policy and governance, education and social innovation & entrepreneurship. The remarkable journey of these students from humble family backgrounds to the top-notch higher learning institutions in the country has been made possible with the support of the government of Telangana. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao established 45 welfare degree colleges exclusively for marginalised women which has not been taken up in any other State,” said Secretary, TSWREIS & TTWREIS R.S. Praveen Kumar. These degree colleges for women have been liberating marginalised women from early marriages and perpetual dependency. An effort has been made to bridge the gulf between the curriculum and actual job requirements and imparting skills needed for jobs and enterprises, he explained. In the last few years, several students have been joining premier universities like Azim Premji, Krea, Flame and Ashoka, a sign of social and educational transformation. He thanked Ministers Koppula Eeshwar and Sathyvathi Rathod for their support to the cause of career progress of marginalised women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/13-social-welfare-college-students-secure-admission-in-tiss/article32177768.ece
24 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man found dead||A 75-year-old former Air India employee was found dead near a private hospital at Srinagar Colony on Thursday. The victim, R. Nagender, a COVID-19 suspect, was undergoing treatment at Nikhil Hospital since Wednesday. He committed suicide by jumping from the hospital building, police said.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-dead/article32177761.ece
24 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||New revenue division for better administration: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said formation of a new revenue divisions is aimed at bringing administration closer to people and thereby serving them better. The Minister inaugurated the new revenue division office of Andol-Jogipet, and new mandal headquarters office of Choutkur on Thursday along with Lok Sabha MP B.B. Patil, Zilla Parishad chairperson P Manju Sree, MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran and Collector M. Hanumantha Rao among others. “With the formation of new revenue divisions, close monitoring of developmental works is taking place in the State. Andol-Jogipet is 74th revenue division in the State. Previously it was RDO in Sangareddy - responsible for entire division. Now, we have formed three revenue divisions Zaheerabad, Narayanakhed and Andol-Jogipet,” said Mr. Rao, adding that people can access Revenue officials more easily. “The administration has come closer to people and there is transparency in every aspect. We have also inaugurated Chotakur mandal headquarters, and it is 590th mandal in the State. In the past, we used to have 459 mandals, 151 new mandals were established after formation of Telangana,” said the Minister. Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer T. Ravi took over as in-charge for the revenue division. The Minister also visited Narinjavagu near Zaheerabad and laid foundation stone for works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-revenue-division-for-better-administration-harish/article32177772.ece
24 July 2020||Bhopal,||FIR against seven for killing man||The Niwari police have registered a case against seven men for reportedly killing a 35-year-old motorcycle dealer on Wednesday evening. “It was a case of old rivalry between the two sides,” claimed Karanpal Singh, in-charge of Sendari police station under whose limits Sunil Tiwari was reportedly thrashed with sticks, his feet crushed under a jeep. “Gunshots were also fired. But whether the victim was also hit will be revealed in the post-mortem report.” While the victim’s brother told reporters he worked as a journalist for a Hindi daily, Mr. Singh claimed he owned only a motorcycle agency and wasn’t a journalist. Sunil was returning along with his brother on motorcycles when they were waylaid by the group led by one Awadesh Tiwari near Putri Khera village at 6.30 p.m.. “He succumbed to injuries at the Jhansi hospital in Uttar Pradesh where he was taken by his family,” said Mr. Singh. The case has been registered under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The police claimed both the sides had a property dispute and quarrelled over administering a traditional form of treatment for jaundice at a local temple. Superintendent of Police Vahni Singh told reporters the land dispute was resolved by revenue and police officials on July 14. “It was found the land claimed by Sunil Tiwari was not his, and he had accepted it,” she said. Awadesh had a criminal background and had more than 10 cases against him, said the SP.  Video message Days before the incident, Sunil in a video message shared on the social media claimed he had received death threats from Awadesh and others for a year. “They are threatening to kill me and my family, and have demanded a Rs. 5 lakh ransom,” he said in the purported video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fir-against-seven-for-killing-man/article32177711.ece
24 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal won’t allow any tinkering with MSP: Badal||The Shiromani Akali Dal president and former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister, Sukhbir Singh Badal, on Thursday said the party would not allow any tinkering with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and assured marketing of wheat and paddy crop. Mr. Badal accused the Congress party of playing cheap politics on the issue by misleading farmers. “Despite promising in its 2017 Assembly election party manifesto that it would amend the APMC Act, the Congress party is now playing politics on this issue by misleading farmers that the MSP and assured marketing system would end,” alleged the Akali Dal chief. He added: “This is furthest from the truth. The SAD is a party of farmers. We understand the problems of farmers and have always fought for their rights. Let me assure our farmers that the SAD will not stand for any discrimination against them. We will not allow anyone to tinker with the MSP and assured marketing policy now or anytime in the future also.” Mr. Badal, addressing a virtual press conference, announced that he would take up the issue in Parliament and take an assurance from the Centre that the MSP and assured marketing of cropswould not be tinkered with in any manner whatsoever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/akali-dal-wont-allow-any-tinkering-with-msp-badal/article32177707.ece
24 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Clerics find few answers in U.P. govt.’s Id guidelines||The Uttar Pradesh government’s advisory on the upcoming Id-ul-Zuha has drawn mixed reactions from clerics and political leaders. Ashraf Usmani, the spokesperson of Darul Uloom Deoband, said there was very little that was new in the guidelines and described the advisory as “unclear”. The advisory has come after the Vice-Chancellor of the seminary had written to the U.P. Chief Minister requesting him to allow prayers at Idgahs and animal sacrifice on Id-ul-Zuha. “We welcome certain points but they are there every year. Animal sacrifice in open spaces is not encouraged in Islam nor do we appreciate the transportation of meat without taking care of the hygiene. We also advise taking into account sentiments of other religions. However, there is still confusion over prayers at Idgahs,” he said. Mr. Usmani said “on the one hand the advisory suggests Muslims offer namaz at home but on the other it also says that the police should ensure that any animal does not enter the Idgah during prayers. So, it is open to interpretation”.  ‘What is the logic?’ “I don’t understand when we are in the stage of unlocking where malls could open, wine shops could function with preventive measures, why can’t animal markets function during festival or places of worship welcome devotees with social distancing,” the spokesperson said. He reminded that the seminary had issued guidelines during Ramzan where it was clarified that during the jamaat (congregational prayers), those praying were not expected to stand shoulder to shoulder because of the pandemic.  Advice rejected Mr. Usmani also rejected the advice that people could do charity in place of animal sacrifice. He said in Islam, one could not be done at the cost of the other. “Both zakat [charity] and animal sacrifice have their space in the religion.” Senior cleric Maulana Kari Ishaq Gora demanded clarification on whether the government’s order on weekend lockdown would hold during the three-day festival. This year Id-ul-Zuha could fall on August 1 (Saturday), depending on the sighting of the moon. Earlier Shafiqur Rehman Barq, the Samajwadi Party MP from Sambhal, had demanded the opening of Idgahs and shops during the festival. Senior Ghaziabad-based social activist Zahiruddin, who has been associated with socialist parties in the past, said Islam puts country before religion in the time of a pandemic and Muslims would follow the guidelines issued by the government as they have been doing all along. “But the government should be equal towards all religions. Every now and then, we come across videos of large-scale gatherings for weddings and festivals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/clerics-find-few-answers-in-up-govts-id-guidelines/article32177709.ece
24 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||MLA demands list of ‘notorious’ policemen||The social media was abuzz on Wednesday morning when the Bareilly police tweeted from their official handle that under directions of the DIG, Bareilly range, they were creating a list of notorious policemen in the region. The tweet was in response to a letter tweeted by local BJP MLA Rajesh Mishra wherein he demanded that on the lines of the top 10 notorious criminals in a district, a list of dreaded policemen should also be made. The list should be put at the police stations and published in newspapers. Mr. Mishra said after the Vikas Dubey case, it was clear that some policemen were hand in glove with criminals and they should be acted against. Rajesh Pandey, DIG, Bareilly range admitted the language used in the police tweet was not up to the mark. “The word kukhyat (notorious) should not have been used for policemen,” he said, adding had that been the case, they would have been dismissed by now. “Somebody tweeted it without realising that the language was inappropriate.” “When the MLA came to me, I had told him what he was demanding was already in place. In Bareilly range alone, 12 policemen are being proceeded against under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Out of these, eight are of sub-inspector level.” After the Vikas Dubey case, Mr. Pandey said fresh guidelines were issued by the DGP and they were being followed. “I don’t know what the MLA had in mind. I should have guessed when he turned up in my office with a photographer,” he said. By the evening, the tweet was unavailable at the official handle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mla-demands-list-of-notorious-policemen/article32177712.ece
24 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Notice to Darul Uloom over library construction||The sub-divisional magistrate of Deoband has again issued a notice to the Vice-Chancellor of Darul Uloom regarding submission of papers and maps of an under-construction library inside the seminary. The notice was first issued in January 2020 and SDM Rakesh Kumar has said the university officials hadn’t submitted the papers despite reminders. The issue came to light in August 2019 when a local Bajrang Dal leader had complained to the Chief Minister’s Office that official permission was not taken before adding structures to the existing building and construction of new structures and had alleged that a helipad was being built on its top. Seminary spokesperson Ashraf Usmani claimed the officials keep sending such notices under the pressure of some local leaders. “We could not submit the requisite papers because of the lockdown. We will soon send a detailed reply,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/notice-to-darul-uloom-over-library-construction/article32177713.ece
24 July 2020||Mumbai,||Minister asks health sciences varsity to postpone its exams||State Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh on Thursday asked Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to defer examinations of its medical courses in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Nashik-based State university has announced holding examinations in August. This is in continuation with the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s stand of avoiding examinations in view of the rising novel coronavirus cases in the State. Mr. Deshmukh has asked MUHS vice-chancellor Deelip Mhaisekar to postpone the examinations, saying holding them during the pandemic is not in the interest of students. The minister said, “First and second year students will be allowed to study the next year’s curriculum and their final-year examinations and all other non-certifying tests will be deferred till further notice. The internship of final-year students will be started and their examinations will be conducted only after the COVID-19 spread is contained.” The minister said postgraduate students reside on campuses and hence their exams can be conducted. The entrance examination of their courses is slated for September 15. State’s Higher Education department is already involved in a row with the University Grants Commission over holding final-year exams in non-agriculture universities. Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena, has also approached the Supreme Court against the decision and has received support from other constituents of the MVA government. Set up in 1998, MUHS is focused on teaching, training and research in modern medicine and Indian systems of medicine. It offers courses in allopathy, dental, nursing, homoeopathy, unani, and ayurveda streams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/minister-asks-health-sciences-varsity-to-postpone-its-exams/article32177844.ece
24 July 2020||Mumbai,||State allows online classes for pre-primary students||In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has permitted online classes for pre-primary students and for Classes I and II, with a daily 30-minute session five days a week. Last month, the pre-primary students and Classes I and II were left out in the government’s decision to start online classes from June 15. But, in its latest order issued on Wednesday, the government has asked schools to conduct online sessions for all classes from pre-primary till Class XII. The pre-primary classes will be conducted daily from Monday to Friday for 30 minutes in which teachers will interact with parents of students. For Classes I and II, there will be two sessions of total 30 minutes. The first 15-minute session will be for interaction and training of parents and the second session will be of activity-based learning for students. The State has decided to give a second chance to students who have failed in the exams of Classes IX and XI, and directed schools to conduct their oral examination on August 7. A government resolution issued on Monday said those who clear the oral examination should be admitted to Classes X and XII for the academic year 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-allows-online-classes-for-pre-primary-students/article32177845.ece
24 July 2020||Nagpur,||Conservation, preservation key to Lonar lake development: HC||The development of Lonar lake, which recently turned pink, also includes conservation and preservation of the water body, the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court has said, emphasising the need to “appreciate its biology, geology and aesthetic value”.A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor made the observation on Wednesday while hearing a petition filed by one Kirti Nipankar, raising concerns over the change in colour of the lake’s water. The oval-shaped Lonar lake, believed to have formed after a meteorite hit the earth some 50,000 years ago, is a popular tourist hub in Buldhana district of Maharashtra. The colour of the lake water recently turned pink, which has not only surprised locals, but also nature enthusiasts and scientists. Advocate C.S. Kaptan, a member of the court-appointed committee set up to look into the issue, told the court that the State government has till date sanctioned around Rs. 91 crore to the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation for the development of the lake and the area surrounding it. Mr. Kaptan argued that though these funds are available, they are not properly utilised. The court then noted that the concept of development of the Lonar crater lake would include the core issue of preservation and if the lake is conserved for posterity, only then its development will have a meaning. “But, if the development of Lonar crater lake and its surroundings takes place without any care for conservation of the lake, a time will come when development would be like a home without children in it, like a ghost structure without any life force in it, and there would remain nothing more to build, develop and enjoy as the crater lake, the very heart beat of the development, would have gone away,” it said. “Development, as we understand in the matter, is only in the context of conservation of the lake and appreciation of the beauty of the crater lake, its biology, geology and aesthetic value,” the court added. The Bench noted that various agencies like the State Public Works Department (PWD), forest department, Buldhana Municipal Council, Archaeological Survey of India, and the National Highway Authority of India are involved in the issue. “All these authorities must sit together and sort out various issues which are interlinked and interconnected with each of these departments so that what comes out of such effort would only ensure the benefit of the lake,” the court said. It accepted the suggestion made by Mr. Kaptan and the petitioners lawyer Anand Parchure to appoint a nodal officer who would act as an umbrella authority for all these agencies. “Accordingly, we appoint the Collector of Buldhana to be the nodal authority for overseeing, supervising, undertaking and ensuring the completion of all works related to the preservation, conservation and development of the Lonar crater lake,” the court directed. The Bench said all proposals related to the lake shall be forwarded to the nodal authority. In its order, the court noted that as per reports submitted by the Geological Survey of India and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), the change in the lake water colour has occurred on account of natural reasons and the factors responsible for it are dunaliella algae and halo bacteria. The Bench has posted the petition for further hearing on August 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/conservation-preservation-key-to-lonar-lake-development-hc/article32177705.ece
24 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man with 8 kg poppy straw drug arrested||A special squad of the Navi Mumbai Police has arrested a man from Rajasthan and seized poppy straw drug weighing eight kg from him. The accused, identified as Sunil Balwanta Ram Bishnoi (28), was arrested on Wednesday evening from Kopri village in Vashi. “Based on information, we laid a trap at Kopri village. At the time of his arrest, he was in possession of 0.312 gram of the drug. Later, we raided his residence at Sector 26 in Vashi where we found a polythene bag containing 7.690 kg of the drug,” assistant police inspector Gangadhar Devde from APMC police station, who is part of the special squad, said. Mr. Bishnoi, who is originally from Rajasthan, has been staying in Vashi for the last three years, and was working as a cylinder delivery man for an HP gas agency. During interrogation, he revealed that he had brought the drug from Rajasthan one month ago, and he was trying to sell it. He had travelled from Rajasthan to Navi Mumbai using an e-pass and brought the drug hidden in his bag. He further told the police that the drug had reached Rajasthan from Afghanistan via Pakistan. “It is a rare drug found in the Indian market. The ‘high’ that is derived from this drug is more than most of the other drugs and is popular among truck drivers as ‘bukki’, which helps them stay awake and alert,” an officer attached to the anti-narcotics unit of the Navi Mumbai police said. “We are trying to bust the chain of drug peddlers attached to this case,” Pankaj Dahane, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-with-8-kg-poppy-straw-drug-arrested/article32177846.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT pulls up Haryana govt. over waiver||The Haryana government was pulled up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for granting extension of time to stone crushers who operated in close proximity to educational institutions in violation of environmental norms. “The State has no discretion to waive compliance and is bound by the Public Trust Doctrine to enforce environmental norms,” the NGT said. Taking note of a May 19 order granting extension of time to stone crushers, issued by the State government, the NGT Bench added that the “said waiver was against the principle of sustainable development.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ngt-pulls-up-haryana-govt-over-waiver/article32177708.ece
24 July 2020||Pune,||Mega COVID-19 facility to come up in Pune by mid-August||The Pune district administration on Thursday said that a jumbo COVID-19 care facility proposed in the city’s Balewadi area was likely to come up by mid-August. Stating that the 10-day lockdown in the district, which ended on Thursday, had helped identify COVID-19 cases, Saurabh Rao, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at the Divisional Commissioner’s office, said the 800-bed facility would ease the shortage of beds in hospitals. He also said that the district was currently testing the maximum number of samples in the country. “This jumbo facility will have 200 ICU and 600 oxygen beds. We expect the process to be completed between August 15 and 20. In the last ten days, taking advantage of the lockdown, the Pune civic body has managed to prepare 4,000 beds (non-oxygen). We have also increased the capacities in Dalvi, Naidu and Sassoon hospitals. As many as 70 ICU beds will be added at Sassoon tomorrow and by July 31, the hospital will have 870 beds, up from its present capacity of 220,” said Mr. Rao. Mr. Rao and District Collector Naval Kishore Ram clarified that a major data discrepancy between the medical bulletin issued daily by the State Public Health Department and the district administration had led to widespread confusion that the number of active cases in Pune were far higher. As per district administration data, Pune has 61,944 cases of whom 23,100 were active, while the health department data puts this figure at over 40,000. “This discrepancy is primarily due to errors in data entry. A number of private hospitals are not updating their data after discharge of patients, due to which a large number of patients get reflected as ‘active’ in the State medical bulletin. As this is a decentralised system, faulty information is going into the ICMR website, which is connected via ‘facility apps’,” Mr. Ram clarified, adding that the Pune civic body authorities were working to set the error right and the matter would be resolved in a couple of days. The district, which has been witnessing daily case surges of more than 2,000 in the last 10 days, reported 2,310 new cases on Thursday. The death toll has risen to 1,521 with 17 more fatalities. “In the last four weeks, and especially the lockdown period, we have consciously adopted a strategy of aggressive testing. This resulted in detection of a huge number of positive cases while the rate of infection has reduced,” said Mr. Rao. Between June 25 and July 1, in all 22,800 samples were tested of which 4,000 were positive while the case fatality rate was 2.9%. Between July 2 and July 8, the tested samples rose to 25,000 with 6,063 positive, while the fatality rate was 1.8%. “From July 9 to July 15, a total 32,000 samples were tested while the case fatality rate was 1.9%. In the lockdown period, between July 16 and July 22, as many as 37,039 samples were tested of which 10,192 were positive. The case fatality rate has come down to 1.4%, while the district’s case recovery stands at over 60% with the case fatality rate at 2.46% which is lower than Maharashtra’s, and well below Mumbai’s fatality rate,” said Mr. Rao. Mr. Rao, along with other senior administration officials met Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of major hospitals, along with administrators, and intensivists on Thursday. “At present, 2,362 oxygen beds, 509 ICU beds and 305 ventilator beds are available across the district. At least 20% patients are from other districts. We cannot stop this as they too have the right to quality treatment. At today’s meeting, we discussed ways to increase bed capacity, especially in private hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mega-covid-19-facility-to-come-up-in-pune-by-mid-august/article32177703.ece
24 July 2020||Pune,||Hotspots Mumbai, Pune to help test efficacy of vaccine: SII||The high prevalence of COVID-19 infections in Mumbai and Pune will help test the efficacy of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, its local manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) has said. By end of August, between 4,000 and 5,000 people in Pune and Mumbai will be injected with the vaccine as part of trials that are scheduled to last over two months, SII said. Oxford University has reported satisfactory progress from the vaccine’s test results and is conducting bigger field tests in the U.K.. In India, it has chosen SII as the manufacturing partner, which has to conduct field trials before getting the final nod to ensure they are safe and effective for Indians. There are a number of trial sites across Mumbai and Pune that we have shortlisted, as these cities have many hotspots, which will help us understand the efficacy of the vaccine, the company’s chief executive Adar Poonawalla told PTI in an email interview. He said the company aims to commence the crucial phase-3 of the trials of the vaccine, christened as Covishield, in India by August after getting all the necessary permissions from the Drug Controller General of India. “The Indian regulatory authorities have aided us in fast-tracking approvals keeping in mind the requisite guidelines of safety and efficacy,” Mr. Poonawalla said. We do not want to rush and would focus only on delivering a viable and effective product for the masses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hotspots-mumbai-pune-to-help-test-efficacy-of-vaccine-sii/article32177706.ece
24 July 2020||Shoumojit Banerjee Pune,||Maharashtra reports 9,895 COVID-19 cases, tally nears 3.50 lakh||Maharashtra reported a surge of 9,895 COVID-19 cases on Thursday — its second-highest single-day jump till date — taking the tally to 3,47,502. A record-high fatality surge of 298 took the toll to 12,854. Of the case tally, 1,40,092 are active ones, said health officials. They also said the surge had to be viewed in the perspective of a record testing of nearly 50,000 samples in the past 24 hours. Recovery rate 55.9% “Till date, 3,47,502 (20%) of the 17,37,716 laboratory samples have been tested positive with nearly 50,000 samples across the State tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the recovery rate stood at 55.9% and the fatality rate at 3.7%. With the discharge of 6,484 patients during the day, the cumulative recoveries have gone up to 1,94,253. Pune district reported another massive surge of more than 3,000 cases and an all-time high 78 deaths as its case tally surged to 66,538 while its death toll reached 1,592. The district authorities said a little more than 23,000 of them were active. With 1,245 cases, Mumbai’s tally has reached 1,05,923. Significantly, its active cases have come down to only 22,598. With 55 deaths during the day, its toll has risen to 5,930. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 18 deaths to take its toll to 343 while Vasai-Virar reported 23 as its death count rose to 248. Daily surge This is the third time that the State has reported a daily surge of more than 9,000 cases in less than a week, with the previous high of 10,576 cases reported on July 22. Nashik and Jalgaon district, the two major hotspots in north Maharashtra, reported 15 and 13 fatalities respectively. Nashik reported a massive surge of 556 cases taking its tally to 11,301 of whom 4,749 are active. The district’s death toll stands at 398. Jalgaon reported a big spike of 363 cases — tally 8,501 of whom 2,397 are active with 442 deaths thus far. In the MMR, Thane reported another big spike of 592 cases as the district’s tally nudged the 30,000 mark. Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 414 new cases (tally 19,880). Navi Mumbai tally 14,164 Navi Mumbai reported 349 new cases taking its total case tally to 14,164. Raigad district reported another big surge of 320 cases (tally 7,209). Aurangabad in the Marathwada region also saw a spurt of 268 cases as its tally surged to 10,897 of whom 4,692 are active. With 10 deaths reported across the district the toll has risen to 426. Dr. Awate said 8,74,267 people across the State were in home quarantine and 45,222 in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-9895-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-350-lakh/article32177847.ece
24 July 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||Policemen who assaulted man identified, HC told||The Maharashtra government on Thursday informed the Bombay High Court that four policemen, who assaulted a man on the night of March 29 during lockdown, have been identified. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Firdause Irani citing instances of police brutality inflicted on kirana shop and dairy store owners during lockdown. The PIL says that uniformed police personnel, without name badges, accompanied by local youth, municipal workers in civil dress were at the forefront of these acts of violence. In his status report filed on Thursday, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Bandra division, has said, “four policemen have been identified, who allegedly assaulted the deceased while on night duty on March 29, 2020, and it is proposed to conduct departmental proceedings against them.” Government pleader Poornima Kantharia, appearing for the State, said she has personally viewed the CCTV footage and did not find any member of the public being part of any mob assaulting the deceased; on the contrary, the four policemen, referred above, are seen to have used fiber lathis to discipline the deceased. She further said that whether the deceased succumbed to the injuries inflicted by reason of such assault is a matter which needs further investigation. Noting that from April 18 till July 10 no probe was conducted in the case, the Bench directed the ACP to proceed with the investigation and file a further status report by August 6 on the progress made towards conclusion of investigation and filing of police report under Section 173 (report of police officer on completion of investigation) of Code Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/policemen-who-assaulted-man-identified-hc-told/article32177843.ece
24 July 2020||London,||U.K., EU rule out quick post-Brexit deal||Britain and the European Union on Thursday broke up their latest round of post-Brexit trade negotiations by ruling out a quick deal but voicing hope for agreement in the coming months. Prime Minister Boris Johnson had promised last month to add “a bit of oomph” to the stalled negotiations when he personally joined them last month. His main goal then was to get a framework deal struck by the end July that could assure U.K. businesses they do not have to start preparing for a messy no-deal breakup when the current transition period ends on December 31. But chief negotiators said this was unlikely because of a fundamental gap on major areas such as fishing rights and fair competition rules. “It is unfortunately clear that we will not reach in July the ‘early understanding on the principles underlying any agreement,” Britain’s David Frost said. He accused the EU of failing to recognise Britain’s economic and political independence and described the gulf between the sides on some points as “considerable”. ‘One big deal’ Mr. Frost’s counterpart Michel Barnier criticised London for refusing to move on its red lines. “By its current refusal to commit to conditions to open and fair competition, and to a balanced agreement on fisheries, the UK makes the trade agreement at this point unlikely,” he told a news conference. A senior British government official said both sides will try to agree the shape of a potential accord — now more likely to look like one big deal than lots of small ones — at informal talks in London next week. The British side said it expects “textured” talks on the finer details to begin in mid-August and run though September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-eu-rule-out-quick-post-brexit-deal/article32177431.ece
24 July 2020||Ghazni,||Ready to fight Taliban again, says Afghan girl who killed 2||An Afghan girl who shot dead two Taliban fighters after they gunned down her parents said she was ready to confront any other insurgents who might try to attack her. Qamar Gul, 15, killed the militants when they stormed her home last week in a remote village in the central province of Ghor. “I no longer fear them and I’m ready to fight them again,” Ms. Gul said. It was about midnight when the Taliban arrived, Ms. Gul said, recounting the events of that night. “They took my father and mother outside and shot them several times. I was terrified,” she said. But moments later, “anger took over”. “I picked up the gun we had at home, went to the door and shot them,” said Ms. Gul.  The New York Times reported on Wednesday that the killings at Ms. Gul’s home also involved a family feud — and that one of the attackers was Ms. Gul’s own husband. The paper, quoting Ms. Gul’s relatives and officials, said he was seeking her “forcible return” after a falling-out with her family. Officials told AFP that the Taliban had come to kill Ms. Gul’s father, who was the village chief, because he supported the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ready-to-fight-taliban-again-says-afghan-girl-who-killed-2/article32177418.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Obama, Biden release video of chat as part of campaign||Having released teasers and trailers of it during the week, the campaign of presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden launched a video on Thursday of a discussion between Mr. Biden and his former boss, Barack Obama. The two men discussed the pandemic, race in America and President Donald Trump’s response to these issues. The video, which is over 15 minutes long, was released on several social media platforms, and is part of a campaign that is expected to be mostly virtual due to the COVID-19 pandemic, still raging in the U.S. “I have so much confidence that you’re going to be able to deal with COVID-19 in the way that other countries with our kinds of resources are dealing with it right now — which is smartly,” Mr. Obama tells Mr. Biden in the video. “I have confidence that you’re going to actually listen to the experts and you’re going to pay attention to the science,” he says. Virus response Mr. Obama’s remarks were a veiled reference to Mr. Trump, who has been criticised for his handling of the virus response, including his reluctant and late promotion of mask use, a sidelining of White House pandemic adviser Antony Fauci, and pressuring States and schools to open up. Sixty percent of registered voters disapproved of Mr. Trump’s handling of the pandemic as per a Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted July 12-15. At one point in the Biden-Obama video video. Mr. Biden says his son Beau, who died of a brain tumour in 2015, could have lost health insurance in the final stages of his disease if not for Obamacare, the colloquial name for an Obama-era healthcare law that the Trump administration had asked a court to overturn in June. Mr. Biden outlines his goals for recovery from the pandemic to Mr. Obama, including helping small business, investing in childcare and infrastructure. “But this guy [Mr. Trump] is in court in the middle of a pandemic, trying to take away the protection for a hundred million people have pre-existing conditions. I don’t think he has any sense of empathy or any, I don’t think he can associate at all,” Mr. Biden says. The discussion moves on to race and policing as well economic disadvantages faced by blacks and Mr. Biden remarks that Mr. Trump is trying to divide people against each other. “This guy [Mr. Trump] has generated a sense out there that people are waking up to that he ran by deliberately dividing people from the moment he came down that escalator. And I think people are now going, ‘I don't want my kid growing up that way.’” Frequent theme Mr. Obama also endorsed Mr. Biden’s character in the video — a frequent theme that supporters of the Biden campaign return to. “I've seen you with families that have gone through tragedies and, and the thing I’ve got confidence in Joe is, is your heart and your character. And, and the fact that you are going to be able to reassemble the kind of government that cares about people and brings people together,” he said. Among registered voters, Mr. Biden led Mr. Trump 55 to 40% as per the Washington Post-ABC News poll. The same poll sees Mr. Biden more likely( by 24 points) than Mr. Trump to unite the country (24 point lead), and more likely (by 17 points) to better understand the problems of “people like you”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/obama-biden-release-video-of-chat-as-part-of-campaign/article32177427.ece
24 July 2020||Washington,||Donald Trump claims he aced five-word cognitive test||Donald Trump has divulged details of a cognitive test he “aced” — including a five-word memory challenge he said proved he had the “mental stamina” to lead the U.S. “Person. Woman. Man Camera. TV,” the U.S. President recited as he revealed details of the much-discussed test to Fox TV on Wednesday. “The last questions are much more difficult,” he said in an interview onTucker Carlson Tonight, in which he repeatedly questioned the mental capacity of his Democratic rival Joe Biden. “Like a memory question. It’s like, you’ll go: Person. Woman. Man. Camera. TV,” the President said. “So they say, ‘Could you repeat that?’ So I said, ‘Yeah. It’s: Person. Woman. Man. Camera. TV.’” “Then, 10 minutes, 15, 20 minutes later they say, ‘Remember that first question... Give us that again.” “And you go: ‘Person. Woman. Man. Camera. TV.’” “And they say ‘that’s amazing. How did you do that?’” “I do it because I have, like, a good memory,” Mr. Trump continued. “Because I’m cognitively there.” In the interview, Mr. Trump also called for his Democratic rival Joe Biden — currently leading Mr. Trump in polls ahead of the November election — to take a similar test, because “something’s going on.” “You need physical stamina,” he said. “You need mental stamina... we have to be sharp... President Xi is sharp. President Putin is sharp. Erdogan is sharp.” The interview quickly drew ridicule on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/donald-trump-claims-he-aced-five-word-cognitive-test/article32177429.ece
24 July 2020||Beijing,||China launches ambitious Mars mission||China launched its most ambitious Mars mission yet on Thursday in a bold attempt to join the U.S. in successfully landing a spacecraft on the red planet. A Long March-5 carrier rocket took off under clear skies around 12-40 p.m. from Hainan Island, south of China’s mainland. Hundreds of space enthusiasts cried out excitedly on a beach across the bay from the launch site. “This is a kind of hope, a kind of strength,” said Li Dapeng, co-founder of the China branch of the Mars Society, an international enthusiast group. China’s space agency said that the rocket carried the probe for 36 minutes before successfully placing it on the looping path that will take it beyond Earth’s orbit and eventually into Mars’ more distant orbit around the sun. China’s tandem spacecraft — with both an orbiter and a rover — will take seven months to reach Mars, like the others. If all goes well, Tianwen-1, or “quest for heavenly truth,” will look for underground water, if it’s present, as well as evidence of possible ancient life. It marked the second flight to Mars this week, after a UAE orbiter blasted off on a rocket from Japan on Monday. And the U.S. is aiming to launch Perseverance, its most sophisticated Mars rover ever, from Cape Canaveral, Florida, next week. Solo attempt This isn’t China’s first attempt at Mars. In 2011, a Chinese orbiter accompanying a Russian mission was lost when the spacecraft failed to get out of Earth’s orbit after launching from Kazakhstan, eventually burning up in the atmosphere. This time, China is going at it alone. It also is fast-tracking, launching an orbiter and rover on the same mission instead of stringing them out. Landing on Mars is notoriously difficult. Only the U.S. has successfully landed a spacecraft on Martian soil, doing it eight times since 1976.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-launches-ambitious-mars-mission/article32177420.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||FBI: Chinese consulate in SF harbouring ‘PLA’ researcher||The Federal Bureau of Investivation (FBI) believes the Chinese consulate in San Francisco is harbouring a Chinese researcher charged in California with lying about her background. Tang Juan lied about her military affiliation in a visa application last October to work at the University of California, Davis and again during an FBI interview last month, according to Justice Department criminal charges. Agents found photographs of Tang in a uniform of the People’s Liberation Army civilian cadre and news articles from China that identified her military affiliation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fbi-chinese-consulate-in-sf-harbouring-pla-researcher/article32177421.ece
24 July 2020||Rome,||Italy Senator launches bid to exit EU||An Italian senator on Thursday launched a political party aimed at taking Italy out of the European Union, just after Rome clinched a whopping coronavirus recovery fund deal with the bloc. Gianluigi Paragone, a former TV journalist, presented his “Italexit” party two days after a London meeting with Brexit Party head Nigel Farage, who was instrumental in Britain's decision to quit the EU. Mr. Paragone pointed to a survey by pollster Piepoli Institute from the end of June, which found that around seven percent of Italians would likely vote for a party campaigning to leave the EU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/italy-senator-launches-bid-to-exit-eu/article32177425.ece
24 July 2020||Paris,||Paris, July 23, 2020 (AFP) -||Pope Francis's former Ambassador to France, Luigi Ventura, will stand trial for sex assault in Paris in November following complaints by four men, one of whom accused the cleric of inappropriate touching, lawyers said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/paris-july-23-2020-afp/article32177422.ece
24 July 2020||BERLIN,||German court convicts former concentration camp guard, 93||A German court on Thursday convicted a 93-year-old former SS private of being an accessory to murder at the Stutthof concentration camp, where he served as a guard in the final months of the Second World War. He was given a two-year suspended sentence. Bruno Dey was convicted of 5,232 counts of accessory to murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/german-court-convicts-former-concentration-camp-guard-93/article32177424.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The BJP’s hegemonic narrative||Ever since the colossal defeat of the Congress in the 2019 general election, there has been a ceaseless debate in the media and in political circles about the future of the Congress party. The defection of Jyotiraditya Scindia to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the replication of a similar script by Congress leader Sachin Pilot has intensified this debate which centres around the leadership, organisational and ideological challenges confronting the Congress. After Rahul Gandhi’s resignation as Congress President in July 2019, the party has witnessed disintegration in States including Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Several prominent leaders have quit the party and joined the BJP. Defections, splits and electoral decline are not new phenomena in the party’s long history, but the crisis the Congress faces in the wake of two massive defeats in the last two Lok Sabha elections is unprecedented and has clearly been aggravated by its inability to resolve the leadership issue. A clutch of young(ish) leaders close to Mr. Gandhi have resigned. These leaders have caught the media’s attention more than many others who have quit in the last one year. The narrative in sections of the media built around these rebellions is that the Congress mishandled the crisis and the concerns of these leaders regarding the party’s functioning. The dominant argument is that the Congress lacks inner party democracy and hence cannot keep young leaders in its fold. Sections of the mainstream media blame Mr. Gandhi for the crisis and want him to vacate space to make way for other leaders. Two important dimensions Big-ticket leaders leaving the Congress should be a matter of concern for the party. But to view Mr. Pilot’s rebellion in Rajasthan as only the result of failure of leadership and organisational politics misses two important dimensions of this crisis. Mr. Pilot was willing to sacrifice the government, of which he was the Deputy Chief Minister until a few days ago, because he has differences with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Even though he says he is not joining the BJP, Mr. Pilot does not put much distance between himself and the party. Mr. Pilot made it clear that he was unwilling to settle for anything less than the chief ministership even though he has the support of just 18 MLAs. Mr. Pilot is heading a minority faction but making claims to the top job is a sign of the neoliberal times we live in where ambition trumps commitment to party and ideology. The narrative in sections of the media that younger leaders are not allowed to grow in the Congress is not evident from the career graphs of some of these leaders. They had been given top posts by the Congress. That they still chose to rebel is an aspect disregarded in the narrative built up around them. Many of them are exiting the Congress with alacrity because the party is out of power and is not in a position to offer the loaves and fishes of office to leaders waiting in the departure lounge. When the party was in power it could adjust and accommodate conflicting interests and ambitions in multiple ways but it is much harder to do so in Opposition. The BJP, on the other hand, is routinely able to attract disgruntled leaders to its side. Arguably, it has given in to Mr. Scindia’s huge demands in Madhya Pradesh to attract Mr. Pilot in Rajasthan. The bottom line is this: Mr. Pilot’s escapade into Haryana couldn’t have taken off without the BJP’s support. His jaunt to ITC’s Best Western can’t be passed off as a struggle for inner party democracy in the Congress. The second and more important dimension of the Rajasthan crisis is the concerted effort mounted by the ruling party to topple the Congress government in the State. The pursuit of this single-minded objective amid the pandemic has been given short shrift in the loud narrative of sections of the media. Since 2014, the BJP’s stated objective of a Congress-free India has seen attempts to unsettle and unseat Congress governments in several States. One of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first statements after taking over as the chairman of the BJP’s election campaign committee in 2013 was the declaration that getting rid of the Congress would be “the solution to all problems facing the country”. “The Congress party is a burden on this nation,” he said. Since coming to power in 2014, the BJP has been using various means, notably money power and the coercive power of state agencies, to achieve this goal by bringing down elected Congress governments in State after State. Hunt for power We have seen many States witnessing a change of guard. In 2016, in Arunachal Pradesh, the BJP backed the rebel Congress faction when deep cracks surfaced within the ruling party. The BJP lost the election but managed to replace the Congress government with its own in Karnataka (in 2019) and in Madhya Pradesh (in 2020). In 2019, the Congress emerged the single largest party in Goa, but the BJP was quick to cobble together a coalition and form a government. Now Rajasthan is on the cusp of change though the game is not over yet. In Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, scores of Congress legislators were allegedly lured into deserting the Congress which enabled the BJP to gain power after losing in elections. These reports are in the realm of speculation but one thing is clear: the BJP is not short on resources for financing defections given its absolute power at the Centre. The Association of Democratic Reforms estimates that a whopping 95% of all electoral bond money before the 2019 election went to the BJP. The Congress received less than 10% of bond money. The loss of so many State governments further reduces the party’s financial power and the opportunity to generate funds. Although the BJP disclaims authorship of this long-running drama, Rajasthan’s political crisis has underlined once again its unscrupulous hunt for power. Given its enviable record in forming governments through political defections, the perception that a government with a clear majority is being deposed may not really matter to the party. However, it should matter to the media. But the media spotlight is not on the BJP’s dubious methods of destabilising elected governments, but on the disarray in the Congress, which allows the BJP to get away even with constitutional transgressions. Thus far, the Congress has managed to save its government in Rajasthan. Regardless of the final outcome, an obvious conclusion to draw from this crisis would be that the Congress party has to put its house in order to stop further desertions and breakup. It has to bring an end to the unmitigated drift and elect a new president and begin the process of rebuilding the party. That so many in the media have seen Mr. Pilot’s unhappiness with the Congress as an example of a talented politician being forced to jump ship to the BJP shows that the BJP’s narrative is completely hegemonic. That so many in the political class (including Congress politicians) and the media are echoing the same line (as though it’s a party line), and are willing to overlook the majoritarian might of the BJP, the illegitimacy of the power grab, and the wholly unjustified attempt to dislodge an elected government betokens a debasement of politics and a disregard for democratic norms that should concern us all. Zoya Hasan is Professor Emerita, Centre for Political Studies, JNU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-bjps-hegemonic-narrative/article32177403.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Can open book examinations offer an alternative?||The Ministry of Human Resources Development’s insistence, based on new University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, that final year examinations in all universities and institutions be held in spite of the risk posed by COVID-19, has also led to a debate on open book examinations. Do open book examinations offer a way out of the student evaluation crisis thrown up by the pandemic? Ramakrishna Ramaswamy and Yoginder K. Alagh tell G. Ananthakrishnan that there is a need for a lot of preparatory work. Edited excerpts:  Do we need final year examinations at this point when the pandemic is on? Ramakrishna Ramaswamy (RR):Given the scale of Delhi University (DU) alone, they have to find some way of evaluation especially to give credible degrees to students at this time. But this open book format may not be the wisest one. University final exams are usually highly centralised whereas the teaching is decentralised. The question to ask is, do we really need a centralised exam? I personally think it is not necessary. The students are from individual colleges and have individual teachers. For this particular crisis, the solutions have to factor in what the local students have done. I am a believer in decentralisation, because education is something where a teacher interacts with a student and it is taught in a very local manner. In the crisis that we are going through, trying to find a solution like this is insensitive. There are many students without access to the Internet. In the long run, we can come up with other solutions. Y.K. Alagh (YKA):As far as Delhi University is concerned, I think there will be a few students who will face problems. DU also has religious denominational colleges, they give admission to poorer students. They may not have facilities with which to join the examination systems. More generally, I think it is a good idea to move to an open book examination system. But open book examination systems need different kinds of educational systems. When we were studying in the University of Pennsylvania, we used to have open book examinations. The professor would come once every hour, leave the book with you and the question. Our whole educational system virtually gives answers and guidebooks, so the student prepares and repeats what he gets. On the other hand you are now talking of a system that encourages thinking, with the book only a thing that you begin with. What are the positives for an open book system? RR:What we have frequently done at JNU — I have taught Physics there — is to have open books and open notes, but these have to be reasonably closely monitored. This allows a student to prepare and take an exam without relying on memory. So, this memorisation of things that Prof. Alagh also alluded to, that you read a guidebook, you memorise everything and spill it out, the fear that you will forget something is completely removed. But an open book exam goes with a different style of teaching and the open book exam itself has to be administered to a small classroom. It is not something that you can think of applying to 20,000 students. The reform that I would like to see is, start trusting the universities a little more. The UGC should not be telling the universities to go for either an open book [system], or multiple choice [system] or what have you. Let the university take a decision based on its resources, its capacity and location. An answer for a small university in New Delhi cannot be the same for a small university in, let us say, Koraput in Odisha. Do we have enough expertise to run a new system? YKA:If you want to introduce a system of this kind, then you want to do a lot of preparation. You can’t, simply because it is a COVID crisis and you cannot herd the students into an examination hall, say let us have an open book examination. We need a road map, to move to this with academic autonomy. RR:On every front, we are asked to be atmanirbhar (self-reliant). Can we also be atmanirbhar at the university level? Let the university faculty take a decision on how to do this. If you start giving a little more responsibility to the university Vice-Chancellors, they will start coming out with solutions. To go back to what you said, about the differences between Delhi and Koraput, what differentiation can we have without creating iniquities? RR:Centralised control of a matter like education is not such a great idea. Because the whole purpose of education is actual learning and not examination. So if you want to change over to something with the purpose of improving the system, take measures which will address this year’s problem separately, and do something that will improve the overall system over a longer period. YKA:You know, the heart of the game is to give autonomy to the educational system. Koraput is different from Delhi. But autonomy does not mean irresponsibility. The whole question of introducing accountability is something that is complex. At present what we think is that the teacher has to be accountable, the karamchari (employee) has to be accountable, but the Registrar or VC does not have to be, the State Education Department does not have to be, the MHRD [Ministry of Human Resources Development] doesn’t have to be. You know, budgets are not even sanctioned until the educational year is well under way. As I said, it is not something that you have bought something that is happening in the University of Pennsylvania, or in MIT or Harvard. It is a question of a different educational system. You can tell them, these funds are given with these conditions, if you don’t meet the conditions they will be discontinued. But you give them the freedom, particularly in things like an open book examination system. In our context, where memory is a prime factor, with access to books, would the student have less focus? RR:Contrariwise, if you have an open book exam, the teacher knows that the student does not have to remember every little formula. [So] if I know that I have to give a closed book examination for two hours, I will set one kind of question paper. If I know that it is an open book examination for three hours or ten hours or an overnight exam, what in the U.S. is called a take-home exam, [it differs] all these models have been tried and tested many times over. The most difficult exam that I have done in my life is a take-home exam. I could read any book I wanted, it was one of those typical unsolved problems. If it is a finite time exam that is proctored, supervised in a small hall, then I have to give them a question that they can answer in 10 or 15 minutes. So, the most difficult exams are the unstructured ones. Again, teaching is a local activity. It is between a student and her teacher. YKA:The innovations required are smaller classes, more interaction between teacher and student, to encourage them to think. You don’t say that you read the X theorem and go and repeat it in the exam if the question on that is there. So the boys and girls prepare roughly for two-thirds of the course, the rest they [let go] in choice. Could you walk us through existing open book systems around the world? RR:The basic open book system is a very simple one. A teacher who is teaching a reasonably small class, even 100 students. Open book exams are never given for the basic courses. They are almost always for the advanced courses where it is the thinking ability of the student that is being evaluated and not memorisation or rote learning. It is not really in vogue for huge classes, like beginning undergraduate for chemistry is never an open book exam. Usually, this happens for advanced courses where there are one or two well-defined textbooks. When they [students] come to the examination, it is not as if they have to learn for the first time in the exam. The open book system means familiarity. You should be familiar with the book, so you know, if you are given a question where you are supposed to remember the Heisenberg equations of motion, you can’t be searching through the book or going through the index. You should be able to almost automatically open it, and quickly verify and go through small parts of it. Have we had a prior discussion at a policy level on this? YKA:No, I have not really heard of any systematic discussion in the UGC groups that I have been involved in, as well as in the university set-up or social science research set-up. The closest we came to it was in a committee in which Ram was also there, on plagiarism in the UGC. Plagiarism becomes easier if you are doing routine kinds of exams, but if you are going to do open book exams, plagiarism is not possible. There is hardly any discussion on open book examination systems. You should have brought a few teachers together and brought out a road map, on how you move over to educational reform, particularly examination reform. Because we were not thinking of open book examinations, our educational reforms and examination reforms have been more along conventional lines. What options do we have currently with the students facing trauma in concluding the academic year? RR:I have been teaching a particular course and some students have done their thesis with me this last semester. Whatever we come up with [this semester] will be a one-off, standalone solution. And left to myself, I would grade them on what they have performed so far, and give the student one opportunity in a take-home format or writing an essay which would be very individual, so you have the bulk of the grade based on prior performance plus a small percentage based on some kind of evaluation. Most important is to do it soon, and let them have their degrees this year itself. YKA:As far as the student is concerned, a year of his life is an important issue. Other universities in the country or in the world are not going to wait for the fact that you have not been able to conduct an examination. They will want the academic transcripts. We should bite the bullet and try and find an answer. It is nobody’s stand to say that the coronavirus should be ignored. Lives are very important. Yet, within that, we have to try and manoeuvre our needs. Making students lose a year is a terrible cost. The answer is not to bring up from the air an open exam, but go through the difficult process of making them answer online papers, maybe in a supervised context.  Usually, open book exams happen for advanced courses where there are well-defined textbooks Ramakrishna Ramaswamy, Professor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/can-open-book-examinations-offer-an-alternative/article32177415.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Towards national security and peace in Hong Kong||The promulgation and implementation of the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) marks a major turning point from unrest to peace and order, and a farewell to the history of “unguarded” national security in Hong Kong. The Law is enacted for the purpose of ensuring the resolute, full and faithful implementation of the policy of One Country, Two Systems under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong with a high degree of autonomy; safeguarding national security; preventing, suppressing and imposing punishment for the offences of secession, subversion, organisation and perpetration of terrorist activities, and collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security in relation to Hong Kong; maintaining prosperity and stability of Hong Kong; and protecting the lawful rights and interests of the residents of Hong Kong. Since the turbulence over the amendment bill last year, with support from foreign and external forces, the anti-China forces have openly instigated “Hong Kong independence” separatist acts and serious violent incidents, which highlighted big national security loopholes in the city. Hong Kong has been plunged into the gravest situation since their return. The city has lost the title of the world’s freest economy it had held for 25 years. Its GDP registered negative growth for the first time in a decade, and the unemployment rate hit a record high in nearly 10 years. Significant effects of the law The national security legislation for HKSAR was enacted by the Standing Committee of China’s National People’s Congress in accordance with the Chinese Constitution and the Basic Law of the HKSAR. The legislation plugs the legal loopholes and provides strong institutional and legal safeguards for national security in Hong Kong, which has significant effect on the long-term development of the city. First, the legislation will guarantee the sustained implementation of One Country, Two Systems. One Country is the precondition and basis for Two Systems. Only when One Country is safe and secure can Two Systems be safeguarded. The legislation will neither change the principle of One Country, Two Systems, the capitalist system or the high degree of autonomy practiced in Hong Kong, nor the legal system in Hong Kong or Hong Kong’s independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication. Second, the legislation will protect the lawful rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents. The legislation clearly stipulates four types of criminal offences and principles of the rule of law such as respecting and protecting human rights. The legislation will not lead to generalised understanding or unlimited expansion of “national security”. It will not affect but better protect the lawful rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents. For a handful of people endangering national security, the law is a sword hanging above. Yet for the vast majority of Hong Kong residents, including foreigners in Hong Kong, the law is a guardian for their rights, freedoms and peaceful life. Third, the legislation will safeguard long-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong. Without national security, there will be neither lasting peace and stability for China nor long-term prosperity and stability for Hong Kong. The legislation will help to restore the order and maintain the stability in Hong Kong, consolidate and enhance Hong Kong’s international financial, trade and shipping center status, further strengthen the confidence of foreign investors, and create a better living and business environment for foreign nationals and enterprises in Hong Kong. International credit rating agency S&P has affirmed its AA+ issuer credit ratings on Hong Kong and maintained the outlook as stable, which shows international investors’ confidence in Hong Kong’s future. The legislation is firmly supported by the mainstream public opinion in Hong Kong and the forces of justice in the international community. Nearly three million people in Hong Kong have signed a petition in support of the enactment of the Law, and more than 1.28 million have signed an online petition opposing the interference by the U.S. and other external forces. More than 70 countries voiced their support for the legislation at the 44th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council. An internal affair National security legislation belongs to the sovereignty of a country and the authority of the Central government. It is justified that China governs the country and Hong Kong in accordance with the law. It is spelt out in the constitutions of over 100 countries that the exercise of basic rights and freedoms shall not endanger national security. It’s common practice in the world to safeguard the national security through legislation. Hong Kong is China’s Hong Kong. Hong Kong affairs are China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign interference. Some western politicians use the national security legislation as an excuse to interfere in China’s internal affairs. What they care about is not the freedoms of Hong Kong people, but the “freedoms” of trampling on China’s national security. The Chinese government is firmly committed to safeguarding national sovereignty, security and development interests, firmly committed to implementing One Country, Two Systems, and firmly committed to opposing interference in Hong Kong affairs by external forces. India and Hong Kong have close economic and trade relations. It serves India’s interest to maintain the prosperity and stability in Hong Kong. The national security legislation will better protect the safety of foreign investment and legitimate rights and interests of foreign nationals in Hong Kong, including that of India. We hope Indian friends can uphold fairness and justice, respect and support China’s efforts to safeguard national security in Hong Kong in accordance with law. Sun Weidong is China’s Ambassador to India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/towards-national-security-and-peace-in-hong-kong/article32177400.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Deepening India-S. Korea ties||India and South Korea have signed numerous bilateral agreements with the aim of taking their ties to the next level. However, the economic partnership is struck at $22 billion annually, and their defence partnership appears to have receded from great all-round promise to the mere sale and purchase of weapon systems. At the heart of this bilateral stasis is the fact that, despite the best efforts of many well-intended leaders, Indians and South Koreans are failing to touch a mutually meaningful chord of empathy and move closer to each other as people. This is at least in part due to cultural prejudices on both sides, which stands in the way of a relationship based on openness, curiosity and warmth. It is not that efforts to correct distortions in such perception have been wanting. Yet, clearly, whatever bilateral progress has been made, say in the realm of trade and investment, has not lent sufficient momentum that people start building bridges in other areas. So, for example, there may be a widespread perception among South Koreans of India as a third world country, rife with poverty and hunger. While it is true that India is far from eradicating these deprivations, their extent may be exaggerated in the minds of some. On the flip side, it is often the case that Indians are unable to distinguish between the cultural and social characteristics of South Koreans and people of other East Asian nations. Indians in South Korea Within South Korea, the integration of Indians in the local population is far from complete. There have been some instances of what appears to be racial prejudice or discrimination, including toward Indians in work settings in South Korea. As in any relationship, mutual respect regarding cultural values is the key to building a robust partnership between two countries. The means to achieving that respect is often filling the information gap that creates a chasm between two strong cultures. How much do Indians based in South Korea know about how Korean culture contributed to the growth of a broader Asian view of the world? It is more likely that to the average Indian mind, the defining traits of Japan’s and China’s cultures are better identified than those of Korean culture. All this is to say nothing of the hostility that some visiting South Koreans have faced in India. Indian Culture Centre in Seoul This trajectory of India’s engagement with a strategically important Asian nation suggests that an urgent course correction is required. The establishment of the Indian Culture Centre (ICC) in Seoul 10 years ago was a step in the right direction. Its mission was to promote people-to-people contacts. Yet, given the current focus on diplomatic initiatives — an important but not the only component of a potentially rich bilateral space — it can sometimes be complicated for the average South Korean to access to its offices and services. The ICC’s attempts to broad-base an appreciation of Indian culture by, for example, teaching south Indian dances to elementary school students in South Korea, or organising experiential sessions centred on Indian cuisine, are commendable. Yet, it may reach an exponentially wider audience if the focus of such efforts was the common man of South Korea, beyond the urban, English-speaking elite of Seoul. The same may be applicable to South Korean culture centres in India. As the balance of power in the region continues to shift fast, India and South Korea may need each like never before, to protect their ways of life. However, both countries will be able to help each other only if they can fill the cultural gaps. A regional hegemon is already pushing hard into the ambit of the Indian Ocean. The sooner these bonds are renewed the better it would be for all Asian democracies. Lakhvinder Singh is a Seoul-based geostrategist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/deepening-india-s-korea-ties/article32177408.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Calibrated balance||In separate statements this week, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar laid out India’s world view in the face of global challenges, many of which pull it in different directions. Mr. Jaishankar’s contention was that non-alignment as a concept belonged to a bygone era and that multipolarity in the world necessitated that India would have to take a definite stand, and even take “risks” on issues such as connectivity, maritime security, terrorism and climate change. However, he made it clear that India does not reject non-alignment in its entirety, and that while it would no longer remain disentangled from difficult decisions, it would not compromise on its independence. More importantly, he said that India has “never been part of an alliance system, nor will it ever be”. He added that even the U.S. must look beyond its present alliances, and engage with more multilateral arrangements. Mr. Jaishankar explained that while non-alignment worked for India during the Cold War era between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, the fact that India and China share a land boundary would always be a factor in a “new cold war” between the U.S. and China. He spoke of Indo-U.S. cooperation in many fields, and the growing maritime collaboration in particular, but left unsaid the hard reality that military collaboration on land would prove problematic given India’s disputed boundary with China, the venue of a nearly three-month-long stand-off between the PLA and the Indian Army. Mr. Jaishankar’s comments are a clear-eyed assessment of India’s constraints and avenues for its potential growth. The assertion of India’s strategic independence and resistance to joining any alliance comes as a timely reminder amid speculation that tensions with China will push India into a stronger clinch with Washington, which is on its own collision course with Beijing. It is significant that despite multiple references by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to the India-China clashes, the deaths of Indian soldiers at Galwan Valley last month, and his call for India and the U.S. to jointly “counter” China, the government has rightly chosen not to raise its tensions with China in any forum other than bilateral talks with Beijing. Equally significant is the government’s outreach to Moscow, including a visit by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and the participation of Mr. Jaishankar in the Russia-India-China trilateral last month, and the External Affairs Minister’s comments that India should also seek to build coalitions with “middle powers”, such as the European Union and Japan. A time of crisis often clarifies priorities. At a time of a double crisis for India — battling the novel coronavirus pandemic in the country and Chinese aggression at the border — the message from New Delhi is one of a carefully calibrated balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/calibrated-balance/article32177397.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Escalating tensions||The U.S.’s decision to close China’s consulate in Houston is an unprecedented escalation in the steadily deteriorating ties between the world’s two largest economies. The Trump administration has accused the consulate and other Chinese diplomatic missions in the country of economic espionage, visa fraud and attempted theft of scientific research — allegations that China has denied. It has announced visa restrictions on students, imposed sanctions on Chinese officials over a Hong Kong security law and is reportedly considering a sweeping travel ban on the millions of members of China’s ruling Communist Party. The consulate decision is by far the most drastic measure. This is the first time a Chinese mission is being closed in the U.S. since both countries normalised diplomatic relations in 1979. Since the tariff war that President Trump launched in 2018, China has retaliated against every hostile move by the U.S. China made matters worse by providing refuge in its San Francisco consulate to one of the Chinese researchers against whom the U.S. has issued an arrest warrant because she allegedly lied to the authorities about her ties to the Army. The U.S-China tensions are no longer about trade and technology. What started as a trade war has snowballed into a larger geopolitical contest between the two superpowers, something the world hasn’t seen since the hostile competition between the U.S. and the Soviet Union during the Cold War. President Trump, who is under attack at home for his handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic, may be finding comfort in ramping up tensions with China in an election year. But what makes the crisis dangerous in the long term is that there is a growing consensus in Washington that a hostile China, resorting to large-scale espionage, poses a serious threat to the U.S.-dominated international order. The Washington establishment, which had fought Trump’s overtures towards Russia and several other policy measures, is in line with the President in his confrontational policy towards China, which has already done serious damage to bilateral relations that cannot be reversed easily. Incidentally, the U.S.-China crisis is unfolding at a time when Beijing is also acting more assertively in Asia, picking fights with countries in its neighbourhood, from India to Vietnam and Malaysia. The message from China is that it is ready for a long game of escalation, as long as the U.S. keeps playing it. This is a cyclical trap — measures and countermeasures keep taking ties to new lows with no possibility of an exit. If this deterioration is not arrested immediately, the U.S. and China risk a total breakdown in diplomatic relations. That is bad news for the whole world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/escalating-tensions/article32177396.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The headline challenge||A friend would say headlines on a newspaper are like snipers — hit or die. Without pulling the reader to a report at first glance, the headline is not worth the paper it is printed on. The war imagery may be quite misplaced in explaining the utility of headlines, though they did have a deep role in battles past of newspaper tycoons William Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer. Whether or not Hearst said, “You furnish the picture and I will furnish the war”, the utility of screaming headlines for yellow journalism and bile was established from the time of the newspaper wars between the two tycoons. In this era of short attention spans and 24x7 news cycles, the headline has metamorphosed. The lapidary banner in the morning paper is brought down from its plinth, adding the who, what, why, where, when and how in a process called search engine optimisation. For, the newspaper has taken on a hybrid existence, and the entry points to its attractions are not only the broadsheet or the URL but also the beast called search engine. A daily struggle But the art of the headline will remain. To quote veteran editor Harold Evans, writing good headlines is 50% of text editors’ skills. Fresh on the news desk of a daily where facts are sacred and language is held with the utmost respect, writing good headlines, even for routine reports, turns into a daily struggle for a cub subeditor. Summoning the skills you thought you had becomes difficult amid a clutch of professionals who can just turn around a copy with a turn of a phrase here and there. So, in comes the big story of the day, with all its drama and exclusiveness. The head of the desk says he has in mind three headlines for it, from the flamboyant to the matter-of-fact. And, here you are struggling with half a headline. Even after putting in years, the struggle does not ebb. In fact, it evolves. It is a slow realisation of the interconnectedness of the art and science of newspapering, an enjoyable challenge. The walls are in your mind. Hidden in a report The entity called the desk is fluid. When subbing a report, pause to think how you could have written the copy in a better way — minus the pace at which the reporter operates amid all the grind. The headline may be hidden somewhere there. How the headline differs from advertisement copy is its pact with facts. Rules are to be followed even when trying to be creative. The syntax has to be in order. The words should speak. There should be a perfect sense of time, place and context. The news hierarchy has to be respected — you can’t just reduce the size of the font and fit in the headline you have in mind. Where headlines are wordy, vague or confused, the newspaper seems to be in its dotage, Mr. Evans says. Dusting off his handbook for journalists from time to time helps. Never forget to linger on the example of a good headline pun he gives, “A sari without a fringe on top.” That was a daily’s headline of the report on a debate in Parliament on whether saris too revealing should be banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-headline-challenge/article32177410.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Guns on the Sino-Soviet border||The long frontier running from the east of the Mongolian People’s Republic to the Pacific is in dispute between Russia and China. In fact, Peking resents the fact that Mongolia itself is a virtual Russian protectorate bristling with rockets and guarded by Soviet troops. The Russians fear that the enormous Chinese forces might overrun thinly-populated Siberia. The Chinese fear that Russia might launch a nuclear war in order to overthrow the Maoists who have rejected Moscow as the theoretical guide to world communism. The build-up of armed strength on either side of the Siberian frontier represents a new factor in the world balance of power. The Chinese threat has compelled the Russians to seek a settlement in Europe and to make friendly overtures to Japan and non-communist countries in South-East Asia. Japanese and British civil airlines now fly from Tokyo to London across Russia and the latter publicly invites Japanese investment in its Asian provinces. Communist China has also turned a more genial face to the non-communist world. Japan, West Germany, Britain, and France are now the major trading partners and investors in China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/guns-on-the-sino-soviet-border/article32177406.ece
24 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Protect financial sector health: Rajan||With the corporate sector poised to suffer massive write-offs and bankruptcies due to the adverse economic effects of COVID-19 and prolonged lockdowns, the government ought to carefully consider the cost that the financial sector could bear as a result and still remain sound, said former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan. In a scenario where companies would operate at 50-75% of their capacity for the next six to eight months, they would end up accumulating a lot of debt with significantly over-leveraged firms likely facing the bankruptcy process, noted Dr. Rajan, addressing the DBS Asian Insights Conference on ‘The Economies of a Pandemic’ on Thursday. “That is a given and coming in a big way even in countries that have managed to support their economies [through high levels of stimulus],” he said. “But in emerging countries like Brazil and India, where there has been very, very modest support to people and companies, when the economy opens up more fully, there will be a lot of damage which will be uncovered and has to be dealt with,” Dr. Rajan added. “Remember, we are just talking about the corporate sector. If the corporate sector has to write down debts and goes through bankruptcy processes, hopefully cheap processes that will allow renegotiations [with lenders] at low costs, that will imply that the cost will be transferred over to the financial sector. The transfer of cost will come over to the financial sector and that is the last shoe, which hopefully will not drop,” he said. He added that governments should sensibly think about the cost that the financial sector could bear to ensure that they were adequately capitalised, And if not, try to make sure that they had the capacity to infuse capital into the sector. ‘Last thing we want’ “The last thing we want over and above the corporate crisis is a financial sector crisis,” said Dr. Rajan. In the future, many companies would close down permanently. “There are losses to come. In a sense, we are putting the economy into temporary coma, but when it is awaken[ed], it’s overly optimistic to assume that everybody will come back to full life,” he said. While East Asia had managed the virus well, Europe had contained the spread. But countries like the U.S., India, Brazil had not been able to control the virus. “The longer it lasts, more will be the damage and helping an economy which is locked down to survive is extremely costly,” he said. “When you lose one-twelfth of the GDP every month, when you go for complete lockdown, when a lot of people could not work, there will be substantial deterioration done to the economy,” Dr. Rajan said. The difference in economic revival would finally depend on how much each country was able to spend, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/protect-financial-sector-health-rajan/article32177379.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Expert panel to soon clarify on data sharing between rivals||S. Gopalakrishnan, the Infosys co-founder and angel investor who is heading the expert committee on Non-personal Data Governance Framework, on Thursday said the committee would soon come out with some clarificatory points on sharing of such data between competing businesses or organisations. “We are in the process of discussing only the clarificatory points on competition. We have said that basically the default status, even if it’s a request from the competitor, data needs to be shared. Only thing is it cannot be an unfair request or it cannot be a request that is just to take advantage of this regulation. So we’re discussing that...whether it’s sensitive or not, if the data is for illegitimate purpose,” Mr. Gopalakrishnan said replying to a query during a virtual press conference. He added that in case of any dispute over fairness of the request to share non-personal data, the non-personal data authority would be the arbitrator. The government has invited feedback from the public on the draft report prepared by the expert panel, which was set up in September last year, to deliberate on framing rules for non-personal data governance. The government had fixed August 13 as the last date for submission of the feedback, following which the committee would finalise the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/expert-panel-to-soon-clarify-on-data-sharing-between-rivals/article32177381.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Credit platform for MSMEs takes shape||A countrywide pilot of the newly-developed credit protocol infrastructure for the democratisation of credit will start within a fortnight, said a think tank, Indian Software Products Industry Round Table (iSPIRT), that developed the platform. “Countrywide pilots will be underway in a few weeks and these will involve multiple banks and thousands of MSMEs,” said Sharad Sharma, co-founder, iSPIRT. The credit protocol infrastructure, known as Open Credit Enablement Network (OCEN), will mediate the interactions between loan service providers, usually fintechs and mainstream lenders, including all large banks and NBFCs. Meanwhile, private equity and venture capital players, angel investors, high networth individuals and others will also could be part of this exercise as investors, according to Mr. Sharma. To start with, iSPIRT will work with lenders such as the State Bank of India. The architect of Aadhaar Nandan Nilekani, who is involved in the project, said, “OCEN is a common language for lenders and credit seekers. With this, credit will become more accessible for a large number of entrepreneurs and small businesses in the country.” Some 63.38 million MSMEs account for about 45% of manufacturing output, over 40% of exports, contribute to over 28% of the GDP and employ about 111 million people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-platform-for-msmes-takes-shape/article32177377.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SpiceJet picked to fly to U.S.; needs time to start||SpiceJet on Thursday said in a filing with the stock exchanges that the government had nominated it as an international carrier that could fly to the U.S. in a recent bilateral agreement between the countries. However, the airline will need financial capacity to plan overseas operations, induct requisite aircraft, train pilots and undergo months of regulatory scrutiny before it can start services. SpiceJet would still need Economic Authority and Safety Authority from the U.S. Department of Transportation, observed Vinamra Longani, Head of Operations at Sarin & Co., a law firm specialising in aircraft leasing and aviation finance. This was required if SpiceJet was to fly its own aircraft to the U.S. The approvals would require the carrier to give details of its fleet. The announcement from SpiceJet comes days after the U.S. and India agreed to allow each other’s airlines to connect the two countries after a threat from the former that it would ban Air India’s repatriation flights. SpiceJet could possibly ‘wet lease’ aircraft to start its services to the U.S., industry officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-picked-to-fly-to-us-needs-time-to-start/article32177376.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Q1 GST, I-T mop up very encouraging: Pandey||Tax mop up in first quarter of the current fiscal is ‘very encouraging’ and indicates the economy is recovering sooner than anticipated at the time of imposing lockdown, Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said. He said the Revenue Department wants to bring in self-compliance among taxpayers by making available data of all financial transactions via Form 26AS at the time of filing income tax returns. Mr. Pandey, also the Revenue Secretary, said about 70% of the Rs. 91,000 crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) collected in June is on account of transactions in May. “For June, going by the current trends, we have a certain trend about how many people have made payments so far, and also, the e-way bill... truck movement... all these things are giving encouraging signals that the economy is coming back to the realm sooner than what was being anticipated when the lockdown started in March,” he said. Besides, income tax collection, by way of advance tax and TDS, in the April-June quarter was about 80% of what was collected in the same period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/q1-gst-i-t-mop-up-very-encouraging-pandey/article32177389.ece
24 July 2020||New delhi,||‘For now, debt monetisation not on agenda’||Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj on Thursday said monetisation of debt was not on the Centre’s agenda, while pointing out there were some positive signs in revenue collection. “At this point, monetisation is not on the table at all. It has not been discussed with the central bank also,” he said. He said revenues were rising and the Centre had also realised extra revenue from excise on fuels. “Let’s see, I will be in a better position to answer this after 3-4 months when I have data in hand,” he said at a virtual FICCI conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/for-now-debt-monetisation-not-on-agenda/article32177385.ece
24 July 2020||Chennai,||TII posts loss on truncated operations||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TIIL) slipped into the red during the first quarter ended June 2020, clocking a loss of Rs. 59 crore as the COVID-19 lockdown curtailed operations. The Murugappa Group firm recorded a standalone net profit of Rs. 88 crore in the year-earlier period. The first quarter results included an exceptional item of Rs. 8 crore concerning employees’ voluntary retirement scheme and Rs. 18.54 crore in deferred taxes. Revenue from operations contracted to Rs. 361 crore (Rs. 1,183 crore). The engineering division’s revenue for the quarter declined to Rs. 164 crore (Rs. 657 crore) and that of the cycles and accessories unit to Rs. 100 crore (Rs. 290 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-posts-loss-on-truncated-operations/article32177388.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||New GST e-invoice plan from Oct. 1||The government will notify a new GST e-invoice scheme under which businesses with turnover of Rs. 500 crore and above will generate all invoices on a centralised government portal starting October 1, an official said. Earlier, the turnover threshold for businesses was set at Rs. 100 crore. CBIC Principal Commissioner (GST) Yogendra Garg said the existing Goods and Services Tax (GST) return filing system would be improved further by incorporating the features proposed in the new system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-gst-e-invoice-plan-from-oct-1/article32177386.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||No trading window curbs on OFS: SEBI||SEBI on Thursday allowed offer for sale (OFS) and rights entitlement transactions during the trading window closure period. Under market norms, listed companies need to use a trading window to monitor transactions by designated persons in a bid to prevent insider trading. The compliance officer is responsible for closing the trading window, in case the designated persons are expected to be in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. SEBI said: “trading window restrictions shall not apply in respect of OFS and RE transactions carried out in accordance with the framework specified by the Board from time to time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-trading-window-curbs-on-ofs-sebi/article32177390.ece
24 July 2020||Mumbai,||Rossari Biotech debuts on BSE at 58% premium||Shares of Rossari Biotech Ltd., a textile and specialty chemicals firm, debuted on the BSE at Rs. 742.35 apiece, a 75% premium over the issue price of Rs. 425 per share. The stock opened at Rs. 670 in the morning, rose to a high of Rs. 804 and hit the 20% upper circuit before closing at Rs. 742.35. The Rs. 496-crore IPO was subscribed over 79 times despite the tough market conditions. The IPO price band was fixed at between Rs. 423 and Rs. 425 and the shares were allotted at the higher end of the price band.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rossari-biotech-debuts-on-bse-at-58-premium/article32177384.ece
24 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Wipro to buy 4C for 68mn Euros by end September||Tech major Wipro has signed a definitive agreement to acquire 4C, one of the Salesforce partners that has a presence in U.K., Europe and the Middle East for a ‘purchase consideration’ of €68 million, according to a regulatory filing on Thursday. The ‘nature of consideration is cash’ and the acquisition process will be completed during the September ending quarter, as per the filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-to-buy-4c-for-68mn-euros-by-end-september/article32177383.ece
24 July 2020||London,||UK’s satellite tech firm bid with India’s Bharti under Parliament scrutiny||A U.K. parliamentary panel has launched an inquiry into the U.K. government’s successful bid to acquire satellite technology firm OneWeb along with India’s Bharti Enterprises earlier this month. The winning bid has come under the scanner of the House of Commons’ Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy pane as “troubling and concerning” after it was alerted by a civil servant in the government’s business department over concerns around the investment. The U.K. was to invest $500 million in the firm.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uks-satellite-tech-firm-bid-with-indias-bharti-under-parliament-scrutiny/article32177387.ece
24 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Archer boost for England in decider||Jofra Archer was recalled to England’s squad for the series decider against the West Indies despite saying he might not play following racist abuse he received after being left out of the second Test for a breach of coronavirus regulations. “I need to be 100% right mentally so that I can throw myself into cricket this week,” fast bowler Archer wrote in his Daily Mail column on Wednesday. “If I play and don’t bowl 90 miles an hour it’s going to be news.” Archer, however, was back in England’s 14-man squad for the final Test at Old Trafford from Friday, with the three-match series all square at 1-1. “He is fit, firing and ready to go,” said England selector Ed Smith after announcing the squad on Thursday. Spectacular talent In eight Tests since his debut last year, Archer has taken 33 wickets, including three five-wicket hauls, at an average of 28.12. “Jofra is available for selection, he's a spectacular talent and a brilliant cricketer with an exceptional record in England,” said Smith at a conference call. England has included all six pacemen in the squad in a Test that will decide the fate of the Wisden Trophy, currently held by the West Indies. Broad, Curran retained Stuart Broad, Chris Woakes and Sam Curran, who helped bowl England to a 113-run win in the second Test, also at Old Trafford, have been retained. England captain Joe Root and head coach Chris Silverwood now face a tricky decision over the composition of their attack but Smith said: “We've got more players we want to pick than there are places in the team.” A West Indies success in the campaign, which marked international cricket’s return from the coronavirus lockdown, would be its first Test series win in England in 32 years.  The teams (from):   England: Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Dominic Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler (wk), Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Ollie Pope, Dom Sibley, Ben Stokes, Chris Woakes and Mark Wood.   West Indies: Jason Holder (Capt.), Kraigg Brathwaite, John Campbell, Alzarri Joseph, Shai Hope, Shamarh Brooks, Roston Chase, Jermaine Blackwood, Shane Dowrich (wk), Kemar Roach, Shannon Gabriel, Nkrumah Bonner, Rahkeem Cornwall, Raymon Reifer and Chemar Holder.   Umpires: Richard Kettleborough and Michael Gough; TV umpire: Richard Illingworth; Reserve umpire: David Millns; Match referee: Chris Broad.   Match starts at 3.30 p.m IST .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-boost-for-england/article32177535.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pooja Dhanda desperate to resume full-time training||For four months now Pooja Dhanda has been trying to stay fit within the confines of her home in Hisar. But the wrestler admits full-time training cannot be replicated at home. Handling change “The first month was very difficult because we are not used to being home for so long. Even when we did, there would be a fixed training routine. “This time it’s different because we cannot step out and, to be honest, even our families weren’t sure how to handle the change,” the 26-year old told The Hindu . Pooja managed to get a mat at home in March and has a local wrestler staying with her. She is doing everything to ensure her safety. “The boy I train with stays very close but hasn’t gone home,” she said. Also she is waiting for the Wrestling Federation of India or SAI to spell out future plans. Injured and in rehabilitation for almost the whole of 2019, Pooja is understandably in a tough place. She missed the 2019 Worlds due to injuries, followed by defeat to 18-year-old Anshu Malik in the 57kg trials for the now-rescheduled Asian Qualifiers, and was out of the reckoning for the Tokyo Olympics. With the WFI indicating that there would be fresh trials in 2021, Pooja has another chance to make the cut for Tokyo. But with a new lot of juniors becoming eligible next year, it would also increase competition in what is already one of the most crowded weight categories. Restrictions “A lot of sports have resumed training, including boxing, but unlike others, wrestlers cannot train properly without a sparring partner. “In that sense, we are the most desperate to get back to full-time training. “But with all the restrictions, I am not sure if that will be possible even if there is a camp. “Of course, if it becomes mandatory then there will be no option. “Let us wait and watch,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wrestler-pooja-dhanda-desperate-to-resume-full-time-training/article32177538.ece
24 July 2020||LIVERPOOL,||Liverpool lifts Premier League trophy||Liverpool’s players finally got their hands on the Premier League trophy on Wednesday in front of an empty Kop after a thrilling 5-3 victory over Chelsea in its last game of the season at Anfield. Kenny Dalglish, the last Liverpool manager to deliver the title, presented the medals wearing a red face mask before handing the trophy to captain Jordan Henderson. Many fans, who were gathered outside, let off flares and fireworks to celebrate the occasion. First-half frenzy Naby Keita opened the scoring for the champion with a thunderous effort and Trent Alexander-Arnold made it 2-0 with a curling free kick. After Georginio Wijnaldum’s half-volley from close range increased the lead, Olivier Giroud pulled one back. Roberto Firmino restored the three-goal advantage in the 55th minute but Chelsea scored through Tammy Abraham and Christian Pulisic to threaten a comeback before Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain put the result beyond doubt. Manchester United was held 1-1 at home by West Ham United, leaving it needing at least a draw from the final match of the season at Leicester City to guarantee a Champions League spot.  The results: Premier League: Liverpool 5 (Keita 23, Alexander-Arnold 38, Wijnaldum 43, Firmino 55, Oxlade-Chamberlain 84) bt Chelsea 3 (Giroud 45, Abraham 61, Pulisic 73); Manchester United 1 (Greenwood 51) West Ham 1 (Antonio 45+2-pen).   Serie A: Parma 2 (Caprari 45+3-pen, Kulusevski 87-pen) bt Napoli 1 (Insigne 54-pen); SPAL 1 (Cerri 24) lost to Roma 6 (Kalinic 10, Perez 38, Kolarov 47, Peres 52, 75, Zaniolo 90); Torino 1 (Zaza 67) drew with Hellas Verona 1 (Borini 56-pen); Sampdoria 1 (Gabbiadini 32) lost to Genoa 2 (Criscito 22-pen, Lerager 72); Inter Milan 0 drew with Fiorentina 0; Lecce 3 (Lapadula 22, 32, Saponara 70) bt Brescia 1 (Dessena 63) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-lays-its-hands-on-the-trophy/article32177531.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||India’s mixed relay gold in 2018 Asian Games ratified||India’s year-long wait for an official ratification of its 4x400m mixed relay Asian Games gold has finally ended with World Athletics updating the results and rankings on its website. The Indian quartet of Mohammed Anas Yahiya, M.R. Poovamma, Hima Das and Arokia Rajiv had finished second in 2018. A four-year dope ban on Kemi Adekoya of first-placed Bahrain last year put India on road to gold but there had been no confirmation of the same till now. Athletics Federation of India president Adille J. Sumariwalla confirmed the updated rankings. “The news comes as a fillip to us as we are aiming to build on the Asian Games showing and make a mark at the global level in the Olympic Games in Tokyo next year,” he said. However, till date there has been no written communication from the Olympic Council of Asia, IOA or World Athletics despite repeated reminders from AFI.  There has, however, been no written communication from the Olympic Council of Asia, IOA or World Athletics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-mixed-relay-gold-in-asiad-ratified/article32177532.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||We can come back strongly: Holder||Despite the short turnaround time between the Tests in the series, West Indies captain Jason Holder feels his side, especially the fast bowlers, can come back strongly in the decider at Old Trafford. “I am not too worried about the workload because these guys have been doing it for a while even though the turnaround is shorter than normal. But we have got enough motivation to keep pushing as we still have a good chance to win the series,” said Holder during the pre-match press conference on Thursday.  The skipper yet again highlighted the need for his batsmen to convert their starts and also pointed out that the fielding has to improve after a few drops in the last match. “Fielding is an area for us to put in a much better effort and lift it. That was our main issue in the last game. We were competitive on the other two fronts. “We also want our batters to convert those starts and this is the perfect opportunity to step up and get that hundred,” Holder noted. After levelling the series, England starts as the favourite and will get a boost with the availability of James Anderson and Jofra Archer. The only area of concern will be around Ben Stokes’ ability to bowl, as he is nursing a quadriceps niggle. England captain Joe Root said, however, that Stokes should be fit to play as a batsman, and a decision on his bowling will be taken before the match. Speed of light Root also strongly came to the support of Archer, who recently said he was subjected to racial abuse after breaching the COVID-19 bio-secure protocols, which forced him out of the second Test. “I think Jofra will be ready,” said Root. “He had two good days of training, has got his smile back, bowling at the speed of light. “It was disgusting to see some of the stuff he has had to put up with in the last week. As a team, we have tried to get around him and make sure he knows we are there for him.”  The third Test between England and West Indies will be aired live on Sony Six channels from 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-can-come-back-strongly-holder/article32177576.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rajendar adds another feather to his cap||Rajendar Kommu has added another feather to his cap. The 47-year-old has become the first person from Telangana to be named a Badminton World Federation line judge based on his consistently efficient performance in National and international events in India over the last few years. One of two He is one of only two Indians (the other being Rakesh Rasania of Gujarat) to get this honour this year for a three-year term, which means he can officiate now in BWF events abroad. “It started in 2008 when I first officiated in the State championship and then qualified as National Grade II umpire in 2010 and then as Grade I umpire in 2013,” says the badminton official, born in Nekkonda village of Warangal. “I owe my career to Punnaiah Sir (former APBA secretary K.Ch. Punnaiah Choudhary) and BWF senior official Vemuri Sudhakar who guided me through my career,” he says. Rajendar has been a regular at most of the major National and international events, including the high-profile PBL, Hyderabad Open and Tata Open. “I wanted to make it big as a player (represented Kakatiya University) but failed. Then, I was encouraged to be a technical official by my first guru Mohan Rao Sir and later on by Warangal Badminton Association secretary Ramesh Reddy Sir,” he says.  And, his most memorable match is the one that featured London Olympics bronze medallist Saina Nehwal and reigning Olympic champion Carolina Marin in the 2017 PBL at Gachibowli Stadium. “That was a dream match for me. And, I was really happy with the appreciation I received for the way I officiated the match featuring such big names,” he says. What next? “I am preparing for the BWF chair umpire’s exam,” says Rajendar who is working on his Ph.D. in Physical Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajendar-adds-another-feather-to-his-cap/article32177741.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cancel CLTA licence, say parents and activists||Angered by the perceived inaction of the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) and its persistence in supporting the accused in the harassment and age fudging cases, a representation with 1500 signatures of activists, parents and sportspersons has been made to the Chandigarh administration to cancel CLTA’s lease of the sector-10 stadium complex. Alleged malpractices The application, projected as the voice of the tennis parents, has sought justice for the many alleged malpractices at the centre. The signatories have questioned the use of CLTA funds to secure the bail bond for the accused players, and taking care of their legal expenses. They were categorical that the CLTA funds were only meant for player development, and was being misused ‘’with extravagance, without any accountability’’. The letter stated that the CLTA had not formed an age verification committee, especially for players enrolled under the Chandigarh Rural Tennis scheme (CHART), despite regular complaints. One of those accused was proved of having fudged his age by four years and the Haryana Health Department has already cancelled his age certification.  The statement also flagged “private coaching in the premises of CLTA” as gross violation of terms and conditions of lease deed, as it was meant only to “work for development of sport in the city.” A strong allegation that the CLTA officials were “drawing hugs sums through commission in private coaching,” was made. It sought “proceedings for cheating and criminal conspiracy against CLTA officials for using the land/premises for ulterior motives.” It may be recalled that the parents of the girl players have been fighting the case against CLTA for more than a year. Early this month, police investigation into the alleged harassment had led to findings on age fudging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cancel-clta-licence-say-parents-and-activists/article32177661.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Teach real history: Sangakkara on racism||Former Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara on Thursday delivered a powerful message against racism, saying education without values will not stop discrimination. Sangakkara said a change can be brought only by teaching real history instead of a sanitised version of it. Offering his views on the ‘Black Lives Matter’ movement, Sangakkara said, “It doesn’t matter if you are educated or not. I have seen some of the worse acts committed by people with best education.” Sangakkara said there are various versions of racism and “skin colour is not the only basis for discrimination.” “If you take Black Lives Matter, if you take racism and discrimination in the world, I think one of the most important things is to teach our children history as it should be, and not the sanitised version of it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teach-real-history-sangakkara-on-racism/article32177627.ece
24 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fitness is my success mantra, says Sindhu||World champion P.V. Sindhu says fitness is her success mantra. Sindhu says she owes her success at the World championship to her fitness and conditioning trainer M. Srikanth Varma. “I owe a lot to the demanding fitness regimen prescribed by Srikanth Sir at Suchitra Academy, which is like a second home for me,” Sindhu said at the virtual launch of Suchitra FitKid a scientifically designed online physical education programme on Thursday. “These are challenging times and it is imperative that everyone finds a way to stay safe,” she said. “For all of us, some sort of physical activity is a must during these times,” she said. “We should not limit our challenges but challenge the limits. A fit body and fresh mind help in the pursuit of excellence. “This has been the philosophy Srikanth sir and I worked on and helped me become World champion,” Sindhu said. She lauded Suchitra Academy International School for making the programme a part of the curriculum. Suchitra Academy mentor Praveen Raju thanked Sindhu for her inputs for the Fitkid programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fitness-is-my-success-mantra-says-sindhu/article32177626.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand falters after creating a masterpiece against Kramnik||Viswanathan Anand suffered a painful defeat after failing to put the finishing touches to a masterpiece he created against Vladimir Kramnik in the first game of the third round chess24 Legends of Chess on Thursday. In a clash involving former World champions, Anand missed a winning continuation a move before resigning. All credit to the now-retired Kramnik for finding the defensive moves and coming out stronger in 63 moves. The other decisive game of the round also followed a similar course with Anish Giri losing his way after attaining a winning position against Ian Nepomniachtchi. Late on Wednesday, Anand cracked in the fourth game, Gelfand and Svidler won while Ding Liren lost again. Anand, after proving equal to Carlsen in the first three games, overlooked a trick from the World champion while enjoying a clear positional advantage and resigned.  Third round (Game 1): Viswanathan Anand lost to Vladimir Kramnik (Rus); Peter Leko (Hun) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor); Boris Gelfand (Isr) drew with Peter Svidler (Rus); Anish Giri (Ned) lost to Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus); Ding Liren (Chn) drew with Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr).   Second round: Nepomniachtchi bt Ding 2.5-0.5; Carlsen bt Anand 2.5-1.5; Svidler bt Leko 2.5-1.5; Giri bt Kramnik 2-5-1.5; Gelfand bt Ivanchuk 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-falters-after-creating-a-masterpiece-against-kramnik/article32177529.ece
24 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Former athlete Beatrice passes away||Former track and field athlete Beatrice Bandara Hegde passed away here due to an illness. She was 70. Born in Sri Lanka, Beatrice later moved to Karnataka and represented the State in several national championships. She competed in 100m, 200m, javelin throw and a few more events. After her playing career, Beatrice served as a physical education teacher at Sacred Hearts School here. The Karnataka Athletic Association (KAA) condoled her demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-athlete-beatrice-passes-away/article32177533.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 07:57 IST,||Sudoku - July 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-24-2020/article32178288.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A safe space||A seven-year-old tries to make his mother happy by curating a list of things that remind her of the joy they share together. Duncan Macmillan’s Every Brilliant Thing can be synopsised into this single sentence: of finding happiness in everyday objects and the unlikeliest of memories. Its Indian adaptation by director Quasar Thakore Padamsee is no different. Having performed in The Hindu  Theatre Fest 2019 among many other stages, the play opened last year. It has been hailed as one of the most intimate theatre experiences, which deals with an important subject: mental health.  Every Brilliant Thing needs to be talked about, perhaps now more than ever. With conversations around mental health soaring heights, thanks to pandemic-induced stressors, each one of us could use a reminder like this: chase happiness. Which is why, despite its interactive format, the play performed by Vivek Madan takes to the online medium this weekend, in the form of a live storytelling performance. Produced by QTP, the performance is being brought online as part of Paytm Insider’s recently-announced theatre initiative, Front & Centre, in a bid to re-imagine theatre in a digital format. The physical play involves audience interaction at every step of the way. The narration builds from the stories spectators share. And, Quasar honestly did not think an online format would work, considering how intimate the performance is. “There’s a huge difference in how we have approached the play now: it’s storytelling. It took us almost two-and-a-half months to come up with a version that could work online,” he says adding, “When you come to the theatre, I, as a director, have a certain sense of control over the audience’s experience. I can set the lights a certain way and so on. But in the online space, it’s so much more reliant on the performer, Vivek.” However, the online medium and the anonymity it provides, has encouraged people to freely share, steering the conversation in the right direction. Interestingly, the show also culminates with a discussion on mental health with a professional. “Vivek is at home and has invited everyone there for a conversation and thanks them for letting him into their homes as well. And, tells a story. That’s a complete change in perspective,” continues Quasar. One of the factors that makes the show stand out is its raw quality. The audience will see the performer moving around the house as he pleases during the narration, making it seem much more grounded, informal and real. A safe space is thus created. “It is never polished,” adds Quasar. In terms of performance, a bit of a recalibration was required, says Vivek. He had a lot of factors to be wary of in the online space. “Here, you are close to the camera, and sometimes it’s not necessary to give as much but you still have to give the same mood. The dishonesty of the moment then, strikes the audience.” But, ultimately that text has no artifice, which is one of the main aspects of the play that attracted Vivek. In the pre-show chat, the onus is on creating a safe space and making the audience know that it is a story of hope, and coping together. Every Brilliant Thing will be played on July 24, 25, 26 and 30 at 6 p.m. Tickets are priced at Rs. 400 and are available on Paytm Insider.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-safe-space/article32177834.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Hassle-free treats!||No fuss Nutella ice-cream  Ingredients  Heavy whipping cream – 2 cups, chilled Vanilla extract – 1 tsp Condensed milk – 1 can, chilled Nutella – 1/2 cup Choice of chopped nuts (almonds, pecan etc), chocolate chips, chopped chocolate bits - 1/4 cup (optional)  Method  1. Combine condensed milk and Nutella in a bowl. Whisk until smooth. Set aside until ready to use. 2. In a large bowl, combine the heavy whipping cream and vanilla extract. Using an electric mixer, beat for about 5-6 minutes until medium peaks form. 3. Add the Nutella and condensed milk mixture and continue to beat for 20-30 seconds, scraping the sides in between. 4. Stir in the chopped nuts or chocolate chips, if using. 5. Put the mixture into a freezer-safe container and freeze for 5-6 hrs or until firm. And voila, tasty ice-cream without any fuss! 3 ingredient cheeseless cheesecake  Ingredients  Yoghurt (or curd) – 400 ml* Condensed milk – 400g (1 tin) * Marie or digestive biscuits – 200g Melted butter – 1/4 cup (optional, and enough to coat the bisuits) Toppings of your choice e.g. fresh fruit, berries, chocolate sauce, jam, fruit syrup, crushed nuts or biscuits (optional) *Note: the amount of condensed milk and yoghurt have to always be the same in proportion.  Method  1. Crush the biscuits until they are fine and crumbly. 2. In a bowl, combine the biscuits and butter. 3. Press the mixture into the bottom of a glass or microwave-safe dish. Set aside and let it chill. 4. In a separate bowl, mix together the yoghurt and the sweetened condensed milk. Mix until well combined. 5. Pour the filling into the crust slowly. Smooth out the top. 6. Place the dish in the microwave and cook on high for 5-6 minutes or until it is set (it should be firm and not jiggle too much in the middle). 7. Refrigerate until cool, then slice to serve. 8. You can add the toppings of your choice at the time of serving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/hassle-free-treats/article32178071.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Aged to perfection||In 2014, over 2,000 people got together in Seoul, the capital of South Korea, and made 250 tons of kimchi to give away to the homeless in preparation for winter. The significance here is not just the act but also the dish itself. A cultural icon of South Korea, kimchi is a spicy fermented vegetarian dish made from fresh seasonal vegetables. The process begins in summer to ensure that people will have their nutrients in winter. The main ingredient is the napa cabbage or other vegetables such as the Korean radish. A wide variety of seasonings including gochugaru, spring onions, garlic, ginger, and jeotgal are used. The dish is fermented and aged in underground pots traditionally. Today they use refrigerators. In earlier times, entire communities came together to prepare kimchi before winter. This process was known as Kimjang. It is such an intrinsic part of the South Korean culture that it made it to UNESCO’s Intangible Cultural Heritage list in 2013. Kimchi can be traced back to between 37 BC and 7 AD when fermented food was in vogue. It is served as an accompaniment at every meal and comes in hundreds of varieties. With recipes passed down from mother to daughter, and from mother-in-law to daughter-in-law, it continues to be a living cultural traditional heritage. The process Salt is added to the uniformly cut cabbage to draw out the excess water. Once seasoned, it is buried in enormous earthen pots known as Ornggi. This particular process of burying prevented the kimchi from being frozen during winter and too fermented during summer. Today, they are stored in kimchi refrigerators. Recipes dating back to the 13th century highlight that kimchi was made only with fresh vegetables, pickles, salt and alcohol. Red pepper was added only in the 17th century. Today, kimchi is made from Napa cabbage, a type of Chinese cabbage, originating from the Beijing region of China and Korean radish.  The process of making kimchi is known as Kimjang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/aged-to-perfection/article32178017.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Ronit and the tooth fairy||“Wake up!” Someone shook nine-year-old Ronit by his arm. Expecting his mother to be standing before him, he opened sleep-laden eyes and stared at the girl in a blue gown standing before him. She was slim and small built. Her silky brown long hair fringing a heart-shaped face gave her an angelic look. Conscious of his untidy appearance, Ronit tried to flatten his mop of shiny black curls, which had a bad habit of looking messy and wild even after a thorough combing. ‘Who? Who are you and why did you wake me up?” he stammered. “Hello! I’m Catherina, a tooth fairy. You can call me Cathy,” she introduced herself in a melodious voice and smiled exposing a set of perfect white teeth resembling a string of pearls. “But you can’t be a tooth fairy; you don’t have a magic wand, a halo or wings,” said Ronit. “I’ll answer your questions one by one, in the reverse order. I’ve made my wings invisible, as they spoil my appearance. My halo too has been done away with, as it would have blinded you. As for my magic wand, I have it in the pocket of my gown. Satisfied?” Cathy asked. “But what are you doing in my room in the middle of the night?” Ronit questioned. “You have won a free trip for two days to Fantasyland. At the Annual Tooth Fair held last week, your broken tooth, which you had kept under your pillow, was selected, winning you the grand prize. You have exactly 30 seconds to decide. If your answer is positive, I’ll escort you to Fantasyland. If it is negative, then the prize will go to the first runner-up,” Cathy said. Surprised! Ronit stared at her wide-eyed. “Are you coming to Fantasyland or not?” Cathy asked impatiently. “But what will I tell my parents,” Ronit moaned. Eager as he was to embark on this fascinating and fabulous trip, he was scared of incurring his parents’ wrath. “What will my mom and dad say if I go away just like that, without telling them, without taking their permission?’ “Don’t worry, I’ll take care of your parents’ permission,” Cathy assured him. She had guessed what was going on in his mind. “All you have to do is to come with me.” “How will we go to Fantasyland?” Ronit asked. “On that cloud,” Cathy pointed to the window. A fluffy cloud hovered near the window. “Cool,” Ronit said. “But, I’ll look silly if I come to Fantasyland in my pyjama suit. I’ll also need time to pack my clothes for the trip.” “No need to pack anything,” Cathy said. “All your needs will be taken care of by us Fantasylanders.” “At least give me five minutes to change.” Jumping out of his bed, Ronit ran towards his cupboard. Opening it, he took out a pair of blue jeans and a blue T-shirt and rushed into his bathroom. In a record time of four minutes and 30 seconds, Ronit had changed his clothes, washed his face and combed his unruly mop of curls. When he emerged from bathroom, there was no sign of Cathy. Ronit ran to the window. There was no cloud outside the window. Seeing a folded slip of paper on his dressing table, he opened the paper. Two words were written on it. “Pranked you!”  I’ve made my wings invisible, as they spoil my appearance. My halo too has been done away with...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ronit-and-the-tooth-fairy/article32178042.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Pitter, patter, Potter on||“O nce upon a time there were four little rabbits, and their names were — Flopsy, Mopsy, Cotton-tail, and Peter.   They lived with their Mother in a sand-bank, underneath the root of a very big fir tree…”  So began the story of a naughty rabbit named Peter. First published in 1902, it was told by Beatrix Potter. The story was fashioned after her pet rabbits: Benjamin Bouncer and Peter Piper. Furry muses Both rabbits were extraordinary pets. Benjamin Bouncer enjoyed buttered toast and journeyed with the Potter family for holidays in Scotland, where he was taken for walks on a leash. Peter Piper, on the other hand, used to perform tricks and accompanied Beatrix everywhere. Helen Beatrix Potter was born on July 28, 1866, in Kensington, London, U.K. Her brother, Walter Bertram, was six years younger than her. Both children loved to draw and paint, and spent hours making sketches of their many pets, which included lizards, snakes and bats. Beatrix never went to school. Instead, her parents hired an art teacher and governess to see to her education. Of the long line of governesses, it was Annie Moore’s friendship she maintained. She was invited to study fungi at the Royal Botanical Gardens in Kew. Here, she produced detailed botanical drawings. Her nature sketches led to more illustrations and verses for Changing Pictures , a popular annual. This created a desire to publish her own illustrated stories. Her story, The Tale of Peter Rabbit , was a picture letter she had sent to Annie Moore’s son, Noel. She sent this to several publishers but was rejected by every one. So, in 1901, she decided to publish it herself. She did an initial print run of 250 copies meant only for family and friends. The book was an instant success. Frederick Warne & Co., who had initially turned her down, reconsidered its decision, provided she did her illustrations in colour. And the rest, as they say, is history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/pitter-patter-potter-on/article32178049.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Cradle of civilisation||Ethiopia is a country in eastern Africa. It is Africa’s oldest independent country. Apart from a five-year occupation by Italy, it has never been colonised; a fact that sets it apart from many other countries in the continent.   History Anthropologists believe that this may be the region where humankind originated. In fact, in this country, archaeologists famously discovered the remains of “Lucy”, an ancient early human thought to be more than three million years old. Ethiopia was historically known as Abyssinia. Much of the country’s history is monarchical, going back to the Aksumite Kingdom about 2,000 years ago. In more recent history, the country under Emperor Menelik II defeated Italy, which was trying to colonise the region, in 1896 — the first victory of an African nation over a European colonial power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/cradle-of-civilisation/article32178059.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Secret dream team||Movie: Spies in Disguise (2019)  Genre: Computer-animated, spy comedy film  Suave and sophisticated Lance Sterling, a secret agent of H.T.U.V. (Honor, Trust, Unity and Valor), and socially inept MIT-graduate and scientist Walter Beckett are exact opposites. But what Walter lacks in social skills, he makes up for by creating mind-boggling gadgets that Lance uses on his missions. Lance has been sent to Japan to recover an attack drone from Katsu Kimura, a Japanese arms dealer. Lance defies H.T.U.V. director’s orders, defeats Kimura, and flees with the briefcase containing the drone. He returns to the headquarters and fires Walter for equipping his suit with non-lethal weapons, though the latter tries to convince Lance that there are more peaceful ways to save the world. But the briefcase turns out to be empty and a security force agent reveals footage of Lance (in reality, Killian, a cybernetically enhanced terrorist in disguise), leaving with the drone. Lance is labelled a traitor and decides to take Walter’s help. Will they work as team and save the world?     I-spy  This was Will Smith’s first animated film after “Shark Tale” (2004) It is inspired by Lucas Martell’s animated short “Pigeon: Impossible” (2009) The hotel where Lance first tracks Kimura is a real place: the Blue Bay Hotel and Resort Grand Esmeralda in Playa del Carmen, Mexico The other 2019 movie that involved drone was “Spider-Man: Far From Home” featuring Tom Holland against a villain who used a whole army of drones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/secret-dream-team/article32178066.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Rayu wins the day||Story so far: After trying to steal from Mr. Shetty, Rayu learns that the value of honesty when Mr. Purshottam rewards him for telling the truth.     On my next visit, I fed Mrs. Charumathi soup when I saw her struggling. “I don’t have any money for you,” she said. “I don’t need any money,” I replied, wiping her clean. “ Next week, I entered the neighbourhood store to buy shaving cream for Mr. Garg and spotted Mr. Som buying a box of expensive chocolates. I was paying for the shaving cream when Mad Malini entered and handed over a shopping list to the storekeeper. I didn’t think much of the incident till the next morning when Rani woke me up. “You got us banned from Happy Home,” she muttered. I ran to the clinic to find out more. Mad Malini snapped at me the moment she saw me. “Why did you gift Mr. Som a box of sweets? Don’t you know he is a diabetic?” I found Mr. Som in the ward, reading a newspaper. “You got me into a lot of trouble,” I said. “Sister Rosie would have thrown me out of Happy Home,” he admitted. "Promise! I will never eat sweets again.” For the next three weeks, Rani and I were home watching television and fighting with each other. Our redemption came three weeks later with an invitation to attend the Happy Home Annual function. We were on our way to the stage when Rani had an attack of hiccups. “Go to the dining hall and have a glass of water,” ordered Sister Rosie. Rani had finished drinking a glass of water when we heard hurried footsteps. We ducked under a table and watched Mr. Som sneak three gulab jamuns into his flask, some grapes in his pocket and two mangoes in his bag. Before we could spill the beans to Sister Rosie, she handed the mike to me. I wondered what to do when I spotted Mr. Som leaving the grounds. “I will perform a few magic tricks. Please welcome Som Uncle on stage..” As the audience cheered, Mr. Som walked to the stage. clinging to his satchel. What is your favourite fruit, Som uncle?” “Mango,” he answered. “Abra-bajjooo-Tumba!” I removed two mangoes from his bag and tossed them to Mr. Kamal, who was standing in front of the stage. Everyone clapped. “Would you like to eat some grapes?” “Yes… no…” he replied, looking at Sister Rosie. “Abra-bajjooo-Tumba,” I muttered and fished out the grapes from his pocket. “Do you like Gulab Jamun?” Without waiting for his answer, I pulled out the flask to reveal the hidden gulab jamuns and popped them into my mouth. Mission accomplished.   To be continued...  Rayu’s magic trick brings out grapes, mangoes and gulab jamuns from Mr Som’s satchel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/rayu-wins-the-day/article32178011.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||On your way!||There are many expressions in English, which do not make sense to someone who’s not very familiar with the language. That’s because when you look at the words in the expression, they may mean something quite different to what they appear to mean. Let’s have a look at the expression, ‘Here you go.’ Does it mean that I have to go somewhere? No! It’s an expression that is used when … let me try to explain it with an illustration. For example, after buying some things at a shop, you pay the shopkeeper. She gives back the change and says, ‘Here you go.’ This expression has no particular meaning. It just kind of means that the work is over and that you can be on your way. Same same It’s a little similar to ‘indha’ that’s used in Tamil and Malayalam. There’s another expression, ‘There you go.’ That means exactly the same as ‘Here you go.’ In fact there are two more expressions that mean the same thing. They are, ‘There you are,’ and ‘Here you are.’ So there you are, here you are, there you go, here you go are all expressions that mean the same thing, but nobody is quite sure what they exactly mean. These expressions are not so common in India. But if you are in the U.K. or the U.S., you will definitely hear them more than a couple of times every day. Another variation of this expression is, ‘There he goes,’ or ‘There she goes.’ Imagine a party is taking place and a man stands up to tell some jokes. All the people at the party have heard these boring jokes a zillion times. Then you’ll hear someone quietly say, “There he goes.” This means, “Oh, he’s started again. He’s not going to stop till he bores us to death.” There are a few more ways in which these expressions are used. I’ll save them for another time because I have to go. Where do I go? There I go!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/on-your-way/article32178052.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||When I grow up||ACROSS 1. Makes breads and cakes (5) 4. Teaches a sport (5) 5. Forest officer (6) 6. A mid____ helps mothers give birth (4) 8. You can find a massage therapist working here (3) 9. A ____ estate agent enables property sales (4) 11. A hydrologist has specialised knowledge on this (5) 13. Chauffer (6) 14. A jockey can ___ a horse (4) 15. A watchman is a ____keeper (4) 16 Works at sea (6) DOWN 1. This person gives a haircut (6) 2. Ruler of a province (4) 3. Cook (4) 4. A cruciverbalist makes these (10) 6. Serves food at a restaurant (6) 7. An optometrist measures your ___sight (3) 10. Paints pictures (6) 12. RJ: _____ Jockey (5) 13 A sniffer ___ can detect explosives (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/when-i-grow-up/article32178020.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||What is the Great Pacific Garbage Patch?  The Great Pacific Garbage Patch (GPGP) is the largest of the five offshore plastic accumulation zones in the world’s oceans. It is located halfway between Hawaii and California. In other words, it is a big patch of garbage and debris in the middle of the northern Pacific Ocean. It is caught in the water currents. It formed because currents near the centre of the Northern Pacific Ocean move around in a kind of circle, which catches and holds floating pieces of plastic. There is said to be more than 1.8 trillion pieces of plastic in the patch that weigh an estimated 80,000 tonnes.   Whowere the first two people to climb Mount Everest?  The first summit to Mt. Everest was by Sir Edmund Hillary from New Zealand and Tenzing Norgay, a Sherpa from Nepal. They climbed from the south side on a British expedition lead by Colonel John Hunt, thus becoming the first two people in the world to scale the mountain. After years of dreaming about it and seven weeks of climbing, the duo reached the top of Mount Everest, at 11:30 a.m. on May 29, 1953.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article32178003.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article32177994.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article32178027.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Ronit and the tooth fairy||“Wake up!” Someone shook nine-year-old Ronit by his arm. Expecting his mother to be standing before him, he opened sleep-laden eyes and stared at the girl in a blue gown standing before him. She was slim and small built. Her silky brown long hair fringing a heart-shaped face gave her an angelic look. Conscious of his untidy appearance, Ronit tried to flatten his mop of shiny black curls, which had a bad habit of looking messy and wild even after a thorough combing. ‘Who? Who are you and why did you wake me up?” he stammered. “Hello! I’m Catherina, a tooth fairy. You can call me Cathy,” she introduced herself in a melodious voice and smiled exposing a set of perfect white teeth resembling a string of pearls. “But you can’t be a tooth fairy; you don’t have a magic wand, a halo or wings,” said Ronit. “I’ll answer your questions one by one, in the reverse order. I’ve made my wings invisible, as they spoil my appearance. My halo too has been done away with, as it would have blinded you. As for my magic wand, I have it in the pocket of my gown. Satisfied?” Cathy asked. “But what are you doing in my room in the middle of the night?” Ronit questioned. “You have won a free trip for two days to Fantasyland. At the Annual Tooth Fair held last week, your broken tooth, which you had kept under your pillow, was selected, winning you the grand prize. You have exactly 30 seconds to decide. If your answer is positive, I’ll escort you to Fantasyland. If it is negative, then the prize will go to the first runner-up,” Cathy said. Surprised! Ronit stared at her wide-eyed. “Are you coming to Fantasyland or not?” Cathy asked impatiently. “But what will I tell my parents,” Ronit moaned. Eager as he was to embark on this fascinating and fabulous trip, he was scared of incurring his parents’ wrath. “What will my mom and dad say if I go away just like that, without telling them, without taking their permission?’ “Don’t worry, I’ll take care of your parents’ permission,” Cathy assured him. She had guessed what was going on in his mind. “All you have to do is to come with me.” “How will we go to Fantasyland?” Ronit asked. “On that cloud,” Cathy pointed to the window. A fluffy cloud hovered near the window. “Cool,” Ronit said. “But, I’ll look silly if I come to Fantasyland in my pyjama suit. I’ll also need time to pack my clothes for the trip.” “No need to pack anything,” Cathy said. “All your needs will be taken care of by us Fantasylanders.” “At least give me five minutes to change.” Jumping out of his bed, Ronit ran towards his cupboard. Opening it, he took out a pair of blue jeans and a blue T-shirt and rushed into his bathroom. In a record time of four minutes and 30 seconds, Ronit had changed his clothes, washed his face and combed his unruly mop of curls. When he emerged from bathroom, there was no sign of Cathy. Ronit ran to the window. There was no cloud outside the window. Seeing a folded slip of paper on his dressing table, he opened the paper. Two words were written on it. “Pranked you!”  I’ve made my wings invisible, as they spoil my appearance. My halo too has been done away with...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article32177998.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||He ruled the world of music too||“My book, Maverick Maharaja, is not a straight-on biography on the multi-faceted Maharaja of Mysore, Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar. It’s a narrative of his life and times, especially his writings, compositional material and musical innovations,” says author Deepti Navratna. The book is a tribute to the Maharaja in his centenary year (1919-1974). The book’s launch was postponed due to the pandemic. It will now be e-published and released during Dasara at Mysore by the royal family. “Through photographs and historical events, the 400-page book showcases thesyncretic ethos of the Mysore Court, inter-cultural encounters in Carnatic music in the past, and the tantra, agama and sakti philosophies that marked art activities in the region,” says Navratna. The writer, a neurobiologist, vocalist and connoisseur of arts, is the Director of Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts - Regional Centre, Bengaluru (IGNCA-RCB). After a Masters in neuroscience from Harvard University, she pursued her passion for inter-cultural musical exchanges, which took her to the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston. Through her Carnatic Alchemy Project, she explored new sound configurations. . As the founder of Raaga Laboratory, part of her IGNCA project in Bengaluru, Navratna continues her research on neuroscience in Indian classical music. She speaks here about her research on Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar. How would you describe the book?  Maverick Maharaja takes an unconventional know-the-man-through-his-muse approach in unravelling his genius. The book contextualises the events in his life to the political, social and cultural changes occurring in Mysore and India at large. Why did you choose to write on J.C. Wadiyar? For the past 15 years, all my creative efforts have led me to the Maharaja. Initially, it was his music that drew me to him. Much later, while studying at the New England Conservatory of Music, I happened to research East-meets-West encounters in Carnatic music and found a vintage recording at the British Museum titled ‘Karnatic band of HH. Maharaja J.C. Wadiyar of Mysore.’ Soon, I was fascinated by the Western influences in his Carnatic compositions and his personality and diverse interests. The final research took about two years . Was the title chosen to reflect the Maharaja’s diverse interests? I have been in awe of his persona. Can one be contemporary and classical at the same time? Can a mind, steeped in symbols of Agamas and Advaitha, find beauty in metaphors and music of a remote Russian composer? Can someone find divinity in a Carnatic kriti and a Western symphony, all at once? The Maharaja’s life managed to beautifully negotiate many such paradoxes and impossibles . Western classical music, Carnatic music, wildlife conservation, philosophy, photography, statesmanship, all fitted into his life like a jigsaw puzzle. That is why I thought his story had to be told. It’s interesting that your book shares the thoughts of the Maharaja’s daughters too. It wasn’t easy to construct a biography of such a diverse personality. Fortunately, the Maharaja has left us with a wealth of sources to know him — his musical compositions, books he authored, his interviews, published speeches, personal and official correspondence, lectures and essays he penned. His son-in-law, Rajachandra, provided great support and guidance for the book. I also spoke to the Maharaja’s daughters, Indrakshi Devi and Kamakshi Devi, and some of his grandchildren to know what it feels like carrying forward his legacy. His passion for music took him on a study tour of Africa, Australia and the Scandinavian countries At the Maharaja’s College he studied political science and dreamt of becoming a world-class pianist and train under Rachmaninoff, but Nalwadi’s death put him on the throne instead. He then intensified his study of Sanskrit and Carnatic music. He trained under Veena Venkatgiriyappa and the composer, Mysore Vasudevachar. In the book, Sangeetha Samaya, S. Krishnamurti (grandson of Mysore Vasudevachar) describes how the Maharaja played tunes and discussed lyrics of kritis with his guru. Krishnamurti would later notate these compositions, which would be approved by the guru and Maharaja. His music knew no boundaries... Maharaja's love for music knew no boundaries. After the second world war, Walter Legge, a classical music record producer and founder of the Philharmonia Society, approached J.C. Wadiyar to resuscitate the philharmonic spirit, which resulted in a series of historic concerts called the ‘Mysore Concerts’ from 1947 to 1951 at Royal Albert Hall, London. Through commissioned recordings and performances with top-notch composers and innovative programming, the world got to listen to great music, thanks to the Maharaja. Very few are aware that Wadiyar quietly revolutionised European art music. In collaboration with EMI, in addition to the classical repertoire, many beautiful works got new life such as Balakirev’s First Symphony and Roussel’s Fourth Symphony. Pieces considered conducting and performing nightmares, such as the music for string, percussion, and celeste by Bartok, were introduced too. Please take us through his body of compositions in Carnatic music and those he specially created for the band with harmonic ideas. What is masterful about his less than 100 compositions is that two-thirds are in rare, extant and new ragas. But the element of innovation runs high in them. For example, his Shivakambodhi is a Western Mixolydian based scale, capable of generating Khambodi by an interesting grahabheda. In his Hindola Desika kriti, ‘Pahimam Satatam’, the entire kriti is constructed using a Western concept called Plagal cadence, in which the chord of the sub-dominant immediately precedes that of the tonic. In Western music, such a concept is used in hymns and chants to give a meditative feel. Many such compositions were perhaps written for the Royal Carnatic Orchestra in his court, which was a world-class orchestra, playing signature music at the intersection of Carnatic , Western classical and world music. A great number of ragas were resuscitated in his compositions from being mere scales in musicology texts. Ragas such as Lalitha Panchama, Bhupala Panchama, Shuddha Lalitha and Shuddha Thodi mentioned in ancient texts were given form and life as kritis. In this sense, he brought to life many of the scales hidden in texts. Some 30-odd kritis are eka-raga kritis, which means they are the only kritis available in these ragas. For example, Bhogavasantham, an ancient raga that finds references in very old musicological texts, comes to life through his beautiful composition, ‘Amba Sri Rajarajeshwari’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/he-ruled-the-world-of-music-too/article32177354.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Museum in a school||When Ambayiram, a member of the Erode Municipal Corporation, began building a house in 1968, little did he realise that this would result in the birth of a museum. When the soil was being dug up, workers found a Murugan icon dating to the ninth century. The icon was taken to Pulavar Dr. S. Raju, a Tamil teacher in the C.S.I. Mission school, in Erode. (Raju later became a renowned epigraphist in the State Archaeology department). The school management did not want to keep the icon in the school premises, and Raju was in a fix. Luckily, S. Meenakshisundaranar, founder of a school called Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam, suggested that the icon be housed in his school. Soon after, a stone with an inscription dated 948 C.E was discovered near a lake, and another with an inscription dating to the 13th century was discovered in a sewer near a lawyer’s house, and these too were taken to Kalaimagal school. In 1972, a burial urn was unearthed in Kalaimagal school, and this spurred efforts to build up a collection of heritage objects for the school. Meenakshisundaranar threw himself wholeheartedly into the project, along with Raju. Sadly, Meenakshisundaranar passed away in 1973, after which the collection effort continued under Ms. M. Muthiah, principal of the school. She toured Thanjavur, Puducherry, Dharmapuri and Coimbatore, soliciting pieces for the school collection. Raju’s friends Poluvampatti Ramasami, Bagur Kuppusami, Kadathur Venkataraman, Achirupakkam Thamaraikannan and Poonkundran of Coimbatore gladly parted with their collections. A museum called Kalaimagal Kalaikoodam was established in 1978. Chief Minister MGR visited the museum the next year. Numismatic section In 1981, the Kalaimagal Meenakshisundaranar Archaeological research centre (KAMALARC) was inaugurated by MGR. The Ministry of Culture, Government of India, contributed Rs. 98,000 to the museum. When the World Tamil Conference took place in Madurai, many of the school museum’s pieces were taken to Madurai for display. Upon the death of Ms. Muthiah, the mantle passed to Ms. S. Mangalavathy. To coincide with the centenary of Meenakshisundaranar, a separate coin section was inaugurated in 1998. Dr. R. Krishnamurthy, editor, Dinamalar , known for his research on coins and vattezhuthu, instituted an annual award for the student who wrote the best essay on archaeology and history. Semi-precious stones When one learns that students of the school did field work in Kodumanal, under the guidance of Dr. Raju, one becomes envious of them. They returned with colourful beads made of stone, iron implements and potsherds, which were housed in the museum. “Padittrupathu, a Sangam era work, talks of a place called Kodumanam. Kodumanal is the Kodumanam of the Sangam period,” says Raju. “The place abounds in semi precious stones. Padittrupathu says that when farmers ploughed their land, when the rains caused soil erosion and when people dug up edible roots, such stones were obtained. The people of Kodumanal made beads using these stones.” Sangam literature talks of burial practices among the Tamils. “Manimekalai mentions ‘thaazhiyil kavippor,’ which is a reference to burial urns,” says Raju. The urn discovered in Kalaimagal school contained two skeletons, which were identified as belonging to a man and a woman. There is a verse in Purananuru , where a woman requests a potter to make a burial urn big enough to hold her husband and herself, for she has never been separated from him. She says she has been following him faithfully, like a lizard holding on to the spoke in the wheel of a cart (verse 256 Purananuru). The burial urn unearthed in Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam shows that husband and wife being interred in the same urn was not just poetic hyperbole, but a common practice. Ayyanar sculpture The museum has stone sculptures, bronzes, wooden sculptures, copper plates, stone slabs with inscriptions and palm leaf manuscripts. The sculptures include a 12th century Jyestha Devi, a 10th century sculpture of Ayyanar with his spouses Purna and Pushkala, and a 12th century Ayyanar. The latter has a figure of a hunter, with his dog. A stone slab with a Kulottunga I period inscription (11th century) is one of the exhibits in the museum. It says a place called Vikramapalavapuram, near Bhavani, was conferred the honorific of Veerapattinam. Important trading centres, which were guarded by armed forces, were called Veerapattinam. Students from other schools visit the museum to get a guided tour of history, as do scholars of repute. When I visited, I found students viewing the displays and taking down notes. Later in class, they asked their teacher questions based on their notes. What a wonderful way to learn history!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/museum-in-a-school/article32177367.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The araimandi debate||The dance world is obsessed with araimandi — from teachers and students to critics. But this is not really a new obsession. The ardhamandali or the araimandi stance, with bent knees turned out and body lowered, central to most Indian dance styles, has been around for centuries. And there’s evidence of it in sculptures and texts across India. The question is how much is enough. According to scholar Dr. V. Raghavan, texts have provided specifications regarding the mandala, in which the feet form a rhombus. ‘The Sanskrit text Nrttaratnaavali (1253 AD) calls this Kharvataa and mentions 12 inches for this lowering; the Tamil text of Aram Valarthu Nadhanaar (Bharata Siddhaantam) says that if you measure the distance from the nose to the naval and measure the inside distance between the two knees bent in mandala, the two should be equal.’ As any practitioner will tell you, the dance style causes heel, knee and back pain. There is a study published in Indian Anthropologist (1998) by Joyce Paul and Satwanti Kapoor that says 35% of the Bharatanatyam dancers surveyed (a small sample of 70) seem to have had injuries caused by dancing, the knee being the most affected. They blame the araimandi, equating it to the demi-plie of ballet, which is known to cause injury. They observe that the dancers with limited external rotation at the hip are the ones most affected. Kuttanam, the forceful stamps, and the cement or stone practice floors are the other culprits. Dance or dancer? Who is at fault? The dancers or the dance style? The authors of the study argue that since the dance tradition goes back 1,500 years, the principles of yoga would have been taken into consideration, but not the principles of anatomy and modern-day physiology. They also say that the structure, ‘rather than being based on functional anatomy, lays its foundation on the aesthetic beauty of lines and angles formed by the varied positioning of angas or the different parts of the body.’ A similar opinion is expressed by scholar Kapila Vatsyayan in her book, Indian Classical Dance , “The Indian dance is not concerned with the musculature of the human form, but rather, like the sculptor, takes the joints and fundamental anatomical bone-structure of the human form as its basis.” Dancers who have had the privilege of working with nattuvanars, the traditional repositories of Bharatanatyam, disagree that the dance style may be flawed. Vyjayanthimala Bali (disciple of Vazhuvoor Ramiah Pillai, K.P.Kittappa Pillai and K.N.Dhandayuthapani Pillai), Nandini Ramani (disciple of Kandappa Pillai, T. Balasaraswati and K. Ganesan) and Alarmel Valli (disciple of Pandanallur Chokkalingam Pillai and Pandanallur Subbaraya Pillai) emphasise the hours of practice that prepare the body. Lakshmi Viswanathan (disciple of Kanjeevaram Ellappa Pillai) says that though the nattuvanars ruled with an iron rod, they had a knack of teaching each dancer according to her ability. Nritta was not given the importance it is given now, varnam korvais were measured and brief, and the jatiswaram was slow and perfect. Slow and steady In the Kandappa Pillai-Balasaraswati style, the basic course was three-four years long. Nandini says, “Araimandi was very important. The focus was first on nritta. We had more than 100 adavus, and we used to practise them in three speeds, from Monday to Saturday for two hours or more. It started with footwork. It took more than a year for arm movements, kai , to be allowed. We considered it an achievement. It was a gradual way of training; we were never overfed or spoon-fed. Unless you have gone through this kind of training, the shaping of the body will not happen. I feel heel or back pain is mainly due to inappropriate or wrong posture from the beginning.” No water or breaks Vyjayanthimala echoes the importance of training. “We didn’t leave out a single detail,” she says. In the Thaiyya Thai set, we practised all 10. We had 72 adavus. The adavu foundation with araimandi, the muzhumandi to araimandi movement, straight elbows without sagging, all were important. I was a good student and Guru Kittappa was happy with me. I would not sit down or drink water during practice. I would dance in front of the mirror to get it right. Adavu sutham and anga sutham were most important. Laya also — the salangai and the talam had to go together, the mridangam would follow the feet.’ Alarmel Valli has additional learnings from her gurus. “Guru Chokkalingam taught us the contrast between force and lightness and power and grace. For the Paichal Adavu, he would say, when you take off it should be forceful, but your landing should be like a flower falling. You cannot find these aesthetic principles in books; only the repositories of this culture were able to transmit it to their students. They taught us body-friendly principles and wove certain safeguards into the technique. To perform a margam, I would practise for 90 minutes to build up stamina. This is more important than rehearsals.” Recalling how dancers of an earlier era like Pandanallur Jayalakshmi danced through the day eating only pazhedu (fermented rice), Valli says they consecrated their lives for dance. “I have danced for 50 years on a cement floor, both in the dance class at Egmore and later, when Subbaraya Pillai sir came home to conduct classes. While I did have spondylitis, I never suffered any debilitating injuries or pain that kept me from doing justice to the dance. This was definitely thanks to the footwork technique imparted by my gurus, of striking the floor mainly with the front of the feet. The resultant sharper, more cadenced sound was generated from the hollow of the feet rather than the heels. This emphasis on the use of vallinam and mellinam, or light and shade in footwork, spared me major knee and spinal injuries. Best practice “For the araimandi, we were taught to position the feet in a wide, obtuse angle, a wide V, rather than as a straight line, at a full 180 degrees. The knees, however, had to be open and turned well outwards. This helped us maintain the araimandi stance more comfortably, without undue pressure exerted on the heels to maintain balance. I remember my Guru, Chokkakingam Pillai, saying that very high arches were not conducive to the kind of stamping that Bharatanatyam calls for. I too have noticed in my classes that often students with high arches suffer pain in the ball of the foot. I have low arches myself and I feel it has been beneficial.” Valli too developed a heel injury, but that was only after active practice on a cement floor for 25 years. Given her busy performance schedule, the dancer, besides taking up a healing yoga routine, wore a skin-coloured cotton sock on her left foot with the toes cut off for better traction. “Fortunately, no one noticed. You have to practise with the right kind of technique. Imbalance leads to stress and injury, as also mental stress. Of course, we had a much more leisurely and contemplative life without the tyranny of social media,” says Valli. The one technique that was emphasised in Kalakshetra according to Professor C.V. Chandrasekhar and Jaya Chandrasekhar was to tuck your bottom in (they called it the dhobi bundle), important for body centring and putting less pressure on the knees. The reasoning is that if we lean forward we can sit more, but this leads to wrong weight distribution. Incidentally Kalakshetra’s old campus in the Theosophical Society campus had mostly mud floors in its cottages. With the passing away of most of the old-school nattuvanars, we have lost a part of history and an irreplaceable knowledge bank. It would be a good idea to try and collate their philosophies while also establishing a standard body strengthening protocol to assist dance training. It could be based on yoga. Any takers?  Dancers who have had the privilege of working with nattuvanars disagree that the dance style may be flawed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-araimandi-debate/article32177347.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The winning tune||When his fans are celebrating Anand Bakshi’s 90th birth anniversary with ‘Sawan ka mahina, pawan kare sor’, my heart rewinds to those teenage years when I was discovering Kishore Kumar and searching for Mr. X in Bombay . The reason was Baxi’s (that’s how he spelled his surname at that time) landmark number, ‘Mere mehboob qayamat hogi’ that many youngsters still listen to when experiencing the first pangs of love. In the late 1980s when HMV cassettes were expensive and T-Series had yet to flood the market with cheap/affordable alternatives, a melange of melodies could be filled into blank cassettes at the neighbourhood electronics shop. Was it legal, I don’t know, but I can vouch for Mere Mehboob 's presence in almost each one of them. Years later, one discovered that the 1964 film, directed by Shantilal Soni, who was otherwise known for his snake sagas, was a science fiction feature. It had little to write home about except for the fact that it was perhaps our first experiment with the invisible man, which later culminated into Mr. India . There is a long list of songs that emerged from films that were declared dead on arrival. Most of them are compositions that relied more on meaningful lyrics than just peppy tunes. Poet-lyricist Gopaldas Neeraj, whose second death anniversary was observed last week, experienced it early in his career when his immensely popular poem, ‘Karwan guzar gaya gubar dekhte rahe’, rendered poignantly by Mohammed Rafi, got a dilettantish treatment in Nayi Umar Ki Nayi Fasal (1966), that sank without a trace. For years, Neeraj carried a reputation that he wrote memorable songs for not-so-memorable films. In the industry, memorable is often counted as immediate box office success. From Prem Pujari to Mera Naam Joker, both released in 1970 , he contributed to many big films with not-so-bountiful results but with songs such as ‘Rangeela Re’ and ‘Ai bhai zara dekh ke chalo’ that live on. As Neeraj would fondly remember, the former was a challenge from S.D. Burman, as he gave him the catchphrase and the situation beforehand, while the latter was in free verse, which Neeraj composed himself after Shankar of Shankar Jaikishan fame failed to set his verse to tune. It was no different for composers. Sardar Malik, the father of Anu Malik, often suffered the same fate. His compositions, ‘Haan deewana hoon main’ and ‘Saranga teri yaad mein’ are still favourites of Mukesh fans, but if you watched them in the films they were part of, there is hardly any emotional connect. Outlasted the films Kuldeep Singh’s serene ghazal, ‘Tum ko dekha toh yeh khayal aaya’ ( Saath Saath ) and the moving prayer, ‘Itni shakti hamein dena data’ ( Ankush ) outlasted the films they were part of. Just like ‘Aaj mere yaar ki shaadi hai’: youngsters dancing to it in baraats don’t know it was composed in 1977 by Ravi, who made ‘Aage bhi jaane na tu’ ( Waqt ), for the Shatrughan Sinha film ironically called Aadmi Sadak Ka.  Recently, in a television progamme, when Bappi Lahiri was asked to recall a film he regretted composing for, the Disco King promptly said, Toote Khilone, starring Shekhar Kapur and Shabana Azmi, which is remembered only for the evocative composition, ‘Mana ho to tum behad hansi, aise bure hum bhi nahin’. Sung by K.J. Yesudas and written by Kaifi Azmi, it underlines the range of Lahiri, who is often seen as a purveyor of only the ‘Jimmy Jimmy’ variety of music. Few remember that the Hasrat Jaipuri ghazal ‘Kisi nazar ko tera intezar aaj bhi hai’ rendered beautifully by Bhupinder Singh and Asha Bhosle, from the little known Aitbar (1985), was also composed by Lahiri. Nobody knows what went into the making of Toote Khilone , but a riff is enough for most of us to complete the mukhda : ‘Dekho to kabhi humein pyar se, darte ho kyon iqrar se.’ Himesh Reshammiya once said that giving one’s best even for flop films is good for the composer in the long run as then posterity remembers both track and film just because of him. Like ‘Aashiq Banaya Aapne’? Nah!  There is a long list of songs that were part of films that were declared flops. Most of these songs relied more on meaningful lyrics than just peppy tunes to become hits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-winning-tune/article32177340.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Creating a seamless link||With virtual concerts becoming the norm during the pandemic, and given the reach of the digital medium, vocalist Sakethraman thinks it is a good time to help millennials connect with Carnatic music. ‘Crossover with Saketh,’ a web series launched recently by him, is an attempt to make classical music enjoyable even to the uninitiated. “My guru, the legendary Lalgudi Jayaraman, used to say, ‘Musicians have created Next Gen musicians, now rasikas have to create Next Gen rasikas’.” And ‘Crossover’ is Saketharaman’s way of understanding his guru’s vision and create an awareness about classical music’s beauty and appeal. Audience connect While a song like ‘Alai Payude’ with a Carnatic base reworked to suit the film music genre is well-received by listeners, listening to an entire Carnatic concert is still a challenge for the layman, says Saketharaman. “Fans enjoy listening to film music. They do not know the technical and other details involved in composing a song.” “I thought of launching a web series with just these aspects in mind, he says. In the first episode, Saketharaman recalls how in Paris once, he was completely surprised by the largely non-Indian audience clapping at the right moments during his concert. He concludes the episode by introducing the idea of crossing over. “As a fan on social media commented, ‘Crossover’ is a non-linear way of taking Carnatic music to the masses. There are no technicalities — parent raga, arohanam or avarohanam — discussed,” says Saketharaman. Start fresh While there have been many programmes earlier talking about film songs based on Carnatic music, which would begin with a brief introduction to ragas, ‘Crossover’ begins by talking about all things culture and then moves on to classical music. In the episode that focuses on padam, Saketharaman sings ‘Unnai Kanadhu’ from Viswaroopam , a sringara rasa song where Radha expresses her longing for Krishna. Next, he sings a Swati Tirunal padam in Malayalam to make viewers understand the concept of Carnatic music. In the ‘Virutham’ episode, Saketharaman sings of woman power. ‘Inbathai karuvakkinal penn...’ is a prelude to the film song ‘Kalloori Salai’ from Kaadhal Desam ). This kind of a prelude to a song is what we call ‘Virutham’ in Carnatic music, he explains. Such a prelude may have no rhythmic accompaniment or even meter or tala. He then sings a virutham, ‘Dhanam tharum, kalvi tharum’ in the same raga, Anandabhairavi. He feels encouraged by people’s queries about the concepts he takes up in each episode. “For instance, a rasika asked, ‘Is the prelude to ‘Khwaja mere Khwaja’ a virutham.’ Another asked, ‘Is the song ‘Mettu Podu’ from Duet in Anandabhairavi raga?’ “The purpose is not to dilute Carnatic music but to expand the audience base and to make people aware of its nuances. The beauty of Carnatic music is that it is extremely enjoyable in its pure form,” says Saketharaman.  The idea is to convey the nuances of Carnatic music in an easy manner to demystify the art form||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/creating-a-seamless-link/article32177359.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||An emotional roller coaster||There is a flip side to virtual dance performances. Technical glitches apart, dancing in kitchens and unkempt rooms do not make for an aesthetic experience. Arts from India’s Navarasa presentation was curated well for the digital medium. Eight dancers, representing different styles, explored each rasa through well-choreographed pieces. The interactive session between the artiste and sutradhaar, Rajika Puri, after every performance, helped in understanding how popular compositions and routine themes can be dealt with differently. Apt compositions Manipuri exponent Sinam Basu Singh’s handling of k arunya (compassion) rasa tugged at the heart strings. Senior Odissi artiste Sujata Mohapatra took up v eera (valour) while Kathakali dancer Prabal Gupta showcased bhayanaka and shanta (fear and tranquillity). Sattriya dancer Anita Sharma explored a dbhuta (wonder) rasa. Sinam Basu chose a soulful song to depict Yasoda’s grief when parting from Krishna. He portrayed the mother’s emotion, the mood of the river Yamuna, and how the cows missed Krishna through his sensitive abhinaya. Basu’s precise and measured footwork was obvious. Sujata Mohapatra described Lord Ram’s courage and charm through Tulsidas’ composition ‘Shri Ramachandra kripalu bhajamana’, wherein she depicted how he picked up the powerful bow of Shiva, which led to his marriage with Sita, who put the garland on him during the swayamvar. The entire act, mimed to music after the initial lines of the song were sung, was a commendable piece of artistry. Novel role It was a pleasant surprise to watch a Shakespearean character turn into a subject of Kathakali stree vesham (female impersonation) when Prabal Gupta played Lady Macbeth to perfection. The fear and guilt she experiences after persuading Macbeth to kill king Duncan, how she falls on her bed at the end, and how finally peace settles on her — Gupta was at his emotive best. Anita Sharma took up episodes from Krishna’s life such as Poothana hara, Bakasura vadha and Yashoda getting to know the startling reality of her son to depict a dbhuta rasa. Of all these, the sequence where Yashoda gets a glimpse of the entire universe when the child Krishna opens his mouth seemed best suited to the rasa. The battle with Bakasura was convincingly portrayed. The fact that Anita opened the piece with a nritta section was interesting. The Los Angeles-based Kashi Ayosola’s Bharatanatyam performance included two songs to portray hasya (mirth) rasa. The first piece ‘Enthati kuluke...’ didn’t evoke the mood, while the other depicted Krishna playing mischief on the gopis to elicit laughter. His movements and mudras were striking as was his footwork. With its lyrical charm and delicate moves, Mohiniyottam naturally lends itself to Sringara rasa, but the performance of Vijayalakshmi, who represented the art form, wasdisappointing. The Ashtapadi ‘Chandana charchita...’ sung in the Sopanam style could have been exploited to the fullest to depict the essence of love, but Vijayalakshmi made up for it with some impressive nritta. Srimoyi Vempati’s excerpt from the Kuchipudi ballet ‘Harivilasam’, where she danced as Shiva in anger had more drama than dance. The backdrop was aesthetic with smoke, lights and with Siddendra Yogi’s statue. Instead of the Kuchipudi costume, Vempati was dressed as Shiva. The US-based Rachna Niwas, who took up b heebatsa (disgust) in her Kathak performance, went through many emotions before arriving at the rasa. Her movements were not strictly clasical and seemed to have been inspired by film choreography. Her expressions seemed slightly contrived. Ajayveer Chapokat, the man behind Arts from India, deserves a word of praise for streaming a technically sound production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-emotional-roller-coaster/article32177374.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A move away from Krishna in Nangiarkoothu||The Ramayana seldom fascinated Kalamandalam Sindhu during her childhood in a Kerala village defined by its areca orchards. Today, the Nangiarkoothu artiste is obsessed with Valmiki’s epic, especially in presenting episodes from the perspective of Sita. Sindhu’s solo theatre project, which she had launched in August last year, hit an unexpected roadblock when lockdown was announced. Her plan had been to stage the Ramayana in 40-plus monthly episodes in Thrissur, Kerala’s cultural capital. She hopes now to get the project back on track once normalcy returns. The Sreerama Charitam series, of which she had staged the first six episodes, came to fruition after three-and-a-half years of research and planning. It won her appreciation but, more important, it marked an unorthodox deviation in theme for Nangiarkoothu. New moves The women-centric performance form, which is more than a thousand years old, has traditionally remained detached from the Ramayana. Canonically, the temple art revels solely in the Krishna tales from the Bhagavata. This continued until the turn of the 21st century. In 1999, Nangiarkoothu got a new manual that proved path-breaking. The book, Sreeramacharitam Nangiarammakkooth , was the result of intense research by Margi Sathi. The top danseuse in the field compiled 224 slokas with guidance from P.K. Narayanan Nambiar, a senior player of the powerful mizhavu in Nangiarkoothu performances. The entry of new characters refreshed the form, but it did not alter the basics. Nangiarkoothu is a mono act, where the lone artiste essays multiple roles with changes in stage position and body language. In short, the performer in Nangiarkoothu is invariably the narrator. This is unlike its parent art form, Koodiyattam, the world’s oldest extant theatre. Sindhu and Sathi bonded well when they met in 2006 as participants in a 12-evening Nangiarkoothu festival at a vintage shrine in coastal Alappuzha district. Revived after four decades, the annual event was being held in Ambalapuzha, 175 km south of their alma mater, Kalamandalam, in Cheruthuruthy beyond Thrissur. Sathi in those days was teaching at the Margi institution in Thiruvananthapuram, which she had joined in 1988 soon after completing her Koodiyattam course. By a happy twist, Sindhu too joined Margi in 2007, a decade after completing studies in Kalamandalam. In 2005, when Sathi’s husband and stage accompanist on the edakka drum, Subramanian Potti, was killed by electrocution, she joined Kalamandalam. “I could imbibe a lot from Sathi. We were in constant touch,” says Sindhu, who began to get a lot of performance opportunities in Thiruvananthapuram.    Eager apprentice Earlier, Sindhu had freelanced for eight years: as a small-time tutor at two Koodiyattam institutions, besides undergoing advanced studies under the well-known Usha Nangiar. On stage, Sindhu assisted Nangiar by reciting the slokas and keeping time on the tiny kuzhithalam cymbals. Nangiar taught Sindhu the details of delineating 50 of the most popular slokas in the conventional Sreekrishna Charitam’s 217 stanzas. Typically, in the two-hour episodes (based on four lines), Kalpalathikaas, the maid of Krishna’s wife Subhadra, recalls her memories. Contrasting this has been the inspiration to perform Sreerama Charitam, where Sindhu improvised on its random chapters. Then, after Sathi’s passing, Sindhu was recruited as a teacher at Kalamandalam in 2017. This is when the idea of staging a full-length Sreerama Charitam gathered steam, meant also as a tribute to Sathi. And in August 2019, Sindhu realised her dream, where she presented the ritualistic Purappad entry of the narrator, followed by the inaugural episode. Scholar P. Venugopalan says he had realised Sindhu’s “immense potential” at the 2006 festival in Ambalapuzha. Ettumanoor P. Kannan, director of Sangeet Natak Akademi’s Koodiyattam Kendra in Thiruvananthapuram, notes that Nangiarkoothu has an inherent capacity to portray “anything under the sun.” The semi-realistic make-up makes it easier to communicate compared to Koodiyattam. “New works have become prolific in the past decade. If the chief artiste does good homework, rehearsals can be minimum,” he adds. Sindhu says she doesn’t always get to work with fellow artistes ahead of shows. Still, the mizhavu players are happy. “Sindhu improvises instantaneously. We have to be very focused,” says Ratheesh Bhas of the project, which has five other percussionists, including Kalanilayam Rajan on the edakka. Supporting him on the kuzhithalam are Kalamandalam Sangeetha, Prasanthi, Nila and Sreelakshmi. When will the team be back in action? “The coronavirus will decide,” Sindhu says. “And funds too.”  The women-centric performance form, which is more than a thousand years old, has traditionally remained detached from the Ramayana, revelling solely in Krishna tales||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-move-away-from-krishna-in-nangiarkoothu/article32177342.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Chronicling the life of a legend||The history of film studios in Chennai can never miss to include AVM Productions, which has rolled out a battery of blockbusters since the black and white era to recent times. The man behind this huge production house, Av. Meiyappa Chettiar, aka, AV Meiyappan, is considered one of the pioneers of Tamil Cinema. To commemorate his 113th birth anniversary on July 28, his production house, AVM Productions, has planned to release a documentary on his life and work. M. Saravanan, his son, who now heads AVM Productions shared interesting anecdotes about his father. “Till now, we have produced 175 films. It’s our pride to have had five Chief Ministers working in our productions. Arignar Anna wrote the story and dialogue for the film Oar Iravu , Kalaingar Karunanidhi penned the dialogue for Prasakti , MGR played the hero of Anbe Vaa , N.T. Rama Rao, acted in Bhoo Kailash , Naathi Aada Jenmame , Ramu and Chitti Selalu and Jayalalitha played the female lead in Anaadhai Anandan , Enga Mama and Major Chandrakanth . Av. Meiyappan was the first in the country to produce a dubbed film — Harishchandra. It was dubbed in Tamil from the original in Kannada. He was one of the pioneers, who introduced playback singing in the Tamil industry (film Nandakumar ) and new singers like Lalitha Venkataraman. A stickler for perfection, Av. Meiyappan would go for re-shoots of scenes if he was not satisfied. He was also punctual and expected the same from the artistes and technicians in his production house. He introduced several welfare measures for the workers in his production house. He gave them cycles for easy commuting, created living spaces, opened a grocery shop, started the ‘Avichi’ school for their children and set up AVM Clinic and Mena Marriage Hall. Yesteryear playback singer P. Susheela would always say that it was because of Av. Meiyappan that she has been able to sing Tamil songs with perfect diction. Some of the directors, who under his guidance, made it big in the tinsel world are M.V. Raman, K. Shankar, P. Neelakandan, Bhim Singh, A.C. Thirulokchander, Sp. Muthuraman, Rama Narayanan and Rajasekar. The list includes actors such as T.R. Mahalingam, Sivaji Ganesan, Kannada hero Raj kumar, S.S.R., Kamal Haasan, V.K. Ramaswamy, Sivakumar, Vyjayanthimala, Sachu and Kutti Padmini. “My father used to say that A-V-M are not mere letters but five decades of his hard work. We are putting our best to keep the flag flying high,” concludes M. Saravanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/chronicling-the-life-of-a-legend/article32177336.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The Ustad who set his own pace||The gleaming full moon, the majestic ramparts of the Ahilya Fort, and the calm waters of the Narmada watched over as Rama Sundar Ranganathan gently unravelled the essence of the Indore Gharana at the Sacred River Festival in Maheshwar, Madhya Pradesh early this year. As swars and taans echoed through the long corridors of the fort’s courtyard, you realised that the magnificence of paramparik sangeet is best experienced not inside an air-conditioned auditorium but in heritage spaces. After the concert, over a cosy dinner under a huge tree at Labboo’s cafe outside the gates of the Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Palace, there was an intense discussion among music lovers about Ustad Amir Khan, the founder of the Indore Gharana and his inimitable style. Some Indore residents rued that this path-breaking singer’s legacy had not been celebrated enough. “Though most musicians were influenced by his music’s charm and appeal, very few acknowledged it. His house in Indore should be turned into a memorial,” said one. “There should be a training academy dedicated to the gharana,” said another. “Nobody could stir the soul like him. We need to make the world more aware of his contributions,” they added. The concert not only kindled fond memories, it brought into focus the significance of traditional styles in preserving the identity of classical music, which is now often juxtaposed with diverse but sometimes unrelated genres. Evocative rendition Ustad Amir Khan can be termed a karmavadi sangeetkar , who kept doing what he believed in, unafraid of reactions and remarks. He was said to be a man of few words, which reflected in his unhurried singing, almost lending a dhrupad-like pace to khyal. His meticulous raga elaboration suited his rich and evocative voice. The talking point of his distinct raga progression was the Merukhand technique, influenced by the Kirana gharana great, Ustad Abdul Waheed Khan. The pauses in his singing, the tehraav, let listeners experience the emotion, making his music serene and contemplative. Since his formative years, he was a thinking and open-minded musician, who was inspired by different legends and their gayaki. He preferred understated elegance and restraint over ornamentation, which was the norm then. Despite being a khandaani and gharanedaar musician, Ustad Amir Khan was keen on developing his own style. His father Shahmir Khan was a sarangi and veena player of the Bhindibazaar gharana, who served at the court of the Holkars of Indore. His grandfather, Changay Khan, was a singer in the court of Bahadur Shah Zafar. Ustad Amir Khan composed several khyals and taranas, but had no qualms about being associated with cinema. He sang in films such as Baiju Bawra , Jhanak Jhanak Payal Baje and Gooj Uthi Shehnai.  The disciple Rama Sundar Ranganathan is a disciple of Pt. Tejpal Singh (of the Singh Bandhu fame), who trained under the inimitable Ustad and wrote two books on his exceptional gayaki. Rama talks about what it means to be a part of a musical legacy, the specialities of the Indore gharana, and what needs to be done to take the tradition forward. “When I began to train in music, being associated with a gharana was never on the mind. Only after I started learning from Vidushi Shanti Sharma, an exceptional singer with the unmistakable stamp of the Indore gharana, was I drawn towards the intense and inward looking style the gharana is known for. A disciple of Pt. Amarnath, she taught me for five years before her untimely demise,” says Rama. Inspired by a feature in this supplement, she approached Pt. Tejpal Singh, the oldest surviving disciple of Ustad Amir Khan. Willing to go any length to share his knowledge, he mentors his handpicked students meticulously. Once Rama went under his tutelage, it led her deep into the Indore gharana. One of the musical values she imbibed from her guru is sakshi bhava , the ability to look at your music (and at yourself ) truthfully and practise with honesty. Explaining the specialities of the gharana, Rama says that it went against the norm by slowing down the vilambit to ati vilambit in order to bring out the meditative quality. “Jhumra tala, one of the 17 taals that Amir Khusrau was said to have invented, was introduced in concert singing. The Merukhand was brought into use and Persian poetry found its way into the taranas sung by Ustad Amir Khan.” The founders of the gharanas were constantly engaged in training their shagirds and preparing them to take their ideas and works forward. “A gharana can find acceptance only when it is able to survive for a minimum of three generations. We belong to the third. I wish to perform more to showcase the gharana’s popular compositions such as ‘Jai mata vilamb taj de’ in Hamsdhwani or the taranas in Megh, Suha and Jog. I also want to do more workshops to talk about and demonstrate the aspects of the gharana. I am based in Delhi, but my heart beats for Indore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-ustad-who-set-his-own-pace/article32177370.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Parambariyam’ goes digital||The first anniversary of Global Carnatic Musicians Association (GCMA) will be celebrated with an online thematic music festival - Parambariyam 2020, on July 25 - 26 and August 1 - 2. The series will feature vocal and instrumental recitals of eminent artistes. Parambariyam 2020 will begin with the nagaswaram rendition of Mylai M. Karthikeyan and Gummudipoondi R. Gnanavel with M.K. Aasan and S.M. Rajarathnam on the thavil. This will be followed by the vocal concerts of S. Sowmya, Sikkil Gurucharan and V.K. Manimaran. Day two (July 26) will commence with Kunnakudi M. Balamurali Krishna’s concert followed by that of Nirmala Rajasekar (veena) and Saketharaman. R. Suryaprakash will begin the series on August 1. The performances of Mysore M. Nagaraj and M. Manjunath (violin duet); Sudha Ragunathan and Neyveli Santhanagopalan will follow. Beginning with Shertalai Renganatha Sharma, the concerts on August 2, the last day of the music festival, will feature Gayathri Venkataraghavan and Nithyasree Mahadevan. The event will help artistes affected by the lockdown. For details log on to https://www.gcma.in/concert-event.php||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/parambariyam-goes-digital/article32177357.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Hardcore kink as therapy||Finnish filmmaker J-P Valkeapää makes hardcore kink appear tender. In Dogs Don’t Wear Pants , he showcases BDSM unflinchingly and at its extreme, yet balances it out with melancholia and almost dream-like images in the same sequence, creating a hard-to-watch yet captivating experience. It would be quite rudimentary to describe Valkeapää’s latest as provocative. There is rational and substance to his visualisation. In addition to the film’s graphic nature, it throws open some fascinating inquiries about the extremes of sexual pleasure and pain; the link between trauma and sexual awakening; and how the human mind can find catharsis in physical agony. A respected surgeon, Juha (Pekka Strang), grapples with the death of his wife, who drowned in a lake. This memory haunts him perpetually. So much so, that he sprays his wife’s cologne on her clothes and throws them over his face, as he masturbates. This motif is the start of a sexual fetish that eventually transforms into sadomasochism, as he accidentally meets a dominatrix in the darkroom of a dingy tattoo parlour. Mona (Krista Kosonen), the dominatrix, seldom shows emotions, as her job entails, but there’s more to her hardened self, which the film unfortunately never truly delves into. The film instead chooses to focus firmly on Juha, who transforms from an unsuspecting client — new to chains and whips — to a man addicted to strangulation for pleasure. Juha undergoes emotional metamorphosis by using pain to rejuvenate his damaged and numb mind. What works in the film’s favour is that it not only abstains from being judgemental (or worse, prudish) but also endorses a sex-positive attitude. The hardcore fetish is laced with universally familiar themes of trauma and haunting memories, thereby ‘normalising’ it. Through the eyes of a ‘regular’ man like Juha, the audience is incrementally ushered into an underground scene of extreme sexual acts, and eventually flips the gaze, using a typical coming-of-age arc. It’s quite interesting to see the film using a conventional narrative trajectory to deal with a subject that to most would be rather shocking. On one hand, we see melting candles on a naked body, golden showers, leather costumes, bondage gear, neon red dungeon, flaccid penis; and on the other, erotically-shot bodies underwater in soft embraces, creating an intriguing juxtaposition of human intimacy and pleasure. The sex scenes are tactfully executed to amplify the inherent power play in the act. The film also has a twisted and dark sense of humour, like the usage of The Crystal’s famously romantic song ‘Then He Kissed Me’ during a BDSM sequence. But it’s often hard to spot — let alone enjoy — these moments of black comedy, as the film constantly presents overwhelming and strong images. The initial awkwardness in Juha’s body language as he stumbles upon BDSM is easier to find comical rather than the successive scenes when he is fully incorporated into bondage. Strang perfectly executes the evolution of the character, which is certainly a tough job. He dexterously depicts the five stages of grief — denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance — through his body language. Kosonen, as Mona, is shrouded in mystery and reticence, staying true to her position of the dominatrix. Even though Juha and Mona assume clear roles in this dominant and submissive relationship, the power play between them remains fluid. They want to make an emotional breakthrough through pain and pleasure. Through them, Valkeapää highlights latent, almost primal, desires that exist right under the surface of ordinary suburbia, waiting to be unleashed by accident. Dogs Don’t Wear Pants is streaming on Mubi India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hardcore-kink-as-therapy/article32177828.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riots: four near identical FIRs, chargesheets in one incident||Four FIRs and their corresponding chargesheets, which were filed by the Delhi Police, have been found to be identical and allegedly pertain to only one incident of rioting and damage of property in Jaffrabad during the north-east Delhi riots. According to the documents — accessed by The Hindu — the police have made arrests in these cases based on the “confession” of a person who, in turn, has been held in another case of rioting near Cresent Public School. In FIR number 112, the complainant — Balbir Singh from Ghonda Village — said that he left for his residence from his property T-210 on Maujpur main road on February 24 at 8 p.m. The next day, when he returned at 10 a.m., he saw that his property had been set ablaze. The incident happened near Victor Public School. The complainant called the fire department with a unique number ‘926225’, as mentioned in all documents. He stated that his estimated loss is about Rs. 8-12 lakh. In FIR number 113, the complainant’s name is Lalit Kumar. The property number is changed to T-209B and the estimated loss is of Rs. 8-10 lakh. In FIR number 107, the complainant is Sheesh Pal whose property address is also T-209B and the only change is of the estimated loss – Rs. 7-10 lakh. In FIR number 106, the complainant is Rakesh Kumar — son of Balbir Singh — who said the estimated loss was Rs. 8-10 lakh. All the complainants are related to each other and own the said properties. The police had also added sections of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act in FIRs 112 and 113 but not in FIRs 106 and 107. In these four cases, the documents state that the police arrested five persons — Gulfam alias Sonu Chikna, Osama, Atir, Shanu alias Shan Mohammed, and Zarif alias Mota. In a chargesheet, its stated that Lalit Kumar said when he was leaving the street where the properties were set ablaze, he saw rioters and heard them saying that they will commit arson. He said he could idenitfy a few of them. Interestingly, in the corresponding FIR, it is mentioned that he had left at 8 p.m. and returned only at 10 a.m. the next day. Further, the document stated that a Sub-Inspector, who was investigating FIR number 50 registered in connection with riots near Cresent Public School, had arrested a man named Gulfam. In his confession, Gulfam said he was involved in riots and arson near Victor Public School along with Osama and Atir. The document states that Gulfam then took the police to a street in Jaffrabad where Atir and Osama were standing, following which they were nabbed. Atir and Osama then revealed the names of Shan Mohammed and Zarif, the document stated. The document also states that Kumar and an Assistant Sub-Inspector identified the three men for committing arson. According to the document, on April 7, it was revealed that Welcome Police Station staff had arrested Mohammed and Zarif in another case. Later, the two were formally arrested in this case on April 8 and 9, respectively, while they were in judicial custody. The police, in FIR number 50, have mentioned that Gulfam was arrested at 7.10 p.m. However, according to the earlier chargesheets, the two other accused were arrested at 6.10 p.m. But, according to police, it was after his statement that police arrested Osama and Atir. An advocate privy to the case said under Article 20 (2) of the Constitution, no person shall be prosecuted and punished for the same offense more than once. Questioning the documents, he asked: “If Gulfam was arrested at 7.10 p.m., how could Osama and Atir be arrested on his instance an hour earlier?” It is worth noting that, in all the four chargesheets, the time of arrest for Gulfam is mentioned as 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-four-near-identical-firs-chargesheets-in-one-incident/article32177667.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Gambhir-Singh spat over Minto Road waterlogging||The Parliamentary Committee on Urban Development took stock of the recent incidents of waterlogging after a spell of heavy rain earlier this week. A 56-year-old man drowned after his mini-truck got stuck in the flooded road under the Minto Road Bridge. The meeting was attended by 11 MPs, including BJP’s Gautam Gambhir and AAP’s Sanjay Singh. Sources said that the meeting saw a sharp exchange of words between Mr. Gambhir and Mr. Singh on the jurisdiction of BJP-run Municipal Council of Delhi (MCD) and Delhi government-run Public Works Department (PWD). MCD officials informed the committee that Minto Bridge area falls under the purview of PWD. However, the PWD officials were absent at the meeting. Grave concern The members expressed grave concern that one spell of rain is enough to bring the Capital to a grinding halt. According to the sources, Mr. Singh pointed out that the MCD has been tardy in cleaning the drains which leads to waterlogging in many areas. But Mr. Gambhir blamed the PWD for not preparing for the monsoon months in advance. In a tweet, Mr. Gambhir said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s lack of seriousness is evident, when PWD which reports to him does not turn up for a meeting where accountability was to be fixed. “Now will anyone question the advertiser-in-chief who runs away from actual debate? Pathetic,” he tweeted. Mr. Singh refused to comment on the proceedings of the committee meeting quoting the confidentiality rules. Committee chairperson Jagdambika Pal said the panel will continue to deliberate the issue in more detail. “In the next meeting, we will be calling Delhi Chief Secretary and officials from PWD, MCD, NDMC, Jal Board, Union Urban Development Ministry and Home Ministry, because we feel it is essential to fix accountability in such cases,” Ms. Pal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gambhir-singh-spat-over-minto-road-waterlogging/article32177696.ece
24 July 2020||Bhopal,||Cong. MLA resigns in M.P., joins BJP||Another Congress legislator in Madhya Pradesh resigned on Thursday and joined the BJP, bringing down the Congress strength in the Assembly to 89. Stating that the resignation of Mandhata MLA Narayan Patel had been accepted, Vidhan Sabha Pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma said, “He had given me his resignation on July 22, which I asked him to reconsider. But he appeared before me the next day saying he wanted to stick to his decision.” On July 17, Nepanagar MLA Sumitra Devi Kasdekar had also resigned and later joined the BJP, days after Congressman Kunwar Pradyumna Singh Lodhi quit as a legislator and switched sides. He was later appointed chairman of the State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. and accorded a Cabinet rank. Mr. Patel, the 25th Congress leader to have switched over to the BJP since March, joined the party at its office here in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and party State president V.D. Sharma. “The Congress is going through a phase of desperation and despair,” said Mr. Chouhan. “During the Congress regime, public representatives were suffocating as development works remained stalled.” After taking BJP membership, Mr. Patel told reporters he was not upset with anyone. “This is for my people’s progress. I thought about it. I understood that only the BJP can develop the State and the country.”  ‘Vested interests’ Questioning MLAs for leaving the Congress, its State spokesman Durgesh Sharma said, “What is the reason that you sell the vote of people like this? You have betrayed them and they will give you a reply. You have resigned from the seat where they elected you. You are rejecting their mandate for your own vested interests.” Currently, 27 Assembly seats lie vacant in the 230-member house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-mla-resigns-in-mp-joins-bjp/article32177699.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Don’t want online registration of properties, govt. tells court||The Delhi government on Thursday told the High Court that it does not want the registration of properties to be made available online in order to curb false registrations and to avoid unnecessary litigations. The Delhi government made the submission in response to a petition seeking e-registration of property documents at all sub-registrar offices here in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The rationale of e-registration of documents due to the pandemic is not substantial as sub-registrar offices are functioning and no work in the office of registrar is hindered or stopped in the current circumstances,” the government said. The petitioner D.C. Tuteja has claimed that due to the pandemic “the entire process of registration of documents has come to a standstill and various rights of parties have been affected equally being unable to meet their obligations under the agreements or for creating any rights in favour of their loved ones”. Advocate Gaurav Bahl, appearing for Mr. Tuteja, said that the current COVID-19 situation has opened doors for taking the process further by e-registration. However, when a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said it was not inclined to monitor the case in view of the submission made by the government, Mr. Bahl sought permission to treat the petition as a representation. The court said since this issue was a policy decision, it asked the government to consider the suggestions made in the petition. In the affidavit, the AAP government said that registration of property includes presentation of parties, photograph of the parties and witnesses, examining them by sub-registrar at the time of execution to ascertain the conduct of the parties and verify the details. “It is also pertinent to mention that buying and selling of properties are generally once in a lifetime opportunity for many people,” and hence these steps are necessary for ensuring genuine registration and fraud is avoided, the government said. The government also said that time associated with registration of property in Delhi has been considerably reduced due to automation and simplification of procedure. The appointment for registration of documents is online on the government portal srams.delhi.gov.in for online submission of documents and printing appointment token online. The stamp papers required for payment of stamp duty and transfer duty are also issued online on the portal www.eschil.com . It said that home visit option is also available for old age, medically unfit and disabled person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-want-online-registration-of-properties-govt-tells-court/article32177686.ece
24 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Robbers return, ask for ATM PIN||Two bike-borne men allegedly robbed a person of his wallet and ATM card at gunpoint and then returned to ask its PIN, before escaping. The incident happened on Wednesday night on the road leading to Phase-3 Police Station in Noida, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Noida) Harish Chander said, “The accused took away the victim’s wallet which had some cash, his ATM and Aadhaar cards. They, however, returned soon after to ask the PIN of the ATM card and sped away,” he said. The official said the incident was immediately reported at the local police station and the accused were intercepted at a security checkpoint. “They tried to escape and opened fire at the policemen. The police fired in retaliation and the accused sustained injuries. They were taken to the hospital.” The accused, identified as Gaurav Singh and Sadadand, are locals and Rs. 3,200 and an ATM card had been recovered, said an official. Police sources said their it was being ascertained if the accused have any criminal record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/robbers-return-ask-for-atm-pin/article32177697.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman duped of Rs. 12L on pretext of upgrading mobile services||A woman alleged that a loan of Rs. 12 lakh was sanctioned illegally in her name by a man who called her on the pretext of upgrading her SIM card from 3G to 4G during the lockdown, the police said on Thursday. Neha Khatri from Moti Nagar, an IT employee, filed a complaint at Moti Nagar police station about the fraud. The victim said that on May 10, she received a phone call from a person who introduced himself as the customer care executive of a mobile network company. ‘Withdrew all money’ During the call, the man allegedly offered her to upgrade her services from 3G to 4G. She agreed to the upgrade as she was facing network problem and as per instructions, she texted “Y” from her mobile phone. She was told that the upgrade would happen within 24 hours. “When the man ended the call with me, my network was gone. The situation remained the same till the next day following which I tried calling the customer care to block my mobile number. However, customer care denied blocking number, saying my identity does not match. Due to the lockdown, I could not visit the shops as they were shut. I got worried and rushed to an ATM to withdraw whatever amount was in my bank account at that time,” Ms. Khatri said. Next day, she went to her bank at Kirti Nagar branch where the deputy branch manager said there is Rs. 2.5 lakh in her account. She was shocked at this and before the bank could freeze her account, “the money got transferred to another account in front of me”, she added. After some time, the deputy branch manager told her that the unauthorised amount is a withdrawal of an Insta Personal loan (pre-approved) sanctioned in a bank account. The bank had provided unauthorised personal loan of Rs. 11,90,561 without her consent, she said, adding that the amount was transferred to various bank accounts. The victim said it has been two months and the bank is yet to give her any information as to how the loan was sanctioned. “Where did the money go? What are the steps taken by the bank? The bank is calling me daily to pay the loan, which I have not taken,” she said. A senior officer said a first information report under the Indian Penal Code Section 420 (fraud) has been registered and the case is under investigation.  It has been two months since the incident and the the bank is yet to give me any information as to how the loan was sanctioned. Where did the money go? What are the steps taken by the bank? Neha Khatri Victim||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-duped-of-rs-12l-on-pretext-of-upgrading-mobile-services/article32177672.ece
24 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Locals mark 6 places for settling Bru refugees||Non-Brus of Tripura have proposed six places for settling the displaced Brus from Mizoram and set a limit for the number of families to be accommodated in two subdivisions that have borne the burnt of the 23-year-old refugee crisis. Members of the Joint Movement Committee (JMC), comprising Bengali, Mizo and other indigenous communities of Kanchanpur and Panisagar subdivisions of North Tripura district, had on July 21 submitted a memorandum to the State government with proposals they said would be a win-win solution for all stakeholders. The memorandum was submitted during a conference with the State’s Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar and Principal Chief Conservator of Forest A. Rastogi via video from district headquarters Dharmanagar. “We told the government that the locals are not against the settlement of Brus from adjoining Mizoram but they just cannot be settled at random. We have identified six places and proposed that 500 families at most be settled in these places,” JMC convener Susanta Bikash Barua told The Hindu . These places are Bandarima-Pushporampara, Sakhan Hills, Chaigarhpur, Subalbari, Kalarambari-Bandarima in Kanchanpur subdivision and Kukinala in Panisagar subdivision. The Brus are distributed among seven relief camps in these two subdivisions. The JMC and other groups have been maintaining that the Brus were difficult to coexist with. The Bru leaders, however, put the onus on the State government to honour a quadripartite agreement in January for resettling more than 6,500 families in clusters of at least 500 families in suitable areas.  ‘Proposal violates pact’ “The proposal of limiting the number of families in Kanchanpur and Panisagar subdivisions does not conform to what has been agreed upon,” said Bru community leader T. Laldingliana. The areas proposed by the JMC and those sought by the Bru organisations do not match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/locals-mark-6-places-for-settling-bru-refugees/article32177701.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Minto Bridge underpass could be shut during heavy downpours||The death of a 56-year-old driver, who drowned under the waterlogged Minto Bridge last Sunday, has triggered a significant policy decision seeking to prevent similar incidents in future like temporary shutting of the underpass and its vicinity during heavy downpours. Such a decision will ensure that the underpass of the 87-year-old bridge will have restricted entry when the level of water goes beyond 45 centimetres, or around 1.5 feet. Moreover, a criminal case can be lodged against anyone trying to access it, or its vicinity, in such a condition. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has ordered the Public Works Department (PWD) Executive Engineer concerned to monitor the situation around the Minto Bridge throughout the monsoon, a Delhi government official said. “A joint team headed by the PWD will also be at the core of a new Standard Operating Procedure where the underpass will be barricaded by the police every time the water level rises above 45 cm. Vehicular movement will be restricted and allowed to resume only after water is completely pumped out,” said the official. Prompt action “As soon as such a situation arises, the matter will be escalated to higher authorities, including the PWD Minister. If any commuter attempts to access the underpass or the area cordoned off while pumping the water, the engineer will file an FIR with Delhi Police,” the official also said According to the official, the engineer had been directed to personally monitor the water-logging situation and its disposal through pumping on a 24x7 basis. The official was also directed to ensure that water doesn’t get accumulated for a long time, besides coordinating with the civic body and Delhi Police. In the past the temporary closure of the underpass, one of the gateways between Old and Lutyens’ Delhi, occurred on its own due to waterlogging and not as a matter of policy, sources said. According to an official, the policy of temporary closure of the underpass, instead of complete closure, which had been possible in the past, was no longer possible given the burgeoning vehicular population of the Capital and its critical location in the heart of the city.  A joint team headed by the Public Works Department will be at the core of a new SOP where the underpass will be barricaded by the police every time the water level rises above 45 cm Delhi government official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minto-bridge-underpass-could-be-shut-during-heavy-downpours/article32177689.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||AUD begins online registrations for UG courses||Ambedkar University began its online registrations for undergraduate programmes on Thursday, according to a statement issued by the varsity. It will continue till August 18. “All eligible applicants are informed that the registration process for undergraduate programmes will be completely online for all categories,” read the statement. The university offers seven BA (Hons.) programmes at the Kashmere Gate campus, four BA and four BVoc programmes at the Karampura campus, having a total of 764 seats. Earlier, the varsity had announced the introduction of five new programmes, including vocational courses and MPhil in Disability Studies for the upcoming session. Merit basis “Admissions to undergraduate courses will be on the basis of merit and students will be given a provisional admission till the documents are verified physically once students return to campus,” Vice-Chancellor Anu Singh Lather said. The admission brochure read, “In view of the challenges brought about by COVID-19, any change in procedures for personal appearance of applicants for entrance examinations or trials for CCA and sports as well as verification of certificates shall be notified in due course on the website.” Dates for admissions to postgraduate courses will be announced later, the university said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aud-begins-online-registrations-for-ug-courses/article32177694.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU told to devise protocol for issuing certificates and marksheets online||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked Delhi University to chalk out a protocol for issuing degree certificates, marksheets and transcripts online with digital signatures and security features. Justice Prathiba M. Singh also issued notice to National Academic Depository (NAD), which maintains academic awards in an electronic depository. The petition was filed by five doctors, who graduated the MBBS course at Lady Hardinge Medical College, Delhi, contending that in spite of graduating in 2018, they were yet to receive their degree certificates. The court said that NAD should be utilised effectively by DU and immediate steps be taken by the varsity for transferring all the existing data relating to the students to NAD. The High Court said there was no reason why DU should also not adopt technically advanced methods to ensure that the students are not inconvenienced.Students, especially doctors providing their services during the COVID-19 pandemic, ought not to have been forced to approach this court for seeking their degree certificates the High Court noted. DU said it will be able to place the protocol for issuance of certificates and other documents within five days. The petitioners said they wish to apply for residency programmes in the US and sit for the US Medical Licensing Examination. They said August 15 is the last date for uploading degree certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-told-to-devise-protocol-for-issuing-certificates-and-marksheets-online/article32177684.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Bike-borne men snatch gold chain from woman||In a broad daylight incident, two bike-borne men snatched a gold chain from a woman in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash on Thursday, the police said. The incident happened around 1.30 p.m. and was captured on a CCTV camera. The woman was walking with her daughter, when the men tried to snatch her chain. However, the woman resisted. The pillion rider got down and snatched her chain forcefully. They tried to loot her bag too, but the woman didn’t let it go.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bike-borne-men-snatch-gold-chain-from-woman/article32177673.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA portal for master plan to engage public||The Delhi Development Authority on Thursday announced the launch of a “Public Engagement Portal for Master Plan for Delhi-2041” to share information regarding preparation of the new master plan and also to receive feedback from the public. At a review committee meeting, chaired by DDA V-C Anurag Jain, major focus was thrust on a public engagement strategy for the Master Plan for Delhi-2041, the urban body said. ‘Shared vision’ “The portal will share information on the preparation of MPD-2041 as well as a number of visioning and perception surveys for resident feedback. Date and time of public consultation meetings and events shall be shared on the portal to enable residents of Delhi to participate in the MPD-2041 preparation process and shape a shared vision for developing the city,” read the DDA statement. A comprehensive stakeholder engagement process is under way, since 2019, according to the land owning agency. “The first step was to have focused group discussions. In the coming months, a wider outreach will be done for extensive public engagement,” the statement read. The public meetings will be held online for August and September, the DDA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dda-portal-for-master-plan-to-engage-public/article32177674.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teenager admitted in COVID-19 care assaulted||A 14-year-old girl, who was undergoing treatment at Sardar Patel COVID-19 care centre in south Delhi's Chattarpur, was allegedly sexually assaulted by a COVID-19 patient in a washroom, the police said on Thursday. They said the incident took place on the night of July 15 when the girl had gone to the washroom. The victim alleged that she was assaulted by a youth inside the washroom while his accomplice was filming the incident on a mobile phone. The girl then narrated the incident to a relative, who too was admitted in the facility. The relative then informed the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) official, who then informed the police. Based on her complaint, a case was registered against the two men under Sections 376 (sexual assault) of Indian Penal Code and Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a senior officer said. During investigation, the 19-year-old man, who has been accused of assaulting the girl, was arrested along with his accomplice, the police said, adding both have been sent to judicial custody. They were further sent to a COVID-19 care centre. Mobile phones seized The mobile phones of the accused have also been seized. The victim and the prime accused are residents of the same slum cluster and were admitted along with their relatives. The COVID-19 care centre at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas, which has 10,000 beds, was inaugurated earlier this month by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal in Chhatarpur for treating mild and asymptomatic patients. The centre is operated by ITBP.  The incident took place on the night of July 15 when the girl had gone to the washroom. The victim alleged that she was assaulted by a youth inside the washroom while his accomplice was filming the incident on a mobile phone Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teenager-admitted-in-covid-19-care-assaulted/article32177668.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Less than 1,500 new cases for seven consecutive days||As many as 1,041 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,27,364, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 26 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 3,745. Of the total cases, 1,09,065 people have recovered and there are 14,554 active cases at present. On June 23, the new cases had almost touched 4,000 – highest so far – and since then the number of new cases has been dropping and it has been less than 1,500 for the past seven days.  Also, of the total 18,226 tests done in the past 24 hours, over 68.3% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The active cases have been decreasing since July 1 and it has decreased from 27,007 on July 1 by over 46.1% to reach 14,554 on Thursday. Also, the number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has been decreasing for the past 22 days. On July 1, a total of 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied and it decreased to 3,271 on Thursday. During the same period, the number of COVID-19 positive people under home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 to 8,000. Also, the positivity rate, which is the percentage of people testing positive, has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 6.7%. The number of containment zones has increased to 704 that was 461 on June 22, when the Delhi government decided to redesign such zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/less-than-1500-new-cases-for-seven-consecutive-days/article32177691.ece
24 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Extension of Gurugram metro discussed at meeting||Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daultabad met Planning Advisor, Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation Limited, in Panchkula on Wednesday to discuss the much-delayed extension of the metro network in the Millennium City. The proposed project from HUDA City Centre to Rapid Metro in DLF Cyber City, passing through Subhash Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Sector-9, Sector-10, Sector-4, Sector-5, Rezang La Chwok and Udyog Vihar awaits the Cabinet nod. Mr. Daultabad also discussed two more metro projects – RezangLa Chowk to Dwarka Sector-21 and Gurugram Railway Station to Vatika Chowk. These two projects are at proposal stage for which presentations shall be conducted at Chief Secretary level. The MLA tweeted that he would soon meet Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar seeking fast Cabinet approval for the project. After the Cabinet approval, the project details will be sent to Urban Development Ministry in Central government for approval. Following this, approval of the Home Ministry, Railway Ministry and Planning Commission is also required. Post these approvals, Public Investment Board chaired by Secretary Finance has to approve it. To fast-track the project, Mr. Daultabad will follow up with the Haryana government to appoint an Interim Consultant in Gurugram for some pre-work before the actual metro project gets executed, said a press statement issued by his office. The Interim Consultant will identify utilities which have to be moved along with land acquisition preparatory work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/extension-of-gurugram-metro-discussed-at-meeting/article32177687.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU to accept thesis submission online||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Thursday approved a proposal for online submission of M.Phil, M.Tech dissertations and PhD theses by research scholars to facilitate evaluation of the same. Under the new procedure, the respective schools or centres will process acquisition of the relevant clearances for the students in the online mode, the JNU administration said. “Procedure of online submission of dissertations and theses include, “no dues clearance” form submission by the student. All the official requirements such as plagiarism check of draft dissertations and thesis and payment of relevant fees will be done through digital mode. This will facilitate timely, hassle free and convenient process of submission of dissertations and theses,” the varsity said. The university added that an online thesis tracking system has been operational and that over 150 viva voce tests have been conducted during the lockdown via online modes. JNU V-C M. Jagadesh Kumar said, “During the last four years, JNU has streamlined many such procedures in the university by adopting digital technologies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-to-accept-thesis-submission-online/article32177693.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||CM inspects redevelopment work at Chandni Chowk||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inspected the ongoing redevelopment and beautification work at north Delhi’s Chandni Chowk. Delayed due to the lockdown, road reconstruction related to the project could not be completed by May, he said, adding that the area was expected to be reopened by the first week of November. Cost of project The government said the redevelopment plan was started last year and will be completed by October end after which the area will re-open by November first week. The project will revamp the path from Red Fort to Fatehpuri Masjid at an estimated cost of Rs. 90 crore. “The historical glory of the Chandni Chowk in Old Delhi will be brought back after the completion of the redevelopment and beautification plan. The area will operate as a non-motorised vehicle street from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-inspects-redevelopment-work-at-chandni-chowk/article32177670.ece
24 July 2020||July 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Battling all odds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/battling-all-odds/article32177665.ece
24 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for posing as Amit Shah’s PA||A 25-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly posing as the Personal Secretary (PA) of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and calling up Labour Ministers of Haryana and Rajasthan to get a man employed, the police said on Thursday. Sandeep Choudhary is a resident of Teh Mundawar in Rajasthan’s Alwar, they said. He was arrested after the Crime Branch registered a case based on a complaint by the Home Ministry. An officer said someone known to the accused had lost his job during the lockdown. The accused committed the crime to get his acquaintance employed. “The man got caught after the Minister called the office of the Home Minister. The matter was then reported to the police and a case was registered,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-posing-as-amit-shahs-pa/article32177671.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU students write to CMs of flood-hit States||Demanding cancellation of online examinations, Delhi University students wrote to Chief Ministers of flood-affected States, requesting their intervention in the matter, especially in view of difficulties faced by students in these States. “There are many students who are in a difficult economic situation and those who live in rural areas without proper access to the Internet, smart phones or laptops,” Pallavi Raj, a student of Gaya in Bihar wrote to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. A similar letter was also sent to Assam Chief Minister Sarbanada Sonowal by the group ‘DU against OBE.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-students-write-to-cms-of-flood-hit-states/article32177676.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU gets 3 lakh applications till now||The total number of paid applications for undergraduate courses at Delhi University crossed three lakh students for the first time on Thursday, as applications continue to pour in. While up to 4.65 lakh people have registered, up to 3.01 lakh students have made payments for their applications as of Thursday evening. Last year, at the close of application, only 2.58 lakh paid applications had been made. In 2018, the number stood at about 2.78 lakh applicants. Though there are about 50,000 more candidates this year, the number of ST and EWS applicants are lower compared to 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-gets-3-lakh-applications-till-now/article32177675.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia hits out at Shah over transfer of official||Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday attacked Union Home Minister Amit Shah for transferring a bureaucrat “without consulting” the State government. “Within a week of government schools getting a pass percentage of 98%, central government has transferred Delhi education director to Andaman. The Home Ministry did not even consult with the state government. @AmitShah ji! Is this a punishment for giving good education to the poor children of Delhi? [sic],” Mr. Sisodia tweeted. An official statement on Thursday, meanwhile, said: “Today Deputy Chief Minister interacted with some Class XII students placed in ‘Essential Repeat’ category to assist them to prepare better and implement it for better results next year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-hits-out-at-shah-over-transfer-of-official/article32177692.ece
24 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘No ration cards issued to poor in 6 years’||The Opposition BJP alleged here on Thursday that the AAP-led Delhi government had not issued ration cards to a single poor person in the last six years. On May 7, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said that the Delhi High Court ordered the government to provide free ration even to those without ration cards, but the Delhi government was now in contempt of these orders. “On May 18, the High Court again reprimanded the Delhi government for not providing ration to the poor and needy people but still ration was not distributed. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and the National Food Security Act, the Central government is spending around Rs. 300 crore per month to provide free ration to 72 lakh poor people of Delhi, but the Delhi government has no contribution to this,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-ration-cards-issued-to-poor-in-6-years/article32177690.ece
24 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Jail official held for giving SIM cards, drugs to prisoners||Deputy Superintendent of Bhondsi jail and his accomplice were arrested by the Gurugram police on charges of supplying mobile phones, SIM cards and narcotics to the inmates. The accused have been identified as Dharambir Chautala, the official, and Ravi, a resident of Wazirabad. The police claimed to have seized 11 4G SIM cards and 230 gm of narcotics substance. Acting on a tip-off, a team of Sohna, Gurugram and Sector 39 Crime Branch conducted a raid at Bhondsi jail around 3 p.m. and arrested the duo. The police had information about the supply of mobile phones, SIM cards and narcotics to the inmates. The police said the two would charge Rs. 20,000 to supply 4G SIM cards to the inmates. The inmates used the cards to access WhatsApp and other social media websites. The two would have charged Rs. 10 lakh for the supply of the narcotics, the police said. The duo would be interrogated to seek information about their accomplices, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jail-official-held-for-giving-sim-cards-drugs-to-prisoners/article32177663.ece
