01-12-2021||World||WHO confirms Omicron Covid-19 variant in 23 countries. Here’s the full list||The Omicron Covid-19 variant, which was discovered in southern Africa last month, has now spread to as many as 23 countries, the director-general of World Health Organisation (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Wednesday.Speaking at a press conference, Ghebreyesus said the countries hail from five or six WHO regions, and that the number is only expected to climb up. “WHO takes this development extremely seriously, and so should every country,” he added.The WHO chief stated that the discovery of the Omicron Covid-19 variant should not “surprise us” since this is what viruses do and coronavirus will also do “as long as we allow it to continue spreading.”Also Read | WHO warns against 'toxic mix' of low vaccine coverage and testing amid Omicron scare“We are learning more all the time about Omicron, but there’s still more to learn about its effect on transmission, severity of disease, and the effectiveness of tests, therapeutics and vaccines,” Ghebreyesus told at a press briefing.Reiterating the WHO’s message on not imposing blanket travel bans on travellers coming from affected countries, the United Nations (UN) health agency chief noted that countries should instead adopt “rational, proportional risk-reduction measures, in keeping with the international health regulations.”"This includes measures to delay or reduce the spread of the new variant, such as screening of passengers prior to travelling and/or upon arrival, or the application of quarantine to international travellers"-@DrTedros #COVID19 https://t.co/KSgTyHJCV9Ghebreyesus pointed out that screening passengers before travelling and/or upon arrival at the airport, and mandatory quarantine of international travellers are some ways to check the spread of the Omicron variant in place of blanket travel bans.His statements come after South Africa health minister Joe Phaahla recently called the travel bans on flights coming from the country by other nations as “unjustified” and “counterproductive”.Three countries – South Korea, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia - reported cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant on Wednesday.Here’s a list of all countries that have so far reported Omicron cases:1. Botswana – 19 cases2. South Africa – 77 cases3. Nigeria – Three cases4. United Kingdom – 22 cases5. South Korea – Five cases6. Australia – Seven cases7. Austria – One case8. Belgium – One case9. Brazil – Three cases10. Czech Republic – One case11. France – One case12. Germany – Nine cases13. Hong Kong – Four cases14. Israel – Four cases15. Italy – Nine cases16. Japan – Two cases17. Netherlands – 16 cases18. Norway – Two cases19. Spain – Two cases20. Portugal – 13 cases21. Sweden – Three cases22. Canada – Six cases23. Denmark – Four cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-confirms-omicron-covid-19-variant-in-23-countries-here-s-the-full-list-101638380759195.html
