01-02-2021||Calcutta||Hint of Celsius drop on Met radar||The Celsius plunged to 12.1 degrees on Sunday, four notches below normal, riding strong north-westerly winds. The recent cold spell was briefly broken on Saturday, when the minimum temperature was 15.3 degrees. But fresh cold winds from snow-laden Kashmir dragged the mercury down in the city on Sunday. The next two days are tipped to see the Celsius sliding further, the Met office has said. “The minimum temperature is expected to go down to the 11-degree range over the next two days,” said a Met official. Sunday was the coldest January 31 since at least 2013, according to the Met office records. The minimum temperature on January 31 was 12.5 degrees in 2019 and 12.6 degrees in 2013. The temperature has dropped below 10 degrees in several districts in the western part of the state. The Met office will declare a cold wave in places like West Burdwan, Birbhum, Bankura and West Midnapore if the chill persists, said the official. The entire north India is under the grip of biting cold. The Celsius plunged to 3 degrees in Delhi and around 4 degrees in Patna. The winds from Kashmir reach Calcutta via both these places. Last week was persistently cold in the city but moisture-laden winds from the Bay of Bengal led to cloud formation on Saturday and pushed the temperature up. But the same clouds kept the maximum temperature under check and the day still felt cold despite a three-degree rise in the minimum temperature from Friday, when the mercury had plunged to 12.7 degrees. The sky cleared by the night, accelerating the flow of north-westerlies. The early hours of Sunday were exceptionally windy and chilly. The day was mostly sunny and people flocked to the zoo, Science City and Eco Park in tens of thousands. Even in the afternoon sun, pedestrians were wrapped in woollens. “The cold weather is expected to persist till February 3, after which the temperature will start rising,” said G.K. Das, the director of Indian Meteorological Centre, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Underprivileged girls on Covid mission||A number of underprivileged girls who live in closed, congested spaces are visiting their neighbourhoods and other places like theirs to talk to adults about the need to wear masks, wash hands and follow all other Covid-19 protocols. The idea is to tell the residents, many of whom have become very relaxed in regard to the disease, that the pandemic is not over yet and one should not let their guard down. The girls, led by an NGO, started the drive about a fortnight back and are visiting the neighbourhoods thrice a week. They are talking to residents of 12 slum neighbourhoods in north Calcutta and along the Hooghly. “Some of the girls approached us and said they would like to talk to adults in their area about the need to stay safe. They said people in their neighbourhoods would listen to them rather than outsiders. The target is to reach out to their own and immediate neighbourhoods,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator of Calcutta Rescue, the NGO. Chatterjee said training started in December for 10 of the girls who are between 16 and 17 years. The NGO has been educating the girls on Covid-19 and what needs to be done to stay safe since the beginning of the pandemic. The girls made posters and audio clips, some of which they showed to the parents of some of the other children during online classes. For most of the families, visiting them in person has a different impact than speaking to them online. “We tell them that the need to stay safe is even more because we live in closed spaces where there is hardly any distance between two houses,” said Saba Sabir, 17, who lives in the Mechua area. It's not that they do not face “resistance” from people when they visit, but the girls take it in their stride. “There are some who don’t listen and walk away, but many do. We don’t argue with them,” said Samapika Dhali, 16. Suchandra Chatterjee, a social worker and psychological counsellor at Calcutta Rescue who accompanied the girls said the first reaction was not always very welcoming. “The attitude of many of the adults at times is that what would these students talk to them about. But because they are so thorough that when they start talking, the people do listen to them,” said Chatterjee. From next week the girls intend to make the talk more interactive by having a quiz and the NGO will give the participants masks and hand sanitisers as prizes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Syncretic forest legend that keeps communal tension in check||A legend of the forest worshipped by Hindus and Muslims alike has been instrumental in not letting communal tension come to the forefront in the Sunderbans, feels the author who has introduced the legend to the world. Legends like this make the popular culture of Bengal so mixed, vibrant and interesting, the author said. A virtual session at the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet in association with Victoria Memorial Hall and The Telegraph saw Amitav Ghosh discuss his new book Jungle Nama, due for a mid-February release, with journalist Ankita Mukherji. The book is a verse adaptation of an episode from the legend of Bon Bibi, a tale popular in the Sunderbans, which also lies at the heart of Ghosh’s earlier novel, The Hungry Tide. Bon Bibi is believed to have travelled from Medina to the Sunderbans to protect the people as well the forests and its animals. Her legend has survived through handwritten manuscripts and orally, through pala-gans and jatras. The book has been illustrated — “illuminated”, says Ghosh — by artist Salman Toor, born in Pakistan and based in New York. “It is a miracle that he can actually join us because there is a huge snowstorm that is headed to New York, which is where he is trying to drive down to at this point,” Mukherji said at the outset. Excerpts from the conversation. Protector, of communal harmony Mukherji wanted to know if it was “more important than ever before to reclaim syncretic figures like the Bon Bibi for the present generation”. Ghosh called the Bon Bibi legend “extra-ordinarily hybrid”. “Bon Bibi is the daughter of a Muslim fakir who goes to Medina. She is born in Medina. From Medina, she comes to Bengal. Hindus may see her as a goddess and Muslims will see her as a female peer. All across the Muslim world, there used to be saint figures who had magical powers. We have a very rich tradition of this kind of syncretic folklore in Bengal,” he said. “All across the Sunderbans, rituals to Bon Bibi are performed by Hindus as well as Muslims. All these rituals begin with Arabic incantations. That’s a common feature: Hindus do it, Muslims do it just as much. I think it is a wonderful kind of syncretism that you see there. In popular culture, in Bengal, it is incredibly mixed. These traditions, they are impossible to pick apart and say this is Hindu and this is Muslim. There is just so much mixed together. I think that’s what makes the popular culture of Bengal so vibrant and so interesting,” he added. “Shrines to Bon Bibi are just little things that people make out of wood and bamboo…. One of the most important aspects of the culture of forest people everywhere is that they don’t build temples. Historically, what they would do is they would create shrines within the forest. A temple, a mosque, a church — what do they do? They create a structure that cuts you off from your surroundings. Whereas the whole idea of forest belief is that the forest itself is your temple, the forest itself is your shrine. “Unfortunately, I think people will start building temples to Bon Bibi,” said Ghosh. For several years now, there have been reports from the Sunderbans of a persistent attack on the syncretic character of Bon Bibi. Several people are said to be unhappy with the cross-communal name and prefer Bonodebi. Temples to Hindu deities have also replaced shrines to Bon Bibi at several places. On Saturday, when Ghosh spoke of temples to Bon Bibi, Mukherji said they already exist. “That might be a sign of the times because temples do tend to proliferate everywhere these days…. There have been so many instances of disruptions in communal harmony but not in the Sunderbans area. Do you think Bon Bibi might have a role in that?” she asked. Ghosh’s answer: “Absolutely. Look, let us not idealise it. It’s not as if there are no communal tensions. Divisions are always rife for exploitation by politicians or people trying to take advantage of these things. But most of the people who live in the Sunderbans, especially on the Indian side, most of them are Dalits. There is an absolute overlap between the populations, there is a sort of neutral understanding. These kinds of communal tensions haven’t been at the forefront certainly in the Sunderbans. We should be very grateful. Yes, I do feel that Bon Bibi legend has something to do with it, absolutely”. Bull’s eye: Balance Ghosh called the Bon Bibi legend “a part of everyday life” in the delta. “It is a kind of a charter of conduct for the people who live in the Sunderbans. The legend is really about finding a balance. A balance between the needs of the human and the needs of the non-human. This is basically what Bon Bibi does. She creates a balance between tigers and all other beings and humans. In that sense, I think it is a very apt legend for today. The moral of it is right on the mark, because of the problem with our world today. It is really that it’s a world out of balance. It’s a world where humans have just taken everything over and left nothing for the non-humans. Mind you, the non-humans aren’t taking it lightly. They are striking back. That’s exactly what we are seeing,” he said. Incredible devastation The mangrove delta is at the heart of several works of Ghosh. “What is in this very inhospitable terrain that keeps calling out to you and provides literary inspiration?” Mukherji asked him. “Sunderbans is a meeting place. A place where land and water meet, where many rivers meet. One of the most spectacular things — confluence of rivers (mohona). It is not an untouched wilderness. A place with a very deep history. The workings of this history are quite visible within the forest. It was in the Sunderbans that I started to really get a sense of the incredible devastation that climate change is going to inflict upon the whole planet. Because the impacts are already visible there,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Bird lovers prevent shooting at Amtala wetland||A group of birdwatchers spotted two teenagers allegedly taking aim at a flock of birds with an airgun at an Amtala wetland, on the southern fringes of the city, and stopped them from shooting on Saturday. “We saw the teenagers take aim and one of them was about to shoot but somehow we stopped them. We asked them why they were shooting birds. One of them said they would eat the meat,” said Shantanu Sikdar, one of the birdwatchers. The teenagers, residents of the area, then allegedly threatened to break the cameras of the birdwatchers if they did not let them go. Sikdar then called up Diptimoy Ghosh, a traffic sergeant of Calcutta police, who directed them to Bishnupur police station. The birdwatchers took the teenagers to the police station. “Police did not arrest them as they are minors. Their air rifle was seized and they were let go with a warning,” said Sikdar. “We warned them of the consequences of killing birds. We also spoke to their relatives,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||1 dead, 1 missing  as boat capsizes in Sunderbans||A 65-year-old man drowned and a woman went missing after a boat carrying tourists from Calcutta capsized off Jharkhali in the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas on Sunday. The motorised boat carrying around 20 passengers, including children and women, left the Jharkhali jetty to visit an island nearby around Sunday noon. Eyewitnesses have told police that the boat started wobbling within minutes of leaving the jetty. Passengers became panicky as the boatmen struggled to control the boat on the turbulent Herobhanga river. “We have been told that water soon started entering the boat from one side, prompting the passengers to move to the other side. The boat tilted and capsized a few minutes later,” an officer of Jharkhali coastal police station said. A few fishermen who were close to the boat came to the rescue of the passengers. The administration at Basanti was also alerted. One of the passengers, who had lost his consciousness, was rushed to a hospital in Basanti, where he passed away. The police identified him as Subodh Goutanya, 65. Police and forest department officials launched a rescue operation with speed boats but one of the tourists remained untraced. Pratima Dolui, the missing tourist, is a resident of Dhalipara in Kudghat. Police sources said the boat, owned by a local businessman, was ferrying more passengers than its capacity. Some traders in Jharkhali said they had objected to so many passengers boarding a small boat, but members of the local boat syndicate ignored the warnings. Jharkhali, which can be reached from Calcutta by road via Basanti, is a major tourist draw around this time of the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Centre’s ‘funds freeze’ puts Jadavpur University in a spot||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has said non-release of funds under a central scheme has put them “in a difficult situation” as they had made expenditures following an assurance from the Centre about continued fund support. The university, according to officials, has recorded a deficit of around Rs 12 crore, following suspension of fund support. In May 2018, JU and nine other universities from across the country were selected for receiving Rs 100 crore each under the Rastriya Uchchatara Shiksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0 scheme to pursue research and provide scholarships. JU had received the first installment of Rs 41.67 crore (Rs 25 crore from the Centre and Rs 16.67 crore from the state) in November 2018 and utilised the amount by the end of March 2020. The state’s grant has to follow the Centre’s. The university is in the process of making an assessment of the shortfall, following which Das will write to the education ministry so that the excess expenditure is reimbursed. “The non-release of the second installment has put the university in a difficult situation. We made expenditure following an assurance that the support would continue. Despite repeated reminders to the ministry, the money has not come and we have registered a deficit,” Das said on Sunday. “Once the exact assessment is done, we will write to the ministry for reimbursement.” JU pro-VC Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya had on January 28 issued a notice regarding the assessment, which also mentioned: “The university cannot allow any further spending on RUSA 2.0 projects in view of the fact that the central government has not released the second installment of money.” The scheme was to end on March 31, 2020, but the Centre extended it till March 31, 2021. “The university has spent from its own coffers to buy high-end machinery for research, sanctioned funds for undertaking civil construction since the Centre extended the scheme. Till July onwards, when the ministry had started dropping broad hints about the non-release of funds, substantial expenditure had already been made,’’ said the official. A state government official said JU was told at a meeting between the education ministry and VCs on July 7, 2020, that the second installment was not being released because 70 per cent of the teaching posts were vacant. Das had written to Sunita Siwach, the national coordinator, RUSA, in September: “It was not stated that having 70 per cent of all teaching posts filled up was an essential precondition for receiving the grant.” The notice issued by pro-VC Bhattacharya says: “A comprehensive assessment of all liabilities in respect of committed expenditure in all RUSA 2.0 areas, including civil works, project works undertaken by the teachers and departments… has to be completed before final closure. Submission of all bills and claims (as spent up to March 31, 2020) under RUSA 2.0 must be completed by the first week of February, in order to facilitate this assessment.” The Union education ministry’s decision to hold back the money has left 200-odd research scholars in the lurch. The PhD scholars had quit a fellowship provided by the state government to opt for the Centre’s scholarship, which was offering four times more money than the state scheme. “PhD and MPhil scholars were getting Rs 8,000 a month as scholarship from the state higher education department. Under RUSA, the scholarship was Rs 30,000 for both categories,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Sourav discharged after stent implant, advised  rest||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty and had two stents implanted in coronary arteries on Thursday, was discharged on Sunday morning. The 48-year-old was admitted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where the procedure was performed, on Wednesday following a severe chest discomfort. “He has been advised to be on rest for a few days. He will be able to return to normal life soon,” said one of the doctors treating Sourav. “He needs to come for check-ups regularly.” According to doctors, the BCCI president will have to initially undergo check-ups frequently, but later a check-up should be done once a year. On January 2, Sourav had suffered a heart attack at his Behala home and was admitted to Woodlands Hospital, where an angiography revealed blockages in three coronary arteries. He underwent angioplasty to remove the blockage in one of the arteries and had a stent implanted. Doctors deferred the plan to implant two more stents fearing blood clots if a second angioplasty was done then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Water crisis in Salt Lake||A number of underground pipes that carry water to at least four blocks in Salt Lake’s Sector III have sprung leaks, triggering a water crisis in the area. The leaks were noticed around a month back, when water was seeping into the black top of the Broadway, which connects EM Bypass with Salt Lake near the FE Block island. On Sunday, several blocks that get water through this network faced an acute water shortage. Metro had in August reported how such leaks had triggered road cave-ins near the Salt Lake stadium and the FE Block island. Although both sites were repaired, the pipes at the FE island sprang leaks again a few months after they were repaired. Now, multiple craters have formed on the artery as the asphalt layer has disintegrated following sustained water seepage. Many of the craters are hidden under pools of water. The leaked pipes carry water from Salt Lake’s tank number 13 to FE, GC, FD, IA, HA, GC, IC and KD-KC blocks, among others. Many residents of the area said their water supply had been erratic over the past month and despite complaints to the civic body, no repairs had been undertaken. “The leaks have reduced our water supply to a trickle,” said Sarswati Halder, a resident of IC Block. A resident of FE Block said they were storing water in containers and tubs as the supply was not adequate. “This is turning out to be quite a chore for us,” said Samaresh Bhattacharya, an FE Block resident. “The leaks have developed under the main road and are visible to everybody, but still they have been lying unattended for a month.” A traffic policeman posted at the crossing said the craters had caused multiple accidents. “On Sunday, a man riding a gearless scooter with his five-year-old son lost control of the vehicle when the front wheel fell into a water-filled crater. The young man escaped unhurt but his father was injured. The craters are a trap for commuters in cars as well as two-wheelers,” said the cop, who spoke on condition that he would not be named. On Sunday, Metro saw cars and two-wheelers swerve dangerously in a bid to avert the water-filled craters. Everybody, however, was not successful. Raunak Pal, a resident of Phoolbagan who rode a bike through the stretch during the day, said it was unthinkable that such craters were allowed to grow on a busy road. “This is extremely dangerous. At night, this is a potential death trap,” said Pal. Officials of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority said they had surveyed the affected stretch and would start repairs soon. Engineers at the civic body said the joints in the ageing pipe network were springing leaks because they were not sturdy enough to handle high pressure over a prolonged period. “We will also have to inspect the pipes… to do this we need to dig up the stretch,” said an engineer of the civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC vaccine call to push up numbers||The state health department and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation are not relying solely on text messages to bring health workers to vaccination sites, but are also calling them up to try and push up the number of vaccinated. Many health workers told Metro they received calls from vaccination sites where their names were enrolled. A doctor attached to a private hospital, who had already received the first dose, got a call from the CMC about the second dose. Another doctor who got the first dose at the hospital where he works said he got a call and was told that his name figured on the list sent to another hospital. Though it points towards a lack of coordination, sources said this was happening because the department was pushing hard to achieve high vaccination numbers in the state. Health officials said they would push further by increasing the number of vaccination sites. Bengal is now third among all states in the number of vaccinations per session and seventh in the number of persons vaccinated. Officials of the health department said their aim was to further improve the state’s position. According to the website of the Press Information Bureau, Bengal vaccinated 2,42,761 people till 7pm on Saturday. “We were running about 430 Covid-19 vaccination sites in the past week. We want to raise the count to 500 this week,” said an official in the health department. “There are 54 vaccination sites in Calcutta. The count in the city, too, will increase.” The high turnout in the state can be linked to good advocacy and to the fact that many senior doctors took the vaccine in the initial days, sending out a message to doctors junior to them and other health workers that Covid shots are safe. That the authorities are keen on speeding up the Covid vaccination is evident from the CMC’s directive to employees to call up every name on the next day’s list. “Just a text message may not convince a person to turn up at the vaccination site. A call urging the person to take the shot will be more effective. We have told our staff to call up each and every person whose name figures on the list,” said a CMC official. The authorities are realising the importance of awareness campaigns and measures such as calling up each and every recipient as the state gets ready to inoculate almost seven lakh frontline workers. The health department is organising seminars among health-care workers to ensure no one refuses to take the homegrown Covaxin, one of two vaccines against Covid-19 granted emergency use approval in India, the other being Covishield. The health department is aiming to complete the administration of the first dose to all 6 lakh health workers in the state in another month and a half. Vaccination of frontline workers will start on February 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
01-02-2021||Calcutta||Dhiren Cabin stands still in its own time||At 11.30am on a late January day the inside of this landmark “cabin restaurant” in Sovabazar Street looks a bit like a battlefield gearing up. Inside Dhiren Cabin, the floor is strewn with chairs — small, wooden ones with sun mica seats, the tables are old-world, stone tops on wooden frames, and all surfaces are covered with heaps of filleted fish, minced mutton and pieces of chicken. (“Country chicken,” you are informed.) People come from far for the fish pakoras here: chunks of flaky fish crisp-fried in a light batter that crunches gently in your mouth, spreading joy. The fish fries, fish fingers and the mutton braised cutlets close rivals. The restaurant opens at 4.30. So around noon the seven or eight men are readying the stuff on a war-footing. Three of them belong to the family that owns the small two-room restaurant, boasting of two “cabins” in the outer room. The rest of the men are employees who do everything: cooking, cleaning, serving the food and getting the fish and meat cleaned, breaded and coated. Outside the late morning market in the street is drawing to a noisy close. Vegetables, fruits and all kinds of fish, spread on blue plastic sheets, are choking the street, even as a swarm of vehicles is trying to push its way through the remainder of the street, drowning your voice. Even as you stand inside Dhiren Cabin, the street seems to come in. Everything, inside, outside, is frantic. Yet the restaurant stands still in its own time, retaining its distinction, dignity, and a legacy, with no concession to contemporary “cool”. Every evening, its old hand-painted signboard beckons you into a different world. Apart from the delight of the fish pakoras, fish fingers and the occasional pudding, on offer is the pleasure of sitting in the cabins, being attended briskly and kindly by a handful of men not in uniform and being served tea in those tiny ceramic cups and saucers that come with small motifs and have disappeared more or less from sight. And being remembered. “You had a fish fry and fish pakoras last time, didn’t you?” you are asked. “We have always resisted fast food,” says Prabir Kumar Dey, 63, one of the proprietors of the restaurant. No roll or chow mien ever. Dey sits behind the counter, running the restaurant with his three brothers, Mritunjoy, Biren and Tapan Kumar. Dhiren Cabin was established by Dhiren Dey, their father, in 1938. Then it was only a “kitchen”. “My father sold tea, biscuits and breakfast items at first,” says Dey, the third among the brothers. The family comes from north Calcutta and still lives there. This part of the city takes special pride in its savoury snacks, as it does in its sweets. Both constitute revered traditions. Dhiren had a passion for the savoury. Now, within the savoury, “chop cutlet” is another distinct tradition, but this too has two genres. One is the heavily Bengalified version that opts for spicy, deeply coated fries. The other tries to hold on to the less fiery “sahebi” flavours. “Chop cutlets”, after all, were given to us by the British, though we have made them our own. Dey’s father did not want to smother his creations with spices or arrowroot. He began to sell moglai parota and kabiraji, but kept the flavours light. As his business grew, the restaurant, from a tiny kitchen, expanded to two rooms. After his death in 1972, his sons took over, though they had been involved from earlier. “I had joined the business in 1970,” says Dey, who could not continue his studies after the school final examination. “But we have preserved what our father taught us. Then we innovated, keeping our style,” says Dey. Thus was born doi chicken, another signature dish at Dhiren Cabin, as also the blockbuster fish pakoras. Biren, the second brother, also a regular at the restaurant. adds that the pudding, available mostly in summer, is unique, as it contains chhana (cottage cheese), which is usually used in making sandesh. And sometimes the pudding is made with a duck egg. Small adjustments have been made to recipes. Only the braised cutlet was previously made from meat from the ribs. Now regular mutton keema is used. Tradition, too, has to evolve. But no change has been made to the structure. The two cabins have not been touched. “We only removed the curtains,” says Dey. The only attempt at decoration is a curved metal lampshade hanging above the cabins, painted over with the same green of the walls. Dhiren Cabin remains the same, more or less, not only to conserve heritage, but also to continue the business. Because heritage is business, Dey and his brothers assert. “Our customers come here for the old ambience. This place would lose its charm if we changed anything,” says Dey. Yet to maintain business, you lose out on business. “The other thing we have not changed much is the pricing,” says Dey. A plate of fish pakoras — four pieces — is priced at Rs 90. “But if we change the price people will stop coming here,” says Dey. Maybe sustainability is more important than profit. “We will continue this business,” says Dey. He adds with some pride that the younger generation is interested in the family business. Dey’s son and his elder brother Biren’s son, an M.Com student and a W.B.C.S. aspirant respectively, do not mind the idea of working at the restaurant. They were there in the morning at the filleting of the fish. Some good things persist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
