02-02-2021||Calcutta||Smoke scare on flight||A SpiceJet flight with 69 passengers and crew turned back soon after taking off for Bagdogra and made an emergency landing at Calcutta airport as smoke was detected at the rear side of the cabin following a loud sound on Monday, officials said. The Boeing 737-300 series aircraft (Flight SG 275) took off from Calcutta at 4.23pm. Soon after, some crew members and passengers heard a sound, which was followed by smoke. The pilot made a Mayday distress call to the air traffic control and a full emergency was declared. Fire tenders and ambulances were kept on standby while the flight made an emergency landing at 4.37pm,” an airport official said. Mayday is a distress call issued by pilots during a life-threatening situation. Among the passengers were Virendra, the state's director general of police, and Surajit Kar Purkayastha, the security adviser to the state government, said officials. “I was at the front. I didn’t hear any sound but there was panic among passengers sitting at the back,” said one of the passengers on the aircraft. Some of them were shouting in panic. The stranded passengers were sent to Bagdogra by another Spice Jet flight, which took off at 6.06pm, said officials. The affected aircraft was grounded and till late on Monday evening, engineers were trying to detect the cause of the smoke and the sound.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
02-02-2021||Calcutta||IIHM Young Chef Olympiad streamed over Zoom||The IIHM Young Chef Olympiad, in association with t2, organised its opening ceremony on January 31. Streamed over Zoom, the worldwide culinary competition, now in its seventh year, saw judges, participants and mentors from 50 countries and 24 time zones participate virtually. This edition of the event (January 31 to February 6) will be conducted digitally with the subsequent cook-offs, the awards ceremony and the closing ceremony to be streamed online. There will be two rounds to claim a spot in the Super 10. The next 10 chefs will then go on to the Plate Trophy round and the Grand Finale. The jury comprises national and international names such as chef Sanjeev Kapoor, David Foskett, Chris Galvin, John Wood, Ranveer Brar and Rahul Akerkar. The winner will take home a gold medal, a trophy, a gold torque and a cash prize worth $10,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
02-02-2021||Calcutta||Scooterist flung off flyover, lens on phone ||A 26-year-old man who apparently stopped his two-wheeler on the Parama flyover to receive a phone call was hit by a car from behind and flung off the flyover on the ground below near Calcutta Boating Club, suffering fatal injuries. The incident happened on Monday afternoon on the Park Circus-bound flank of the flyover when the scooterist, Arijit Maitra, and his friend Duhita Pal, 24, were heading for the city for shopping, police said. Duhita survived with relatively fewer injuries and has been hospitalised. Both were wearing helmets, police said. Friends said the two were to tie the knot soon. Maitra was a resident of Baishakhi Abashon in Salt Lake. Duhita is from Salt Lake, too. The car that rammed into Arijit’s two-wheeler was being driven by a youth from Sankrail in Howrah. He was accompanied by his mother and younger brother, and the three were on their way to Science City. The police said the car — a red Maruti Suzuki Alto —would not have been there on the flyover. “The driver must have mistaken the route and accidentally taken the flyover, instead of the service road next to it that leads to Science City,” an officer of Pragati Maidan police station said. “The woman said the rider had suddenly stopped on the flyover to answer a call. A car then hit them from behind,” the officer said. Maitra was flung off the vehicle and he landed almost 40ft below. Both were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College, where Maitra died. The youth who was at the wheel of the car, Fahin Halder, has been arrested and charged with causing death due to negligence. Halder’s mother said they did not know Calcutta’s roads well. “There was a white car in front of ours. Then suddenly it steered right. Before my son could react, our car hit the stationary scooter,” an officer quoted her as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
