03-02-2021||Calcutta||Covaxin jab from today in Calcutta||Covaxin, a home-grown Covid vaccine, will be administered to health-care workers from Wednesday at three medical colleges in the city, health officials said on Tuesday. The three venues are the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and SSKM Hospital. Covaxin shots will be administered at the same sites where doses of Covishield, the other Covid vaccine approved for emergency use in India, are being given. Health department officials said the respective medical colleges would decide who would be administered Covaxin doses on Wednesday. A recipient has to sign a consent form. Covaxin, unlike Covishield, is still undergoing phase III trial. The consent form that the recipients of Covaxin need to sign mentions that the person receiving the vaccine has read the information sheet or has been told about it and he/she has understood the “benefits and risks of the vaccination”. Metro has reported that the consent form does not mention that the data on the efficacy of the home-grown vaccine is still pending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Republic Day spirit goes online||St Augustine’s Day schools Both the Barrackpore and Shyamnagar branches of St Augustine’s Day School observed the 72nd Republic Day to pay tribute to those national heroes, who had helped us attain the purna swaraj. Students of pre-primary and primary sections of the Barrackpore branch excelled themselves online. The pre-primary kids proved their zeal for creativity through craftwork, while the primary students gestured in excitement to the live broadcast of the Republic Day Parade 2021 directly from the Red Fort, New Delhi, which was uploaded in Google Classroom. Principal Jhuma Biswas said: “We should teach our children to cherish our culture, and celebrating the Republic Day is a step in that direction. Students will know and, thus, respect the freedom fighters’ sacrifices which will encourage them to cross every hurdle for a better future.” On the other hand, primary and secondary students of the Shyamnagar branch put up week-long activities as part of the celebrations. The primary kids made paper crafts such as cards and designs, including the colour of the Indian flag. Virtual classrooms became lively with display of the crafts and interesting talk sessions on national heroes and the freedom struggle. Senior students paid their homage digitally by posting speeches, paintings, poems, slogans and presentations in their Google Classrooms. Class-wise special online assemblies on Google Meet were conducted where teachers and even parents witnessed the presentations by students on the theme, Republic of India.
“Celebrating events such as Republic Day has its own importance because it makes children aware of their own country. This time, the mode of celebration was different. But the essence remained the same,” said principal A.D. Gomes. “What better way to engage the tiny tots than art and craft? And if that helps raise awareness about our Independence struggles and build their national pride, it is a double win. This is what we attempted through online means this Republic Day with great response from the students,” said St Augustine’s Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury. JD Birla Institute JD Birla Institute sustained the patriotic sentiment and promoted the spirit of brotherhood even amid the ongoing pandemic by observing the 72nd Republic Day, virtually. Teachers, students, staff members and many from the management attended the programme. The students made videos, depicting the history and glory of the Indian republic. They even depicted the contributions of B.R. Ambedkar in drafting the Indian Constitution. A plethora of events was put up, showcasing the cultural diversity of India. The programme commenced with hoisting of the national flag, followed by a speech on our motherland. “Earlier, we used to celebrate only the Independence Day. But from now on, we have started to celebrate the Republic Day to make our students learn the difference between both the occasions. Yes, we did miss the physical touch, but I am glad that we managed to keep up the patriotic fervour,” said principal Deepali Singhee. St Stephen’s School, Dum Dum Prayers and patriotic songs ruled the Republic Day celebrations at St Stephen’s School, Dum Dum. The guests included Rev Arabinda Mandal, the presbyter in-charge of St Stephen’s church under Dum Dum pastorate. Principal Ela Chowdhury delivered a speech where she asked the teachers to follow the Covid norms while serving the nation to their best. The portrait of Mahatma Gandhi was garlanded and the teachers sang Otho go Bharata Lakshmi and Vande Mataram to cap the day. “Around 70 teachers and staff members gathered on the school premises to make the event special. The students could not attend because of safety issues. We still wanted to pay our tribute in a small way,” said Chowdhury. Vivekananda Mission School, Joka Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, celebrated the Republic Day virtually. Few were present on the school premises for the flag hoisting ceremony, strictly following all the protocols of Covid-19. Principal Sarmistha Banerjee hoisted the national flag and delivered a motivational speech. “Only commemorating the day is not enough since we have a lot of responsibilities to fulfil as Indian citizens. Leaders are not born but made. The teachers and parents have to inculcate among the children the urge to take up the responsibility to make a better India tomorrow,” said the principal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Surgery botch-up order to Calcutta nursing home||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked Heritage Nursing Home on Ripon Street to pay Rs 10 lakh as interim compensation to a family after it found that the doctor who performed a Caesarean-section surgery did not have any specialisation in gynaecology despite claiming so. The 30-year-old woman, who underwent the surgery, is admitted to SSKM Hospital and is in a coma, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The doctor claimed in her prescription pad that she was a specialist in gynaecology though she only had an MBBS degree, said Banerjee. He said she should not have made the claim without a degree in gynaecology. The principal of a medical college in Calcutta said doctors with only an MBBS degree should not perform surgery. The principal added that to claim oneself as a specialist in gynaecology, the doctor must either have a postgraduate diploma or a masters’ degree in gynaecology. “Someone with only an MBBS degree should not perform a C-section surgery, though in rural areas, where there are hardly any specialists, an MBBS degree holder performs C-section,” said the principal. The woman’s family told the commission that they had to admit the woman to two other private hospitals after shifting her from Heritage. “The bill of her treatment in the other two hospitals reached Rs 23 lakh. They have already paid Rs 12 lakh,” said Banerjee. “We have asked Heritage Nursing Home to pay Rs 10 lakh to the family as interim compensation in 10 instalments, though the hospital did not charge them anything. The family may approach the West Bengal Medical Council as this is a complaint against a doctor. If they get any verdict against the doctor from the council, they can come back to us. We will award the final compensation then,” he said. The commission also asked AMRI Salt Lake to pay Rs 3 lakh for refusing to admit a Covid patient in June citing no vacancy, though the commission found beds were vacant at the time. “We have asked AMRI Salt Lake to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the family and Rs 1 lakh to Shramajibi Hospital in Belur as corporate social responsibility spending,” said Banerjee. The 67-year-old man was taken to the hospital on June 22 and was refused admission. “While refusing admission the hospital said there was no vacant bed, but we found that beds were available at that time,” said Banerjee. The commission also asked R Flemming Hospital on Topsia Road to return Rs 2 lakh to a patient after it found that the hospital had overcharged the patient on medicines, consumables and for pathological tests, said Banerjee. “The total bill came to Rs 6.23 lakh. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 2 lakh in 10 instalments,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Hair transplant client allegedly duped in Salt Lake||A 50-year-old man has complained to the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that he has been duped by an institute in Salt Lake that claimed to conduct hair transplant. The institute apparently asked the man to sign an agreement with a private finance company for an interest-free loan to pay for the procedure in instalments. The complainant told the commission that Rs 10,000 was deduced from his account after the agreement had been signed even though he did not go for the transplant, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The man went for a hair transplant to an institute named Richfill Health and Beauty, which is apparently located in Salt Lake,” he said. The commission has forwarded the complaint to the Bidhannagar City Police and asked them to start a probe. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they would ask the man to hand them all relevant documents. “The finance company made him sign a lot of documents. He complained that money had been deducted from his bank account though he never underwent the implant because doctors advised him against it because of his high blood sugar,” Banerjee said. The complainant went back to the institute following the deduction of the amount. “The man asked officials at Richfill to return the money... but they said they did not receive any payment from him. They said they got the money from the finance company,” said Banerjee. “When he got in touch with the finance company, they said he had to pay back the amount since he took out a loan from them. The man said he had been duped.” During his discussions with Richfill, the institute had told the 50-year-old that the procedure would cost Rs 44,000. Banerjee said the man feared that money would again be deducted from his account. “He is in a strange situation. He has issued a post-dated check. He is afraid that the finance company might lodge a criminal complaint against him if the cheque is dishonoured,” said Banerjee. “Since we cannot do much about this, we forwarded it to the Bidhannagar City Police.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Women take lessons, hold first exhibition||A group of women, who lost their livelihood during the pandemic, learnt to stitch and made bags and masks that flew off the rack during an exhibition on Republic Day. The women sold goods worth Rs 14,000 in their first exhibition held at Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas. One of the women was Anita Halder, 33, who lost her savings and had to take a loan for her husband’s treatment and provide for her two-year-old child. Her husband, a labourer, returned home from Tamil Nadu and fell ill. On most days, she took her child to the training centre, since there was no one to look after the baby. Altogether 17 women had enrolled for the training, which started in November. Some of them, holding graduate and postgraduate degrees, gave tuitions but parents stopped sending their children. “We want to make it a sustainable project. But for now it is a fight for bread and butter for all of them,” said Pulak Roy Chowdhury, the headmaster of Kanaknagar SD Institution in Hingalganj, who initiated the training. Metro reported about the training weeks after it had started. The initiative, titled Mom Sundarban Society, was started to empower women in the area. Roy Chowdhury has also created the self-help group and opened a bank account so that transactions can be done from that account, he said. “These women have to learn to manage their own businesses, from sale to accounts. We don’t want middlemen to walk away with their profits,” said Roy Chowdhury. The women have received further orders of Rs 10,000 and will participate in an exhibition in the city. It is not easy, as one of the women said, because it means balancing work at home and at the workplace. “We all go to the centre and work together. We also look after our homes,” she said. The first taste of earning in 10 months has made many of them shift their focus on tailoring. Twenty-five-year-old Soumita Kayal, a postgraduate in English, realised that she could have other sources of earning too. “The fact that people were buying has made me realise that there is a market we can cater to. When I enrolled for the training in November, I didn’t expect that within two months we would have an exhibition and earn from it,” said Kayal. “I had never done stitching before that. There is a lot to learn,” she said. Before the lockdown, Kayal was teaching a few children at home but parents stopped sending them during the pandemic. “If the children come back, I will teach them. But I will continue my business, too,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Tragedy reminder on forgotten flyover lessons||One man could have been still alive and another could have been saved from being accused of causing death due to negligence had both followed road rules while commuting through the Parama flyover on Monday afternoon. Arijit Maitra, 26, had allegedly stopped his scooter on the flyover to answer a phone call and died after being hit by a car from behind. Fahin Halder, in his 20s, who was at the wheel of the car — a Maruti Suzuki Alto — has been arrested for the death of the scooterist. If convicted, he can be jailed for up to two years. Senior officers in the traffic department said the scooterist violated a basic rule by suddenly stopping on the flyover. “No vehicle is allowed to stop on a flyover. That is the most important rule that all motorists must follow,” an officer said. The second violation committed by Maitra, the officer said, was to make an attempt to talk over the phone while driving on a flyover. The police have learnt during investigation that Maitra had suddenly stopped on the flyover to answer a phone call. “We always encourage people to stop the vehicle and make a call, if at all it is necessary. But in this case, to stop in the middle of the flyover was a wrong step. No one should talk over the phone while driving on a flyover,” the officer said. Several officers feel the crash could also have been averted had Halder, who was driving the Maruti Suzuki Alto, maintained enough braking distance and stopped the car before hitting the scooter. Halder, who was with his mother and younger brother, faces charges of causing death due to negligence. According to the rule, his driving licence will be suspended for at least three months and may remain impounded for a maximum period of one year. Apart from the criminal charge of causing death due to negligence, which will be probed by the fatal squad of the traffic police, Halder will face a separate trial headed by the deputy commissioner of the traffic department to get back his driving licence. The rulebook says that once a driving licence is suspended, the details are sent to the public vehicles department to update their records so that the offender cannot re-apply for a licence during the period of suspension. Halder has told the police that a white four-wheeler was in front of his Alto. It had allegedly suddenly steered right to overtake the two-wheeler in front of it, leaving Halder with no time to react. Officers said they were probing the presence of the white vehicle. “If at all there was a white vehicle in front, it is apparent that it was not maintaining the braking distance. Else, it could have pressed the brake in time to prevent a pile-up,” said another officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta educational institutions weigh resumption options||A number of schools said they were ready to resume in-person instructions for half the students of a class, while the other half can continue attending online sessions from home. The principals of several schools said they would seek consent from parents before calling the children back to the campus. Schools said online classes and blended learning would have to continue for some time even for the students of Classes IX to XII. “We have to see what percentage of students will be allowed in the school. We will have to work out a schedule with the teachers so that one group of students attend classes in school and the other group attend online classes,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Schools are planning to let half the students of a class, or even fewer, sit in one room and spread out the remaining students in rooms that won’t be occupied in the absence of juniors on the campus. “In a single classroom we will have 25 to 30 per cent of the original capacity, and we will be using three to four times the number of classrooms they usually occupy,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. “Initially, different classes could be allotted different days.” The director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School said they had planned “live streaming of classes” for those who would stay away from the campus. “In a room there will be half the number of students that originally used to sit,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. Every alternate seat will be vacant, she said. “We will not give up virtual lessons completely and we have to plan and execute sensibly. It has to be a combination of online and offline classes and then gradually return to normalcy without giving up on the advantages of online mode,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Tuesday that schools could reopen from February 12 for Classes IX to XII. Many private schools had been waiting for the go-ahead so they could at least call senior students to the campus for practical classes and rehearsal examinations. “We will start with practicals for students who will write board exams and also some form of pen and paper assessment before the boards,” said Bose. Many schools will not be open for full duration initially. “We can have four periods a day initially and gradually increase the number of periods after assessing the parents’ response,” said Ireland. The Heritage School has twice conducted a survey among students and parents as preparation for the reopening. “We did the survey for senior students and found that not more than 50 to 60 per cent of the parents are ready to send their children to school,” said principal Seema Sapru.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Parama flyover repair from today ||The road surface of the Parama flyover will be repaired over the next 10 days. Engineers from the urban development department, which will supervise the project, said repairs on the EM Bypass-bound flank will start first. “The repairs will start on Wednesday. Work will con-tinue from 11pm to 5am to ensure minimum rush-hour traffic diversion,” an official said. “All necessary formalities for the repairs, including getting permission from police to block traffic on the flyover during the duration of work, are over.” The repair of the 7.5km-long road surface on the main trunk of Calcutta’s longest flyover will start two days after a 26-year-old man died following an accident on the flyover. Arijit Maitra, who was riding a two-wheeler, apparently stopped on the flyover to answer a phone call when he was hit from behind by a car. Maitra was flung off the flyover before he landed on the road below. “The repair will basically be patchwork. A layer of mastic asphalt will be laid to cover the parts that have worn off on either flank of the flyover,” said an official of the CMDA, which is the custodian of the flyover. “Since mastic asphalt was used when the road was laid, we will stick to it for the repairs.” A section of road engineering experts has questioned the decision to use mastic asphalt, instead of bituminous concrete, on the Parama flyover, where vehicles tend to move at a speed higher than most of Calcutta’s thoroughfares. Several engineers said bituminous concrete was the choice for all high-speed co-rridors across the world. National highways, too, don’t have a mastic asphalt layer on them. “The friction factor for mastic asphalt is low. Unfortunately, for patchwork you can’t try bituminous concrete,” said Samiran Sen, a member of the committee set up by the state government to monitor the health of bridges and flyovers. Engineers said the width of the carriageway of the Parama flyover is 7.5m and there is no space for the shoulder, unlike other bridges or roads. As a result, motorists have to be extra careful while driving down this flyover. Besides repairing the road surface, engineers have decided to use the 10-day period to give a fresh coat of blue and white on the inner surface of the walls. “We will also complete the work of installing nets as a measure to prevent kite strings from falling on motorists,” the CMDA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Why is Calcutta feeling so cold||The unusual cold spell that has gripped Calcutta at a time winter should have been on its way out is largely because of the low day temperature. According to the Met statistics compiled over the past 30 years, February’s average maximum temperature in the city is around 29 degrees. In comparison, the maximum temperature on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday was 22.7 degrees, 22.9 degrees and 25 degrees respectively. The Met office attributed the biting chill to the day temperature’s yawning deviation from the usual for this time of the year. “Both the minimum and maximum temperatures have been unusually low for the past few days. But the effect of the minimum temperature is felt for a much shorter time than the effect of the maximum temperature,” said a Met official. A weather scientist explained the impact of the maximum temperature. “If the maximum temperature is in the range of 27 degrees, chances are that the Celsius will remain above 20 degrees for the better part of the day, say from 9am to 7pm. But if the maximum temperature is around 22 degrees, the Celsius is likely to stay under 20 degrees for most of the day, barring perhaps three-four hours in the afternoon,” he said. The minimum temperature over the past three days was 12.1 degrees, 11.4 degrees and 11.5 degrees respectively. The average minimum temperature for February is around 17.5 degrees, according to the Met records. “The minimum temperature is usually recorded before sunrise. The effect is felt late into the night and the early hours. Morning walkers feel the bite of that chill to an extent. The maximum temperature is recorded around the time the sun is directly overhead and has an effect on the entire day,” said the Met official. Monday was the coldest February day in over a decade and the second coldest this winter. The coldest day of this season was December 27, when the minimum temperature was 11.2 degrees. But February 1 felt much colder because of the difference in the day temperature on the two days. The maximum temperature on December 27 was 24.5 degrees. The average maximum and minimum for December are 15 and 27 degrees. The deviation in the maximum temperature on December 27 was only 2.5 degrees. On February 1, it was over six degrees. The city’s official minimum temperature is recorded by the Met office in Alipore. The Dum Dum observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees on Monday. Some districts in south Bengal witnessed a minimum temperature of below 8 degrees on Monday, prompting the Met office in Alipore to issue a cold wave alert for the state. The mercury in Calcutta was tipped to dip further on Tuesday but it went marginally up instead. “The north-westerly winds had not picked up pace as expected,” said the Met official. But the chill is not going anywhere soon, according to the Met forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to be in the 12-13 degrees range over the next “two to three days”. “There is a possibility of the formation of a trough of low pressure over central India. It could lead to cloud formation in south Bengal and trigger some rain. The system is also expected to halt the flow of the north-westerly winds and the Celsius in the city could go up a few notches,” said the Met official. But a fresh round of snowfall is expected in Kashmir over the next few days. “The trough should dissipate in 24 hours, paving for the entry of a fresh round of cold winds from Kashmir that will again take the temperature down,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
03-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools to open for classes IX to XII on February 12||Schools in Bengal will reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Tuesday. The minister said the schools had already started sanitising their premises for the resumption of on-campus activities. “We will reopen the schools from February 12 adhering to the health protocols. We have already started the sanitisation drive — IX, X, XI and XII. We will also tell the schools to hold practical classes,” minister Chatterjee said at the Trinamul Congress headquarters in response to a question. “Saraswati Puja will be held in a few days’ time. Schools will hold Saraswati Puja. Where is the problem in it?” Saraswati Puja is on February 16. Chatterjee will meet the vice-chancellors of state universities on Wednesday to decide whether in-person classes could be allowed in universities and colleges as well. “We will act based on their suggestions,” said Chatterjee. Campuses have been shut since March 2020 following the outbreak of Covid-19. An official of the school education department said a detailed advisory on the protocols to be followed by students and teachers had been drawn up in consultation with the health department. “The various offices of the department in the districts will liaise with the schools on the protocols,” said the official. A section of teachers, however, said the government should leave it to individual students to decide whether they would want to attend in-person classes while the pandemic was still on. “It should not be made mandatory as one might argue that it is safer to attend classes from home. The parents might fear that their wards could catch the virus in schools. Therefore, a student who is unwilling to go to the school should be allowed to attend classes from home,” said Saugata Basu, a teacher of Uttarpara Government School, who is also the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association. Another teacher said the school education department must seek parental consent before calling a student to the campus. A school education department official said several plans were in consideration. “Classes could be held on alternate days at the beginning, something chief minister Mamata Banerjee had proposed in August,” the official said. Many schools have sought the government’s consent to hold at least on-campus practical classes for the students who will write their board exams in a month. Teachers were worried about their lack of basic hands-on training. Headmasters were repeatedly getting in touch with the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, seeking to know when in-person classes could resume. Calcutta University has been holding practical classes at the postgraduate level since January 18. “We are looking forward to Wednesday’s meeting, which will decide whether in-person classes could resume in the colleges,” said an official of CU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-155
