04-02-2021||Calcutta||Message of unity and integrity||Krishnagar Public School Students of Krishnagar Public School observed the Republic Day, spreading the message of unity and integrity. The tiny tots of the pre-primary section made flags with ice-cream sticks and Tricolour badges. The middle-school students showed their creative expression through skillfully designed tri-coloured rangoli patterns. Students made picture collages and vibrant, visually-impactful presentations on the Republic Day procession on Rajpath, New Delhi. The children from across grades performed on patriotic songs. They danced and indulged in recitation on the virtual platform. Senior students also took part in the special activity on mygov.in portal as advocated by the CBSE. They took part in online quiz, essay and poem writing competitions. The management, principal and staff members gathered on the school premises to unfurl the national flag. “We need to be thankful and grateful to the founding fathers, who formulated and drafted an exemplary Constitution that has steered India towards progress and development. Let us help our future generation, too, to establish a strong bond with the nation and unite and respect the culture of India,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. Griffins International School celebrated the Republic Day on its premises, where some teachers, staff members, head boy and assistant head boy were present and others watched it online. The event began with unfurling the Tricolour and continued with paying tribute to the great souls of India. The celebration was followed by programmes showcasing our cultural heritage and patriotic fervour. The teachers presented a skit related to the pandemic and some even recited poems on the theme, freedom. “Any school events, minus the students, are incomplete. Celebrating the Republic Day is all about making students, who are the future of the country, learn about our nation. This year, the objective was fulfilled, but on a small scale,” said principal Sarbari Brahma. Chairman Abishek Kumar Yadav said: “Challenges will come, and we will have to face them – for example, conducting online classes. Everyone should take lessons from the pandemic and proceed with the thought that one can defeat everything with sheer dedication and hard work.” Delhi Public School, Joka celebrated Republic Day with a small ceremony consisting of teachers and staff members on the school premises, adhering to the rules of the new normal. The celebration commenced with the flag hoisting ceremony and singing of the national anthem. Teachers also sang patriotic songs on the occasion. “I am glad that despite the pandemic-induced odds, nothing could stop the teachers and the staff members from paying their tribute to the motherland and vouch for shouldering their responsibilities as worthy citizens of India on the Republic Day. Such a synergised team with its commitment and efforts shall succeed in its mission to contribute in nation building,” said principal Writuparna Chatterjee. Both the Park Street and Salt Lake branches of Apeejay School organised the flag hoisting and investure ceremonies to mark the Republic Day. The chief guest for both the events was CEO of Apeejay schools Kiranjit Singh Pannu. Students performed and young leaders were selected at the virtual programme, Ma Tujhe Salam, organised by the Park Street branch. A presentation on Babasaheb Ambedkar set the ball rolling, and the students sang inspiring songs. Finally, the investiture ceremony began with the newly elected head boy and girl — Adarsh Anil Pillai from Nehru House and Diksha Malhotra from Tagore House — being honoured. Kazi Rashik Ali from Gandhi House became the sports captain and Koyena Das from Tagore House the vice-captain. The house captains, prefects and monitors of all the four houses were also announced and the oath taking ceremony followed. Principal Paromita Guha-Ray encouraged the students to be dutiful and responsible while taking the school to new heights. “Students took pride in glorifying and celebrating the spirit of unity and brotherhood. The children also took part in quiz competitions and essay writings to reaffirm their love and commitment for our nation,” she said. The flag hoisting ceremony at the Salt Lake branch was performed by 85-year-old Aparna Mukherjee, a grandmother of a student. Principal Anindita Banerjee talked about self-discipline. “It is now more important for our students to stay safe and follow all the rules, as we are planning to open schools shortly,” she said. Finally, the new student leaders were named. Head boy Ayush Zaffar announced Akansh Gupta and Ahona Rudra as the new head boy and girl, respectively. Dhruv Agarwal became the sports captain and Snehashish Shaw, his deputy. The names of council members and other office holders were also announced and the oath taking ceremony followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Multi-level car park project at New Town for 3,000 vehicles||A multi-level car park with a capacity to accommodate around 3,000 vehicles will be constructed in New Town, said an official of Hidco that builds infrastructure in the township. The parking lot has been planned keeping in mind the fact that the number of vehicles are expected to go up in the next few years when more people move into New Town. Hidco wants to build the parking lot drawing from the experiences of office goers and people forced to park on the streets of Sector V because of lack of proper infrastructure. The New Town car park when finished will be one of the largest in all three Action Areas and will come up on a plot measuring nearly one acre in the central business district or the financial hub opposite Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. Parking already become an issue near Eco Park as Calcuttans make a beeline for the 480-acre recreational park on holidays. According to Hidco, the estimated population of New Town is expected to go up by at least 20 per cent in the next couple of years and nearly double once Metro trains start plying on the Airport-New Garia Metro line that cuts across the township. Several offices and banks are already functional in the area where the proposed parking lot will come up and several more are under construction. Also nearby is the new campus of the Presidency College and a couple of private nursing homes. Debashis Sen, the chairman cum managing director of Hidco, said they want to start building the parking lot in the coming few months. “We will call for a tender soon and construction is expected to start later this year,” said Sen. According to the plans, the parking lot will be a multi-storied structure. The first couple of floors will have places for retail outlets as well as food and beverage joints while the upper floors will be dedicated to parking cars. A Hidco official said they were planning to adopt the FASTag-RFID infrastructure used to collect payments at toll gates on highways. The tags pasted on vehicle windscreens enable motorists to drive through toll plazas, without stopping to pay the tax. The amount is automatically deducted from the owner’s account. “FASTag is vehicle-specific. Once it is affixed on a vehicle, it cannot be transferred to another vehicle,” the official said. A mobile app will be launched that will guide vehicles towards empty parking spots including the multi-level parking lot, officials said. Pins in green and red will denote availability or otherwise of parking lots in a particular area. A detailed list of the number of spots available for four-wheelers and two-wheelers will also be displayed as soon as the destination is keyed in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||In-person degree certificate distribution at JU||Jadavpur University announced on Wednesday that the distribution of “original final degree certificate for the year 2020” will be in-person as the university could not hold its convocation because of the pandemic. The distribution of certificates will start on February  8 and continue till February 22. The notice issued to all the departments under the three faculties — science, engineering and arts — mentions specific dates for each department for the distribution of certificates. The certificates of those who will fail to collect them will be dispatched to their mailing addresses within India. The university has yet to decide what it will do in respect to international students. A total of 4,700 students (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD put together) graduated last year. They could not be handed over the certificates as the university cancelled the convocation to avoid any assembly at the time of the pandemic. Those who will come to the campus to collect their certificates have been asked to maintain “health precaution” and produce documents like original marksheet/final grade card, library clearance. The distribution will take place on the campus between noon and 4pm. A resolution adopted by JU’s executive council at a virtual meeting in mid-December had said: “Neither in physical mode is feasible... nor the university has the necessary infrastructure to organise the annual convocation on virtual mode for four thousand and seven hundred recipients” The university had also uploaded digital versions of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository, from where recipients downloaded them from December 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC gives more time for property tax relief ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has extended till February 28 the deadline for sending applications for a waiver on the penalty and interest for unpaid property tax, an official of the civic body said. The earlier deadline was January 31. The penalty and interest waiver scheme is for unpaid bills raised till March 31. The scheme, launched on October 1, 2020, does not offer any relief to property owners who have not paid the tax for the last three quarters of financial year 2020-21. “We have extended the deadline for application for the waiver scheme. The earlier last date was January 31,” said an official of the CMC. An application form has to be submitted to any treasury office of the CMC, an e-Calcutta citizen service centre or any common collection centre of the civic body. The list of the centres where the form can be submitted is available on the “e-Kolkata Citizen Service Centre” menu of the CMC’s website. The form can be downloaded from the website of the CMC — https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. Those who want to download the form have to take the cursor to the “online services” option in the menu on the left side of the home page. Then one has to click on assessment collection>make online payment>waiver LOI 2020. The menu will open on the left side from where the application form can be downloaded. “This scheme is not an automatic waiver on reaching the counter for payment. One has to apply to get benefits of the scheme,” said the official. A bill with the total dues and the amount that has to be paid after the penalty and interest are waived will be given to the applicant at the CMC’s offices. The outstanding dues and the amount to be paid can also be ascertained from the CMC’s website. According to terms of the scheme, defaulters who will clear their dues by February 28 will get the entire penalty and interest waived. Those who will pay their dues between March 1 and May 31 will have 60 per cent of the interest and 99 per cent of the penalty waived. “The deadline for taking the full waiver remains the same. We have only extended the deadline for applications,” an official said. The civic body, the official said, has received about Rs 180 crore of property tax dues till January 30. The total outstanding property tax is around Rs 2,500 crore. “We are expecting more applications, which is why we have extended the deadline for applications,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Mosquito menace in Salt Lake, New Town||Mosquitoes are laying siege to Salt Lake and its adjoining areas including New Town, several residents and office-goers said. Places along VIP Road including Lake Town, Baguiati and Teghoria, too, are facing an onslaught of mosquitoes, people from the area said. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, which has areas like Salt Lake, Baguiati, Lake Town and Teghoria in its ambit, said that many of their larvicide-spraying equipment had become defunct. “We are planning to launch a drive to check all septic tanks. Salt Lake does not have open drains unlike places in Baguiati and it’s perplexing how there has been such a rise in the number of mosquitoes,” said Pranay Kumar Ray, member of the civic body’s board of administrators. In Salt Lake, many blocks off the Kestopur canal, in sectors I and II, and off the Eastern Drainage Channel, in sector III, have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes in the past weeks. “The water in the canal that flows in front of our house has turned stagnant. It is a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes,” said Sampriti Bhattacharya, a resident of AL Block. An official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which provides civic services to Sector V, said that they were spraying larvicide regularly but a dip in temperature had led to a spurt in mosquitoes. On Wednesday, The Telegraph saw accumulated water thrown from pavement eateries on the sides of the roads in Sector V. Public health experts have warned that throwing water in places where it can accumulate can provide breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that causes dengue can breed in a coin-sized pool of water. A resident of New Town’s Rosedale Garden, Rubina Choudhury, said: “If windows are open after dusk, swarms of mosquitoes enter the house.” An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, which looks after civic amenities of the township, said that they were conducting intensive spraying of larvicide and checking water bodies. Several residents of Salt Lake and New Town are down with dengue, another official said. “New Town has vast open space so we are concentrating our efforts in places where there are housing complexes and commercial establishments. We are also releasing guppy fishes in water bodies and have asked contractors and builders to ensure that freshwater does not accumulate in their sites,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools gear up to assure parents||St James’ School wrote to parents of Class X and XII students on Wednesday seeking their consent for their children’s return to the campus. Several other schools said they would seek consent after preparing a detailed note on the steps taken to ensure a safe environment on their campuses. Besides these measures, the schools will also have to adhere to government guidelines. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee had on Tuesday said schools would reopen for in-person classes from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. A number of schools are awaiting the government notification before announcing their preparedness to parents. The bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, Reverend Paritosh Canning, has asked CNI school heads to send him details of their “preparedness and arrangements for adherence to health protocols” by February 9. The letter from St James’ principal Terence Ireland to the parents states: “We have taken all the mandatory and necessary measures to sanitise the classrooms, laboratories and School thoroughly and will also ensure that the social distancing norms are strictly followed. Thus we ensure the safety and protection of your ward….” The areas of concern among parents include how many children will be seated in a classroom and how they will be monitored during lunch and other breaks. “In my view there should be no lunch break or assembly to avoid any kind of contact. The school has to tell us clearly about its plans,” said Manish Dalmia, whose daughter is in Class XI. The Heritage School in its communication with parents will cover areas like transport,  classrooms and common areas. “We are trying to cover all aspects so that parents do not have to worry and are comfortable sending their children to school,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. South Point, Delhi Public School New Town and Mahadevi Birla World Academy are in the process of preparing their consent notes. “The consent form will contain a detailed note of the SOPs that the school will follow to ensure a safe environment as far as possible,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. DPS New Town is planning to ask parents to keep children home if they are unwell. “We will also reassure parents that if a child is unable to attend school, he will not miss out on anything. Because of online classes, that communication has been firmly established,” said principal Sonali Sen. Rammohan Mission High School started sanitisation of the campus on Wednesday. “Once classes resume, we will sanitise the classrooms every day,” said principal Sujoy Biswas. “There are students who use public transport and that fear and concern for safety is there amongst parents,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||What schools need to keep in mind as in-person classes resume ||Students will take time to get back to the pre-Covid “normal” once in-person classes resume and schools need to be more relaxed on discipline and rules in the initial months, psychologists and teachers said. It will be a challenge for teachers to make students shift from the “home mode to the school mode,” said a counsellor, pointing out that they could initially be “restless” at the school desk. The pandemic and the lockdown allowed young learners to take certain leeway such as sitting on a couch to attend online classes, using a footstool, waking up 10 minutes before the day’s first class and taking a break between classes. Also, unlike the pre-Covid days, they are not required to attend eight periods a day. During the transition, teachers will have to be more patient and empathetic to the students and help them get back to a routine they have been detached from for 10 months. “There is a huge change in lifestyle and we have to give children that space and opportunity to adapt,” said psychologist and counsellor Ruvena Sanyal. For the students, the boundary between home and classes have become blurred and most of them have stopped following hygiene routines or setting themselves academic goals. A Class X boy said that thanks to online classes, he can get up at 8.45am to attend a class at 9. He is free by 12.15pm. “Even during the three hours 15 minutes we get a 15-minute break. Also, there is no need for me to take a shower in the morning or eat breakfast before the classes,” said the 16-year-old. School heads agree that initially they could not be too strict on students as they used to be during the pre-pandemic days. “There will be staggered entry and we cannot be a stickler for punctuality initially. Also, attendance might be impacted and we have to be easy on children,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. Teachers said boys and girls were indulging in styles they were not allowed to when they were attending in-person classes — such as nail art or growing hair long. All these pursuits are providing the students with a “feel good factor” amid the pandemic, which has taken away their social life. Taking a stroll between classes or a water break during class has become normal during the pandemic. “Schools and teachers have to ensure a happy shift from the home mode to the school mode. If teachers find that students are fidgety or sleepy in class, they should be allowed to go out for a walk, take a break and come back. Schools will have to be easy with rules and regulations,” said Reeta Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools in Calcutta. Psychologist Ruvena Sanyal said it would be an “uphill task” for teachers to get the attention of the child back to school. “Class activities will have to be done in a way that will hold the attention of the children... children have a shorter attention span and with an overdose of online activities, we are anticipating attentional problems and restlessness in class,” said Sanyal. Many school heads have been wanting schools to reopen, especially for practical classes for senior students who will soon appear in board exams and for doubt-clearing sessions. But psychologists warn that “academics solely” cannot take a front seat. “The senior classes, especially the board examinees, are short on time, but everyday 15 to 20 minutes should be allotted for activity-oriented thinking... which will help them relax in school and gradually follow a routine,” said psychologist Ishita Sanyal. Psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji said online classes were an “artificial space,” and students would look forward to connecting with their friends and teachers. “Instead of plunging directly into academics, students have to be given time and space to share their thoughts and feelings. Teachers will have to be more empathetic and understand where the child is coming from, instead of focusing on shoulds and should nots…” said Dastur Mukerji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Sixth elderly person to die of burns at home||A woman who had suffered burns from a candle while performing puja at her home a fortnight ago died in hospital on Tuesday. Police said Sima Dhar, 52, a resident of CR Colony in Jadavpur, lived with her daughter Esha since the death of her husband. Her clothes had caught fire while she was performing puja on January 16. She was taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where she passed away. This is the sixth reported death in the last four months in the city of an elderly citizen from burns suffered at home. Officers at Lalbazar said small acts of negligence and lack of awareness about how to react during a fire were to blame for most of the cases. “Elderly people are vulnerable to such accidents because their reflexes are slow compared to the young. Ideally, just like children are not allowed to handle match boxes, elderly people, too, should be prevented from getting close to any source of fire unattended,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. In October 2020, Dola Mitra, 63, had died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at home. She was alone in the room when the sari caught fire. Chaya Nag, 74, had suffered fatal burns while cooking at her daughter’s Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane home in Beleghata in December 2020. An LPG cylinder leak was suspected to have triggered the fire. Her daughter, who was near her, suffered burns on her hands. Four days after Nag’s death, 60-year-old Manjula Dutta, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, had died of burn injuries after her apparel caught fire while lighting a lamp during her morning puja at home. In January, a 64-year-old woman died of burns suffered while performing the last rites of her husband in Kasba. Also last month, 68-year-old Jayanta Bhattacharya died of burns suffered while trying to light a cigarette at his Kasba home. Bhattacharya was alone in the room when he had lit a match and a spark fell on him, causing his apparel to catch fire, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Sealdah flyover crash claims  biker||An elderly motorcyclist died after being hit by a bus on a crowded MG Road near its intersection with the Sealdah flyover on Wednesday afternoon. Police said the motorcyclist and the pillion-rider both were wearing helmets. “We are analysing CCTV camera footage to ascertain whose fault caused the accident,” said an officer of Muchipara police station. “There could be two possibilities — either the motorcycle tried to overtake the bus from the left and the bus hit it or the bus was being driven rashly and it hit the motorcycle from behind.” The accident happened at 12.10pm in front of Chhabighar cinema. The victim has been identified as Mohammad Hasim Khan, 64, a resident of Colootola Lane. The pillion rider, Aga Sayed Kasim, 66, is a resident of Rabindra Sarani. Both were taken to NRS hospital, where Khan died. Kasim has suffered critical injuries. The bus — on route 28 — was intercepted and the driver booked for causing death due to negligence. If convicted, he can be jailed for two years. The incident happened two days after a scooterist was hit by a car from behind and flung off the Parama flyover, suffering fatal injuries. The scooterist apparently stopped on the flyover to answer a phone call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||Covaxin receives mixed response at Calcutta sites||The first day of administration of Covaxin, a home-grown vaccine against Covid, in the city had a mixed response — no one took the jab at one site, a little over half the targeted number took the shots at a second site and the third crossed the target. Unlike Covishield, the other Covid vaccine granted emergency approval in India, Covaxin is still undergoing phase III trial and its efficacy data is pending. At the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, no one could be administered a Covaxin dose, a health department official said. The hospital had sent an open invitation to all its employees who are yet to be vaccinated against Covid to get a Covaxin shot. Only six persons turned up. The administration decided against inoculating them as it would have meant wasting 14 doses of the vaccine. Each vial of Covaxin, developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech, has 20 doses. The doses that remain unused after a vial is opened go to waste. “We had spread the information through WhatsApp groups and other means. If a considerable number of people turned up, we would have inoculated them,” said an official. At SSKM Hospital, 13 health workers took Covaxin doses, against a target of 20 set by the health department for each of the sites chosen for the administration of the indigenous vaccine. An SSKM official said they, too, had sent an open invitation for Covaxin shots. At both SSKM and Calcutta Medical College, there were no dearth of takers for Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. About 400 health workers took Covishield shots at SSKM and 202 at Calcutta Medical College. At the third Covaxin site in Calcutta, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, 35 health workers were vaccinated, 15 more than the target set by the government. “I, along with a few other senior doctors, was the first to take Covaxin. We did this to allay fears in people’s minds about the safety of the vaccine. Later, so many students and healthcare workers took the jabs without hesitation,” said Jyotirmoy Pal, a professor at RG Kar. “We had repeatedly held talks with our health workers to address their doubts.” At SSKM, the state’s director of medical education, Debasis Bhattacharyya, was among the first recipients of Covaxin. “I took the vaccine at 10.22am. I am speaking to you at 9pm. I have attended several meetings during the day. I felt no discomfort. It’s clear that Covaxin is safe and people should not hesitate to take the vaccine,” he told The Telegraph. Recipients of Covaxin have to sign a consent form before they are administered the vaccine, which is not required to get a Covishield dose. The consent form mentions that the recipient has read the Covaxin information sheet or been told about the content and has understood the “benefits and risks of the vaccination”. It also says the recipient will be “entitled to medical management and compensation for serious adverse events related to the administration of this vaccine”. But the consent form does not mention that the data on the efficacy of the vaccine is still pending. An immunologist said efficacy data would show whether the vaccine was giving protection against Covid-19 for a considerable period of time. The number of Covid vaccination sites will go up from a little over 200 to around 350 across Bengal next week following the arrival of fresh consignments of both vaccines, officials said. Nearly four lakh doses of Covaxin reached Calcutta on Wednesday. Around 2.9 lakh doses of Covishield reached Calcutta late on Tuesday. Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
04-02-2021||Calcutta||No in-person classes at colleges, varsities||Colleges and universities in Bengal will not reopen for in-person classes in the ongoing semester that will end in March, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Wednesday after a meeting with vice-chancellors. Several VCs opposed the resumption of in-person classes at this point of time on the ground that they were not sure whether the physical distancing norm, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19, could be followed in hostels, where each room is shared by multiple students. “The vice-chancellors unanimously suggested that the classes of the ongoing odd-semesters (first, third, fifth and seventh semesters at the undergraduate level) be held online. We have accepted their suggestion. The semester will end in March,” Chatterjee said after the meeting. “The vice-chancellors are not willing to reopen hostels. They told us they won’t be able to reopen the hostels following the Covid protocols.” An official of the education department said the VCs would inform them in early April whether they are open to holding classes on the campus for the even semesters, which will start the same month. “The vice-chancellors said they will take stock of the situation in April and inform us,” said Chatterjee. A VC said they flagged their concern about hostels because they lacked the infrastructure that could ensure each room is allotted to one occupant, which the UGC had recommended in its campus reopening guideline issued in November. “None of the state-aided universities has a hostel where each room can be allotted to one student. At least three students share each room. Since students from districts, other states and even from abroad study at the universities, they will require accommodation if in-person classes are allowed. Therefore, we objected to resumption of in-person classes at this juncture,” the VC said. Education department officials said Chatterjee sought to know from Calcutta University’s pro-VC (academic) Ashis Chatterjee how CU could reopen laboratories for postgraduate students in the absence of any directive from the higher education department. Chatterjee represented CU, instead of VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. “The minister told the pro-VC that CU cannot take decisions in isolation. It is up to the university to decide what they will do now,” said an official of the department. Repeated calls to Chatterjee went unanswered. The minister, too, did not answer calls from Metro. CU had reopened labs for practical classes on January 18. The minister said at the meeting that the colleges and the universities had developed expertise to hold classes on digital platforms. Anil Bhuimali, the VC of Raiganj University, said he told the minister about the requirement of funds for holding classes on digital platforms. The Telegraph had on October 10 reported that the university had sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who could not afford them so they could attend classes on digital platforms. “I referred to the application that was sent to higher education secretary Manish Jain in October. Many of our students lack devices,” Bhuimali said. The minister said after the meeting: “Many universities are helping students attend online classes. I have asked (education department officials) to help the universities who lack resources." The decision to keep the colleges and universities shut for in-person classes came a day after the minister said schools in Bengal would reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-154
