05-02-2021||Calcutta||Wrought by hand||The number of artisans has been slashed to about half of those who came in 2019 but there are still 4,000 of them from across the state who have brought their best to offer you at Hastashilpa Mela. Spread around Eco Park’s gate 1, the West Bengal State Handicrafts Expo 2020-21 was inaugurated on January 29. “We had requests for many more stalls but could not allow more due to Covid protocol. Fairs are a major source of revenue for artisans,” said Swapan Debnath, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises and textile department at the opening. The fair has artisans selling saris, furniture, carpets and lots of patachitra artwork. It will continue till February 15, from 1pm to 8.30pm and entry is free. Here is a glimpse of what’s on sale- What: Sandip Dutta has sliced branches of mahogany to get a smooth surface to paint Ramakrishna, Sarada Ma, bauls, village folk etc. “On some of these, we have even placed tiny glasses of water with money plants growing out. I wanted to give the impression of a tree growing out of a tree,” smiles the Nimta resident. Where: Outside stall 14 Price: Rs 150-200. Those with money plants growing cost Rs 400-900 What: Look closely and you’ll find a replica of everyone from Gopal Bhar to Gandhi and Ma Kali to A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on these shelves. “Many of these statues have wiring inside which I’ve covered with burnt clay. These are highly durable,” says Debkumar Sarkar of Krishnanagar. He also has cute Chhota Bheem dolls, bobble heads and his best-sellers — tribal figures. Where: Stall 7 Price: Rs 90 for small Gopal Bhar, Rs 500 for A.P.J. Abdul Kalam bust. What: This fashionable round-shaped purse transforms into a single or double-strapped backpack as well as a duffle bag you can carry to the gym. “It took me nearly three years to develop this concept. The bag can hold weight of up to 12kg and the exterior has been stitched using 83 different pieces of waste material in applique style,” says Sanjoy Pal of Nabadweep. Where: Outside stall 7 Price: Rs 550 to 750 What: Alak Kumar Pal searches high and low for unusual-looking seeds to create jewellery out of. “The grey seeds running along the length of this necklace are lata seeds and the chocolate brown pendant is a gila seed. Both flaunt their natural colours, while I’ve painted wooden bits and placed them as fillers through the string,” says the craftsman from West Midnapore. Where: Outside stall 29 Price: Rs 300 What: Debasmita Bhaskar’s ancestors used to carve ivory but since it got banned, her family imports special stone sheets from South Korea that bear a similar look. “We have large and small sculptures of gods, jewellery and even a replica of elephant tusks. We have sold several hair bun pins at this fair already,” says the artisan from Murshidabad. Where: Stall 9 Price: Rs 1.5 lakh for the 4-ft Ganesh, Rs 300 for hair bun pins with rose motif What: This cane basket looks so cute one doubts if buyers would be able to use it as a bin. “Well, people can also use it as a laundry basket. We also have bins shaped like elephants and baskets shaped like hens and swans,” says Bibhas Jana of East Midnapore. “Our products get retailed around the country.” Where: Stall 28 Price: Rs 2,200 What: This Durga wall hanging makes you stop in your tracks and stare. Artisan Somnath Ghosh also has T-shirts in similar patterns available for all ages right down to babies. “I have them with images of Kali, Buddha and Durga. These are painstaking to create but I’m happy customers are liking them,” says the Howrah resident. Where: Stall 33 Price: Rs 3,800 What: Gour Das has replicated the look of the Bankura horse but with jute. “The skeleton of these horses is made of papier mache and then I have wrapped the exterior with jute ropes for effect,” says Das, who has come from Bolpur with owls made in the same style. Where: Outside stall 18 Price: Rs 9,000 for a pair of 4ft horses. Rs 450 for table-sized ones. What: Roustang Bhotia’s stall is easily the busiest in her pavilion and visitors are pouring in for both — to buy gyathuk and to hear her speak Bengali. “Mashima, eta apni joley phutiye khaben, byapok lagbe!” she promises as the crowd bursts into laughter hearing the rich vocabulary of the Kalimpong girl. And when a customer claimed he gets cheaper noodles in Calcutta, without batting an eyelid, Roustang proclaimed: “Shob bhyajal! This real gyatuk takes barely five minutes to cook but is a Tibetan delicacy. It’s especially suitable for the elderly as it is easily digestible, barely needs to be chewed and is soft to swallow,” says the lady who has a knack for picking up languages. Where: Stall 38 Price: Rs 40 a pack What: The artwork looks attractive — there’s everything from Jesus Christ and Krishna to hunters, rockstars and even a coronavirus model (picture above). But look closely and you’ll realise they are made of nuts, bolts, shock absorbers... “Scrap art had taken off in the West 10 to 15 years ago but the scale there is huge. I’m making smaller pieces that are affordable by the masses,” says Tamal Das of Santiniketan. Where: Outside stall 22 Price: Rs 200 onwards||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
05-02-2021||Calcutta||State JEE to be held on July 11||The state joint entrance examinations will be held on July 11 for admission to undergraduate courses in engineering, pharmacy and architecture in institutes across Bengal. Last year, the test was held on February 2 as the board wanted to start the counselling process early so that the BTech seats did not remain vacant in large numbers. This year, the entrance exams have been delayed because the state higher secondary exams are scheduled for June. “Details like the form fill-in schedule, information brochure will be uploaded on the board’s website on or after February 15. We have scheduled the exam for July 11, considering that the JEE (advanced) exams will be held on July 3 and plus-II boards will be over in June,” said Malayendu Saha, the chairman of the state JEE board. The CBSE exams for Classes X and XII will be held from May 4 to June 10. The ICSE and ISC board exams are not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”, ICSE council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon had said in November. The state HS council will hold its exams from June 15 to July 2. “Since last year’s counselling started late, in August, because of the pandemic and the process continued till October, the preparation for this year’s exam started late. That is another reason why the exams cannot be held in March,” a JEE board official said. Each year the dates for the test for the next year are announced on the day of publication of the results. Last year, the results were announced on August 7. But the dates for the 2021 exams could not be announced because of the pandemic-induced uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
05-02-2021||Calcutta||A few doctors are still Covid-shy||Many doctors in private hospitals and clinics who were not seeing patients physically have started doing so after getting the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine but a few are waiting for the second jab before resuming in-person consultation. Among those waiting for the second dose before seeing patients in their chambers are some top specialists. During the lockdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, most patients were not turning up for consultations and many doctors were either not seeing patients or doing only video consultation. But the outpatient departments at most hospitals and clinics reopened after Durga Puja with doctors resuming seeing patients physically. However, officials at several hospitals said on Thursday that despite the vaccination drive for health workers and a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, a few doctors were still not agreeing to start in-person consultations or perform surgeries and other procedures. Among those doctors are internal medicine experts, gastroenterologists, neuro-physicians and general surgeons. A senior physician attached to several big private hospitals in the city had a few thousand patients, most of them suffering from chronic illnesses, waiting to consult him after the lockdown was over. The elderly doctor, who has comorbidities, has been administered the first dose of a Covid vaccine. “He is still not agreeing to see patients physically and is waiting for the second dose,” said an official of the one of the hospitals the doctor is attached to. “Till the beginning of February, some of the doctors were not physically seeing patients at the OPDs. After taking the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, some of these doctors have started coming to the OPDs,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “However, there are still a few senior doctors who are not seeing patients. Many patients are calling up the hospital, desperately seeking appointments. Since these doctors are not available, we are slotting them with others.” Some other private hospitals are also facing the same problem. “Although most doctors are physically seeing patients, there are some senior doctors who are not doing so. These doctors are telling us that they would see patients physically only after they have taken the booster dose of the vaccine,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. A person will get the booster dose 28 days after the first dose. “We can request doctors to see patients, we can’t force them,” said Tondon. Doctors said during the lockdown, when a large number of Covid cases were being reported every day, they were doing video consultations under compulsion. “Ideally, for a new patient, a doctor first has to know the history, then clinically examine the person and finally go through the medical reports to come to the conclusion about the disease and the possible course of treatment,” said a senior surgeon. Clinical examination, he said, is most crucial to find out the condition of a patient. “One can note down the medical history of a patient and go through the reports during a video consultation, but clinical examination is not possible,” the surgeon said. Officials of several hospitals said the footfall of patients at the OPDs had almost reached the pre-pandemic level. At one hospital off EM Bypass, 500-odd patients are turning up at the OPD daily, compared with the 650-odd on an average before the pandemic. On Thursday, Bengal recorded 206 Covid cases and four deaths. On October 4, the state had recorded 3,357 cases with 62 deaths. Several doctors and healthcare workers have died of Covid in Calcutta and other parts of the state. “Despite Covid, all our senior doctors are seeing patients. There were elderly doctors who were on duty in the Covid wards,” said Rana Dasgupta, the chief executive officer of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Mental health centre order to pay Rs 10 lakh for negligence ||The state clinical establishment commission on Thursday asked a centre that treats mentally challenged people to pay Rs 10.5 lakh in compensation for its negligence in dealing with a patient who had passed away in May. Baul Mon, located in Jadavpur, has to pay Rs 50,000 to the attendant of the deceased and Rs 10 lakh to Rabindra Bharati University. The man, 61, used to sing and play the sitar and the commission said the penalty amount would be used to offer scholarship to a music student every year. Majumdar was admitted to Baul Mon in October 2019 and he died in May next year. “They were treating him for his mental problems but they were not careful about his other health aspects. A few hours before the man passed away, his blood sugar level had reached 1,400, which is abnormally high. He was diabetic but he did not receive proper treatment for diabetes,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The man died just because he did not receive insulin. The centre told us that insulin was not available in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Banerjee said. “It was also unfortunate that no one came for his cremation because of the pandemic. Only the attendant who used to look after him made arrangements for the cremation.” The chairman said Rabindra Bharati University would have to put the Rs 10 lakh it would get from Baul Mon in a fixed deposit account and offer scholarship to a “needy, meritorious” student of music. “We are doing this because Majumdar was a music lover. He used to sing Rabindrasangeet and play the sitar,” said Banerjee. The patient’s cousins moved the commission after his death. Sarmistha Ray, the managing director of Baul Mon, told Metro that they would appeal against the order. “When the patient was brought to us in October, he was in a very bad mental state. He recovered very well. In between he had tuberculosis and recovered from it. We had repeatedly told his attendant to take him out of our facility and admit him to a hospital to treat his diabetes. But that person could not do that. There was no one from the patient’s family who would stay in touch. We did the best we could. We were not negligent in any way,” said Ray. The commission also ordered the cancellation of the licence of Misba nursing home in Basanti, South 24-Parganas. The family of a patient who underwent surgery for appendix complication there had moved the commission. The man was transferred to another nursing home, where he died. “They alleged the doctor who performed the surgery was a quack…. The police submitted a report saying that the hospital did not maintain any record of patients, other than those treated under Swasthya Sathi,” said Banerjee. “We did not find any qualified doctor at Misba. We have asked the chief medical officer of health, South 24-Parganas, to suspend the licence of the nursing home….” The commission also asked Columbia Asia Hospital to pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the family of a patient who died inside an ambulance while family members were trying to convince doctors and nurses to admit him. “The man had been a patient of the hospital since 2011. He underwent dialysis at the hospital in the afternoon and fell sick in the evening,” Banerjee said. When family members took him to the hospital, the doctor at the emergency ward said the patient had symptoms of Covid and he could not be admitted because the hospital lacked an isolation facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Child found dead with throat slit||A nine-year-old girl, who had come to visit her maternal uncle’s home in north Calcutta with her parents and two elder sisters, was found dead with her throat slit in a building near the uncle’s home early on Thursday. Police said she had gone missing a few hours before. Residents of the area alleged that the girl, whose body was found on the staircase landing of the three-storeyed building, had been sexually assaulted and murdered. The police said they would comment on the cause of death and the nature of the injuries after the post-mortem. The girl, who turned nine on February 1, was last seen playing outside her uncle’s home around 8.30pm, the police have found. The victim and her two teenage sisters and parents had come to visit the relative’s home on Wednesday evening. The mother works as domestic help and the father is a labourer. When the family realised that the child had gone missing, they started looking for her. Then they went to the local police station to register a missing diary. Around 6am on Thursday, one of the neighbours spotted the girl’s body on the first-floor landing of the staircase of a building, just two buildings away from the victim’s maternal uncle’s home. The building can be accessed by anyone. Residents said the first floor did not have any occupants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government issues guidelines to reopen schools||The guidelines issued by the Bengal government on Thursday for reopening of schools in the new normal state that there will be no assembly, no touching of each other's books and no sharing of tiffin and drinking water. The 28-page document lists what schools have to do before the resumption of classes, what officials have to check and what teachers and students have to follow. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on Tuesday said schools could reopen from February 12 for in-person instruction for students of Classes IX to XII. “Keeping in mind the guidelines issued by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, Govt of West Bengal, these guidelines have been framed to help the school authorities and supervising officials face the challenges with careful and essential planning. It is imperative for all stakeholders to follow the guidelines before and after the institutions open, to maintain healthy and hygienic conditions in the schools,” said the introduction to the “Covid-19 general guidelines on reopening of schools”, published by the department of school education. An official of the department said schools could contact them if they needed any clarification. Before class No assembly for prayer, the guidelines say. “Prayers shall be done in respective classes accompanied by class teachers,” the guidelines say. No guardian or visitor shall be allowed inside. Gathering should be avoided at the time of entry and exit and social distancing should be strictly maintained. “A copy of the rules will have to be affixed on the gate in such a way that it is visible to all students and guardians from outside,” the guidelines said. At the beginning of each day’s session, a 10-minute programme on Covid awareness has to be held. In class and outside Students are not to share exercise books, bags or any other belongings, food and drinking water. They have to sit at the “assigned place” as directed by the teacher. Before reopening, officials are to check whether seating arrangements have been made in a manner that two students are separated by at least 1 metre. The guidelines contain a few diagrams on the seating arrangement. “The seating arrangement may be revised accordingly as per local needs but should be kept in conformity with social distancing norms, based on the dimensions of the classrooms and lengths of the benches/desks,” the guidelines say. Students have been told not to “rush or fight”. They have to maintain social distance in classrooms, laboratories, libraries and corridors. Students are not to leave the school before the end of the day’s session and they need to learn how to fold arm over mouth and nose before sneezing and coughing. If someone is sick Guardians shall be instructed not to send their children to school if they are suffering from “fever, cold or any other kind of ailment as their immune system may be weak”. They should stay home for at least seven days. A separate isolation room with a bed may be set up at the school. The room has to be properly sanitised. Teachers and staff have to be briefed properly on the “handling of cases of sickness during school hours”. The school heads shall ensure such cases are brought to the notice of local medical officers. Schools may also keep a “class-wise record of health check-up reports of students” wherever applicable. No accessories Wearing of masks is mand-atory. The guidelines advise students to avoid wearing metal accessories like rings, chains, bangles and amulets. They must wear shoes and socks so their feet do not touch the ground and no one should be within one metre of another person. After reaching home, uniforms should be washed with detergent if they have another set, the guidelines say. “If that is not possible, keep the uniform isolated for 12 hours and put it under direct sunlight next day.” Masks, gloves and caps to be washed with detergent and in hot water. No group activities Sports and cultural events may be discontinued for now. “The teachers must ensure that students do not form close clusters with friends. Students must play innovative games maintaining physical distance,’’ the guidelines say. School infrastructure Taps and tube wells at schools must be mandatorily kept in usable condition to facilitate frequent hand washing. Guardians Guardians must wear masks and maintain social distance while accompanying their wards to and from school. They should also ensure that social distancing norms are followed at all times from home to school and back. Teachers’ role No student shall be left to themselves without being watched during school hours. “There will be a natural tendency among the children to socialise among friends after a prolonged lockdown. That is why, they shall always need a teacher to guide them how to socialise maintaining physical distance and non-sharing of one another’s belongings,” the guidelines say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Fire station for New Town||The first fire station of New Town was inaugurated on Thursday. The station has come up nine years after its foundation stone was laid on a two-acre plot behind Axis Mall. Till date large swathes of New Town and Rajarhat had to depend on the Sector V and Dum Dum fire stations. The number to alert the New Town fire station is 7605896231. “With this new station the response time will go down,” fire services minister Sujit Bose said. The fire station has space to park at least two sky lifts and five tenders. The station will have a fire-fighting robot. The building is five stories and the fire station will run from the first two floors. The rest of the floors will have living quarters for the firemen and space for storing equipment. Deaths at Rajarhat Rajib Kumar Singh, a financial consultant from Phoolbagan, was found dead at his friend’s house in the Jheelbagan area of Rajarhat on Thursday, police said. In another incident, Sadhan Ghosh of Sulanguri in Rajarhat, was stabbed to death allegedly by cousin Mongal Ghosh. Later, Mongal surrendered at Eco Park police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Cable mess shifts from overhead to pavements||A drive to remove defunct overhead cables between the Ruby crossing and Gariahat has shifted the mess to the ground. The snipped cables are now blocking pavements and hanging dangerously on roadside railings and median dividers. An association of cable TV operators and broadband service providers has been clearing the jungle of overhead cables by removing the ones not in use. The work began about a month back and has covered over 3.5km. Nearly 300km of dead cables have been removed from the stretch, a cable operator said. The new problem that has emerged is that some of the cables have not been removed from the pavements and median dividers where they were kept after being snipped. The Telegraph saw bundles of cables on median dividers for nearly a kilometre, both to the east and west of Acropolis Mall. Some of the cables have also started spilling on the roads. At the Siemens crossing, more than 10 cables were lying on the pavement on the southern side. In the same place, the lid of an underground drain is missing. The two problems together force pedestrians to walk on the road instead of the footpath. An autorickshaw driver said the cables had been lying there for days. “We are forced to walk on the road though it is a busy crossing and vehicles come from all sides. The footpath is blocked by cables near the crossing. A little away from the footpath, the lid over the drain is missing. Where do we walk?” asked a pedestrian. On the Ballygunge bridge, the workers removing the cables put the bundles on the pavement or tied them to the iron railings. But many of the cables had fallen on the carriageway or were hanging dangerously from the railings. “The way these cables are hanging, they can get entangled with the wheels of a two-wheeler, a car or a bus and lead to an accident,” said a motorcyclist. A senior CMC official said the civic body had removed a bulk of the cables. “We have removed the snipped cables from the stretch. There could be some places where cables are still lying. We will remove them soon,” said the official. Tapash Das, the joint convener of the All Bengal Cable Television and Broadband Operators United Forum, said a bulk of the cables had been removed. “We had kept the cables on the footpath and they were removed by the CMC. Only in a few locations they are yet to be removed,” he said. Das said several cable operators met Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, on December 21. Hakim asked them to remove the dead cables from the stretch between Ruby and Gariahat as a pilot project. The CMC is providing logistics to the cable operators who have deployed their staff to remove the wires. A senior engineer of the CMC’s electricity department said they had given two hydraulic ladders for the workers to reach the point where the cables are tied to a pole and snip the defunct ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Book fair in July: Guild||The 45th edition of the International Calcutta Book Fair will be held in July at Central Park in Salt Lake, the Publishers and Booksellers Guild said on Thursday. The dates are still being worked out, officials said. The fair was originally scheduled from January 27 to February 7. “Considering the upcoming Assembly elections and the board exams, we have decided to hold the book fair in July. We hope international flights will resume by then and we will be able to get participants from across the globe like every year,” said Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey, the general secretary of the guild, which organises the annual event. The scheduled date for the arrival of the monsoon in Calcutta is June 10 and July is the city’s wettest month. “We have discussed this among ourselves. Just like all Covid-19 protocols will be followed, all necessary measures will be taken to ensure book lovers don’t face any problem in rain,” said Tridib Kumar Chatterjee, the president of the guild. “We will firm up our plan within a month or two.” Since 2021 is the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and also the 50th year of the independence of Bangladesh, the theme country for this year’s fair is Bangladesh. “This is the 50th year of bilateral relations between Bangladesh and India, apart from the golden jubilee year of our independence. We are very happy to know that Bangladesh has been chosen as the theme country for this year’s fair,” said Toufique Hasan, the deputy high commissioner of Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||25 % Covid-19 vaccination centres to be dedicated to Covaxin||The state health department has asked its officials to ensure that 25 per cent of the Covid-19 vaccination centres in the state are dedicated to Covaxin. Among health and frontline workers, whoever is willing to take Covaxin will be offered the indigenous vaccine, officials said. The idea, the officials said, is to complete administering the first dose of a Covid vaccine to all health and frontline workers within the next 14 working days. “After taking stock of the number of doses of both vaccines we have, we have decided that 25 per cent of the vaccination sites will be dedicated to Covaxin. Covishield will be administered from the rest,” said an official of the health department. “Senior officials have taken Covaxin jabs. So there is no reason to be afraid of taking it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Anniversary salute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose||DB Block A statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was unveiled in DB Block to mark the onset of the 125th birth anniversary of the patriot. Created by CL Block-based sculptor Gautam Pal, the statue was a surprise for most residents. “A health camp had been planned and announced beforehand but then we got a call from two young members of our block committee asking us to come see a surprise,” said secretary of DB Block Residents Association Loknath Sastri. The two youths — Partha Saha and Abhijit Saha — had arranged the statue. “Every year we hoist the National Flag on Netaji’s birth anniversary but this being his 125th year we wanted something special,” said Partha. The duo contacted the sculptor,  who went on to donate a statue to the block. “We received the statue from him the night before and kept in hidden till placing it before the decorated backdrop on January 23,” Partha said. Minister and local MLA Sujit Bose and member, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Rajesh Chirimar came for the inauguration, garlanded the statue and appreciated the initiative. “We are now planning a permanent structure on which to place the statue,” said Sastri. The health camp, organised in association with Apollo Hospitals, conducted basic tests like blood sugar and pressure as well advanced ones like ECG. There was also consultation by a general physician and dentist. The camp drew about 50 residents. 400 residents participate in march Over 400 residents took part in a march from the Netaji statue to EZCC on January 23, where they settled down to watch cultural programmes — music, dance and recitation — centred around the theme of Netaji and patriotism. There was also a puppet show by Dhumketu Puppet Theatre and its members took part in the march too with the puppets. The walk was led by the likes of Devashis Jana, member, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, and S.A. Ahmed, the former chairperson of Sector V’s governing body, NDITA, who is also a resident of FE Block. “The world seems to be fascinated with the disappearance of Netaji but what we need is discussion on his ideals and ideology,” said. Ex-Air Force chief presides over R-day show Mallika Malancha 
Former Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha presided over the Republic Day celebrations at New Town’s Mallika Malancha housing complex this year. He unfurled the National Flag, watched the cultural performance and infused the audience with a heart-felt speech. Raha spoke of the significance of the day, the Constitution, its three pillars — the judiciary, the legislature and the executive. “We need to take an oath to be good professionals. It does not matter which profession we are in.” He also urged all to stop blaming the government for its faults and step up to contribute. “There was pin-drop silence when Raha spoke. Even the kids didn’t fidget,” said a member of the organising committee. Though planned by ladies, the show was almost entirely conducted by children. Some sang patriotic songs, some danced to medleys, some recited the preamble to the Constitution… Tots aged eight and below put up a cute show of unity by parading in traditional costumes of different states. Tanvi Chatterjee won the contest dressed as a Maharashtrian, Paakhi Bardhan came second as a Punjabi and Aniketh Sahoo came third, dressed as a Bengali. The show was anchored by four middle school students — Arnabi Chowdhury, Sannidhya Biswas, Shinjini Sarkar and Shloke Sengupta. A two-day programme on Netaji was held at the New Town Tree Library. The celebration took place on a plot in DA Block where the authorities have planted lots of trees and information on them has been provided on placards in front of each. “We want people to think of Netaji in a beautiful atmosphere and not just keep him limited to books. We want them to step out into the greens and learn and celebrate the person he was,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that was organising the event. But there were books to be read too seated in the open. A total of 61 books on and by Netaji were kept on display on loan from The New Town Library from January 23 to 26. A sit-and-draw competition for children was held on the first day where kids had to draw “my city”. Peacefully sitting between the trees, everyone was seen having a wonderful time with crayons and brushes. “I wish I had practised drawing buildings, it took me a lot of time to draw them properly so in the end I could not finish my painting. But I enjoyed the experience,” said 10-year-old Priyanka Basak of DA Block. Nine-year-old Shreeyanshi Sahoo finished third in the competition with her depiction of a village scene. “My grandparents stay in a village and I enjoy going there. So instead of buildings, that’s what I drew,” said the resident of neighbouring CE Block. On the next day, an open-to-all quiz was held on Netaji and nature, conducted by quizmaster Rajiv Sanyal. “I have been to many places but the ambience here among trees is amazing,” said Dibyajyoti Nandi, who correctly answered Sisir Kumar Bose as the author of the book Mahanishkraman, on Netaji’s great escape from house arrest.” Twelve-year-old Aritra Biswas answered the most correct answers on the day. “I love reading and have read many books on Netaji , apart from the ones in the school syllabus. I am happy I could use my knowledge here today,” said the DA Block resident. Residents also took part in a walk from the tree library to Balaka Abasan, holding up banners on the freedom fighter. The walk was led by  Sen, Anup Matilal, curator of Rabindra Tirtha, Gopal Ghosh, joint managing director, Hidco, and the other officials. They were accompanied by an orchestra band. Shatadipa Bhattacharya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Street for pedestrians only||Two streets in New Town are being planned as pedestrian plazas where cars will be barred. “These will be stretches where pedestrians and non-motorised vehicles, like cycles, will be given priority. Such practices would be both environment-friendly and health-friendly. The road will be safe for children to play, their mothers to chat and senior citizens to walk,” said an official of the New Town Kolkata Green Smart City Project, which is planning and funding the project. One of the chosen streets runs by the Clock Tower, stretching from Central Mall up to Axis Mall on the other side of the Major Arterial Road. The other street is in front of Eco Urban Village. Explaining the concept, Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen referred to the Mall of Darjeeling. “Kids ride ponies, people sit on benches and soak in sunrays or shop. The idea is to reduce the distance between streets and the people.” He spoke of how the central business district of Gangtok used to be extremely congested with vehicles but the Sikkim government had now made it a no-parking, no-vehicular movement zone. “It has become a tourist-friendly spot with people getting off cars at a distance and walking to shops,” he said. The first stretch, he pointed out, was already there in the masterplan. “Overbridges are usually built over a rail track or a river. But this Clock Tower-elevated carriageway does not have any impediment below. Nor is it an extremely busy road that runs underneath. Yet, the bridge was built 10-15 years ago as the planners had kept such a provision.” As for the road in front of Eco Urban Village, Hidco is seeking corporate social responsibility funds from private firms and create a space for the community free of motorised vehicles in partnership with them. Search for best design A design contest had been launched with the aim of participative planning to seek ideas for the pedestrian plaza and the winner was announced on January 23 at a programme held on purpose on the streetside, near Biswa Bangla Gate. Architects Malabi Makur and Parna Ghosh, who won a prize of Rs 10,000 for their winning submission, said they had envisioned the activities on the plaza in accordance with the time of the day and the season. “The early morning, for instance, will have morning walkers and joggers. A semi-shaded and semi-covered walkway under a bamboo pergola with climbing creepers will not only reduce heat radiation but also make walking a pleasant experience by enhancing the ambience,” they said. After 9am, it will be about office-goers and their requirements. “A streetfood zone with stalls and sitting arrangement under the elevated carriageway will help accommodate hawkers in a structured manner and also provide office-goers and workers from the neighbourhood with economic lunch options,” Makur added. A multipurpose plaza with tensile fabric support will serve as yoga and aerobics area in the morning and hawking zone later in the day. New Town’s cycling track should be extended to this stretch also, they suggest. The bigger story The design contest was a part of the Streets for People Challenge that again is under the Smart Cities Mission of the ministry of housing and urban affairs. The aim, according to the Smart City website https://smartnet.niua.org/indiastreetchallenge/, is “to inspire cities to create walking-friendly streets through quick measures, in response to Covid-19”. It explains how Covid-19 has presented the need for physical distancing while moving through the city and accessing essential services. “Cities around the world, such as Bogota, Berlin and Milan have responded by transforming streets for walking and cycling, to ensure safe mobility during Covid-19. The pandemic has also highlighted the importance of open public urban spaces for recreation, mental health, and to enhance the liveability of a city. By placing health and economic recovery at the core of their interventions, cities have re-allocated streets for pedestrians, while also allowing local businesses to re-open safely,” it says. It has cited examples of two cities — New York and London — how this approach has helped the economy. “In New York, the Open Streets: Restaurants program has saved 80,000 jobs by allowing establishments to expand into sidewalks. A Transport for London report shows that improving streets for walking and cycling can increase retail sales by up to a staggering 30 per cent.” There have been 113 applicants to the challenge, with both Calcutta and New Town having applied separately. The Smart Cities Mission will shortlist 11 cities, which would move to Stage 2 of the Challenge. The evaluation will be based on the pilots and conceptual city-wide scale-up proposals submitted by the registered cities. The shortlisted cities will receive an award, a citation and guidance from national and international experts to further develop and commence their plans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose: Parallel lives||Mahatma Gandhi’s political death took place months before he was felled by the assassin’s bullet. That is why the day the country was partitioned, on August 14, 1947, he was sitting on a fast alone in Beleghata. The Asiatic Society had organised a lecture on ‘Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose: The Mutual Discourse’ and Professor Amal Mukhopadhyay, a former principal of the erstwhile Presidency College and a political scientist, was delivering it on Gandhi’s death anniversary and a week into Bose’s 125th birth anniversary year. 
Mukhopadhyay described Bose as the greatest patriot who sacrificed everything for the motherland and Gandhi as the greatest tactician whose ways have been followed by many leaders the world over.
“Their paths were different from the start. Gandhi went to South Africa to fight a case and launched ahimsa satyagraha against racism, not the British government. He got the Kaisar-i-Hind medal for helping the British in the Boer War. His first two movements on his return, Champaran and  Ahmedabad mill strikes, were both social movements, not political.” It was the Jallianwalabagh massacre in 1919 that aroused Gandhi’s nationalist consciousness and he returned the medal. And during the Khilafat Movement the same year, he became immersed in politics. Bose studied Swami Vivekananda in his adolescence, resolving to take sanyas in the monk’s footsteps. “During the first year of IA, in course of his travels, he met Swami Brahmananda in Varanasi and sought diksha. But he was told that renunciation was not for him.” Mukhopadhyay said he had researched the assault of the racist teacher, E.F. Oaten, that took place at Presidency College on 16 February, 1916. “I wanted to revoke the expulsion order that was passed on Bose (and another student Ananda Mohan Dam) by the erstwhile principal Henry Rosher James. Oaten could not identify his assaulters. The order was issued on the basis of a bearer’s word who identified the two from among suspects through a hole from a hiding place. My argument before the governing body was they were given no scope for self-defence. The order was revoked on January 22, 1996,” he said amid applause. Mukhopadhyay pointed out that after Bose gave up ICS, it was Gandhi that he first went to. “Gandhiji sent him to C.R. Das who embraced him. Later, when Gandhiji got the resolution of the withdrawal of satyagraha passed by the Congress working committee after the Chauri Chaura incident (when police shot and killed participants in a non-cooperation movement and a police station was burnt in protest, killing 22 cops), two people opposed it — Jawaharlal Nehru and Bose, both being of socialist mindset. Being a supreme tactician, Gandhi made Nehru the Congress president in 1929, creating a rift with Bose,” he said.  
Mukhopadhyay disagreed with a dialogue attributed to Gandhi in the film Gumnami where he calls Bose his son. “Gandhi was 36 years older to Bose. But he never saw him as a son.” At the Tripuri session of the Congress in 1939, Bose was elected president, defeating Pattabhi Sitaramayya. “Gandhiji could have remained neutral but he openly said: ‘(Sitaramayya’s) … defeat is more mine than his,’ and with a working committee filled with Gandhi loyalists like Rajendra Prasad and Vallabhbhai Patel, Bose realised he could not work.” When Netaji was expelled from Congress, one person protested — Rabindranath Tagore. “He wrote him a long letter, referring to him as deshnayak. The two were so close that Tagore attended the foundation stone laying of Mahajati Sadan in 1939 despite being ill.” 
Despite his differences with Gandhi, Mukhopadhyay pointed out, when Bose made his radio address years later from Rangoon, it was he who referred to Gandhiji as ‘father of our nation’. Gandhi too called him “patriot of patriots”. When Lord Mountbatten came to India, he resolved to meet all the leaders, starting with Gandhi. “When Mountbatten asked what the solution to India’s problem was, his response was that Jinnah should be asked to form the government. When he shared this with Nehru and Patel, this created a rift between Gandhi and his followers. The working committee went on to pass the resolution of Partition, despite Gandhiji being strongly against it. His own followers had sidelined Gandhi.”
Netaji’s role in expediting India’s freedom has not highlighted enough. “When Prime Minister Clement Attlee was asked why India was being granted freedom, he had responded that it was because of the mutiny in the Royal Indian Navy which was a fall-out of the INA trials at Red Fort, which also made lakhs take the streets. People of the country had risen,” said Mukhopadhyay. He ended by lamenting about the lack of patriotism in today’s leaders who “know only vote-bank politics”.
Satyabrata Chakrabarti, the general secretary of The Asiatic Society, said the objective of organising the lecture was to show how despite their differences Netaji and Gandhiji remained respectful towards each other, a trait missing in today’s politicians. Earlier, an exhibition, in collaboration with Rekha Chitram, was inaugurated by former principal of the Government College of Art and Craft Isha Mahammad, also a former president of Asiatic Society. The exhibition showcases 30 artworks, including eight sculptures in bronze and fibre on Gandhi and Bose. The exhibition will be on till February 8, and visitors will get to see Gandhiji’s half-bust statue by Kartik Chandra Pal, who had the opportunity to take his measurements during a Barrackpore visit, while his son Gautam, a CL Block resident, has sculpted a statue on his Dandi march. Family link is also present in the thread on canvas displays, by Rekha Chitram founder Rekha Chakraborty and her son Arun, the current head of the CK Block art school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-152
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Cycle repair a call away||A mobile cycle clinic was inaugurated on January 23 on the sidelines of a cycling event in New Town. “We are trying to build an ecosystem which promotes cycle as a mode of transport. We have built 30km of grid-separated track across New Town to allow people to cycle freely. The kind of high-end cycles that are being used today have completely different mechanisms from ordinary cycles, which are beyond the expertise of the local repair shops. So we thought of arranging for specialised maintenance service,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The New Town civic authorities have signed a memorandum of understanding with GC Calcutta Cycle, whereby service will be provided on call for a fee of Rs 70. “We are currently providing the service from 10am to 10pm. Later when the infrastructure is ready it might become 24 hours. We will do the repair on the spot or get the cycle picked up,” said Aniruddha Som on behalf of the company. The company has outlets in Chinar Park, Downtown Mall and DLF1 in New Town other than in Bentinck Street in central Calcutta and Kankurgachhi. “We are distributor, retailer and wholeseller, with collaborations with 18 companies worldwide, including some top-ranking international ones like Scott, Giant and Bergamont,” Som added. He pointed to a surge in cycling habits in the pandemic period. “We even accepted cycle delivery orders over phone and delivered at the doorstep. We must have sold 100-150 battery-operated cycles. These cost Rs 25,000 upwards.” Salt Lake, New Town and its adjoining localities have a lot of cyclists, he said. Some customers here also own high-end carbon cycles costing over Rs 1 lakh.  “We have brought over expert mechanics from Pune and Bangalore to handle those.” Shalini Srivastava owns a BMW cycle, with multiple gears, that can be ridden in mountainous terrains too. “I have not needed to repair my bike yet which I got from Surat. But it is good to know there is such a facility now,” said the resident of Uttara Housing Complex, opposite City Centre 2. The helplines to call for repair are 7044877785 and 7044752257.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||New Town centre opens to low jab footfall||Vaccination has started at the sole centre in New Town on January 28. But the number of vaccinations is falling far short of the daily target of 200. Only 12 turned up on Wednesday. “We had 63 on the first day, 57 on the second, 69 on third. The fourth day is the only time we crossed 100, with 109 vaccinations,” said nodal medical officer Archita Saha, who is in charge of the NKDA Covid Vaccination Centre in Action Area IID, near Tank 12. Faced with low turn-out, the officials have also started making calls. “Sometimes we are getting the list late. Even then, we are trying to make as many calls as possible the day before.” According to officials, Wednesday’s exceptionally low turn-out might be the result of miscommunication. “We thought there would be a break after Tuesday.” In most places, vaccination is happening on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday. “But when we received the list rather late on Tuesday, we realised vaccination would happen on Wednesday too. And when we made some of the calls today, we found that many of the beneficiaries on the list had already taken the vaccine elsewhere. Also many healthcare workers might have been busy with administering polio vaccines today and did not come,” Saha said on Wednesday. Ermila Bandalim Sohtun, a nurse residing in AB Block, New Town, was one of the 12 to have turned up in the last hour. “I was already on duty at my hospital (Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre) when I got the message at 9.30am this morning. So there was no way I could come before my shift ended.” But she was happy that a vaccination centre had opened in New Town. “Had it been any place far off, it would have been difficult for us to reach,” she said. New Town vaccine recipients were supposed to have got tagged with Rekjuani block primary health centre. “But we got our Covid safe house near Tank 12 ready almost overnight as a vaccination centre and applied to the health department,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said. He clarified that only frontline health workers would be vaccinated in the first lot, as is the norm across the country. “The vaccination list is being drawn up by the health department,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Turnout poor in Duttabad||Not enough people are turning up at the primary health centre in Duttabad to get their Covid shots. Till Tuesday, around 260 frontline healthcare workers from different hospitals and nursing homes in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat had received their shots here whereas the list sent by the health department carried 465 names. The vaccination drive began in Salt Lake from January 16 with a total of 125 people getting vaccinated at two centres — Duttabad and at the sub-divisional hospital in DD Block. This had included three members of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation board of administrators who apparently jumped the queue to get jabbed. An app called CoWin sends SMSes to people informing them to take the shots and they are expected to turn up for it. “Since people are already getting text messages we are not calling to inform them,” said a civic official. “But it’s true that while several people are scared of taking the shot, many are also not receiving communication through the app.” “The government should now allow the vaccine to anyone who wants to take it,” said a member of the civic body’s board of administrators. At the sub-divisional hospital, about 60 per cent people are coming per day to get their shots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid testing, Duare Sarkar to stall opening of govt pools||A recent order from the home ministry has allowed public swimming pools to open but not all pools in our neighbourhood will do so in a hurry. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation runs two pools in Salt Lake — an Olympic-sized one opposite Mayukh Bhavan and another in CJ Block. To cope with the pandemic, the pool opposite Mayukh Bhavan, that is part of the Bidhannagar Municipal Sports Complex, has been turned into a Covid-19 testing centre. “We cannot allow swimmers here as swab samples are being collected,” said an official of the corporation. “We have not received any directive from the state health department to stop or move the testing centre elsewhere.” The official said that more than a dozen tests were being conducted at the premise every day. “We are also doing rapid tests and in case someone tests positive, we are sending them to the hospital from here,” he said. As for the CJ Block pool, no decision has been taken on its future. “The Duare Sarkar government outreach programmes have been going on there,” said another official. “We haven’t thought about reopening the pool, although a meeting has been scheduled to discuss the matter.” Then again, there’s the question of public response. “Even if we open the pools now, and distil the water, people might not turn up due to the cold and the fear of contracting Covid-19,” said a member of the board of administrators. On Wednesday, The Telegraph Salt Lake saw the water in the pool opposite Mayukh Bhavan to have turned green from algae formation at its base. The official said that by this time in other years, they start distributing seasonal membership forms but that this year there had been no enquiries. The swimming season usually lasts till the end of September but if they start late this time, the official said they may extend the season into October. Bidhannagar Swimming Association in BF Block is opening its office in the mornings since February 2 but has no plans to distribute forms yet. “Our season starts in April so we are in no rush,” said an official. At New Town Business Club, the swimming pool is one of its most popular facilities and the authorities there have started planning out the session this year. “Usually we start the session in mid-March but we want to play safe this time and may open it in April,” said a club official. Last year, they had filled up the pool and but didn’t start the session as the Covid scare was looming. “Then when the lockdown happened, we drained out the water and undertook the task of returning the membership fees to about 300 people who had paid for it,” he said. Repair and maintenance have not been neglected through the pandemic and so it should not take time to get the infrastructure ready. “Since it’s winter no one is asking about the pool but once it starts getting hot I’m sure enquiries will start pouring in. We have to be ready for it,” said the official. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
05-02-2021||Calcutta||New Town gets ration counter||New Town residents got access to the public distribution system with an extension counter of a fair price shop opening at the ground floor of the old electricity office in AI Block near Tank 3 in Action Area 1. “New Town did not have a ration shop. The nearest fair price shop is 2km away in Rajarhat. We received a request from Hidco to open one here. So the Rajarhat dealer will run an extension counter here on a weekly basis,” said an official of the food and supplies department. But no food grain would be distributed from here. “People with monthly income above Rs 15,000 are not eligible to receive subsidised supply. But they can apply for a ration card to use as documentary evidence by which they can also buy the non-subsidised items sold in fair price shops,” he added. The counter will be open for three hours every Tuesday from 10am to 1pm for residents to collect and submit Form 10, to apply for non-subsidised items, or Form 5 to change address. “When I was president of our block association, neighbours used to ask for the nearest ration shop. Some wanted to convert their old ration cards to digital ones. But we did not have any in the township then. Though hardly anyone needs to buy things from ration shops in New Town, it will be good to fill the gap in service,” said Debabrata Banerjee, president of the ALAKAI Block Cultural and Welfare Association from 2012 to 2018, who had dropped by to enquire on Tuesday on spotting the arrangements for the inauguration bring made. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen opened the counter in presence of Ajay Bhattacharya, director, district procurement and supply, department of food and supplies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-153
