06-02-2021||Calcutta||Students pay tribute to motherland||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Students of the primary, middle and senior sections of Sushila Birla Girls’ School celebrated the 72nd Republic Day virtually on the Google Meet platform. The students took pride in glorifying and celebrating the spirit of unity and brotherhood. Class assemblies were conducted showing short videos with glimpses of the Republic Day parade at Rajpath, New Delhi. While some students dressed up as freedom fighters to spread the message of equality, brotherhood and unity, others wore sashes, representing the Tricolour. The students made Indian flag, using the palm painting technique and Gandhi topis with newspapers. Some students of Class V dressed up as members of the drafting committee and discussed the making of the Constitution with their classmates. The Preamble to the Indian Constitution, along with terms such as sovereign, secular, socialist and democratic were discussed too. The effort was to make students realise the value of sacrifice made by our freedom fighters and their duties as responsible citizens. Group discussions on the relevance of freedom in present times were arranged for senior classes. In every class, students sang and danced on patriotic songs, recited patriotic slogans and took a pledge to safeguard their motherland. “It is our duty to create responsible citizens. As the nation celebrated the 72nd Republic Day, we, along with our students, pledged to take part in nation building in our own ways,” said principal Koeli Dey. Darjeeling Public School, Fulbari Darjeeling Public School, Fulbari, celebrated Republic Day on its premises by felicitating the former army men for their service to the country. The ceremony was conducted with a small gathering of teachers and students. The flag hoisting ceremony was followed by the march past of the NCC students from classes VIII to XII and a rendition of patriotic songs by the school choir. A short programme consisting of poem recitations and dance performances on the patriotic themes was also put up by the students and teachers. “Like every year, this year, too, we celebrated the Republic Day at our school with full vigour battling the crisis. This year, the celebration was special as it was marked with a tribute to our former army men, whose presence not only delighted us, but also encouraged us to serve the motherland selflessly. Even some of our senior students had voluntarily took part in the event along with the parents, which was an added perk,” said principal Shreya Mitra Biswas. Calcutta Public School, Kalikapur The pandemic failed to curb the nationalistic spirit of the students of Calcutta Public School, Kalikapur as they virtually celebrated the 72nd Republic Day with zeal and enthusiasm. The pre-primary section ignited the spirit of patriotism through online activities and performances. The Nursery students learnt about their country and its national symbols through picture pasting activity in their drawing copies. The Lower Kindergarten kids showed unity amid cultural diversity by dressing up themselves in traditional costumes of different states. They even showed their creativity by making the origami of our national flower, lotus. The Upper Kindergarten students paid tribute to the national heroes by making a picture collage and dressing up as them. “It was nice to see the little ones dressed up as national heroes. We missed students being at school. I hope the students take lessons from the life of the heroes and land up as responsible citizens of the nation,” said principal Proma Das. Shri Shikshayatan School and College Shri Shikshayatan School and College celebrated Republic Day with flag hoisting ceremony at the school grounds and a recorded presentation that was uploaded on the school website. The school and college authorities, along with the staff members, were present in the compound for the flag hoisting ceremony. They sang the national anthem. The recorded cultural programme was jointly conducted by the senior school and college students. It consisted of song, dance and recitation performances on the patriotic theme. The video commenced with the college students singing Vande Mataram and Heal the World. This was followed by the presentation of the senior school students, who sang Vande Mataram and performed on patriotic numbers such as Aye watan and Jai ho. The programme came to a close with the national anthem. “Like each year, this year, too, the Republic Day was celebrated with great enthusiasm at Shri Shikshayatan School. The staff members, observing all precautionary measures, gathered on the school premises. The unfurling of the flag and singing of the national anthem together filled us with pride,” said school principal Sangeeta Tandon. Abhinav Bharati High School Students of Abhinav Bharati High School celebrated 72nd Republic Day with a programme on a digital platform. Children of the primary section delivered speeches, sang patriotic songs and made posters. Teachers observed the day in their individual online classes to make children learn about their country and the Constitution. “The pandemic has left no stone unturned to derail us from celebrating the special days. But it failed to subdue our enthusiasm to celebrate the Republic Day 2021, virtually. This time, our children were determined to honour this day by pledging to face any adversity with integrity and diversity. They showed great patriotic fervour and enthusiasm in understanding the values of the Indian republic,” said headmistress Moumita Rakshit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools plan phased reopening||Several schools have decided to stagger their reopening and only call to the campus the students of Classes X and XII for now. The state government has allowed schools to reopen for Classes IX to XII, but several heads said their focus was on the students preparing for the board exams who need to test their preparedness. The phased reopening will help schools space out students and not crowd the campuses at any point of time, at least two school heads said. La Martiniere for Girls, St James’ School, South Point and Sri Sri Academy will start with Classes X and XII. Modern High School for Girls and Mahadevi Birla World Academy are starting with only Class XII. Schools are also planning how they will split the students who will be called to the campus. Sri Sri Academy will call the students of Class X one day and Class XII the next day. Mahadevi Birla World Academy will call only four of the eight sections of Class XII each day. “Each section will be further divided. Not more than 15 to 16 students will be in each room and the timetable will be set like that. Each student will come twice a week,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of the school. South Point has decided to sit the students of each section in three rooms. Modern High School for Girls has divided the students into two groups. St James' School is looking at reduced hours with four periods a week. “We will have to keep reviewing our system and learn from our experience if there are any gaps because we cannot anticipate everything. By the time more classes come, our system will be perfected,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Students of Classes X and XII are being prioritsed because they will write their board exams and they need to do hands-on practicals and also write a pen-and-paper test, after almost a year. Even schools that have conducted pre-board exams for them in the online mode will hold practice or improvement tests in school. “We will have to take extra care for the board classes. Also, instead of calling all classes (IX to XII) at once, if we do so in phases it will help us to implement the SOP and plan out the use of school infrastructure,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. “We will start with the pre-boards, practicals and revision classes for X and XII. The students of Classes IX and XI are towards the end of the academic year,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. “We will call all classes (IX to XII) but the focus is on Class XII practicals. We are trying to optimise the time they will be in school,” said DPS Ruby Park principal Joyoti Chaudhuri. Schools affiliated to state boards like Jadavpur Vidyapith are planning to call the students of Classes X and XII to “coaching class”, where they will be taught two subjects a day. Besides, students of Classes XI and XII will be called for practicals. “In a week's time we will be able to follow a system because the idea is to bring the children to school and yet not crowd the campus,” said Parimal Bhattacharyya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University labs to remain open ||The laboratories of Calcutta University that have remained open for postgraduate students since January 18 will continue to be functional, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said on Friday. The clarification comes two days after the higher education department said it would take a call on resumption of in-person classes for colleges and universities not before April. “The university had received several appeals from scores of teachers and students about reopening the labs and the decision was taken in the interest of the students…. The university took a collective decision on reopening the labs, strictly adhering to the safety protocols…” Chakravarti Banerjee told Metro. “CU will keep the labs open for postgraduate students until and unless the department formally tells us to shut them down.” Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on Wednesday sought to know from CU pro-VC (academic) Ashis Chatterjee why the university had reopened its labs in the absence of any directive from the education department. When asked about the interaction, the VC said on Friday: “Pro-VC Chatterjee explained to the minister why the university decided to reopen the labs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Sikh Sangat of Calcutta to show solidarity in Dankuni on February 6||The Sikh Sangat of Calcutta, many of whose members are from farmer families in Punjab, will block National Highway 2 in Dankuni between noon and 3pm on Saturday in response to a chakka jam  call by protesting farmers in Delhi. The Sangat has given a call to everyone to gather at the Dunlop Gurdwara by 10.30am, from where they plan to leave for the blockade venue, near the Dankuni toll plaza, by cars. A WhatsApp invitation created by the Sangat inviting people to join the blockade carries an image of a woman and her son in front of iron nails, resembling iron nails put up by Delhi police to block access to the protest sites at Delhi’s borders, where farmers are demonstrating to press for the repeal of three new farm laws introduced by the Centre. “We picked up the image from online. It shows an elderly lady and her son. The son is sitting while the lady is about to step on the nails. The son places a hand under her right feet to protect her from getting hurt in the nails,” said Gursharan Singh, a member of the Rashbehari Gurdwara, who helped prepare the WhatsApp invitation. “The woman resembles the Motherland. To a farmer, the Motherland is very important. In the image, the farmer’s son is trying to protect the Motherland. What the Centre has done with farmers in Delhi is very strange,” said Gursharan, whose roots are in Gurdaspur district in Punjab. The woman is also carrying a flag with a green border and a green circle in the middle amidst yellow. The green signifies the green revolution that was ushered in by farmers of India, said Ajit Singh, a member of the MG Road Gurdwara. “I still own 12 acres of farmland at my village in Ludhiana. I visit my village thrice or four times every year. How can I stay unfazed after what the Centre has done to farmers,” he said. There have been multiple rallies in Calcutta in support of the farmers’ movement since December. The rallies criss-crossed the city, with the participants carrying placards saying a nation cannot survive if its farmers are unwell. Even a religious procession of the Sikhs had some people carrying banners in support of the farmers’ movement. The Sangat members said the least they could do was show solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting for over two months. An officer of Dankuni police station confirmed to Metro that he had received a request from Sikh Sangat about Saturday’s blockade. “We have organised medical camps at the protest sites. I have been to the protest sites thrice. We provided medical aid, medicines to the frail and sick farmers. We will continue doing so. Groups of 15 to 20 people are staying there in rotation,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of Behala Gurdwara. A Sangat member said the protests would not have gained this scale had the Centre dealt with the protesters with sensitivity. “The Centre should have repealed the three farm laws. Earlier, they were saying only Punjab’s farmers were involved in the protests at Delhi’s borders. But now there are farmers from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, too. The movement has spread,” said the member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Pet admirer molests girl in Garfa||A college student who was strolling with her pet puppy was allegedly molested by a taxi driver in a Garfa neighbourhood on Friday, police said. The accused first started cuddling the pet and then took it inside his house. When the woman went to take her pet back, the accused allegedly pulled her inside a room, the police said. The woman fled and alerted the local police station. The accused, Rabi Das, 48, has been arrested. “The victim is a 19-year-old college student. She was walking with her pet puppy when the taxi driver picked it up and took it home. When the woman went to get her puppy back, the accused allegedly pulled her inside a room and molested her,” said an officer of Garfa police station. “The taxi driver has been arrested based on the woman’s complaint.” The taxi driver has been booked under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code that deals with the offence of outraging the modesty of a woman. The charge, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of five years of imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Guard held for child rape and murder||A guard of the building where a nine-year-old girl was found with her throat slit on Thursday morning has been arrested on charges of rape and murder. Police said Ram Kumar, in his 40s, had admitted to the crime. The accused, who worked as a guard of the building where the body was found for over 10 years, was detained on Thursday and arrested on Friday afternoon. Investigators said the preliminary post-mortem report suggested that the girl’s throat was cut by a sharp weapon, causing her death. Sources said the girl was lured with chips laced with sedatives before she was allegedly raped and then killed. Kumar has been charged under IPC sections related to rape of a victim under 12 years (if convicted, he can be sentenced to death) and murder, and also for aggravated sexual assault on a minor under the Pocso Act. The guard, who said he had a family in Jharkhand, was one of the first to raise the alarm that the child’s body was found in the building. Cops detained him based on the suspicion that someone who knew that the first floor of the building was vacant must have committed the offence. Investigators also learned from witnesses that the victim was last seen with the guard before she went missing. The victim had gone to visit her maternal uncle’s home with her parents and two elder sisters on Thursday, hours before she went missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Footballer who quit, shines as athlete at 43||A man who had to part ways with his dreams because he had to sustain his family is living them all over again. Pabitra Sarkar is the store in charge of a factory in Siliguri. But the 43-year-old is now better known as an athlete representing India in international meets, albeit for veterans. Sarkar had to quit football at the turn of the millennium to focus on getting a job, at a time when he was turning heads in the north Bengal club circuit as a budding left-winger. Now, he derives maximum joy from mentoring budding footballers. For one who had spent much of his playing days with borrowed boots, Sarkar has sponsored the boots and balls of several needy children in Jalpaiguri. From 2013, years into his professional life, Sarkar started running to “lose weight”. By 2016, he was taking part, and doing well, in domestic athletic meets for veterans. In December 2019, he finished ninth among over 40 participants in the 400-metre race at the 21st Asia Masters Athletics Championship, in Sawarak, Malaysia. Field sports demand absolute dedication and many a dream has been shattered for financial constraints. But Sarkar’s story is special because of two reasons; life does not give everyone a second shot at a long-lost dream and among the few who get lucky, not everyone grabs the chance with both hands like Sarkar. At 41, he finished 400 metres in one minute and 28 seconds. He has to tweak his work regimen to put in two hours of practice every morning and, sometimes, after work in the evening. “Being back in sports gives me a purpose that no other vocation can give,” Sarkar told Metro. Sarkar had made his mark in a string of local tournaments and earned a slot in a trial for a training camp at the Sports Authority of India’s campus in Salt Lake in 2000. He aced the trial and got a call-up from the country’s premiere sports training centre. But his mother was dead against him pursuing a career in sports. His father, a contractual employee of a college in Jalpaiguri, died when Sarkar was four. His mother was hired at the same college as a Group-D staff five years after her husband’s death. In the meantime, she knitted woollens to run the family — including Sarkar and his younger sister. “We need money, not medals,” his mother’s words still ring in the ears of Sarkar. The thought of “running away to Calcutta” had crossed his mind more than once. But he could not leave his family in the lurch. Sarkar remembers returning the boots borrowed for the SAI trial to a friend on a wintry morning. After graduation, he did a “diploma course in computer” and got a job of a “data-entry operator” at the Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages factory in Siliguri. That was 2001. The next decade was spent in the “9am to 8pm grind”. Sarkar, with some help from his mother, bought a plot and built a home. He got his sister married and settled down himself. The return to sports came unexpectedly. “I had gained a lot of weight and my fitness was on the wane. I had to do something about it. So, I started running early in the morning,” Sarkar told this newspaper. During the course of his daily workout sessions on the local ground, Sarkar met many of his old acquaintances. An “old coach” was the first to suggest Sarkar that he should give athletics a try. “I was back in shape within two years and took part in a veterans’ athletic meet in Calcutta in 2017. I won bronze in the 100m race,” said Sarkar. After a string of good showings in domestics meets, a fourth position in the 400m race at the national tournament in Guntoor, Andhra Pradesh, in 2018, earned him a slot in the Malaysia meet. He was slated to take part in more international meets last year but all were stalled by the Covid-19 pandemic. “There is no right or wrong age to resume competitive sports. Apart from preparation, there is one more thing that one needs — fire in the belly,” Arthur Cardozo, life and fitness coach based in Calcutta, said when Metro shared Sarkar’s story with him. A former state-level sprinter from Goa who had been “off sports” for a while, Cardozo is now into powerlifting. At 56, he lifts 200 kilos. “Sarkar is quiet and unassuming. But he is a team player and never shirks from a responsibility,” said Krishna Gopal Mandal, manager of the Siliguri plant. Sarkar now lives with his mother, wife and children, a 13-year-old daughter and a three-and-a-half-year-old boy. Once dead against his sports career, Sarkar’s mother is now “guilt-ridden” for not letting him continue football. “But I don’t blame her. She did what she had to. I am just happy to be able to be back in the field,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
06-02-2021||Calcutta||Special camps to vaccinate children on February 22||Special camps will be held in Calcutta and elsewhere in the state later this month to vaccinate children who may have missed any of the vaccine doses administered under the universal immunisation programme. The camps under Mission Indradhanush, supposed to be held on Monday, have been postponed to February 22, said an official of the state health department. A second round of camps will be held on March 22. “Usually, children up to two years are registered as beneficiaries of the Mission Indradhanush camps, but we have been told not to refuse a child above two years if she or he is brought to a camp,” said a doctor of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The health department’s vaccinators are now busy administering Covid-19 jabs to health workers and frontline workers across the state. “We have to plan and execute both vaccinations with the existing human resources. It is a challenge for the vaccinators and other health workers,” said a health department official. Over 3.2 lakh people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Bengal, said a senior health department official. Mission Indradhanush camps, usually held every year to vaccinate children who may have missed any dose of vaccine under the immunisation programme, could not be held in 2020 because of the pandemic, CMC doctors said. “Some of the children might not have received any of the scheduled vaccine doses last year. We have to find those children and get them vaccinated,” the official said. “The parents or anyone else who will accompany the child to the camp must carry the vaccination card, which will be proof that the child missed a dose of a vaccine under the universal immunisation programme. We cannot rely on someone’s spoken word,” the official said. One can know the location of the camps from the CMC’s ward health clinics, also called urban primary health centres, and from the borough executive health officer’s office. Teams from the state health department as well as the various municipalities and municipal corporations are visiting houses to find out the children who might have missed their vaccine doses. “The postponement of the camps (from February 8 to 22) will give us some more time to do micro-planning and, if necessary, another round of survey,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-151
