07-02-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj's convocation address||St Xavier’s University aims to form men and women who will be “global agents of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam — the world is one family”, vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said in his convocation address on Saturday. The VC later told Metro: “Since the world is one family, everybody has a right to comment on atrocities committed in any part of the world and that comment should be made in the right spirit and seen in the proper perspective and right spirit.” “We must all be ready to introspect, we must all be ready to speak out, we must all be ready to listen to one another and we must all be humane,” he said. St Xavier’s University’s second convocation was held on the New Town campus where only medal winners were awarded prizes and degree certificates. In his convocation address, Father Felix Raj said: “In this temple of knowledge we aim to form men and women who will be global agents of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam — the world is one family. Therefore, the Jesuit dictum ‘give us your child, we will return to you a man, a citizen of the country and the child of god’.” Explaining why global agents of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam were needed, he later told Metro: “Today we are fragmented on the basis of caste, colour and religion. Then there is a lot of divisive forces and there is a lot of violence, inhuman behaviour, expressions. The world is going through a period of turmoil. That is why we need to produce agents of social change who will go out as ambassadors of peace and harmony.” As the world is one family, therefore anything inhuman or an atrocity in any part of the world affects everybody, Father Felix Raj said. “What happens in the United States influences everybody. What happens in India also influences many people across the world. It is economically true, socially true, politically true. One is bound to have an opinion. You need to go beyond political division, fragmentation of colour and countries and see the comment in the proper perspective and right spirit. The opinion should be heard.” The Centre on Wednesday took the extraordinary step of schooling celebrities in social media etiquette after singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers’ protest and the Internet ban and drew global attention to the movement and the clampdown. “There used to be this spirit of oneness, beyond borders, beyond boundaries. We need to build human families,” Father Felix Raj said. He gave a report on the academic, research and extra-curricular activities carried out in the last one year despite the pandemic. Only 76 of 451 graduating students (the first three rank holders in each subject) were present at the ceremony and were awarded medals according to their ranks. The others will go to the campus in a staggered way later to collect their certificates. The event was live streamed on digital platforms. Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, the director of the Indian Statistical Institute, was the chief guest for the ceremony. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was the guest of honour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Fraud cuffs on Jamtara 5||Five young men were arrested from Jamtara in Jharkhand on Friday for allegedly cheating an elderly Jorabagan resident of almost Rs 3 lakh by posing as officials of his bank and asking him to download an app to help him keep his account active. In January, one of the arrested called Praveen Kumar Agarwal posing as an employee of his bank, police said. He asked Agarwal to update his KYC, failing which he wouldn’t be able to make a transaction. For this, he asked him to download an app, “Quick Support Application”. Within minutes of filling his details on it, Agarwal received messages that around Rs 3 lakh had been withdrawn, a senior police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Online birth certificate option launched||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Saturday launched the option to apply online for birth certificates through its website, a move that is likely to help hundreds who found it difficult to visit a civic office to apply for the certificate or those who stay outside the city. Applicants have to visit the website https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. On the right hand side menu there is the option ‘online birth certificate’. The applicant can create an account or log in by receiving a one-time password (OTP) in the mobile phone. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) announced the launch of the system on Saturday. “People can now apply online to get a birth certificate. They can also submit the documents online. The certificates can be collected physically from our offices at a chosen date and time,” said Hakim. “Hospitals and nursing homes can also log in and enlist a child’s birth records in the new system,” Hakim added. Earlier, those applying for a birth certificate had to apply at the borough executive health officer’s office or in the headquarters of the CMC. “Usually, birth certificate records are entered in our computers within a month from the date of birth of the child. Anyone coming after that can get the birth certificate. We issue free birth certificates if the application is made within a year from the date of birth. If the application is made after a year then Rs 100 is charged for each copy,” said a senior official of the CMC. Officials of the CMC said that the online application system will allow the applicant to choose a date and time to visit the CMC as per their convenience to collect the certificate, an option that was not available earlier when the applicant had to come at the date given by civic body’s officials posted at the counter. “The payment of fees can also be made online,” said the official. During physical collection of the certificate, the applicant has to bring original documents that will be verified at the counter before the certificate is handed over, said an official. “We usually prefer that either of the parents come with their identity proof to collect the birth certificate. In case that is not possible, the parents should give an authorisation letter to the person who comes to collect the certificate,” said an official. Applicants who visit the headquarters of the CMC have to drop their applications in a drop box nowadays, a system that was introduced after the pandemic to avoid long queues that was the feature before the pandemic. The application letter must contain the applicant’s phone number. But there was no way to know if the application was being processed till the time the applicant received a call from the CMC. The online application gives a sense of assurance that the application would reach the right hands, said one official. Binod Kumar, the commissioner of the (CMC) said correction of errors can be done through the online process also. “People can apply for new birth certificates as well as for correcting errors in an existing certificate,” said Kumar. Children who are born in a hospital within the Calcutta municipal area will get the birth certificate from the CMC. “If the place of birth is in Calcutta municipal area then CMC will issue the birth certificate. The place of residence does not matter,” said one official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Soumen Mitra returns as city police chief, replaces Anuj Sharma ||The IPS officer who was removed from the post of Calcutta police commissioner after a 38-day stint at Lalbazar during the 2016 Assembly elections has been brought back to the chair by the Mamata Banerjee government amid another poll season. Soumen Mitra, a 1988-batch officer, has been named the new city police commissioner, replacing Anuj Sharma, a 1991-batch officer who will be the new state CID chief. The decision to shift Sharma comes at a time he was about to complete three years as the city police commissioner. The Election Commission usually transfers officers posted in operational chairs who have spent three years or more in the same post. Mitra, under whose leadership the Calcutta police force was said to have got back its “spine” and earned widespread praise in controlling the poll bullies in 2016, would be the 43rd Calcutta police commissioner. He would return to the same Lalbazar where he had earlier been police commissioner, special commissioner, additional commissioner, deputy commissioner (detective department) and deputy commissioner (detective department-special) over a period of time. He has also served in multiple posts across Bengal, including additional director-general of CID, additional director-general (training), inspector general of police (CID) and deputy inspector-general of police (CID). The transfer order came out on Saturday along with the government order for transfer of 23 other IPS officers holding key posts in the state administration. The police commissioners of Bidhannagar, Howrah and Barrackpore have also been changed. Supratim Sarkar, who was additional commissioner in Calcutta police, has been posted as Bidhannagar police commissioner; Ajay Nand, who was additional director-general (counter-intelligence force), has been posted as the new Barrackpore commissioner and C. Sudhakar, who was deputy inspector-general (Barasat range) has become Howrah police commissioner. Jawed Shamim has been posted as additional director general of police (law and order). A section of the administration feels the shuffle was made to avert the glare of the Election Commission that usually transfers officers citing their allegiance to the ruling dispensation. “If someone is posted only a few days ago, what allegations of bias can the commission possibly mount on the officers and how will they justify that anyway?” said a senior bureaucrat. Mitra, 59, is a history graduate from the erstwhile Presidency College who did his MPhil from Jawaharlal Nehru University on “the football crowds in Calcutta Maidans”. Known for his knack to spruce up buildings where he is posted, some of his colleagues recalled how Mitra had been pivotal in the renovation of the traffic building in Lalbazar, setting up the Calcutta police traffic museum and re-decorating parts of Bhabani Bhavan during his stint at the state CID. Someone who knows Mitra from his younger days shared with Metro how he had turned a boat seized with a large quantity of illicit liquor into a barb wire shelter for birds during his first posting as the SDPO Barrackpore. Another officer, who has done multiple assignments with Mitra, said his speciality has been his “human touch for the force and his eye for their welfare”. As the superintendent of police in Murshidabad, Mitra has started several developmental and welfare projects —some for the constabulary and some for the development of backward pockets known for notorious activities. “He started the Chandradip Mela in Hariharpara (one of the police station areas in Murshidabad that was infamous of violence and ganglord killings) as an annual developmental project that changed the entire area,” said a senior officer in the force. An officer described Mitra as an “enthusiastic cricketer” while another recalled his pen sketches that he would scribble “unmindfully” even when he is on the phone. Mitra, who had occupied the chair of Calcutta police commissioner once and had gained praise as an ace administrator, now faces a similar challenge of holding the Assembly polls that is almost around the corner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Sugata to Victoria: Some Netaji relics ‘fake’||Sugata Bose, chairman of the Netaji Research Bureau and the leader’s great-nephew, has objected to some of the exhibits at an ongoing exhibition commemorating Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary at the Victoria Memorial Hall. Bose stated in a letter to the secretary and curator of Victoria Memorial that a “fake copy” of Subhas Chandra Bose’s letter of resignation from the Indian Civil Service is being displayed at the exhibition. He has also expressed shock that Netaji Research Bureau has been mentioned as the “source” below this fake. Bose wrote that VMH “never contacted NRB for help with your exhibition” and asked on what basis has it given acknowledgments. The Gardiner Professor of oceanic history at Harvard University said the original resignation letter in Netaji’s own handwriting and signed by him was in the India Office Records of London. A photocopy of it was taken by Sisir Bose and Krishna Bose in September 1971 which is on display at Netaji Museum at Netaji Bhavan for 50 years. The letter was published in facsimile form for the first time in the book Itihasher Sandhane by Krishna Bose. Bose has urged VMH’s secretary and curator Jayanta Sengupta to take down the “fake” exhibit. Sengupta said he was away attending to a medical emergency and was not able to comment. Bose has said in the letter that the photograph of Netaji disguised as Md Ziauddin was also fake. “No photographs were taken or allowed to be taken of Netaji in disguise during his ‘mahanishkraman’ or great escape.” There is a way to display relics, said the NRB chairman. “At the museum at Netaji Bhavan, we have a photo of Netaji with Emilie Schenkl and beside it in a glass enclosure we have the black overcoat that Netaji was wearing in the photo to underline the authenticity of the relic displayed,” said Bose. Sengupta, had earlier stated: “There is a range of artefacts related to Netaji and INA at the exhibition which have been loaned from the Archaeological Survey of India museum on Netaji at the Red Fort Complex in Delhi. And there are also the original files from the National Archives of India known as Netaji Files. But the bulk of the exhibition consists of graphic panels that use facsimiles or digital reproductions of historic photographs and documents like Netaji’s many letters whose originals are with Netaji Research Bureau which houses a museum on Netaji.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
07-02-2021||Calcutta||Chakka jam: 500 people block road against farm laws||More than 500 people, most of them with roots in Punjab, blocked a stretch of road near Dankuni toll plaza on Saturday as part of a nationwide chakka jam, in support of the farmers’ demands to repeal three farm laws. The demonstrators had kept a lane of the road free for ambulances, people headed to the airport or others with any emergency. A member of the Calcutta Sikh Sangat, organisers of the blockade at Dankuni, said they also allowed cars with families to pass. The protesters even served tea to the truck drivers and others stuck in the blockade. The road blockade, held between noon and 2.30pm, was in response to a call for all-India chakka jam (road blockade) by the farmers who have been camping at Delhi’s borders for over two months demanding that the Centre take back the three farm laws. The protesters who blocked National Highway 2 in Dankuni said in their speeches during the blockade that everyone would have to pay more for their meals if the laws were implemented. There were many women and elderly in Saturday’s protests. The demonstrators came from various places. Tajinder Singh Bal, who came from Durgapur, said he was pleasantly surprised that none of those who got stuck in snarls because of the blockade were complaining. “I feel even the common people, the truck drivers and others who got stuck felt for our cause. No one requested us to let them pass,” said Tajinder, who owns nine acres of farmland at Patiala in Punjab. “The laws allow hoarding. Large corporates will hoard grains and rice and create artificial crisis. People will have to buy rice and grains at a higher cost,” Tajinder added. Along with the Tricolour, there were many yellow flags with Long live farmers’ unity written in green in the centre, at the blockade site. “Yellow is the colour of mustard flower, grown abundantly in Punjab and green symbolises the Green Revolution that was ushered in by the hard labour of the farmers,” said Ajit Singh, who came to the protest from Bhowanipore. There were placards with the words “We are farmers not terrorists”, “Farmers want reversal of new reform” written on them. One of the cars that ferried people from Calcutta to the blockade site had two loudspeakers fitted on its roof. There have been multiple rallies in Calcutta in support of the farmers’ movement since December. The rallies criss-crossed the city, with the participants carrying placards saying a nation cannot survive if its farmers were unwell. Even a religious procession of the Sikhs had some people carrying banners in support of the farmers’ movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
