08-02-2021||Calcutta||Trafficking, early marriage and child labour concern over school dropouts||Many students who have dropped out in the wake of the long closure of schools are vulnerable against trafficking, early marriage and child labour, people at the helm of schools said in Calcutta on Sunday. Over 100 headmasters and headmistresses from 23 districts of Bengal assembled at a city auditorium on Sunday to discuss ways to combat trafficking against the backdrop of the pandemic. “There were 450 Madhyamik aspirants in our school before the pandemic. But around 350 of them have enrolled for the exam. The rest have not contacted the school for a long time,” said Chandan Kumar Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid-19 and classes are being held on digital platforms. The state government has allowed the reopening of schools from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. “Most of the parents are extremely poor. Their livelihood has taken a massive hit because of the pandemic. Many of them want to get their girls married off,” said Maity, the general secretary of the State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistresses, West Bengal (SFHM). The forum had organised the day-long workshop, in association with International Justice Mission, an NGO that works with trafficking survivors. Maity has been campaigning in South 24-Parganas to raise awareness about the perils of trafficking for almost two decades and has rescued over 200 girls from child marriage and trafficking. Maity echoed many child rights activists who fear the economic hardship caused by the lockdown might prompt many parents to consider getting their underage daughters married to men who do not demand dowry. Traffickers are always on the prowl, looking for such vulnerable families, they said. The Telegraph has reported on a spike in child marriages in the districts of South and North 24-Parganas during the lockdown. “My area has over 400 brick kilns. There are a lot of daily wage earners. Their children are most vulnerable to these threats…. I cannot keep an eye on all of them. There is a block child protection wing but that is not enough. We need an institutionalised support system,” said Shyamal Kumar Majumder, the headmaster of a school in Murshidabad. “It is imperative to stop child marriage. It is imperative to change the way girls see themselves. A girl should know that she is no less than her brother. A boy should treat his sister as an equal. Teachers have a huge role to play in bringing about a change in the mindset,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( WBCPCR). Last month, the commission had recommended to the education department that schools be reopened for senior classes and students called to the campuses in a staggered way. “The majority of stakeholders stressed the importance of reopening the schools immediately (especially Class IX and above) for the benefit of rural children, many of whom are drifting into child labour or are being forced into child marriage by their families,” the commission had said. “Any grassroots campaign against trafficking is incomplete without transforming schools. The key to transformation is with the headmasters and headmistresses,” said Saji Phillip, the director of operations of IJM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Parents asked to monitor children's movements once in-person classes resume||Some of the schools have decided to ask parents to monitor the children's movements after they leave for home once in-person classes resume. Since the students who will be going to school are in senior classes and they can travel on their own, they might be under "temptation" to take a detour home and expose themselves to the risk of contracting Covid-19. The state government has allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, has sent a note to parents asking them to send a message to the respective class teachers that the child had reached home. “Parents need to call the concerned teachers daily to let them know that their wards have reached home safely and on time. We care for their safety hence, you need to help us monitor their movement from home to school and back home,” stated the letter from the principal to the parents. “The class teachers will alert you every day through a message if your ward is present at school and you in turn should inform the teacher that your ward is back home on time.” The letter also mentions the timing of the classes to help parents monitor the students. It also mentions that if necessary, the class teachers will create WhatsApp groups of the parents. “For those students who will agree to come to school, we will keep a record of where they are staying. It would give us an idea of how long a student would take to get back home. These are senior children who were at home for many months, so there is a possibility that they would want to roam about unsupervised and we want to curb that for everyone’s safety,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar. The authorities of Mahadevi Birla World Academy and Sri Sri Academy will talk to parents about monitoring the children’s return home and Indus Valley World School has decided to address students since they are “senior students who have to be taught to be responsible”. Also, monitoring is needed because the students who will be going to school are board examinees and they should not jeopardise their safety before the examinations. Several schools are calling students for practicals and rehearsals before the board examinations. “We have a parent's orientation before the students start coming to school with a video simulation of how things will run. During that meeting, we will also tell parents to make sure students follow the safety protocols and parents should not give in to the children's whims and fancies because they have to appear for board exams. The concern for safety is both for children and adults,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools in Calcutta, said there were many areas that would have to be covered before bringing in students to school. “We are writing to parents telling them they have to strictly oversee how children are coming to school and returning home…. Children, too, have to be counselled," said Chatterjee. “Many of the Class XII students are on the brink of adulthood and we will address them about the safety concerns. It is imperative to come to school but they have to be told that not being responsible can expose themselves and others to the risk and further jeopardise their coming to school,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta witnesses a Vintage and Classic Car Rally ||Around 70 vintage and classic cars and more than a dozen bikes from yesteryears took to the streets of Calcutta and drove from Calcutta Club to Anandapur, off EM Bypass, on Sunday. The Vintage and Classic Car Rally gave an opportunity to the owners of the golden oldies to drive their prized possessions across the city. Whenever anyone came to take a close look at the cars or click photographs, the owners explained to him or her the need to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene to keep Covid-19 at bay. On display was a 1913 Stoewer, a 1928 Studebaker, a 1947 Chevrolet Fleetmaster Sport Sedan, a 1951 Mercury Sport Sedan and a Rolls Royce Phantom III from 1937, among others. The rally was organised by the Automobile Association of Eastern India (AAEI) and the Classic Drivers' Club. Prithvi Tagore, an organiser of the rally, said the idea was to keep the cars running as well as to let Calcuttans have a glimpse of the city’s rich motoring heritage. “Calcutta was the car capital once and we want to make people aware that such cars do exist and despite being so old, they still run,” said Tagore, who drove a 1963 Fiat Super Select. One of the oldest cars was a 1928 Studebaker, which was driven by Pallab Roy.“This was a great event. We had the chance to go around the city on a Sunday morning with so many other cars around and it was the perfect mix of the beauties of the past with the city of the present,” said Roy. The curtain came down on the seventh edition of the IIHM Young Chef Olympiad, in association with t2, on Saturday. The competition, which was held virtually this year, saw participants from more than 50 countries fight it out over five days. Lee Maan Ki from Hong Kong was declared the winner of the Golden Trophy. The UAE won the Silver Trophy, while New Zealand won the Bronze. Streamed from the IIHM Global Campus, Sector V, the evening was a mix of fun, performances and great food. Speaking at the closing ceremony, Suborno Bose, chairman, IIHM Young Chef Olympiad, said: “The 7th IIHM Young Chef Olympiad this year on a virtual platform was a marriage of top-class culinary skills and cutting-edge technology. It's one of the most exciting experiences connecting 50 countries over 24 time zones. 
This year it’s all about hope and bouncing back and so we called it Hope YCO.” Reporting by Aniruddha Biswas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Convocation call after Calcutta University campus opens||Calcutta University will decide on holding the convocation after campuses reopen for in-person classes, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said on Sunday. The university usually holds its convocation in winter. Over the past three years, the event was held at Nazrul Mancha in January. “We will be able to take a call on holding the convocation once the campuses are formally reopened,” Chakravarti Banerjee told Metro. The state government will not decide on resumption of in-person classes at colleges and universities before April, education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on Wednesday, following a meeting with representatives of universities. “Reopening of campuses will send across the message that the risk posed by the coronavirus has subsided. The state government will take a call on resumption in consultation with the health department. So only after the campuses reopen will the university decide when the convocation can be held,” a CU official said. CU has distributed degree certificates to those who have completed MPhil and PhD in small groups adhering to all health protocols. “The degree recipients came in small groups and collected their certificates from designated offices adhering to the health protocols,” the VC said. Those who failed to come will have the certificates mailed to their residential addresses. In a normal year, the certificates are distributed during the convocation. CU also honours the honorary degree recipients and eminent academics from elsewhere in the country and abroad during the convocation. Since there is restriction on international flights because of the pandemic, academics based abroad cannot be invited, a CU official said. “Not just reopening of the campuses, we are also looking forward to resumption of international flights before deciding on the date of the convocation,” an official said. Jadavpur University, which usually holds its convocation in an open air auditorium on the campus on December 24, did not hold the ceremony last year as it wanted to avoid any assembly as a precaution against Covid-19. The university will distribute the degree certificates in a staggered way on the campus from February 8 to 22. St Xavier’s University held its second convocation on the campus on Saturday with limited attendance and following all health protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Season’s last cold spell is set to grip Calcutta from Monday||Another cold spell, likely to be the season’s last, is set to grip Calcutta from Monday, the Met office has said. The first few days of February were unusually cold in Calcutta. The spell was broken by a cyclonic circulation over central India that had led to moisture incursion into the atmosphere, stalling the flow of cold winds from north and triggering a rise in temperature. The moisture incursion led to the formation of clouds and the city saw a spell of rain late on Saturday. The Met office at Alipore recorded only 1.5mm of rain. Some areas, however, saw more than a drizzle. But the sky cleared on Sunday morning and is expected to remain so over the next few days. “The cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh has become much less marked. It is going to dissipate by Sunday. After a fresh bout of snowfall in Kashmir, the cold north-westerly winds are set to enter Calcutta,” said a Met official. The effect of the winds was felt from Sunday night. “The minimum temperature is likely to be under 15 degrees for the next few days. If the winds are strong, the Celsius can slide to around 13 degrees,” the official said. The mornings in the city are, however, likely to be foggy. The cold winds will start losing steam from the middle of February, the official said. The Celsius in Calcutta had been consistently under 13 degrees in the first week of February, several notches below the usual temperature for this time of the year. At 11.4 degrees, Monday (February 1) was the coldest February day in over a decade and the second coldest this winter. The low day temperature was the main reason behind the slide in mercury. The maximum temperature was in the range of 22 and 23 degrees for a few days, a whopping seven-degree deviation from the usual (29 degrees) for February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Delayed start to vaccination of frontline staff||Administration of Covid-19 vaccines to frontline workers in the city began at 16 clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Saturday. The state health department has planned to add more sites by the middle of the week. Officials in the department said vaccination of frontline workers, which was to start on February 2, had not gathered pace yet. The Union health ministry on Saturday asked states to increase the pace of Covid-19 vaccination so that all health workers received at least one dose by February 20 and all frontline workers received at least one dose by March 6. Officials in the state health department said achieving the target was tough and they had to scale up vaccination of frontline workers. An official of the department said over 3.5 lakh health-care workers, out of 6 lakh who have been registered, had been given the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by Saturday. There are about 2.5 lakh frontline workers in the state, said another official. Inoculation of police personnel will start on Monday at Calcutta Police Hospital. “More sites will be added in two to four days to vaccinate frontline workers,” said an official of the health department who is involved in the vaccination programme in Calcutta. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, lists “personnel from State and Central Police department, Armed Forces, Home Guard, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and Civil Defense Organisation, Municipal Workers and Revenue officials engaged in COVID-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities” as frontline workers. An official in the state health department had said they would prioritise municipal workers, police personnel and revenue officials associated in the Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities for vaccination. Municipal solid waste cleaners and civic engineers were among the frontline workers who were vaccinated at the 16 clinics of the CMC on Saturday. All those being vaccinated now are employees of the CMC. A CMC official said they had planned to vaccinate 50 frontline workers and 40 health workers of the civic body, and 30 health workers from nursing homes and hospitals per day. “But on Saturday very few frontline workers turned up. We are calling up those featuring on Monday’s list so that they come. Every day we will call frontline workers scheduled to take a dose the following day,” said the CMC official. The health department has asked frontline workers to turn up at health clinics even if they do not receive any text message about vaccination. If a person’s name does not feature on a day’s list, he or she can still be vaccinated by exercising the “Add beneficiary” option in the CoWIN app, a digital platform created for Covid-19 vaccination. Some private hospitals are waiting for lists from the health department to start vaccinating health workers not attached to their institutions and frontline workers. “We have completed vaccinating our health workers. We are in a position to start large-scale vaccination of frontline workers and health workers from other institutions,” said an official of Belle Vue Clinic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Health and frontline workers can turn up at any Covid-19 vaccination site for jabs||Health and frontline workers can turn up at any Covid-19 vaccination site for their jabs from Monday, a decision aimed at speeding up vaccination against the disease. Only health and frontline workers are eligible for Covid shots in the current round of vaccination, which started on January 16. Since the start of the drive, prospective recipients are getting text messages mentioning where and when they will get their jabs. “For a week from Monday, health and frontline workers can turn up at any site for their Covid jabs. We will run the trial for a week to increase the speed of the Covid vaccination. Necessary instructions have been sent to officials concerned,” said an official of the health department. “We want to see for a week how this works. The only criterion is that the recipients’ names must figure on the lists of health workers and frontline workers. Detailed lists have been sent to officials at the vaccination sites.” Bengal has around six lakh health-care workers and five lakh frontline workers from various government departments, including police, panchayat, civic bodies and public works department. As part of the trial, it has been decided that the vaccine recipients will have to mention their institutions or departments and districts so vaccinators can run a quick check through the lists. “Not more than 100 persons can be vaccinated at each site. And depending on the location of a site, a recipient will be given Covishield or Covaxin,” said an official. The state health department has decided that 25 per cent of the vaccination centres will be earmarked for Covaxin. All Covaxin recipients will have to sign a consent form before being given the doses. So far only those who have received a text message from CoWIN, an app created by the Centre for Covid-19 inoculation, about vaccination on a certain day would be eligible for a jab and that too at the site mentioned in the message. But with the app continuing to throw challenges and text messages remaining elusive for many, the health department has decided to find an alternative. “If the mechanism we have thought of to speed up vaccination works, a recipient from central Calcutta can get the jab at any centre in, say, north Calcutta,” an official said. “Once a person has received the first dose, his or her name will be uploaded on the CoWIN app. It wouldn’t matter if that person was scheduled to get the jab at that site on that day. Collectively, the numbers will go up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College convocation deferred to March 13||St Xavier’s College has postponed its convocation for a second time and rescheduled it for March 13, officials said on Sunday. The Park Street institution had first deferred the convocation from January 16 to February 28 because of the Covid pandemic. “The second postponement is not because of the pandemic,” said an official of the college. “The convocation has been scheduled for March 13 because we want more number of degree recipients to attend the event.” The college had earlier invited only 35 degree recipients to attend the convocation. But now, it will invite 350 of the 2,700 recipients (undergraduate and postgraduate). The venue has been changed as well. Earlier, the college had planned to hold the convocation at the auditorium on the campus. Now, following an increase in the number of recipients, the authorities have decided to hold the event on the football ground on the campus. “The ceremony was initially decided to be held on February 28. It has been further deferred in the interest of the student community. The programme has been rescheduled for March 13 at 11am. With the post-examination review/grafting procedure completed, we intend to confer degrees on the maximum number of students possible, in the present situation,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “From every department, the first 20 students according to the marks secured in all six semesters will be invited to attend the convocation. We are keeping the figure at 350.” Asked whether it would be safe to let 350 degree recipients gather at the convocation venue, the principal said: “We are keeping the number within 350 because of the pandemic. That is why we are holding the event in an open-air spacious facility, where it will be easier to maintain physical distancing norms. We had to somewhat honour the wishes of the students while keeping the safety protocols in mind.” Altogether, 450 people, including teachers and officials, will gather at the venue, officials said. The college will mail the degree certificates to the residential addresses of those who will not be able to attend the convocation. The ceremony will be live streamed on digital platforms like Facebook and YouTube. “Those who will attend the event will have their body temperature checked with thermal guns and guards and volunteers will ensure all protocols are followed,” a college official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Sugata accuses Victoria Memorial Hall of changing credits at Nirbhik Subhas||Sugata Bose, grand-nephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, has said the Victoria Memorial Hall has overnight changed the captions and credit of the displays at Nirbhik Subhas, an exhibition on Netaji, that he had said were “fake” in a letter on Saturday. The display showing the resignation letter by Subhas Chandra Bose from the Indian Civil Service was called “fake” by Sugata Bose as “the handwriting was not that of Netaji and had several anomalies including spelling mistakes and wrong salutations”. On Sunday, the display had no spelling mistakes, the salutation was changed and the credit to the display reads: “This is the original letter published in the book A Pictorial Biography NRB (Netaji Research Bureau). Above is the artistic recreation of the original document for bettervisibility.” Sugata Bose said on Sunday: “They have obviously drastically changed their display today in response to my letter. Netaji’s own handwriting is perfectly legible and could be read easily from a distance if enlarged. Netaji A Pictorial Biography was edited by my father and published by Ananda Publishers in 1979. It is clear the organisers simply made copies of many photos and documents from that book. The copyright of the book is with Netaji Research Bureau as most photos are from the NRB archives.” Numerous phone calls to the curator and secretary of the Memorial, Jayanta Sengupta, through the day went unanswered. He had said in a WhatsApp message on Saturday that he was away attending a medical emergency. Union culture secretary Raghavendra Singh, who was present at the inauguration of Nirbhik Subhas and showed Prime Minister Narendra Modi around the exhibition on January 23, did not respond to calls and messages from Metro. Nirupama Kotru, joint secretary in the culture ministry, said the curator of the Memorial would respond to Bose’s letter. But Sugata Bose has not received any response so far. A Delhi-based agency, Design Factory India, has designed the exhibition. When contacted by this newspaper, Siddharth Bathla, the founder and director of the agency, said: “We just design and manufacture stuff.” Sugata Bose said: “People from Design Factory India had visited the Netaji museum at Netaji Bhavan and took photographs with their cell phones, I was told.” The exhibition had remained closed for a few hours on January 29. After it reopened, Sugata Bose had extensive photographs taken of the displays and sent the letter to the Memorial. He wrote in his letter: “I understand you closed your exhibition Nirbhik Subhas for a day to include acknowledgements to Netaji Research Bureau. While it appears that the originals of many photographs and facsimiles of letters and documents exhibited by you are indeed from the archives of Netaji Research Bureau collected with dedicated effort over more than six decades, Victoria Memorial never contacted NRB to seek help with your exhibition. I am puzzled therefore about the basis on which you have given acknowledgements.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
08-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools train staff for reopening||Schools are organising training sessions for security guards and those involved in housekeeping, telling them to be “strict with the students” about rules and to follow the protocols themselves as a precaution against Covid-19. The staff members are being told to regularly clean door knobs and taps after every use, keep an eye on whether everyone is wearing a mask properly and not allow parents on the campus when students arrive or leave. The training started in most places after the government had last week announced that schools could reopen for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. “Many of the security personnel have been here for some time and they tend to be soft with children. But from now they will have to be very strict and merciless in following the protocols. For example they cannot allow any child on the campus without a mask,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. At Indus Valley, the guards have been told to ensure that parents do not enter the campus when students arrive in the morning or leave for home. “Earlier, parents or guardians would wait inside the campus. During dispersal (of students) some of them would park two-wheelers on the campus. This has to stop and security guards have been trained accordingly,” Prasad said. At some institutions, the training sessions are being held thrice a week. Once the campuses reopen, the sessions will be held only on Saturdays. “We are doing everything possible to train our staff who clean, sanitise and operate lifts to understand the uncompromising importance of following the Covid safety protocol,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Once schools reopen, the duty of the guards will include measuring the temperature of the students and others at the gate and attendants must ensure everyone santises his or her hands while entering the campus. “The door knobs, toilets and the railings will have to be cleaned frequently. The schedule has been drawn up and they (the staff) have to adhere to it,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. “There is an added dimension to their role because they are now a second pair of eyes, in addition to the teachers.” Training the housekeeping and security staff was always a part of the school routine, but following the Covid outbreak, the focus of sensitisation has widened beyond child abuse and upkeep of the campus. “We are telling them that they could be of help to children to stick to the protocols and also they need to take care of themselves to keep others safe,” said Papia Lahiri, a teacher who is in charge of safety and inclusion at Sri Sri Academy. The staff members at Sri Sri Academy are being told how to wear a mask, the personal hygiene everyone has to follow and how many children can be allowed in a washroom at a time. With the increase in workload, the duty of attendants and guards has been split into shifts and days so they do not burn themselves out, the head of a school said. “Their role has extended. Also, earlier sweeping could be done twice a day, but now sweeping and scrubbing has to be done constantly. We can’t compromise on that and hence we have divided them in shifts,” said Hilda Peacock, the director of Gems Akademia International School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
08-02-2021||Calcutta||How virus helped discover kitchen||Now that we have all learned to bake banana bread and stir-fry frittata during the lockdown, maybe we should ask ourselves why, if the kitchen is such an important place for both men and women, was it hardly ever seen before the pandemic? Where was it all along except in Instagram, where designer kitchens are presided over by even more designer hashtag-owners? Calcutta is food-obsessed. Yet even a century earlier in a prosperous Bengali household, the kitchen would be hidden away. It would compete with the other most-neglected, least-ventilated places: the bathroom and the toilet, which would often be separate (for ritualistic sanitation rules that defined what was impure), the antur ghor (the birthing shed where children of the family would be delivered; birthing would generate impurity) and the cowshed. The kitchen would, with the places mentioned above, be on the margins of the household, literally, because cooking and cooked food would be impure in various ways according to the elaborate rules of etho or sakri, which basically explain the method by which impurity is transmitted through food. Cooked rice is etho, so is food that one has already eaten. The kitchen, though it fed the family, had to be kept in its place. In a smaller, poorer house, often the kitchen had no location at all. A portable unun (oven) would be lit anywhere, in a corner of a room, in the courtyard, in the space outside the room. In how many novels, short stories, films and paintings can you recall the kitchen being shown clearly. In the Saratchandra novel Mejdidi, where the food Hemangini (Mejdidi) cooks for Keshto is powerfully identified with her capacity to love, a lot happens in the kitchen and around it. But do you remember the kitchen? In Leela Majumdar’s Padipishir Barmibaksho, Padipishi, the redoubtable aunt, who can make the fiercest robber quake, cooks a very memorable ghee-bhaat. But what about the kitchen? And Majumdar was not a stranger to the kitchen: she celebrated food. Rassundari Debi, the first Bengali woman whose autobiography was published, taught herself to read and write at the age of 26 hidden in the kitchen. One exception to the tradition is Tapan Sinha’s film Galpa Holeo Satyi, where the kitchen is rightfully claimed as the pivot of the household, far more than just a site of kitchen politics. World literature is not much different. Formidable women, such as Marquez’s matrons, or Proust’s household staff, or the characters of Dickens, operate in their formidable kitchens, but how many of these are memorable? In Alice in Wonderland, the wonderfully distorted reflection of Victorian England, among other things, the cook keeps pouring in so much pepper into the pot of soup that is being prepared for the Duchess’s baby that the soup begins to look lethal. The kitchen turns into a vicious place even as the literature of the age idealises the home and the hearth. And till recently, in how many of our homes was the kitchen a place that was visited by all? Not in many. Till men began to pour into it since lockdown, learning how to make jalebis. Before that it was that featureless place which, if not dark, dingy and oppressive, was almost invisible. A bit, sometimes, like the women in the house. The invisibility of the kitchen is about the invisibility of the production of food within the domestic sphere, a work traditionally done by women. The undermining of cooking at home coincides with the undermining of women and the privileging of men’s work outside home. In one of the most important sociological essays ever written, The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State (1884), Friedrich Engels speaks about what he considers the moment of the subjugation of women. He imagines a long period of human existence when women enjoyed a superior status, because children were known by their mothers. But then came domestication of animals and the breeding of herds and unsuspected wealth and private property, all of which the men wanted to control and pass on to their own children. Men took control. “The overthrow of mother right was the world historical defeat of the female sex,” says Engels. About two thousand years ago or so, monogamy was invented, the perfect social tool to identify paternity. (Monogamy, reminds Engels, was always monogamy for women, not men.) In the course of time, the domestic sphere inhabited by women lost its status and so did their work: food production and reproduction. We are back to the equivalence of the antur and the henshel (kitchen). Never mind if the two are the most fundamental workplaces that sustain mankind. We know, after the lockdown. Only with food magazines and television did things begin to change a bit in the 20th century. Julia Child changed the kitchen forever with first her book on French cooking and her large, robust presence on American television. Much later, in India we had Tarla Dalal and then Sanjeev Kapoor — and the modular kitchen. And the exhaust fan in the kitchen — a minor revolution. Then came the social media, which turned food sexy. Now breakfasts in Indian homes also have to be “yummy”! Then came the lockdown. Now that there is hope of a vaccine, and the initial euphoria about home-cooked biryani is over and fewer men are being spotted among the pots and pans, we suspect we are back to square one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-150
