09-02-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta ranked 44th in Financial Times Global MBA Ranking 2021||Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta has secured the 44th rank globally in the prestigious Financial Times (FT) Global MBA Ranking 2021 for its one-year full-time MBAEx Programme. The institute has secured the third position among the 5 Indian Business schools listed in the rankings which reflects the high quality of the programme and several other factors including salaries earned, employment opportunities post completion, research capabilities, an institute statement said on Tuesday. Commenting on the ranking, Director of IIM (C) Professor Anju Seth said, "I want to congratulate and thank the faculty, administration and students who have bestowed their trust in us and have collectively helped to create a conducive academic environment in one of the most challenging years we have ever experienced. "Global recognition such as this motivates us to continue working towards our vision of promoting an internationally diverse learning experience," Seth said. "The global education sector was shocked to the core in the wake of the pandemic in 2020. The physical education delivery model as we knew it came to a standstill and most countries like ours, are still struggling to get back on their feet and bring students back to physical classrooms safely. "However, we emerged strongly in adversity by introducing a blended model for learning continuity. Education in the new normal will be about resilience and non-stop learning", Seth added. Among the parameters that the ranking focussed on, IIM Calcutta performed significantly well vis a vis its Indian compatriots in categories including career progress, female student percentage and inclusion of international makeup of its faculty. Commenting on the recognition, Chairperson-MBAEx Programme, Professor Manju Jaiswal said the rankings highlight IIM Calcutta's leadership in delivering global management education. "The timely responses to the change in the mode of teaching this year to virtual, reflects our resilience and preparedness towards our students' safety and learning, and this effort has certainly paid off well," Jaiswal said. The other parameters that are considered for the rankings are value for money, aims achieved by alumni on taking the course, career services, employability among students within three months of completing the course, involvement of women in the institute's board, international student in-take, international mobility ranking, international course experience ranking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Soumen Mitra takes charge as Calcutta police commissioner||Soumen Mitra took charge as Calcutta police commissioner on Monday and said more emphasis should be laid on curbing cyber offences because their numbers were rising and the elderly were often their target. Mitra, a 1988-batch IPS officer, spoke minutes after taking charge as the 43rd police commissioner at the city police headquarters in Lalbazar on Monday. “The crime pattern has changed these days. Cyber crime has become predominant. A lot of elderly people are getting duped,” Mitra said. Metro has been reporting how an increasing number of Calcuttans — many of them elderly — are being duped into sharing their banking details and debit card details. They are also made to download mobile applications that compromise the safety of their phones. Mitra, who has served as the detective department chief and has overseen the traffic department as additional commissioner, said there was a need to enhance the city police’s professionalism in terms of “better investigation, traffic and higher rate of conviction for all crimes”. “Apart from the usual things that we do — crime, law and order, VIP security (arrangement), investigation — we will have to enhance the professionalism of the Calcutta police force. During investigation, we will not just focus on the arrest of an accused, but also ensure the culprit is convicted,” Mitra said. The top cop went around all buildings and departments at Lalbazar on Monday. He is likely to meet senior officers over the next few days. Mitra said there was a need to work for the betterment of the elderly, weaker sections, women and children and for the preservation of the city's environment. The 59-year-old officer served as the Calcutta police commissioner during the 2016 Assembly elections. He was removed after a 38-day-stint and sent to the training department of the Bengal police, where he was additional director general for five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Bike skids, 15-year-old boy falls off  and dies on Diamond Harbour Road||A 15-year-old boy riding pillion on his father‘s two-wheeler suffered fatal wounds after the vehicle skidded and both fell off it on Diamond Harbour Road in Behala on Monday afternoon. Both Dip Shankar Santra and son Dipesh were wearing helmets, police said. “The father and the son fell off the bike after it skid-ded. The boy suffered multi-ple injuries and fractured his ribs. Preliminary opin-ions by doctors suggest his lungs were punctured. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he died in the evening,” said an officer of the traffic department. The father suffered relatively minor injuries and was discharged after treatment. The Santras live in a rented apartment at Amtala in Bishnupur, South 24 Parganas. They are originally from Panchla in Howrah. Many of the officers said this was an unusual accident as neither the victim nor the vehicle had been hit by any other vehicle. “The boy might have survived had he not fallen the way he did,” said an officer. However, a section of the police feels that two-wheelers have higher chances of skidding on a congested or crowded road. Officers of the fatal squad of the traffic police said they were investigating the circumstances leading to the accident. In 2020, out of the 201 people who died in road accidents in the city, as many as 64 were two-wheeler riders or pillion riders. Of the 64 victims, 39 people died while driving two-wheelers and 25 suffered fatal wounds while riding pillion. 65-year-old falls to death A 65-year-old man died after falling from the terrace of a four-storey building in Bansdroni around 5.30am on Monday. Goutam Mukherjee, a resident of Harisabha Math, was taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital, where he was declared dead, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Two youths jumped into Hooghly from Vidyasagar Setu, one missing||Two city youths jumped into the Hooghly from Vidyasagar Setu on Sunday afternoon and the plunge was captured on video by some friends standing on the bridge, which police believe was an effort to become social media sensations. One of the youths who jumped is missing and the other was rescued by police. The youth who is missing is Mohammad Zakir Sarder, 21, and the one who has been rescued is Dastgir Alam, 23, the police said. “Sarder, a resident of Tiljala, had gone to Vidyasagar Setu with friends to jump into the river and get the act recorded for social media,” an officer of Hastings police station said. Sarder’s family members mentioned in a general diary they lodged with Hastings police station that the youth and his friend Alam had jumped into the river from the bridge. A purported video recovered by the police from one of the friends who was present on the bridge on Sunday showed at least three youths standing on the outer side of the railing of the bridge, chatting and contemplating jumping, police sources said. “Alam is first seen jumping into the river, followed by Sarder. Alam plunged into the water and resurfaced within a few seconds. Sardar cannot be seen after the plunge,” an officer said. A team from the disaster management group was deployed to rescue the two. Sarder was missing at least till late on Monday. Police sources said there was no hint of foul play. “The three friends who accompanied Alam and Sarder said they went to the bridge on motorcycles and parked the vehicles along the railing. All five had wanted to jump together holding hands. But only three could gather the courage to cross the railing and prepare to jump. Finally, two of them took the plunge,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||La Martiniere for Boys links pupils’ entry to Covid report||La Martiniere for Boys has said students from Classes IX to XII will be allowed on the campus to attend classes only if they test negative for Covid-19. The RT PCR test for Covid has to be performed three days before the resumption of in-person classes and the reports have to be sent to the school authorities by February 14. The announcement has led to anxiety among many parents. Public health experts say such a move is unlikely to be very effective at an institute where students are travelling every day. “A person testing negative can catch the virus the next day. Being in possession of a negative test report does not mean much,” a health expert said. “Please note students with a negative COVID 19-RTPCR report will only be permitted to attend these offline classes,” the consent form for offline/ contact classes of the school says. It asks parents to sign an undertaking that says: “We/I will ensure that my son/ward will undergo COVID-19 RTPCR test three days prior to the commencement of these offline classes. This report will be emailed to the Class Teacher latest by Sunday, 14th February, 2021.” The state government has allowed reopening of schools for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. A notice signed by John Rafi, the principal of La Martiniere for Boys, said: “This is to inform you that the School Administration, as per the Directives from the State Government, has decided to commence with offline/contact revision, doubt clearing and practical classes for pupils of classes 9 to 12 from Monday, 15th February, 2021.” Several other schools are also considering asking students to get tested but doctors warned it would only lead to unnecessary paranoia among students and their parents. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said asking students to get a test done is more “an expression of paranoia than a decision based on science”. “There is no scientific basis behind asking students to come with a negative Covid report. A student may get Covid outside of school after the first day,” he said. “How many times will a student have to undergo the test? You cannot ask a student to undergo a test every day.” When asked about the school’s decision, Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools in the city, said: “Initially, we are taking all precautions. If something develops subsequently, we will see and cross the bridge as it comes.” The school in the notice has said that the authorities had taken all precautions, and all protocols and SOPs for Covid-19, as specified by the government, will be followed. “Please understand that, in spite of all these procedures and measures, the school administration cannot guarantee that the students will not be exposed and/or infected by the Covid 19 Virus,” the notice signed by the principal says. The school has said the annual examinations for Classes IX and XI will be held online as scheduled. Rehearsal examinations for Classes X and XII have been deferred, the notice says. “These will be held onsite, and dates will be notified in due course of time.” The notice also mentions: “In case you find any Covid 19 symptoms in your ward, you are to immediately notify the School Administration and stop sending your ward for further classes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Victoria Memorial Hall makes amends to Bose exhibits||The Victoria Memorial Hall has conceded that pictures that it said were images of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose disguised as Md Ziauddin are “recreated images” based on an “artistic impression”. The clarification comes following allegations by Sugata Bose, the chairman of Netaji Research Bureau and grand-nephew of the freedom fighter, that some items on display at Nirbhik Subhas, an exhibition being held at the Memorial, were “fake”. Sugata Bose had in his letter to the Memorial authorities on February 6 said images of Md Ziauddin were fake since no photographs of Netaji were taken or allowed to be taken during his “mahanishkraman” or “Great Escape”. In response to Sugata Bose’s letter, Victoria Memorial secretary and curator Jayanta Sengupta has said: “This is obviously an artistic impression. However, a disclaimer to this effect has been added to the exhibition.” The source of these recreated images, Sengupta has written to Sugata Bose, were scans from the Abhyuday newspaper compiled in the form of a book, published in 1998. “Pages 54 and 67 of the compilation have sketches of Netaji in disguise.” Sugata Bose had also said that the display showing Netaji’s letter of resignation from the Indian Civil Service was fake because the handwriting was not the leader’s and there were errors in salutation and spelling, Sengupta has written: “Currently, the exhibition places a facsimile of the original letter along with an enlarged and recreated transcript for easier reading, because the original facsimile was thought to be possibly a little difficult to read for the ordinary visitor to the exhibition.” Asked about the Memorial’s response, Sugata Bose said he was “pleased that the handwritten fake has been taken down”. He feels the letter in Netaji’s handwriting is perfectly legible and should have been enlarged with an accompanying printed version, if needed. He is also pleased that a disclaimer has been added to the Ziauddin images. “VMH has listed 10 books, on nine of which NRB holds the copyright. I wish they had shown the courtesy of seeking permission in return of acknowledgement,” Sugata Bose said. Metro reported on Monday that the Memorial had corrected the spelling mistake and salutation error in a recreated transcript and acknowledged that the original letter was published in Netaji: A Pictorial Biography. Sengupta says in his letter that the agency that has executed the exhibition has sourced many photographs and facsimiles of letters and documents from books published by Netaji Research Bureau and other publishers. He lists 10 books including Netaji: A Pictorial Biography, His Majesty’s Opponent, The Essential Writings of Subhas Chandra Bose and others. The exhibition, the curator says, “was aimed at arousing curiosity among the youth about Netaji’s contribution to India’s nation-making…. We sincerely hope you will kindly appreciate the sincerity of the effort”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Pending work makes Jadavpur University call up all employees  ||Jadavpur University has asked all its employees to attend office on all working days from Monday because of the high volume of pending work, officials said. “All employees are asked to attend office as per normal routine, i.e, in all working days and as per duties allotted… on and from February 8. However classes and hostels will remain closed till further order,” stated a notice issued by JU registrar Snehamanju Basu on Sunday. Officials said the volume of work was increasing because each employee was so far attending office thrice a week. On December 28, the university had asked employees to start attending office thrice a week, ending their long absence since the start of the lockdown in March. “We have reintroduced the normal working schedule while maintaining the safety protocols. The workload is increasing in the absence of the normal working schedule. Besides, public transport is now adequate,” said an official. The university started distributing the hard copies of degree certificates to 4,700 recipients (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD taken together) on Monday. It will continue till February 22. The university did not hold the convocation last year as a precaution against Covid-19. “The distribution of the degree certificates across all three faculties (science, arts and engineering) is a mammoth task. The testimonials that the recipients will pres-ent before collecting their certificates will have to be verified. We need adequate staff on all days to conduct the exercise and ensure that the recipients follow physical distancing norms,” said an official. An official in the examination section said that since the odd semester tests would have to be held online in March, they needed more staff to finalise the digital platforms that would be used to conduct the exercise. The higher education department had last week said examinations would have to be held on digital platforms because the pandemic situation had not improved enough for the campuses to reopen for students. “The government offices have resumed the normal work schedule. We need staff on all days as the workload is increasing,” JU registrar Basu said. In December, Calcutta University had issued a circular saying 70 per cent of the employees of each department would have to attend office daily from December 3. “CU is likely to ask all its employees to attend office on all working days from February 12,” said an official of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Behala street art festival: A heap of shoes leaves behind a haunting footprint||A heap of chappals is mounted near a milestone on one corner of a bylane in Behala. The shoes represent the journey of lakhs of migrant workers during the course of the nationwide lockdown. Around 30 metres away, a series of ploughs stand on the ground. Mics at the spot are playing audio clips from farmers’ protests at the borders of Delhi. A just-concluded street art festival in a Behala neighbourhood was a collage of works that mirrored the “convulsive” times the country has been going through. The new citizenship thrust, the abrogation of the special status of Kashmir, the plight of migrant workers during the lockdown and the contentious farm laws provide context to many of the installations at the second edition of Behala Art Fest, organised by Nutan Sangha on Rai Bahadur Road, in association with The Telegraph. One of the installations shows a small slice of a street, barricaded with black and yellow police tapes. Slogans of resistance on the wall and a teapot, a pair of slippers and some newspapers that lay strewn on the ground inside. The recall — a “mini” Shaheen Bagh or Park Circus vigil that had to be vacated because of the pandemic, but where protesters left some of their belongings as a symbol of the continuity of protest. A few steps ahead, a small village kitchen has been set up with a pot sitting on an earthen oven. The caption on the walls, derived from an 18th century Bengali poem, anticipates a grim future where a mother is worried about the scarcity of food for her children. The threat — three markers on the floor, naming the three new farm laws. A series of paintings, mostly charcoal-on-paper, depict “screaming figures seem to be appealing perpetually to an invisible owner”. “Unfortunately, their demands fall on deaf ears,” says the accompanying note. The festival, a stone’s throw from the ever-busy Diamond Harbour Road, was also a collage of several mediums; paintings, sculpture and photographs alongside videos and performances. Over 20 artistes have come together for the festival. “India has been passing through a convulsive time for the past few years. The artistes cannot but respond to the urgencies around them. Contemporary art has to ask questions and build collective consciousness,” said Oindrilla Maity Surai, who has curated the festival. One audio-visual installation has a screen showing maps with continuously changing boundaries. A flying bird, oblivious to the changing boundaries, adds to the contrast. The accompanying sound is that of marching soldiers. The paintings of the facades of houses and walls are hard hitting. A wall depicts people walking with children, carrying their frugal belongings on their heads, depicting the long and arduous homeward journeys undertaken by lakhs of migrant workers during the lockdown. One façade shows a man hanging from the strings of four giant balloons, which together read “HOPE”. “The rulers of the country keep giving false hopes to its citizenry. From demonetisation to Rs 15 lakh in bank accounts to the promise of achhe din — the false hopes come one after another,” said Sanatan Dinda, the convener of the festival and the man behind the paintings. The festival started on Friday and concluded on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University funds for 22 visually impaired students||Jadavpur University has provided funds to 22 of its visually impaired students so they can stay at rented places that have good Internet connectivity and attend online classes. The students, mostly from remote areas, used to stay at JU hostels. Since the campus was shut down in March following the Covid-19 outbreak, they have been staying at home. Many are unable to attend online classes because of poor Net connectivity in their localities. These students cannot afford rented accommodations in the city because of financial reasons, said JU officials. JU had on January 30 provided Rs 5,000 to each of the 22 visually impaired students, following a demonstration by a forum for physically challenged students. “The financial help will initially be provided till March. We will think about continuing the help if the situation demands,” said Rajat Roy, the dean of students. “We have estimated monthly rent to be around Rs 2,000 per month and the rest Rs 1,000 is for food and other expenses.” The university has around 50 visually impaired students. “They will share the financial resources so that many students could be benefited,” said Jishu Debnath, a member of the forum, who is doing a PhD in Bengali at JU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
09-02-2021||Calcutta||Nod for Tallah pillar between railway tracks||The railways has allowed work on laying the foundation of only one of the four pillars of the Tallah bridge that will come up between railway tracks. The PWD, which is executing the Rs 340-crore bridge project, had sought permission for all four pillars and traffic block on the tracks to facilitate work. Railway officials have said that if work on all four pillars starts simultaneously, movement of all types of trains will have to be suspended for 30 days. “A traffic block for a prolonged period would mean disrupting movement of trains in different directions,” a railway official said. PWD officials said on Monday the decision of the railways to withhold permission for the other three pillars might affect the pace of work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
09-02-2021||Calcutta||IT leaders share thoughts on digital initiatives that enabled organisations to survive challenges ||A group of business leaders at the helm of information technology (IT) at their organisations looked back at an unprecedented year and discussed the challenges of the future during a virtual conference on Friday. The INFOCOM CIO Connect Roundtable Presented by NTT-Netmagic saw five chief information officers share their thoughts on the digital initiatives that enabled their organisations to survive unprecedented challenges in 2020, when Covid-19 emerged as the biggest disruptor globally, affecting individuals, enterprises and the economy. The theme of the session — CIO Bucket List 2021. Manik Paul, CIO, Century Plyboards; Jayanta Bhowmik, CIO, Kesoram Industries; Abhijit Chatterjee, CIO, Vikram Solar; Subhamoy Chakraborti, CIO, ABP Pvt. Ltd; and Seema Ambastha, senior executive VP — head India and global — sales and business development and solutions engineering, NTT-Netmagic, were the panellists at the nearly 90-minute session, moderated by Harish Agarwal, managing partner for Calcutta and Bangladesh, Ernst & Young LLP and COO of Ernst & Young India Consulting. “Enterprises are now exploring hybrid IT to optimise cost, to be flexible and to cater to the changing workforce. Cloud environments are being deployed rapidly…. With the ever-increasing sophistication of hacking and the rising criticality of data, cloud security and normal cyber security is something all enterprises need to focus on,” Agarwal said at the outset. “Management using a single pane of glass (a model based on a singular control point for managing all cloud applications) and making it easy by having innovation around it, a lot of focus on business resiliency and a unified security across the hybrid cloud system” are going to be on priority list of CIOs in the coming days, said Ambastha, who is based in Mumbai. Around 30 CIOs in and around Calcutta were part of the interactive session. The speakers took questions from some of the participants after the panel discussion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-149
