10-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta school woes in run-up to reopening||How wide will be the circle of quarantine if a student or a staff member tests positive for Covid-19? What if a family member of a student or a teacher gets infected? These are some of the questions schools are grappling with as they plan to reopen their campuses for senior students. The state government has allowed reopening of schools, closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid, for students of Classes IX to XII. The apprehensions being voiced at staff meetings being held at schools in the run-up to the reopening are not far fetched, the heads of two schools said. “They might be real and could lead to tricky situations,” a school head said. Parents are concerned, too, because they have to give consent if their children go to school. While some schools are deliberating suspending classes if a student or a staff member tests positive, most have no definite answers or solutions. “We cannot anticipate every situation. Once something comes up, we will have to make an informed decision based on medical advice,” said Ian Myers, the principal of Frank Anthony Public School, which has decided to call students in shifts. “We have to keep safe and emphasise on the positives rather than the negatives.” Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School, described the situation as tricky. “It becomes a real issue (if someone tests positive) because the classroom gets disrupted in such a situation. We will have to be very alert and the vigil has to be strong at the gate only,” he said. Several schools feel monitoring would not be a problem because fewer students would turn up for now. Father Bikash Mondal, the principal of Don Bosco Park Circus, said if a student tested positive, they might have to bar the boys who came in contact with him from attending classes for a few days. Some schools are reopening on Friday, others after a few more days. Many schools are eager to reopen because they wanted to bring in students for practicals and rehearsal tests before the board examinations. “There are things we have no control over…. We take precautions to ensure that nobody falls sick and if anyone has symptoms, they will be expected to stay at home,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. At many schools, teachers, especially those who have elderly people or children at home, have expressed fears about their safety. “We are doing our best but nobody can guarantee. The dip in numbers is giving everyone the confidence and the situation demands a greater degree of awareness and responsibility from everybody to avoid any serious setback,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Govt hikes Swasthya Sathi rates by 15 to 20 per cent||The state government has increased the rates of 105 treatment packages under the Swasthya Sathi scheme by 15 to 20 per cent after private hospitals said the costs were unviable. At a meeting with representatives of private hospitals on Tuesday, the state government said the rates of 60 per cent of the packages had been increased. The private hospitals said the rate revision was below their expectations but they accepted it. The hospitals, however, requested the government to reconsider the rates of medical management of patients in general as well as critical care units. “The private hospitals have agreed to most of the rates and these will be implemented immediately. We’ll hold another meeting with the hospitals to decide about the rates of medical management of general wards and critical care units,” a state government official said on Tuesday. The treatment packages for which rates have been revised include cardiac bypass surgery, cholecystectomy (a surgical procedure to remove the gallbladder), hernia repair, appendectomy (a surgical procedure to remove the vermiform appendix) and Cesarean section surgery for child delivery. The Swastha Sathi scheme provides basic treatment cost coverage for primary and tertiary care up to Rs 5 lakh per family per year. According to sources, in the presentation by the state government, it was shown that the rates for an open-heart surgery without the support of a heart-and-lung machine was increased from Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh. The rate for the same surgery but with the support of a heart-and-lung machine has been increased from Rs 1.3 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh. The rate for coronary angiography, an investigative procedure to detect blocks in coronary arteries, has been revised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 11,500, said the sources. “We had requested the government on a number of occasions and had a series of meetings with them, where we presented our case regarding the unviability of the existing rates of treatment under the Swasthya Sathi universal health care scheme,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals, and president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “During the course of today’s meeting, the senior officials agreed to revise the rates of 105 packages by 15 to 20 per cent. Although the percentage of increase is less than our expectations, we appreciate the state government’s positive approach towards providing quality health care to the residents of Bengal.” Barua said the private hospitals felt the 20 per cent revision in rates for medical management may not be enough and they pointed out that providing critical care treatment even at the increased rate of Rs 3,300 a day would be unviable. “Critical care treatment is dynamic, with the average minimum cost coming to Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 a day,” he said. Officials of several private hospitals said they had requested the government to fix the bed charges for medical management of a patient in general and critical care wards, but keep other costs like doctors' fees, investigations, consumables and medicines separate. They pointed out that a patient who did not need surgery might undergo investigations like CT scan, MRI and USG. Each test can cost a few thousands of rupees on an average at a corporate hospital. “We have expressed our concerns on the rates for medical management, which still remain extremely unviable. However, the assuran-ces given by state govern-ment officials on adoption of a consensual approach towards revision of rates on this front is comforting and we are hopeful and we eagerly look forward to the same,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health. Some private hospitals had earlier requested the state government to fix the num-ber of beds for treating patients with Swasthya Sathi cards. However, the government has not agreed to the proposal. “More than two crore families have already been covered by the scheme and the number is growing every day. If the number of beds is fixed, the hospitals will be refusing many patients,” said a state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||1.86 lakh people benefit from Swasthya Sathi scheme in run-up to elections||A total of 1.86 lakh people have benefited from the state government’s Swasthya Sathi scheme since December 1 last year, when the Duare Sarkar programme was launched to reach out to people left out of government schemes. Such a large number of beneficiaries of the health assurance scheme holds significance ahead of the Assembly elections because the BJP has been claiming that the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme would have been more beneficial. “Before December 1, a total of 14.34 lakh people had availed themselves of the benefits of Swasthya Sathi cards. After December 1, a total of 1.86 lakh people got benefits of the scheme. So far, more than 2.17 crore families have been issued the Swasthya Sathi cards,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Tuesday. The cashless assurance  scheme offers a health coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. Sources at Nabanna said the government’s primary target was to bring 2.3 crore families under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. As the target has been achieved, the government’s focus is on providing proper services to the people to make the scheme popular. “This is already reflected in the figures. Previously, 2,100 people were getting benefits of the scheme daily. Now, the figure stands at 3,700. This has become possible because more than 425 private hospitals have been brought within the ambit of the scheme since December 1. A total of 1,537 private hospitals now accept the Swastha Sathi cards,” an official said. Making the scheme po-pular holds significance for the ruling party of the state ahead of the polls because it would make one weapon of the BJP — non-implemen-tation of Ayushman Bharat — blunt, Trinamul insiders said. “The more people benefit from the scheme, the more we will penetrate into the areas where we put up a poor show in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. That is the reason the BJP is attacking the scheme at all meetings,” said a minister. The state government has also decided to ensure that hospitals get prompt payment for providing treatment to the Swasthya Sathi beneficiaries. “Every day, a sum of Rs 7 crore is being spent from the state exchequer to pay the treatment bills under the scheme…. We are trying to ensure that the hospitals get the money on time,” said a source. The annual outgo on the scheme has been pegged at Rs 3,000 crore, prompting a section of officials to raise the question whether the cash-strapped Trinamul government would be able to carry on with it. “Initially, the state might not face any problem because it is set to get a sum of Rs 40,000 crore from the Centre as revenue deficit grant over the next four years. But after that, the state has to think about enhancing its own revenues to run the scheme,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Students and employees of South Point School to submit health declaration form everyday ||Students and employees of South Point High School will have to submit a health declaration form online by the evening if they are required to attend school the next day. The form will include questions on whether they have been in contact with a Covid patient in the last 14 days and other health related issues, such as whether they are running a temperature. “A health declaration form will mandatorily be required to be filled in online by parents of all students and staff who are required to attend school on any given day…. Emails will be automatically sent to the respondents based on their replies, as to whether they are allowed to attend school the following day or not,” the school said in a statement issued on Tuesday. South Point High School is reopening on February 12 with students of Class XII. Not all students are expected to turn up every day. The state government has allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII. “It is a combined effort of everyone to ensure the safety of all others…. One will think twice before giving any false declaration,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. The form will be available online till night and individual acknowledgements will be sent by the school. Officials of the school said the system would ensure smoother functioning and avoid situations where the management might have to turn away someone from the gate for running a temperature. The authorities said they were taking the necessary steps for the safety of everyone at the school. “We have to ensure that all occupants of the building are safe and hope that will reassure the parents who are afraid to send their children to school,” Damani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math reopens gates with appeal to visitors to adhere to the norms of physical distancing ||Senior monks at Belur Math have appealed to visitors to strictly adhere to the norms of physical distancing and avoid huddles on the campus of the headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. Devotees and others will be allowed to visit Belur Math, which has remained close for nearly six months, from Wednesday. According to the new timings, the Math will remain open from 8.30am to 11am and again from 3.30pm to 5.15pm. Between October and March, the Math usually remains open from 8.30am to 11.30am and from 3.30pm to 5.30pm. Initially, only four temples on the Math premises will be open to visitors — the temples of Sri Ramakrishna, Holy Mother, Swami Brahmananda and Swami Vivekananda. Bhog will not be distributed for now. “We will appeal to everyone visiting the Math to abide by the norms of social distancing and use hand sanitisers and masks,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission. “Within 45 days of opening the gates of the Math in June, several monks had tested positive for Covid. The gates had to be closed again on August 2. We don't want a repeat of that.” Monks said arrangements had been made across the compound to ensure adequate supply of hand sanitisers, right from the main entrance. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) has been drawn up on how to regulate visitors’ movement. The body temperature of every visitor will be checked with hand-held thermal scanners. Around 300 monks stay on the Math premises and close to 250 others work there. “We would like to wait and see how things play out. If there is no fresh case of coronavirus infection this time, we will gradually relax the timings,” Swami Suvirananda said. Monks and brahmacharies have been asked to ensure there is no crowding at any of the four temples where visitors will be allowed and at the Pally Mangal stall, which will be accessible to visitors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Metro Rail from China yet to start commercial runs||A train made in China had arrived in Calcutta in March 2019 to boost the ageing north-south Metro Railway fleet. The train has yet to start commercial runs. A train made by the same Chinese company reached Nagpur in January 2019.  Eleven such rakes are running in the Nagpur Metro corridor every day. The delay in the commissioning of the Chinese rake is a pointer to the problems plaguing the transport lifeline of Calcutta, the only city where Metro is run by the railways. Railway officials attributed the delay to pending clearances and said their focus was now on indigenous, not foreign rakes. “The Chinese rake is a prototype and needs extensive trials. In comparison, the Medha (the new lot of trains built at the Integral Coach Factory in Perambur, near Chennai) rakes are already running. We want to focus on home-made rakes,” said a railway official. The Railway Board had first contracted CNR Dalian Locomotive & Rolling Stock Co to build 14 rakes for Calcutta Metro in May 2015. The rakes were supposed to have been delivered by October 2018. But a design approval from the central Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO) delayed the process, said sources in the railways. “The contract was then extended till June 2020. The board has started the process of another extension till February 2022, but in terms of importance, the Chinese rake is in the backseat now,” said a railway official. The first of the 14 rakes arrived at the Calcutta port on March 3, 2019, breaking the monopoly of the Integral Coach Factory, the sole supplier to Calcutta Metro. The Chinese rakes were then billed as the best bet to replace the snag-prone old rakes and reduce the burden on the existing air-conditioned rakes. Metro engineers had earlier said they were enthused by the “impressive performances” of the Dalian rakes in tests. The last such test was in January 2020. Its result has yet to come from the RDSO. “An oscillation test had been carried out in January 2020 by the RDSO. The report is pending. After getting the RDSO clearance, we need another clearance from the commissioner of railway safety and final nod from the Railway Board to start commercial runs,” said Manoj Joshi, the Metro Railway general manager. In the contract with the railway board for Calcutta Metro, the maximum speed agreed upon was 80kmph, but the old tracks between Noapara and New Garia are old and unfit for the train to achieve that speed, said a Dalian representative. “Our rake produced a much better show than the Indian rakes in the January 2019 oscillation test. But still, the clearance is pending,” a Dalian representative said. Unlike in Calcutta, the Metro networks in other cities are run by corporations — joint ventures between the respective state governments and the Centre and they function independently. Nagpur handled its Chinese rakes quite differently. The first Metro rake from Dalian arrived in Nagpur in January 2019. and the trains started commercial services on March 8, 2019. “At present, we have 19 Dalian rakes, 11 of which run regularly. The trains’ performance is very impressive,” said an official of Nagpur Metro. Unlike the eight-coach trains made for Calcutta, the company has made three-coach trains for Nagpur. The contract is for 23 trains and the remaining trains would also have reached but for the global pandemic, said officials in Nagpur. In contrast, 13 rakes for Calcutta Metro are lying idle at the production facility in Dalian. Most officials in the city Metro spoke to refused to comment on the Chinese rakes. “Please spare me. These are policy issues, under the control of the railway ministry,” said one of them. Metro officials pointed out that the tracks at Nagpur are brand new, unlike those in Calcutta where Metro started in 1984. But many of them conceded that being completely under the railway ministry has robbed Calcutta Metro of operational autonomy. “They have the freedom to take decisions related to safety and other matters, such as buying rakes, fixing fares and outsourcing maintenance. In comparison, Calcutta Metro has no say in the type of rakes it will operate or the fares it will charge,” said a railway official. The expanded network of Metro will need an increased fleet size. The Noapara-Baranagar-Dakshineswar line is scheduled to be commissioned by the end of this month and the Noapara-Airport line in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||IIT veteran fights polarisation trap of religion||A retired professor from IIT Delhi has been organising meetings in and around the city and addressing webinars to urge people to not fall for the polarisation trap of religion and ask political leaders to focus on real issues. Vipin Kumar Tripathi, 73, arrived in the city a couple of days ago and has spoken at impromptu street corner meetings at Beckbagan, Rishra and Baruipur, among other places. “A particular political party is trying to divide the country based on religion and this will not work. Remember this divide-and-rule policy was started by the British, who wanted to rule Indians with an iron hand and keep them oppressed. People like Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters managed to steer the nation through that time and now the onus is on us,” Tripathi said at a webinar organised on Tuesday. He described the ongoing farmers' protests at Delhi’s borders as the single largest peaceful movement against a government since Mahatma Gandhi organised such farmers’ protests in places like Champaran in Bihar. “I was with the farmers on Republic Day and it was largely peaceful. While the larger group adhered to the routes fixed by the Delhi Police, a smaller group moved towards Red Fort. There, too, they were not involved in any sort of violence and had only hoisted a flag on an empty flagpole,” said Tripathi. The entire exercise was played up by the Centre in order to cover up its mistakes, Tripathi added. He urged residents of Bengal, ahead of the Assembly polls, to ask those seeking votes on the basis of religion whether they would get jobs, whether health-care facilities and educational institutions would improve and whether their lives would change for the better. “Whenever somebody knocks on your door for votes, ask them about jobs, about whether they can make sure that you will be able to afford your next meal,” said Tripathi. Shah Alam, who runs an NGO, said that if Tripathi could stand up and say that things were wrong, the young, too, should step forward. The son of Gandhian freedom fighter and wrestler Hardas Sharma, Tripathi was brought up in Lalitpur, Uttar Pradesh. He studied in Jhansi and Agra before joining IIT Delhi as a lecturer. He also taught at the University of Maryland in the US for six years before leaving in 1982, saddened by America’s support for the Israeli invasion of Lebanon. He returned to IIT Delhi, where he also held “special lectures” outside classrooms to talk about how “imperialism is still alive and sectarianism is its instrument”. Pradip Basu, the dean of humanities and social sciences at Presidency University, who attended the seminar, said it was time people voiced their dissent against the central government, which has crippled the economy through demonetisation and is trying to polarise people on the basis of religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Dhakuria water reservoir to be unveiled||A semi-underground water reservoir of 13 lakh litre capacity and a booster pumping station will be unveiled at Dhakuria’s Babubagan on Wednesday. The reservoir will reduce the dependence of a large number of people on underground water. An engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said residents of the area were supplied a mix of underground and potable water for years. The reservoir-cum-booster pumping station, built where Babubagan Sarbojonin Durga Puja is held every year, will help supply potable water to those residents from now. Madhuchanda Deb, the coordinator of Ward 92, said the reservoir would mostly benefit residents of Dhakuria Station Road, Dhakuria Station Lane, Maharaja Tagore Road and Babubagan Lane. A CMC engineer said that once the reservoir was commissioned, three deep tube wells that supplied water to the area would be decommissioned. “We will commission the semi-underground reservoir-cum-booster pumping station after inauguration on Wednesday. The reservoir can store up to 13 lakh litres of water,” said a senior CMC engineer. “The areas that will be served by the new booster pumping station had two problems — they received a mix of underground water and potable water and the pressure of water was low. We hope the new booster pumping station and reservoir will put an end to the problems,” he said. The potable water that will be supplied to the reservoir will come from the Garden Reach water treatment plant of the CMC. “The water will be stored in the reservoir. The booster pumping station will push the water into the distribution network with a greater thrust so that the pressure of water in the network increases and the water reaches the homes where it did not reach so far or where the pressure was very low,” said an engineer. Underground water, drawn through deep tube wells, has a large amount of dissolved salts. Besides, there is always the risk of arsenic contamination. The Rs 2.5-crore project was started in 2018 but got stuck after opposition from members of Babubagan Club, who feared there would be no space left to play or organise the Puja, said ward coordinator Deb. “CMC officials met the club members repeatedly and convinced them that neither the space for Durga Puja nor the playground would be taken away,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Two youths killed as car swerves and rams into lorry||Two young men — one of them driving a car and the other sitting next to him — died after the vehicle hit a lorry coming from the opposite direction on Circular Garden Reach Road early on Tuesday, police said. Three others, who were on the rear seat, suffered critical injuries and were admitted to hospital. The incident happened when the group of friends was returning home after a get-together on Monday night. The police said Ajay Giri, 23, who was at the wheel, was a driver by profession. Abhishek Gupta, 24, who was sitting next to him, looked after his father’s grocery store near their Rabindranagar home. The white Tata Indigo has a commercial number plate and Giri would drive it. Sources said that according to the CCTV footage obtained by the police, the lorry was moving along the left side of the road following traffic rules. “The car suddenly steered to its right and rammed into the mudguard of the lorry around 2am,” said an officer of West Port police station, in whose area is the accident spot. “The spot, Dhobitala crossing, was deserted when the accident happened,” an officer said. Giri, Gupta and the three others in the car — Ravi Ram, Rudrapratap Singh and Sumit Sau — were taken to SSKM Hospital. Giri and Gupta were declared dead and the rest were admitted in a critical condition. Family members of Singh and Sau later shifted them to another hospital. The police suspect neither Giri nor Gupta was wearing a seat belt. The lorry had just emptied its consignment near Metiabruz and was heading towards Garden Reach when the car allegedly crashed into it. The lorry driver has been arrested and booked under charges related to causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving. Officers of the fatal squad of the traffic police, who are investigating the accident, said the bodies had been sent for post-mortem. “We will know whether the youth at the wheel was intoxicated or not after the post-mortem report comes,” an officer of the squad said. The incident happened barely two days after two city youths jumped off the Vidyasagar Setu into the Hooghly with some of their friends capturing their “stunt” in a mobile video apparently meant for circulation in the social media. One of them failed to resurface on the water till Tuesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
10-02-2021||Calcutta||Park Street rape convict out of jail||Nishat Alam, one of the convicts in the Park Street gang rape case, completed his jail term and was released from the Jalpaiguri Correctional Home on Monday. Convicted for 10 years, Alam, alias Ruman, got a remission of 382 days for his “good conduct inside jail”, his work as a “Covid warrior” in the last few months and for his service as the nightwatchman over a period of time, sources in the jail department said. Now 35, Alam was arres-ted with his friends Sumit Bajaj and Naser Khan in connection with the case in 2012. The victim, a 37-year-old mother of two, was raped inside a moving Honda City on Park Street and left on the road in February 2012. Both Naser and Sumit completed their jail terms and were released last year. Two other accused in the case — Kadir Khan and Ali — are in jail. Alam, who returned home to Calcutta on Tuesday, told Metro that he wanted to start his “new life” by donating half his “earnings” inside jail to a charitable trust that takes care of the old and needy. “I have come out with Rs 42,000, which I saved from my earnings working inside (the jail) over the past nine years. I wish to donate Rs 20,000 to a trust and hand over the rest to my parents,” he said. The eldest of three siblings, Alam had got married in 2017, when he was out on parole for a few days. His wife works in Mumbai. Of the 382-day remission, 30 days were for his work as a “Covid warrior”, jail sources said. “He was one of the very few inmates who had volunteered to handle the inmates who tested Covid-19 positive after all of them were sub-jected to antigen tests. The patients were segregated from the other inmates before they were carried to an ambulance, which would take them to hospital. Alam had volunteered when very few were ready to even touch Covid patients,” said an official of the correctional ser-vices. His remission tenure also included 24 days of grace because of his duty as nightwatchman between midnight and 2am to keep an eye on inmates to prevent cases of suicide inside jail, an official said. Alam also worked in the office of the jail superintendent in Jalpaiguri. “I am thankful to our jail superintendent Soumik Sarkar, who took care of all the inmates during the coronavirus crisis and carried out our tests twice,” Alam said. Alam is his parents’ only son. His sisters are married.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-148
