11-02-2021||Calcutta||Schools opaque about safety steps, complain parents||Some private schools are sending letters to parents seeking their consent for their child’s return to the campus but allegedly without spelling out the possible alternatives if they decide against in-person attendance. Scores of parents across the city complained that schools were expecting them to allow children to attend in-person classes but have been opaque about steps they were taking to get students back on the campus. The consent is being sought for writing exams and attending classes on campus, but a section of parents is peeved at what they called a “Hobson’s choice”. There are a few exceptions. At least two schools — South Point High School and The Heritage School — have sent a detailed note to parents stating that the number of pupils will be limited to one third of the original strength and a maximum of two to three students will be allowed in the toilet at a time. Parents have specific questions that some schools do not seem to have an answer to: • Use of toilets: How often will the toilets be cleaned and how many children will be allowed at a time? • Mask etiquette: Children are expected to wear masks but is it practical to wear a mask for almost six hours at a stretch? • Break time: Who will monitor students during breaks? • Distancing in laboratories: Will students have to share equipment in labs? • In between periods: Who will look after the children between two periods, when there is no teacher in the room? • Sanitisation routine: How often will door knobs, classrooms, lifts and railings will be sanitised? The lack of clarity on the part of schools is making many parents worried or indecisive about sending their children to the campus. Many said they had given consent because their children would other-wise be marked “absent” in an examination. The principal of a south Calcutta school said: “No punitive action will be taken and we are not compelling parents to send children to school. But if they cannot appear in an examination, we will have to mark them absent.” What is baffling parents is that some of the decisions taken by schools are not entirely based on science. A school has asked students to turn up only if they test negative for Covid-19 and several others are considering issuing such a directive. Another school has asked parents to sign a health declaration form daily. Public health experts have said a negative Covid test did not mean a student would not contract Covid later. “A declaration is a bureaucratic exercise. One could come in contact with an asymptomatic Covid patient and not know about it. It is not possible for anyone to give a declaration,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a public health expert associated with the Beleghata ID hospital. The schools in their rush to reopen are ignoring questions and apprehensions that parents have in sending their children to the campus. Some schools have also received emails from parents saying they had protected their children for 10 months and are wary of exposing them to the risk of catching the virus. Parents have said that it is “their right” to know what precautions schools are taking and it is not enough for schools to just say they are “following Covid protocols”. “Schools have to be much more transparent in their communication with parents. They will have to inform the parents how many times they are cleaning the toilets, how many times they are sanitising the building and what protocols they are following. It has to be a regular communication,” said public health expert Bandyopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Govt schools split classes into groups||Teachers of government schools are splitting classes into smaller groups to ensure physical distancing in the rooms. Unlike many private schools, government schools will hold all four classes — IX to XII — once campuses reopen on Friday or within days of the reopening. The state government has allowed reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII from February 12. Jadavpur Vidyapith has asked students of Classes IX, X and XII to turn up for in-person instruction from Friday. The students of Class X who will write Madhyamik in June will be called after Saraswati Puja, which falls on February 16, to appear in a mock test. (Class X has two batches — one that has been promoted from Class IX and the other that will write Madhyamik this year). The students of Class XI will be called on Saturday. Parimal Bhattacharya, the headmaster of the school, said they had drawn up a routine for the first two days. The routine for the subsequent days will be prepared based on the initial experience. “We have split Class IX into three groups — ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’. While students of section ‘A’ will attend classes into two rooms, the students of section ‘B’ and ‘C’ will attend classes online after the in-person classes end. The students of Class X, too, have been split into sections. This will help us avoid crowding,” Bhattacharya said. An assistant teacher said the sections would take turns in attending in-person and online classes. The students of Class XII, who will come to the campus to attend practicals, have been split into sections B and C. This will enable them to attend classes in smaller groups. “The students of Class XI will be split into 10 sections and each section will be assigned a room,” said Bhattacharya. As the classes from V and VIII are not being held, there will not be any problem resulting from splitting the senior classes into smaller sections. At Uttarpara Government School, the students of all classes are being called on the first day. A teacher said they would think about splitting the classes into smaller sections based on the actual turnout. “If only a few students of Classes IX and X turn up, we may not have to split them into sections. If the turnout is normal, we may have to do so. Allocating extra rooms won’t be a problem because classes between V and VIII are not being held,” said Saugata Basu, an assistant teacher of the school. Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur, said they, too, would call students of Classes IX to XII. “We will affix the roll number of every student on each bench. If a student on the first bench sits on the right, the student of the next bench will sit on the left,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Book for jabs at CMC clinics raise queries||Some Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinics have kept a book where people above 50 can “register” their names for receiving Covid-19 vaccine doses, though there is no clarity whether such “registration” will be considered valid when inoculation of the general population starts. Also, there is no clarity yet when vaccination of the general population against Covid-19 will begin. Currently, health and frontline workers are being administered doses. An official of the state health department said they had not asked the CMC to register the names of citizens who are neither healthcare workers nor frontline workers. “There is no guideline yet from the Centre about preparing the list of prospective recipients who do not belong to either category. The CMC is doing it on its own,” said the official. There has been no public campaign by the civic body to inform people that such a registration is under way. In some places, councillors have sent WhatsApp messages to select people, many of whom have queued up and enrolled their names hoping that it would make them eligible for a Covid vaccine. The ones who have registered their names have not been given any receipt. Nor have they got any text message from the civic body confirming the registration. The exercise, purportedly to help people, has triggered confusion among many, especially the elderly. Many elderly, who had rarely stepped out since the pandemic started, have visited clinics and stood in queues to enrol their names so that they do not miss out on vaccination. It also shows how desperate a section of the population is to get vaccinated against Covid. CMC sources said they knew of two wards where the registration was being done actively — Ward 82 in Chetla, where outgoing mayor Firhad Hakim is the ward coordinator, and Ward 68 in Ballygunge. In Hakim’s ward, more than 1,300 people have registered their names, a CMC official said. Long queues are forming in front of the ward health clinic on most days for registration. Hakim told The Telegraph the CMC was keeping the names to ensure there was no delay when inoculation of the general population against Covid starts. “If the state government tells us they are going to start the inoculation of the general public, we can start with these names. People are voluntarily registering their names. It can be expected that they will not shy away from taking vaccines and we will not lose any day in vaccinating common people,” said Hakim. He added there was no guarantee that the people who had enrolled their names at civic clinics would be given priority over others. “Others too can come and get doses when we will start administering vaccines to the general public. It is not that those who are registering their names now will be given priority,” Hakim said. Sudarshana Mukherjee, the coordinator of Ward 68, said she had started registering names as she had been flooded with enquiries from senior citizens about the likely inoculation schedule of the general public. “I am keeping the names of senior citizens ready. I do not know if these names will be considered when the general public will be vaccinated. If each ward is asked to send names of people above 50, I can send these names,” Mukherjee said. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, mentions that “the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly election will be used to identify population aged 50 years or more”. The guidelines also state that the administration of Covid-19 vaccines will be prioritised among three groups. Health-care workers and frontline workers comprise the first two groups and their vaccination is under way. People above 50 and those below 50 but suffering from comorbidities form the third group. The age as on January 1, 2021, will be considered. The vaccination of people over 50 will begin after March 6, the Centre signalled on Tuesday. A resident of Ballygunge said he received a WhatsApp message from a neighbour mentioning that persons registering their names must provide their PAN or Aadhaar number. “My wife went to the CMC health clinic and registered her name,” said the resident. Among the Calcuttans who have received similar WhatsApp messages, many are averse to taking the risk of standing in a queue during the pandemic to get their names registered. They wondered why CMC officials are not visiting houses and registering names. “The government has all details about citizens. There is a voters’ list, people have Aadhaar cards and PAN cards. It will not be difficult for the government to find out who are the people above 50,” said a man who has crossed 60. CMC doctors said they had not received any order from the civic authorities or the state health department about registration of names. They said they were not sure how the registration being done at CMC clinics would be of any help when inoculation of the general public would begin. “We have only been told by our seniors that the chairperson of the board of admi-nistrators of the CMC (Firhad Hakim) has instructed that ward health clinics start registering names of people above 50,” said an official of CMC’s health department, which runs the ward health clinics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Nature lovers and cyclist set up pre-poll test||A section of Calcuttans has demanded that political parties include in their manifestos steps ahead of the Assembly polls they would take to tackle air pollution and create infrastructure so that cyclists could be out in more numbers. A number of cyclists raised the demand at a gathering outside Elliot Park on Wednesday, which was also attended by tram and nature lovers. The cyclists said a large number of Calcuttans commute between 5km and 6km daily. They called on the government to create dedicated cycle bays so the distance could be covered by bicycles, which would result in lower carbon emission. If separate lanes can be set up, bicycles won't interfere with the average speed of vehicles, the cyclists argued. “We are asking parties to commit in their manifestos that cycles would be at the centre of their urban mobility plans,” said Vinay Jaju, the founder of Bengal Clean Air Network. “We are also demanding more use of trams and electric vehicles. Let all parties include urban green cover and waste management and waste segregation in their manifestos.” Several cyclists referred to the Comprehensive Mobility Planning, a report prepared by the state urban development department in 2008, and said commuting less than three kilometres comprised around 60 per cent of daily commuting in Calcutta. “So, given the average length of commute, Calcutta is a very cycleable city. We are not saying that things will have to change overnight, but at least certain small steps can be taken to reduce pollution levels,” said Satanjib Gupta, the “bicycle mayor” of Calcutta, an honorary position given by the Amsterdam-based BYCS, an organisation that promotes cycling across the globe. “Let there be some route plans which cyclists can be encouraged to take. We are possibly moving the opposite way of global mobility planning for cities.” Cyclists hit the roads in Calcutta in large numbers during the early days of the Covid pandemic. On the fringes, including stretches of VIP Road and Jessore Road, and even in the city proper, many people had begun cycling to their workplaces to avoid public transport. In December, after suburban train services resumed and accidents involving cyclists started going up, police had launched a drive urging cyclists to stay away from the thoroughfares. A section of cycle enthusiasts had then written to the commissioner of Calcutta police with an appeal to allow bicycles to ply on all roads. “The urban development department has started a survey on whether cycling can be allowed on some of the roads and we have given our inputs with specific reasons,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. “In a city with just about six per cent road space, it is a tall order to have dedicated cycling bays.” But environment lovers who came together on Wednesday argued that Calcutta lacked any clear plan for creating infrastructure that would help reduce air pollution. They said several cities such as Pune, Nagpur and Warangal had started building cycle bays during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Couple and son found hanging at their Joka residence||A couple and their son were found hanging from two iron hooks on the ceiling of their home in Joka on Wednesday morning. Police suspect all three committed suicide. “The exact cause of the deaths will be known after the post-mortem report comes,” an officer said. Findings of a preliminary inquiry suggest a financial crisis could be the reason for the three taking their lives, police sources said. The man of the house, 50-year-old Chandrabrata Mandal, was a Group D employee at a government office; his wife Mayarani, 45, had started a sari business. Their son Supriyo, 23, used to trade in birds, the police said. Residents of the locality ‑ Patropara ‑ said Supriyo had sold all his birds three days ago. “It appears the family had sought financial help from some relatives to repay a bank loan. Some relatives said they were suffering from financial distress,” said a senior officer of the south-west police division of Calcutta police. A number of suicides were reported over the past few months that were directly or indirectly related to the lockdown, which resulted in many people losing their livelihood or suffering financial losses. The police said they were probing the reason behind the Thakurpukur incident. Mandal was in a habit of going out for walks in the morning. Wednesday was an exception. Around 7.45am on Wednesday, a few neighbours and relatives of the Mandals (some of the relatives live in the same locality) knocked on the door to enquire why Chandrabrata had not gone for his daily walk. As no one responded, one of the relatives accessed the terrace of the two-storey building and entered the house through the rooftop door. On entering the house, the neighbours and relatives found the couple and the son hanging from two iron hooks on the ceiling in the same room, the eyewitnesses told the police. The hooks are used to hang fans. The Mandals were taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital in Behala, where all three were declared dead. There were no apparent signs of foul play, the police said. No suicide note was found||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Holistic learning in focus||Apeejay School, Park Street Apeejay School, Park Street, recently celebrated the 124th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose virtually. The significance of the day was emphasised through different events organised by the kids from Lower Kindergarten to Class V. The children of Lower and Upper Kindergarten dressed for a fancy dress programme, where some dressed as national heroes and some as frontline warriors for Covid-19 to pay homage to their untiring contribution during the pandemic. Students of classes I and II presented patriotic songs in different languages to pay respect to the diverse culture of the nation. An event to make collage of Indian national symbols was organised for the children of Class III, while the students of Class IV wrote Jai Hind in various languages. Class V students presented a throwback on the national heroes. Quiz and poem recitation were also included in the event. Parents and teachers also took part. A processed painting session, Splash, was organised for both parents and students to be in tangent with each other. “At a time when we all are struggling in our own ways, who would be better to remember than Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, India’s greatest son. He continues to inspire millions even today. While the seniors reflected upon the various national symbols, the blooming buds presented a few songs that gave goosebumps,” said principal Paromita Guha Ray. Akshar School Akshar School celebrated multilingualism with a variety of vernacular language activities for students of classes UKG to V. It was a part of theme-teaching. Children did prayers, recited poems in various Indian languages such as Gujarati, Odia, Coorgi and Bengali and performed Tamil wedding songs on the theme, India Travelled and Unravelled. Students of Class I dressed up in traditional attire and spoke about how to take care of them. The children of classes UKG, I and V recited poems in their mother tongues eloquently and confidently. “We are making the children aware of the cultural diversity and encouraging them to learn from each other through these activities. Being a school that has students from different regions, children can delve into every language,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Future Hope School Future Hope School recently organised their annual inter-house Katie Baddley Drama Competition on a digital platform. The theme of this year’s festival was Dickens with a Twist. The four Houses — Panther, Cobra, Elephant and Tiger — chose Oliver Twist, A Tale of Two Cities, David Copperfield and Pickwick Papers. The participants had practised over Cisco Webex under the guidance of thespian Amlan Chaudhuri for nearly a month before putting up their plays on YouTube. New South Wales-British Council director Rebecca Gould, Dance Theatre UK director Nelson Fernandez and thespian Vivek Mansukhani judged the plays online. “The scripts were executed well and appropriate twists were given to the main plot,” said Gould. Mansukhani felt a revival of memories seeing the plays. Elephant House clinched the Katie Baddley trophy and the Best Script award. The Best Actor award went to Sujan Hussain of Cobra House, while Sweta Gupta of Panther House was adjudged the Best Actress Fun-Learn Day Boarding School Fun-Learn Day Boarding School recently organised its seventh annual sports meet on a digital platform. The indomitable spirit of the students, teachers and parents prevailed when school founder Udita Chakraborty declared this year’s annual sports open with a short film clip showing the flight of the pigeons. Like the free-spirited birds, the Fun-Learn children — from Play Group to senior classes — rose to the occasion. With Queen’s We will Rock You and Radio Ga Ga belting in the background, the children of the four houses — Kalam, Keller, Tagore and Derozio — marched confidently in front of their devices, albeit from their respective homes. The school performed a synchronised drill and yoga as a part of their school sports. “We have not let this pandemic overwhelm our lives. Physical exercises and yoga periods are included in our daily online timetable. Staying physically fit is the need of the hour to keep us mentally strong  in these trying times. And this daily practice showed as our children performed the drill and yoga on the sports day. I must thank our yoga teacher Meenakshi Yadav for this,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Thermal checks, physical distancing and sanitisers – the new normal at Belur Math||Thermal scanning for body temperature, markings to ensure physical distancing and counters to dispense sanitisers ‑ Belur Math took a series of precautions against Covid-19 as visitors walked in for the first time on Wednesday after nearly six months. The gates of the Math were open for visitors from 8.30am till 11am and again from 3.30pm till 5.15pm. Police were deployed on the campus, along with monks and brahmacharies, to ensure no one was without a mask and there were no huddles. “The footfall will gradually go up. We will keep a strict watch on all movements so that no one violates the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that has been drawn up,” said a senior monk at the Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission on the banks of the Hooghly. “It is comforting to see devotees visit the Math again.” In keeping with the SOP, devotees and other visitors were allowed entry into four temples in the Math compound — the temples of Sri Ramakrishna, Holy Mother, Swami Vivekananda and Swami Brahmananda. The Pally Mangal stall and the book stall, too, were accessible to visitors. No one was allowed to meet Swami Smaranananda, the 16th president of the order, and other senior monks. Distribution of bhog has been suspended, too. Outside the main entrance of the Math hangs a board that has all instructions for visitors written on it. The instructions are related to hand hygiene, physical distancing and other safety measures. The names of the four temples which devotees are allowed to visit are written in bold letters on board. The Math timings, too, are prominently displayed. Moveable guard rails were placed in the middle of the main entrance to demarcate ways to enter and exit. Visitors were barred from stepping on the green lawns around the temple of Sri Ramakrishna. Men and women volunteers were deployed to carry out thermal checks and distribute sanitisers. By 5.15pm, rows of men and women were seen walking out of the main gate, some with their hands folded. “Over a period of time, devotees will get used to the new order inside the Math. We just hope that none of our monks or employees contract Covid-19,” said another senior monk, who was overseeing the arrangements at the Math. Belur Math had shut its gates to visitors on March 15 last year as a precaution against Covid-19. The gates were reopened on June 15, and visitors could enter the Math following all health protocols, but had to be closed again on August 2 as a number of monks and employees tested positive for Covid. Around 300 monks stay on the Math premises and close to 250 others work there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||Royal Bengal tiger sneaks out of forest||A Royal Bengal tiger triggered panic among tourists and villagers in the Sunderbans’ Samshernagar area early on Wednesday when it escaped through a breach in the Jhinga Khali jungle’s wire fencing and tried to swim across the Kukrekhali river to enter human habitation. Villagers armed with bamboo and iron rods succeeded in scaring the animal away when it was trying to cross a narrow stretch of the river to enter the locality where the forest department’s guest house Banabibi is located. The river cuts across the Jhinga Khali forest range in Hingalganj, in North 24-Parganas. Though the big cat could not cross the river and enter the village, residents and forest guards are unsure whether the tiger is inside the fenced jungle or hiding in the bushy embankment of the river. Around 6.15am, residents and tourists were awestruck spotting the striped beast coming out of the forest and plunging into the muddy river. The euphoria, however, soon changed into panic . Villager Ajoy Pal, one of the scores of people who spotted the tiger, said: “It was trying to cross the river when we raised the alarm. There were a good number of tourists at the Banabibi guest house. We asked them to stay indoors and mobilised villagers, who gathered in large numbers with bamboo sticks and iron rods, to scare the tiger away.” Pal said some villagers had started pelting the tiger with stones, which irritated it and caused it to roar. “But it eventually turned back and ran towards the forest,” he said. Pal, however, said the tiger tried to get inside the fenced forest but couldn’t. “It ran along the bank of the river and went out of sight.” A tourist said the tiger sighting was thrilling. “Frankly, we panicked when it tried to cross the river. At the same time we were lucky to see the tiger up close.” A team of forest officials later visited the area and deputed forest guards to track the tiger’s movement. A senior forest official in Calcutta said the tiger came out by breaking the wire fencing along the forest buffer zone. “We are trying to identify the damaged part so that it can be repaired immediately,” he said. Sunderbans villagers, however, said poor maintenance of the fence made the area vulnerable to tiger attacks. “The tiger may come again. The fence needs maintenance to avert man-animal conflict,” a villager said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur to hold on-campus lab classes||The National Institute of Technology Durgapur is planning to bring final-year BTech students of the eighth semester to the campus so that they can do lab sessions to make up for the classes lost since March last year. The students will graduate in June. “We are planning to hold the lab sessions for two months. During this period, students can attend theory classes on digital platforms while staying in the hostels in strict adherence to safety protocols. But if students graduate without attending the labs, they won’t learn a substantial part of their curriculum. They must complete the laboratory components physically,” NIT director Anupam Basu told Metro. The final-year batch has 650 students. If students don’t attend labs, they could face problems while being interviewed by potential employers or when they go for higher studies, a teacher said. “Attending classes in the departmental labs is a must. Or their studies will remain incomplete,” he said. Another teacher said students would find it difficult to write some of the final semester papers if they didn’t attend lab classes. The institute started bringing the 75 MTech final-year students to campus this month for lab-dependent hardware projects. “We are looking forward to staggered physical reopening across all the years, starting with fourth-year students being brought to the campus from mid-March. Engineering studies cannot happen by merely attending theory classes online,” Basu said. Classes for the graduating batch have been disrupted since they were in the sixth semester. They were promoted to the final year in July last year, after which they have not attended labs. Once the fourth-year students are through with the lab and theory classes, the institute wants to hold the eighth semester exams on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
11-02-2021||Calcutta||City hospital successfully conducts four robot-assisted surgeries||A robot controlled by a surgeon has done four cancer surgeries at a hospital near the city over the past week. The use of the “fourth-generation” robot is among the latest advancements in cancer treatment, doctors of the Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, Howrah, said on Wednesday. “This is among the safest modes of minimally invasive or key-hole surgery. The surgeon controls everything sitting on the console and with the help of robotic arms and stereoscopic 3D vision, gets access to any possible target organ. The removal of a cancerous organ with utmost precision causing little collateral damage is possible with this technology,” said Kaustav Basu, consultant gynaeoncological surgeon at the hospital. The doctors said precision and flexibility are the two main advantages of the robotic port, making it effective in complex surgeries to treat urological, gastro-intestinal and head-and-neck cancer. “In case of prostate cancer, we often have to do a surgery to remove the prostate or a part of it. While removing it, there is a risk of damaging a neurovascular bundle outside the prostate which can trigger a lot of blood loss. The damage to the nerves can cause sexual dysfunctions. The robot can remove what is needed without damaging anything,” said Suman Mallik, clinical director and radiation oncologist at the hospital. The robot is being used more for cancer-related surgeries but it can be helpful in complex surgeries to remove benign tumours as well, the doctors said. Surgeries involving the robot would need smaller incisions which would also mean minimal blood loss and pain and lower chance of infection. The patient would be discharged soon, said doctors. “Post-operative recovery is much faster compared with other conventional methods and the patient can resume normal activities much earlier,” said Basu. The imported robot costs around Rs 12 crore, an official of the hospital said. The price of a robotic cancer surgery at the hospital would cost around Rs 3 lakh, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-147
