12-02-2021||Calcutta||The last teams standing||KIDS’ FINAL The Kids’ final on January 31 turned out to be quite a humdinger with the Shooting Stars facing off against Destroyers. And after 10 overs, both were tied at 120. The match had to go into a Super Over, with Shooting Stars pipping Destroyers to the post. The toss was won by Siddhant Pal of Shooting Stars who elected to bat. As per the rules, the first five overs had the under-12 players batting and bowling. Both the captain and Kamish Rao, the sponsor, had a special word for opener Ishaan Bose but he did not last long. The very next ball after he got out in the fourth over, Aryan Bhaduri got out hit wicket. Parth Ranjan of Destroyers was on a roll, having effected all three dismissals. But Aryan Mohan kept the scoreboard ticking, clearing the ropes at regular intervals. As the sixth over starts, the junior batsmen retire and the two captains face each other, with Siddhant taking guard against 13-year-old Jayatra Chaudhuri who brings himself on. At the fall of the fourth wicket, Aryan Mohan who had retired undefeated, gets to return to the crease. With Siddhant going great guns at the other end, the commentator Rohit Kolte wondered on the mic: “Kya 100 ka ankra chhu payenge Shooting Stars?" Shriya Pandey, a reserve player of the team who was helping out the scorers, retorted: “Koi shaq nahin!” By the time the innings ended, a small bonfire had been lit on the sidelines around which some spectators had formed a huddle to keep off the cold. The match too was heating up with Vatsal Nimodia getting run out off a sharp return from Siddhant in the third over. But Kanishk Khadgawat, the other opener, found an able partner in Ujan Ghosh. Thanks to Kanishk (42 off 25), the Destroyers scored over 60 in the first five overs, creasing brows in the Shooting Stars camp. Yug Kaul played a cameo at the end to level the scores. The Super Over had Destroyers batting first and scoring 11, including a six. But Siddhant and Sayan managed to chase it down with a ball to spare. Siddhant, who was also named the Player of the Tournament, won hearts by giving away his Player of the Match trophy to Aryan Mohan. “Had he not batted so well, we would not have had the runs on the board,” said the victorious captain, who plays in the under-15 tournament of the Cricket Association of Bengal, along with his friend Dheer Jain, who cheered him in the finals despite his own team My Team Mavericks losing in the semi-final. A pizza party took place at Dominoes in the Rosedale Garden complex across the road. “The sponsor has promised another party,” Siddhant grinned. Sudeshna Banerjee When D11 and Warriors had faced off in the group stage, D11 had come up trumps. Since then, both teams had grown in experience and confidence throughout the tournament. At the finals on Sunday, D11 won the toss and elected to bat but lost five quick wickets with none of the batsmen reaching double digits, thanks to a fiery spell by Subodh Chandra from Warriors, who scalped four of the top five. Nonetheless there was remarkable rearguard action with Rajiv Patnaik scoring a blistering 59 runs in 20 balls with 10 hits to the ropes. Vishal Sarda, Salil Yagnick and Riyaz Ahmed too contributed cameos and the team put up a fighting 156 for eight at the end of 12 overs. Warriors lost a wicket in the first over but averted a collapse like their opponents. The DD11 bowlers, however, maintained a decent economy rate, with Patnaik leading the pack, allowing only 14 in his three overs. With the fielding too being tight, the Warriors found it tough to score. The number of dot balls by D11 bowlers started increasing and the Warriors started slipping on run rate. The mounting pressure forced the batsmen to come down the pitch and  take the risky aerial route. A few strokes did cross the boundary but miscued shots led to catches along with two stumpings as well. The fact that there were no extras was proof of the discipline of the D11 bowlers. The team that debuted in the UPL this year ended up winning  the final by a massive 68 runs. “We are a bunch of friends who hang out together and thought of forming a team,” said captain Sidhartha Agarwal. “It is our team spirit that led us to victory.” Agarwal said he had a hunch that the pitch would react differently because of the early morning rain and his decision to bat first paid off. Baljeet Singh, captain of Warriors, was a true sport. “We had been chasing targets and winning matches all through the tournament and today’s score was achievable too. The last five overs proved too expensive for us. Still, we enjoyed immensely,” he said. Salil Yagnick of D11 was named the Man of the Match for taking three wickets. Aniket Sil The women’s final was down to Mystic Maya versus Minions. It was a 10-over match consisting of 10 on-field players and two substitutes. Mystic Maya won the toss and decided to bat, sending out Riya Khan to take strike and Krupa Javalgi at the other end. Poonam Yadav, the captain of Minions, opened the bowling. The first delivery was a no-ball which led to a run and a free hit. But Poonam compensated by getting Riya caught behind in the very next ball. Still the Mystic Mayans scored briskly, thanks to a superb 42-run partnership between captain Mamtaa Baid and Sowmya Sengupta. The crowd cheered when Sowmya struck the first six of the evening and their partnership ended only in the last ball when she got run out. Minions had been set a steep target of 97 runs but they had an excellent strike rate thanks to Poonam’s boundaries. Her consecutive sixes not only helped her score a half-century — she stayed unbeaten at 67 —but also made the spectators applaud. Mystic Maya turned the game around when the Minions needed to score 30 runs in four overs. A maiden over by Riya increased the pressure on Minions and 12 runs were required in the last over. But a canny change in the field placement and bowling plan by Mamtaa ensured that the Mayans won the game by six runs. “It was an achievable target for the Minions but our strategy was to either get wickets or restrict the runs. Since we could only take one wicket, we had to got for defensive field placing to prevent the boundaries,” said Mamtaa. The captains shared the honours with Mamtaa being named the Player of the Match and Poonam the Best Bowler as well as Player of the Series. Aniket Sil||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Meet the four mates of Sohini Majumdar ||Shohini Majumder has four dogs, all as like as chalk and cheese. The first-born is Angel, a German Shepherd who lives up to her name. “She’s calm, caring, and obedient. She even takes my mother’s permission before going to play on the terrace,” says Shohini approvingly. Angel’s daughter is Winnie who, far from seeking permission, often goes missing from the house, only to surface in the neighbour’s. Next came Mili, a street dog whom the family had arranged to get sterilised. “But she developed an infection that made her hind legs lifeless. We brought her home to nurture back to health and never could give her up,” says the lady who runs a content writing firm. Mili has recovered now and much of the credit goes to Winnie. “Winnie would force Mili to play with her and all that exercise healed her. My father even jokes that Winnie’s play-bites worked like acupuncture on Mili’s legs!” Finally came Tutu, a puppy who the family found crying in their lane and adopted. And now any guest to the house has to spend 20 minutes playing with the four dogs before so much as saying hello to the humans. Passerbys get an earful from Winnie and her sidekick Tutu. “But they don’t mean to scare them away. They mean to invite people in.” It’s only Mili who is moody in the pack. She decides if she lets you pet her or not. “Actually she’s gone through such pain and has had so many strangers pricking her with saline needles that she has a phobia about outsiders.” And then there’s Angel who, despite being the first dog in the family, has never been insecure about the newbies. She doesn’t even spare a glance at barking street dogs when we take her for a walk,” says Shohini. Walks are a much-loved routine in the family. “If I comb my hair or change my outfit in the evening the dogs know they are going out. Winnie will even bring her leash to me,” smiles Shohini, who feels it’s often the dogs who take her for a walk. Her younger sister Rohini seconds that. “The other day Winnie was so restless on her walk that she ran, dragging me till I fell on my face,” Rohini grimaces. And then there’s Angel, who goes to walk without a leash at all. “Once when I was walking Angel, the leash slipped out without my notice,” says Rohini. “When I turned back I saw Angel gone! I was panic-stricken and didn’t know where to search. But then I headed home and saw Angel had returned and was, in fact, waiting for me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Farewell options for your pet||While the city now has a handful of pet burial grounds, a crematorium has also opened, near Dum Dum. Opened in the last week of December, the facility has already cremated about 100 animals. Situated near the dumping ground off Belgharia Expressway, the South Dum Dum Municipality Pet Crematorium has two electric furnaces with a trolley on the outside to carry the bodies of animals. It can carry a maximum weight of about 500kg while the furnace coils can reach 800°C temperature. Besides pets, the service is also open to cattle and other animals and so a crane is on standby to lift and place large animals onto the trolley. A waiting room and toilets are available for mourners. “When my pet dog died it was just two months before the Lok Sabha elections,” said MP Saugata Roy, who had come for the inauguration. “I cancelled all my rallies and appointments so we could bid him farewell. But to my surprise, I couldn’t find a single crematorium or burial ground in my neighbourhood. We had to drive 10km out of the city where a person allowed his backyard as a pet burial site. It was a traumatic experience and I don’t want anyone to suffer like that,” said Roy. Urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim said the idea for the crematorium for animals was the chief minister’s. “We have seen animal carcasses being left to decay at roadsides and canal sides, which is unhygienic. Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) took up this project at a cost of Rs 4 crore. It is spread over 10 cottahs,” said the minister, who also heads CMDA. The facility is open round the clock and can be contacted at 25602357. The pet burial ground in New Town, in the meantime, has been of help to many a grieving pet family. But the plot has run out of space and the land is being recycled over for more pets. “A burial ground is bound to run out of space and we are recycling the plots after a year,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) that has built the facility. “We have received several requests from pet owners who want to pay more and keep the space intact for longer but we cannot allow that,” he said. The 24-hour facility had opened about two years ago and the 160-odd plots got filled up in 22 months. Beloved dogs, cats, rabbits have all made the space their final resting ground and plaques and tombstones have been erected bearing names, pictures and messages from their families. “Our visiting hours are from 4 to 5pm and people come every day with flowers, dhoop dhuno, toys etc,” said an official of the centre. They don’t allow food as that would attract rodents. “After a year, we inform the families that the space will be recycled and that they may take home their plaques. Some even seek a fistful of the soil that their pets have become one with.” The New Town authorities have no plans for a pet crematorium. Suchismita Bose of Salt Lake’s BF Block had recently gone to bury her 10-year-old Golden Retreiver Walle there and had found the service helpful. “Of course, it would have been better if they could have retained the pets in the ground for more than a year but this is better than cremating them. The natural tendency of animals is to dig the ground and bury their deceased loved ones so a burial ground seems like the best option for them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Bhaiphota with a twist, only for sisters||The ululation, the conchshell blowing, the gifts, and above all the sandalwood paste on the forehead… It was all there. The only person missing was the brother. But he was not missed at all for what was being celebrated on a winter afternoon at The Sonnet was Bon Phota. The organiser and the common sister to all the guests was Indrani Ganguly. “We sisters feel somewhat excluded on Bhaiphota which we observe for the well-being of the brother. So I thought of having an event exclusively for sisters,” said the director of DB Block-based Sristi Dance Academy, who grew up with only a sister as sibling. Most guests took the event in a spirit of enjoyment. “We have given phota to friends for fun. Recently two friends turned 40. We went to bless them,” laughed Chandreyee Ghosh, who recently featured in the film Cheeni. Some took the occasion seriously and lauded the women-only initiative. “Men have always cornered women. But in some Northeast tribes, women are the head of the family,” said Aparna Niyogi, a lawyer who has earlier served as a municipal councillor. The two ‘sisters’ who received the most requests for selfies were Lily Chakraborty and Sakuntala Barua. They too happily obliged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Ray to Gulzaar, for 62 years||Lily Chakraborty, all of 79, went back to work when most of the city was still working from home. “The producers called me, saying they were resuming shoot from July 15. I joined on July 31.” Chakraborty stays in the same building as her sister’s family in Dum Dum ever since her husband passed away 11 years ago. “They were unwilling to let me go out but I was feeling suffocated and anxious sitting at home.” Chakraborty has completed 62 years in the film industry, starting with the laugh riot Bhanu Pelo Lottery in 1958. “It was a small role (of the typist Maya).” Ten years later, she would play the lead in another Bhanu Banerjee film, Bhanu Goenda Jahar Assistant. Basking in Ray Few know that she was close to bagging the lead too in Satyajit Ray's film Apur Sansar when she was 17. “Sharmila was having trouble getting leave from school to shoot. One of his (Ray’s) production managers took me to their Lake Temple Road house. Bijoya (Ray) boudi tene chul bedhe dilen. He (Ray) said he had already spoken to a girl and if it worked out with her, I was not to feel disappointed. I was brought up in Madhya Pradesh and had no clue who Satyajit Ray was,” she laughed. The same year, she did a scene in Suchitra Sen’s Deep Jwele Jaai too. A milestone film in her career is Tapan Sinha’s Hasuli Banker Upokotha. “I was doing major roles at this time though not heroine, except in Bibaho Bibhrat (another laugh riot with Anup Kumar and Rabi Ghosh). “But I never called Manikda to remind him that he had promised to consider me in future.” Then she left for Bombay, returning briefly to do Tarun Majumdar’s Phuleswari. “I played Sandhya Roy’s sister-in-law.” It was in Bombay that she received a letter from Ray, saying he had liked her in Phuleswari. “He wanted me to do a role in Jana Aranya, Shankar’s novel that he was adapting for the screen.” Chakraborty dropped all work to come and do the film. “Later when he visited Bombay, he took me to Rajkamal Studio to finish the dubbing.” Fifteen year later, she would be cast again in Ray’s Sakha Prosakha. “Ami onar khub pochhonder artiste chhilam. When he finished scripting for Uttaran, Boudi had asked; ‘Ei role ta ke korbe?’ He had responded: ‘Kyano? Amader Lily achhe’,” she smiled at the recollection. Ray passed away soon after and the film was directed by his son Sandip. Chakraborty left for Bombay on getting an offer in a mythological film. “At that time in the 70s, Naxalite violence was at its peak. The frequent bombing affected filming. Work reduced in Tollygunge.” The project took time and she ended up renting a place in Bombay. “Tanuda (Majumdar) came over to read me the Phuleswari script. Mukulda (Dutta, the lyricist) was also there. The hotel was just behind our residence yet Mukulda insisted on sending me home in a car, so his driver could see my place.” A week later, the driver came to pick me up. “Mukulda’s wife Chand Osmani, a famous actress of the time, was cooking jeere diye machher jhol. Mukulda said Gulzaar had seen my Deya Neya and wanted to meet me. So I went over. He was about to marry Rakhee around that time and I spotted a high-heeled pair of shoes outside.” Gulzaar read her a script and then asked how her Hindi was. “Till then he was conversing in Bengali. As I switched to Hindi, he exclaimed that I was as good as Jaya (Bachchan). I said we hailed from the same state, Madhya Pradesh.” That film was Achanak, where she acted opposite Vinod Khanna. Next year, she did the star-studded Chupke Chupke. “Hrishida (Hrishikesh Mukherjee) directed it. Achanak too was his production. He had recommended my name.” Around this time, Uttam Kumar sent for her to do Bhola Moyra. “He had wanted me in another film after Deya Neya but said he had to give the role to someone who asked for it and he could not say no.” Chakraborty could not return to Bombay after completing Bhola Moyra as the theatre fraternity insisted that she was needed here. “I always had a soft corner for theatre as I used to act on stage from my youth,” she recalls. Bilkis Begum, co-starring Subhendu Chatterjee, ran for five years. “It would have gone on if Bijan Theatre did not close for renovation. Even the last night was houseful, like the first,” she recalled. Chakraborty has a lot of memories with another stalwart, Ray’s favourite actor Soumitra Chatterjee. “We worked together in a string of films in recent times — Tumi O Tumi, Sesh Chithi, Meyemanush, Saanjhbati... Abalamban has still not come out. We did not share a scene in that film, being part of two different families.” The last film they worked in together was Saanjhbati, which was shot extensively in Salt Lake. “That film has received a lot of appreciation. Everyone did well. Dev worked so hard in that film, especially on dubbing.” As she gets up on being called for a group photograph, it strikes one that Chakraborty and Chatterjee shared more than screen. They had in common a commitment that defied all other considerations, including their advanced age — to work. “They (the producers) do have a good system in place. The studio is sanitised, my car is sanitised…” she assures one, on being requested to be careful in these pandemic-hit times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Woman out for walk found dead near home in Behala||The body of a woman was found in a lane near her house in Behala’s Jayshree Park early on Thursday, police said. The woman was found lying face down. Morning walkers, who first spotted the body, didn’t realise that the woman was from their neighbourhood till a police team came and took the body away. The woman has been identified as Nila Bhattacharya, 45. The police took her to Vidyasagar Hospital, where doctors declared her dead. The body has been sent for post-mortem amid questions whether she had fallen or someone had hit her. “There were injury marks on her head and left eye. It is still not clear whether she fell and injured herself or someone hit her with a heavy object,” said a senior police officer. “The post-mortem report will provide some answers.” Nila lived with her husband and son at their house in Anandapally, near Jayshree Park, in Behala. Police have learnt that she would regularly step out in the evening, like she did on Wednesday. She had a shawl-like cover on her and was wearing chappals. When Nila didn’t return, family members looked for her at the places she would usually visit. Not sure what to do next, they were waiting for daybreak. The body was spotted a few metres from her house in the morning. “There were blood stains on her face, but no injury marks on her arms and legs. There were no marks to suggest there was a scuffle or that she tried to resist someone,” an officer of Behala police station said. The lane where the body was found is in the middle of a quiet locality on the outskirts of Behala. It has rows of houses on one side and a boundary wall on the other. The lane is so narrow that it is difficult for a vehicle to pass through. “It is unlikely she was dumped from any vehicle late at night,” another officer said. The police have started a case of unnatural death. Officers said they might add other sections after going through the post-mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine registration fraud racket||The lack of clarity about the registration for Covid-19 vaccine doses has led to confusion among citizens and fraudsters have jumped in to dupe elderly Calcuttans. Several people have received purported text messages asking them to enrol their names for receiving a free dose of a Covid vaccine that the government is likely to administer to the elderly and those with comorbidities. The message asks the recipient to click on a link to update identity documents as part of the enrolment process. “These are fake messages through which fraudsters are trying to lure clueless citizens into an online trap,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Elderly residents who live alone in the city will find it convenient to enrol their names sitting at home, an officer said. Police said they had received reports of people receiving such fraudulent messages. “We are trying to create awareness that such messages should be ignored or the number should be reported to the police. It is advisable never to call back on such numbers or click on any link sent through a text message from an unknown number,” the officer said. What can happen if one clicks on the link? Fraudsters are using more than one modus operandi to dupe people on the pretext of registering their names for Covid vaccines, a cyber expert said. Either they will ask to call back on a mobile number given in the text message or ask the recipient to click on a link and share personal details. “Clicking on the link will download an application on your phone that has the potential to mirror your phone. Henceforth, any financial transactions you make can be accessed by the fraudsters. In case you call back on the number, they will ask for your personal details and then coax you into clicking on the link,” said a senior police officer. Fraudsters may also ask you to pay a small amount like Rs 10 to get your name registered, the police said. “This, too, is a trap. Once you click on that link and then make a transaction, however small, it will comprise your banking details.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Institute of Child Health to add 80 beds||The Institute of Child Health will set up 80 more beds, taking the bed count of the Park Circus hospital to 300. All 80 beds will be set up in an 11-storey building coming up on the campus, officials of the hospital said. The existing 220 beds will eventually be shifted to the new building. Apurba Ghosh, paediatrician and director of the institute, said they were hoping to start functioning from the new building in two to three years. “We have 220 beds. We plan to add 80 more beds when the new building is ready,” he said. “Our old buildings have suffered considerable wear and tear. Besides, we are also facing a space crunch as we have started new projects, like a nursing college. The new building is also needed to upgrade the facilities of the hospital and bring in some modern equipment.” The foundation stone of the new building was laid by minister Firhad Hakim on Thursday. Another official of the hospital said the new beds would be split across departments. The hospital plans to open neurosurgery and cardiac surgery units once the new building becomes functional, the official said. “The hospital started with only 40 beds.... The number of patients is increasing with time. There is an urgent need to have a bigger space, to accommodate the growing needs of patients as well as for the safety of the patients. Our old buildings are showing signs of wear and tear,” said Aradhana Ghosh Chowdhury, the deputy CEO of the hospital. About 450 children are treated at the hospital’s OPD every day, said an official. The nursing college will start admitting students this year. The hospital also offers MD (paediatrics) and postgraduate diploma degrees in child health. “The students have to stay on the campus, according to new rules. We have to create hostel facilities, for which we need more space,” said Ghosh. “I urge all to donate for the construction of the building. We are a non-profit hospital and need significant donations from people. We are in talks with some private corporations,” said Ghosh Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Teen foils child marriage in South 24-Parganas village||A child marriage was foiled on Monday at a village in South 24-Parganas because of efforts of a teenager in the neighbourhood. The 17-year-old girl, a member of a local child protection committee, went to the would-be bride’s home on Monday morning, hours before the marriage. She was instrumental in prevailing upon her parents to cancel the wedding, said other members of the committee who accompanied her to the girl’s home. A “strict warning” from police was helpful in “persuading” the parents. “We were tipped off about the marriage on Monday morning. I am happy that we reached there in time and were able to stop the marriage,” said the teenager, a Class XI student. The marriage was to have taken place at a village near Ghutiari Sharif, around 45km from the heart of Calcutta. “The 14-year-old girl, a student of Class VII, and the youth had known each other for a while and were spotted together by some villagers. The girl’s parents came under pressure and they approached the boy’s parents on Sunday. The two families scheduled the wedding for Monday,” said Samim Laskar, 29, a member of the child protection committee. “The girl’s father is a daily wage earner and was struggling to find work regularly. He has three daughters.” Metro has reported a spike in child marriages, especially in South and North 24-Parganas, in the wake of the lockdown induced by the Covid pandemic. Faced with a severe financial crisis, many families are considering getting their underage daughters married. On Monday, when the committee members reached the girl’s house, her parents were not home. “The girl denied she was about to get married but new clothes strewn around the house were a give-away,” said Laskar. A small crowd had gathered outside the home, taunting the visitors for “interfering in personal matters”. A social worker accompanying the visitors then called up an officer of a police outpost in Ghutiari Sharif. A team of cops reached the spot and drove the crowd away. The girl’s mother returned a while later. She was insisting the marriage was far away, but she broke down following a warning from the police. The teenage committee member spoke to the mother and daughter in detail. “She told the mother that she was sacrificing her daughter’s future for a short-term gain. When the woman said they were unable to bear her expenses, she spoke of various government schemes for girls and promised to provide institutional support from the committee,” Laskar said. The mother went to the police outpost to give an undertaking that she would not get her daughter married before she turned 18. The village-level child protection committees have been playing an integral part in curbing child marriages and trafficking in South 24-Parganas. The committee members raise awareness against child marriage, child labour and trafficking by extensive campaigning. “These groups are created to provide a safe space where children and adolescents can express and raise issues that concern them. They play a vital role in implementation of comprehensive community based interventions,” said a representative of International Justice Mission, an NGO that trains many such child protection committee members. Most of the committees have adolescent members. “The closure of schools had made our job difficult. Now that the schools are set to reopen, I can regularly interact with girls again,” said the teenager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
12-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC stops 'registering' for Covid vaccine||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has stopped “registering” names of people above 50 at its ward health clinics for vaccination against Covid, officials of the civic body said on Thursday. Senior officials of the CMC’s health department conveyed the decision to stop the so-called registration to officials in charge of health services in the 16 boroughs of Calcutta at a meeting at the civic headquarters. Metro reported on Thursday that some ward health clinics of the CMC had kept books where people above 50 were enrolling their names in the hope that they would get preference when vaccination of the general public would begin. Senior state government officials had told this newspaper that the health department had not asked the CMC to register names of people above 50 since it was not clear when their turn would come for Covid vaccine doses. Currently, health-care and frontline workers are being given Covid shots. The Centre has hinted that vaccination of people above 50 and those below 50 but with comorbidities would start after March 6. “The commissioner of the CMC has instructed the civic health department to stop registration of names of Calcuttans above 50,” said an official. This newspaper called municipal commissioner Binod Kumar on Thursday evening but he said he could not hear anything. He did not respond to text messages till late on Thursday. The registration was being done at a few ward health clinics and it triggered a flood of queries from people in other parts of the city. In the absence of any public campaign by the CMC about the registration, people were also raising questions about the validity of the process. WhatsApp messages, sent by some ward coordinators to select residents of their areas, were circulating across the city. Many people landed up at their nearest CMC offices to enquire about where and how to register their names. CMC doctors managing health clinics where the registration did not start said they were under pressure from the respective ward coordinators — outgoing councillors — to start such registration in their clinics. “We were telling the ward coordinators that there was no guarantee that the registration would be considered valid when inoculation of the general public would start, but they would argue with us. Today’s instruction to stop the registration will help us,” said a doctor. “We would often get calls from residents who wanted to register their names.” More than 1,300 names had been registered in Ward 82 in Chetla. A few names had also been registered in Ward 68 in Ballygunge. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, mentions that “the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly election will be used to identify people aged 50 years or more”. A health department official said the state had to follow the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry in matters related to vaccination. The so-called registration raised questions in the minds of people outside Calcutta whether the city was being given preferential treatment. Among Calcuttans who did not get WhatsApp messages from their ward coordinators, many wondered whether some people were being preferred over others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||PCB gives coal-to-LPG push to ironers in Salt Lake||Coal burnt by the neighbourhood ironer has been identified as a significant source of air pollution. So the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) has decided to distribute LPG-powered iron pressers to them. On Tuesday, the programme was initiated in Lake Town by handing over 60 such irons to the roadside ironers from the Bidhannagar assembly constituency area. The programme, held in presence of fire and emergency services minister Sujit Basu, WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra and member secretary Rajesh Kumar, has been undertaken to reduce air pollution and carbon emission in Salt Lake, as well as in Calcutta and Howrah. The pollution levels remain consistently higher in these areas compared to the national benchmark. “We want to reduce air pollution caused by burning of coal to generate heat in roadside laundries by handing over free LPG-powered iron pressers to them,” said PCB chairman Rudra. “So far, we have received a list of about 400 such ironers in Salt Lake. We will hand over the rest soon,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Minister Sujit Bose pointed out that air pollution needed to be reduced without affecting the livelihood of poor people. So this is a useful move on both counts,” he said. The PCB chairman claimed that apart from the environmental benefit, the switch over from coal to gas would mean economic gain for the ironers. According to a survey, roadside laundry workers spend around Rs 200 per day on coal to iron about 150 clothes. “The cost would reduce to Rs 40 per day once they switch.” While the PCB is providing the iron presser worth Rs 4,800 with a gas-filled cylinder free, the recipients would have to refill the LPG once the first cylinder gets exhausted. State environment minister Soumen Mahapatra had earlier told The Telegraph Salt Lake that the PCB planned to handover 10,000 iron pressers in Calcutta, Bidhannagar and Howrah in a phased manner. A recent air pollution study conducted by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), commissioned by WBPCB, found that ironers contribute 0.14 per cent of the total PM 10 pollutants and 0.29 per cent of the total PM 2.5 pollutant load in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area’s air pollution mix. PCB officials say that though Bidhannagar was out of the purview of the NEERI study, its figures are expected to be close to Calcutta’s. Both PM 10 and 2.5 pollutants are toxic — the latter more so — as they can enter the respiratory system and trigger diseases, including cancer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Salt Lake resident cheated of Rs 11 lakh||Three men were arrested in East Midnapore’s Egra early on Thursday for allegedly duping an elderly resident of Salt Lake of Rs 11 lakh by posing as executives of a cellular service provider, police said. The arrest followed a complaint lodged by Manav Mehra, a resident of BG block in Salt Lake’s Sector II, with Bidhannagar East police station. The three were picked up based on the statements of a fourth accused, who had been arrested on January 25, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. According to the complaint, Mehra’s father Amit had received a call in January and the caller introduced himself as an executive of a telecom service provider, the officer said. The caller told Amit Mehra that his cellphone number would be blocked and his SIM card would be deactivated as he had not submitted some documents. “The caller then asked Mehra to follow his instructions. Mehra received a link on his cellphone and the caller asked him to click on it and tell him the OTP that was sent to him,” the officer said. After Mehra shared the OTP with the caller, Rs 11 lakh was withdrawn from his bank account. An officer of the commissionerate said Mehra had been sent a link for a team-viewing app that let people control a cellphone or computer remotely. “Once Mehra told the caller the OTP, he gained complete control of his cellphone and siphoned off the money from his bank account,” the officer said. The three men who were arrested early on Thursday are Sougata Barapanda, Naba Kumar Patra and Shantanu Pradhan, alias Babu, all residents of Egra. Barapanda and Patra are distributors of a telecom service provider in Egra, while Pradhan sells SIM cards. The cops had earlier arrested Asif Khan from West Burdwan in connection with the case. A large number of pre-activated SIM cards have been recovered from the men. The SIM cards had been activated using forged documents, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Subdivisional hospital gets critical care unit||The opening was done virtually by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who also holds the health portfolio, from a programme at Netaji Indoor Stadium while local MLA and minister Sujit Bose, deputy chief medical officer, health, North 24-Parganas, Suparna Chattopadhyay and sub-divisional officer Biswajit Panda were present on a stage at the hospital. The guests were given a tour of the new ward where till recently Covid vaccination was being undertaken. Now the space has been sanitised and fitted with ventilators, ECG machines, defibrillators, BiPAP machines and infusion pumps. The 12-bed facility will run from next week with six beds for now. “The hospital caters to a wide cross-section of people in a big sub-division that ranges from Duttabad on one side to Sukantanagar and Polenite on the other, including all the blocks of Salt Lake and 10 more outside. It has developed step by step in recent years. I have contributed Rs 29 lakh from my local area development fund for this,” said Bose, who is also the chairman of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti of the hospital. Partha Pratim Guha, the superintendent of the hospital, expressed satisfaction that patients would no longer have to be referred to Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital if they turned critical. “Sometimes getting a bed would be difficult. Now we hope to provide complete care under the same roof,” he said. Other facilities that have been added in the past three years are blood bank, digital X-ray, and CT scan. “All these are open round the clock. The chief minister had visited the hospital in 2015 and asked us what facilities were needed. The requirements are being met gradually,” Guha added. The programme was conducted by medical officer Subhro Bhattacharya, who is in charge of the state homeopathy dispensary at the hospital. An award of contract has also been passed this week for an ENT endoscope worth Rs 18.45 lakh for the hospital. “We hear even a dialysis unit has been sanctioned for us. We will create space for it once there is confirmation,” hospital sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||New police chief in charge||Supratim Sarkar is the new police commissioner of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. He has taken over from Mukesh Kumar. Kumar has now been posted as DIG Barasat range. Before this, Sarkar held the post of additional CP-II in Calcutta Police and had earlier served as the North 24-Parganas superintendent of police from 2007 to 2009. The shuffle is in line with the Election Commission’s stipulation that no officer should be in the same post for more than three years during the polls. In Salt Lake, the inspector-in-charge of the Bidhannagar South police station was replaced. Saikat Ghosh has also joined as the deputy commissioner, traffic, a few days ago. The vaccination drive of Bidhannagar Commissionerate began on Wednesday. The early recipients of the vaccines included deputy commissioner, headquarters, Surya Pratap Yadav, deputy commissioner of police, Bidhannagar, Umesh Ganpat and assistant commissioner of police, north, Shantanu Koar. The officers were administered the Covishield vaccine at Calcutta Heart Clinic. Henceforth policemen and women will be administered vaccines from both the Calcutta Heart Clinic and the Salt Lake sub-divisional hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals seek Covid vaccine clarity||The Centre is planning to start Covid-19 vaccination for two priority groups among the general public and private hospitals are asking how long they will have to provide infrastructure for the campaign and whether they need to allot more space and personnel. Some private hospitals said they might not be in a position to provide infrastructure and personnel for the vaccination programme if it goes on for an indefinite period. Others said they are ready to vaccinate the general public. If private hospitals opt out in large numbers, the queue for the jabs will increase at government health-care units, including those run by civic bodies across the state. The Centre has hinted that Covid vaccination among two priority groups of the general population — people above 50 and those below 50 but with comorbidities — would start after March 6. Most private hospitals said they had to provide five rooms for Covid vaccination. The room where recipients are made to wait for half an hour after being administered the jab has to be large to ensure physical distancing. Around 10 personnel, including doctors and nurses, are needed each day for the vaccination. Now most hospitals are administering Covid-19 vaccine doses to not more than 100-odd people — health-care workers and frontline workers. But officials of several private hospitals said the number could increase several times when others would start getting doses. Then they might need more rooms and personnel. “We have decided not to continue the vaccination programme after inoculation of health and frontline workers is completed. At the beginning of the drive, the state government’s form had three options for vaccination — health-care workers, frontline workers and general people. We ticked only the first two,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “A large area of our hospital has been dedicated to the vaccination programme and we cannot keep it like that indefinitely.” The CEO of another private hospital said they had asked the state government whether it was possible to pull out of the vaccination drive midway. “We have limited space in our hospital and can run the programme for maximum six months. It’s fine if everyone is covered in that period. Otherwise, we’ll have to opt out,” said the CEO. An official of the state health department said taking part in the vaccination drive was optional for private hospitals. “They can opt out anytime,” he said. An official of the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences said they would approach the state government to know how many people would have to be vaccinated each day when the programme starts for the general public. “Now we are vaccinating around 100 people on an average every day. If the number increases, we have to gear up our infrastructure and personnel,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. “With the existing infrastructure, we can vaccinate more than 200 people. We have to increase the number of rooms and personnel if the government says more people will have to be vaccinated daily,” Venkatesh said. Doctors and government officials said they are flooded with queries from “common people” about when they would be vaccinated and where. “More than 70 per cent of my patients are asking me when they will get the vaccine,” pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar said. Some of the hospitals said they would continue with the vaccination drive. “We have told the state government that we are ready to administer vaccines to the general public,” said Rana Dasgupta, CEO, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Mission mosquito||New Town has imposing statues of owls and rhinos but residents with multiple swollen red dots all over their hands will claim that it’s mosquitoes that are the most formidable presence. Salt Lake is no better. Mosquito nets have been pulled out of the loft and mosquito repellents are being sprayed generously all over households. Mosquitoes are back in the news as the pet peeve of the twin townships. Nightmare in New Town Residents of New Town’s AB, AD, AI, AL, CD, CE and DC have been crying hoarse about mosquitoes since the start of the year. Mrinal Das, a Santoshpur resident, spends the winter every year in the two-storeyed building he has built in AL Block. “This year, things were so bad that we had to quit New Town after staying for just a month and half, a full month earlier than we had planned to. There is wild growth in our adjacent vacant plots. Sometimes the NKDA team used to come for fogging but that only drove the mosquitoes into the house. It was unbearable even at daytime,” said Das, who has recently retired from service. Aniket Basak of AB Block has to shut all doors and windows of his house by 4pm. But that does not guarantee respite. “We have to keep the doors of the kitchen and the toilet closed too as they sneak in through the exhaust fan outlets there. In fact, going to the toilet at night is a torture as they lie in wait inside in a scourge.” He hopes that the situation would improve before summer. “It will be impossible to sleep with everything shut like this in the heat.” Even if one steps outside, in full-sleeved dress, the mosquitoes target the part of the body that they find uncovered, residents say. Whenever Uniworld City resident Sunil Khatri went down to watch the cricket tournament in their complex last weekend, he had to carry two things: mosquito repelling ointment and an electric racket to smack and electrocute the pests. “Without these it’s impossible to sit in the open in New Town,” he said. Salt Lake on the edge In Salt Lake, many blocks off the Kestopur canal, in sectors I and II, and off the Eastern Drainage Channel, in Sector III, are reeling under the onslaught of mosquitoes chasing them everywhere. Samar Bhattacharya of EE Block has had to give up on his evening walks due to the menace. “They keep following and buzzing over our heads. It gets worse in the evenings and we don’t see any vector control teams around anymore,” said Bhattacharya. “It’s never been as bad as this winter. This year we’ve had to take out mosquito nets,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice-president of Jal Vayu Vihar Co-operative Housing Society. His complex lies on the entrance of Salt Lake from the Chingrihata side where construction work is on to build the Airport-New Garia Metro over the Eastern Drainage Canal. “The labourers are dumping their materials in the canal and the water is stagnating, giving a free run to mosquitoes. The corporation workers are spraying insecticide and fogging but it’s not helping,” said Chaudhuri over phone, sitting inside a mosquito net in his apartment at 6pm. Himadri Roy of Salt Lake’s AB Block is just as fed up. “Previously during morning walks we could see the Kestopur Canal water flowing but now it’s not only stagnant but also very low in depth. Mosquitoes are having a field day. We’ve given up urging  the authorities to do something about it,” he said. Challenges ahead The administration has a difficult challenge on hand, warn entomologists. Culex quinquefasciatus, the species of mosquito mostly breeding in New Town, is tough to control, they say, as these can fly in any direction up to 5km from their breeding site in search of blood. NKDA had contacted the Calcutta Municipal Corporation for help and chief vector control officer Debashis Biswas had come to give a two-hour presentation on January 19. Speaking to The Telegraph Salt Lake, Biswas points out that Culex quinquefasciatus become prevalent from October to March. “It remains active till March and is a vector of filariasis. But filaria patients are almost non-existent in Calcutta, Salt Lake or New Town -- it needs to bite a human to transmit the worm and the disease -- so it is more of a nuisance.” It breeds after the rainy season gets over when concentration of organic matter and organic ions increase in water. “Roadside gully pits, open surface drains, water accumulated in construction sites, abandoned water bodies and sides of canals where the water is stagnant are perfect breeding sites for this mosquito,” Biswas said. The suggestions he made at the presentation included resection and flushing of canals. “The Kestopur canal needs to be flushed by the irrigation department by opening the Bagbazar sluice gate.” He also suggested giving a guideline to promoters to keep the construction sites free of larvae. “They should buy knapsack sprayers and spray larvaecide. Every seven days, stagnant water should be pumped out as mosquitoes can breed there otherwise. In case that is not possible, two to two-and-half litres of kerosene should be sprayed for every 100sqm area, though this is not a long term solution,” he said. He also spoke of which insecticide to spray in what kind of terrain and suggested the eco-friendly BTI powder to be sprayed in canals. “Once the official letter comes from NKDA, our people will visit the spots to monitor how the vector control work is progressing in New Town.”. On war footing “We are aware of the mosquito menace and are using a multi-pronged approach to tackle the problem,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “In consultation with the fisheries department have released a lakh guppies in water bodies of the township including canals and those at Rabindra Tirtha and Eco Park,” Sen said. The fish eat up mosquito larva. They have also identified a problem with the septic tanks in the fringe areas of the township and are trying to overcome it. “A septic tank has three chambers. A vent pipe comes out of the third chamber which has only water. There is a species of mosquito, Armigeres subalbatus, which breeds inside. If the open mouths can be wrapped with nets, the entry of mosquitoes into the tank and their breeding can be blocked,” explained Biswas. Sen said they are now indeed getting the mouths of the tanks covered to control the menace. NKDA’s vector control team is also netting the surface of Kestopur Canal to trap mosquitoes underneath. “That way, even if they do breed in the water they will be unable to fly out of the region,” he said. The intensity and frequency of fogging and larvicide spraying has been increased and recently, the campuses of West Bengal Judicial Academy and St Xavier’s University were sprayed and fogged too. Teams on boats are spraying along the banks of Bagjola and Keshtopur canals. “At the same time I request residents not to allow water to stagnate. It’s winter but it rained the other day and such spells can lead to water accumulation. There can be no room for complacency,” said Sen. Relief in sight Alok Das, of CE Block, feels the NKDA’s actions have started to bear fruit. “Mosquitoes are still there but things seem to be improving over the last few days. The Kestopur canal is being cleared of water hyacinths and spraying of larvaecide is also being done. Earlier the cleaning was happening till the concrete box bridge near Loha Bridge. Now they are extending the activity till Aquatica. A net has been installed to guard the flotsam from drifting downstream into the New Town part of the canal,” said Das, who regularly goes over to monitor the canal-side work. Ajit Jose was down with dengue in the second week of January. “The weather was pleasant so I used to go for evening walks. I must have  got bitten then,” says the general manager of Ibis Hotel, who has recently moved into New Town. “Our hotel is fogged regularly but outside in the streets the mosquitoes were everywhere.” He too believes the situation has improved with the rise in temperature. Spraying equipment defunct If you’re impressed with the effort in New Town wait till you hear of the state in Salt Lake. A Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation official said that many of their larvicide-spraying equipment had become defunct. “And we can’t call for new tenders till the elections,” he said. “Salt Lake does not have open drains and it’s perplexing how there has been such a rise in the number of mosquitoes,” said Pranay Kumar Ray, member of the civic body’s board of administrators. “We will  launch a drive to check all septic tanks.” An official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which provides civic services to Sector V, said that they were spraying larvicide regularly but a dip in temperature had led to a spurt in mosquitoes. On Wednesday, The Telegraph saw accumulated water thrown from pavement eateries on the sides of the roads in Sector V. Do it yoruself Fed up of the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities, some Salt Lake residents have taken it upon themselves to tackle mosquitoes. The AE (Part II) association has been spraying larvicide around the block for the past couple of months. “The civic body’s vector control measures are not enough and since our block is adjacent to Kestopur Canal we are at the mercy of mosquitoes, whose population has gone up by several times,” said Tapas Sengupta the secretary of the AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha. “The authorities must release water into the canal by opening the lockgate of the Hooghly river at Baghbazar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Bandh worry on day of school reopening||Thousands of students who are set to return to school after almost a year went to sleep with uncertainty as Left parties have called a 12-hour bandh on Friday. The state government has allowed schools, which have been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid, to reopen for Classes IX to XII from February 12. Parents are anxious that going to school on Day 1 after resumption of in-person classes might be hampered if the bandh disrupts transport. Suman Das, a resident of Piyali in South 24-Parganas, is a Class XII student at Katjunagar Swarnamoyee Vidyapith in Jadavpur. “We take a train from Piyali to Jadavpur. We are not sure whether we can allow him to go tomorrow because train services might be disrupted,” said mother Pratima Das. Asked about the bandh, education minister Partha Chatterjee said the government would go ahead with its decision to reopen schools on Friday. “Everybody wanted schools to reopen. What will happen to the students who will appear in Madhyamik and higher secondary exams? If they (those who have called the bandh) take any decision without paying attention to these issues, what can we do? We will go ahead with our plan,” he said. Schools are sticking to their reopening schedule. “We will keep the school open and also continue with online classes. Those students who will come to school will have on-campus classes and those who cannot can attend online classes. We leave it to parents to decide whether they can send their wards to school or not,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. Many parents said they would accompany their children to school fearing trouble. “I will drop my daughter in the morning and pick her up in the afternoon. I do not want her to be alone because there might be disturbance on the road,” said S. Mukherjee, who lives in Panchasayar. Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School, expressed the hope that the bandh would not impact public transport. “Friday is the first day of school after so many months and we are eager to welcome the students back. Many senior students travel on their own and depend on public transport,” said Prasad. “Many of our students come from places far away from Jadavpur. They rely on public transport. How will they come to school? Guardians are worried,” said Parimal Bhattacharya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith. “The guardians are calling us to find out what they will do. We are clueless, too. An elaborate plan to restart school has suffered a jolt,” said Subhabrata Mukherjee, the headmaster of Sanskrit Collegiate School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Faced with resistance from parents, schools offer online exams||The parents of many students of Classes IX and XI at Delhi Public School Ruby Park have objected to the authorities’ decision that the children would write their exams on the campus. About 600 parents have handed over a petition to the school authorities pleading that the option of online exams be kept open. Faced with resistance from parents, some schools have called off the decision to conduct on-campus exams and some are offering students the option of writing the test online. The state government has allowed schools, shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid, to reopen for in-person instruction for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But many parents are still reluctant to send their children to school and many have refused to give consent. “We want the school to give us the option of online exams, because we feel conditions are not conducive enough to send children to school,” said the mother of a Class XI student of DPS Ruby Park. The school is reopening on Friday for the students of Classes IX to XII. Exams are slated later this month. Officials of the school said the two classes (IX and XI) together have around 1,200 students. When asked about the parents’ demand to hold online exams, principal Joyoti Chaudhuri said: “Since we are reopening after so many months, our primary focus now is to resume classes on Friday. We will abide by whatever guidelines the board (CBSE) has given us.” The CBSE sent a circular to all school heads on Thursday, saying: “For Classes IX and XI also, schools should take steps to identify and remedy the learning gaps and thereafter, conduct examinations by strictly following COVID safety protocols as per Examination Bye-Laws. This exam will also help in identifying learning gaps which could be addressed by the schools in the new academic session, at the beginning of classes, by having a bridge course especially designed to address learning gaps.” Delhi Public School New Town has decided to cancel on-campus exams for students of Classes IX and XI. The tests will be held online, which 90 per cent of the parents want. “We had wanted to conduct exams in school, but we have to take the consent of parents and also respect the concerns of the parents,” said principal Sonali Sen. Teachers have also realised that children have lost the habit of sitting for two to three hours at a stretch, which they are required to do to write an exam. The last time the students wrote an exam at school was in February-March last year. At Julien Day School Ganganagar, only about 14 per cent of the parents have given consent to send their children to school. “We will conduct both online and offline examinations. We cannot force children to come in such a situation,” said principal Bobby Baxter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta airport lounge meant for passengers taking chartered flights deemed ‘unsafe’||A lounge at the Calcutta airport meant for passengers taking chartered flights and private jets and looking for exclusive privileges will not become operational because it has been deemed “unsafe and unviable” by the authorities, officials said. The 1,000sq m lounge, adjacent to the integrated terminal, was supposed to be a for-hire facility for those passengers who seek exclusivity. It was constructed in 2015 at a cost of Rs 1.6 crore but has been lying defunct since. An official of the government-run airport said the bureau of civil aviation security had raised concerns about the lounge because of its proximity to some of the parking bays. According to another official, some other security concerns were raised, too. “The general aviation lounge was to have a security check-in facility. The passengers who would check into the lounge before boarding a flight were not supposed to go to the security check-in counter and stand in a queue. The lounge was supposed to have an X-ray machine and frisking booth,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said. “However, Central Industrial Security Force personnel needed to be deployed round the clock there. But because of lack of demand, deploying CISF personnel round the clock was not viable at that time. So, the clearance was not given. The plan to operate the lounge has been shelved.” The director said the furniture set up at the lounge had been shifted to other facilities on the premises. Portions of the walls and ceiling of the lounge are coming off because of lack of maintenance, officials said. When the lounge was built in 2015, it was meant for users to hold private meetings, too. According to the plan, a passenger checking into the lounge can use the conference room and bedroom. Airport officials said they were not planning to set up a similar facility at another place within the terminal because of lack of demand. “There is no demand for such a facility at the Calcutta airport. When the lounge was built, a few chambers of commerce had requested for such a facility. But later no one showed any interest,” an official said. All major private airports in India, including the ones in Mumbai and Delhi, have such a lounge. “Before the Covid pandemic, the two passenger lounges in the international and domestic sections did not have much footfall,” an official said. “Now, the only lounge that has some demand is the one for VIPs. Politicians coming to Calcutta use that lounge.” Officials of some of the airlines said they had raised objections about the lounge being built outside the terminal building when it was being constructed. “We had said it would be difficult to deploy our personnel to take the passengers to that lounge and assist them. But no one had listened then. It was a waste of government money,” said an official of a private airline. The airport director said the lounge would not be demolished but there was no plan yet on how to use the facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-145
12-02-2021||Calcutta||Biker killed in hit & run on Picnic Garden Road||A man riding a motorbike died in an accident on Picnic Garden Road early on Thursday, police said. Khokon Mandal, 52, was wearing a helmet when an unidentified vehicle hit his two-wheeler and sped away, the police said. Mandal, a resident of Nonadanga’s Bhai Bhai Colony in Anandapur, was taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where he was declared dead. Police officers said deserted roads or relatively less crowded stretches are more prone to accidents as vehicles tend to speed through them. The police said they were examining footage from CCTV cameras closest to the accident spot to try and track down the offending vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-146
