13-02-2021||Calcutta||At CIMA, Koregaon meets Rome, courtesy Prashant Patil’s sculpture-installations||CIMA Award 2019 recipient Prashant Shashikant Patil’s first solo exhibition was inaugurated at the CIMA Gallery on Friday in the presence of chief guest Gianluca Rubagotti, Italian consul-general in Calcutta, Rakhi Sarkar, director of CIMA Gallery, Pratiti Basu Sarkar, chief administrator of CIMA Gallery and the artist community. Patil, who hails from Koregaon in Maharashtra, was selected for the award from among 158 applicants, through a strict evaluation process. “In the 28-year journey of CIMA, the Awards is personally my favourite. Though we have worked with all the top artists of India, CIMA Awards has given us a kind of fulfilment that we’ve never had before. We would not have discovered young people like Prashant without the Awards,” said Rakhi Sarkar. The evaluation process has a two-layer system of 20-25 distinguished jury members, with the artists remaining anonymous. The jury doesn’t know them, their gender, where they come from. All they see is the artwork and the details next to the artwork. “It is, therefore, a very objective system where provincialism, any kind of institutional bias, gender bias doesn’t come into play,” said Sarkar. Patil’s work is best described as sculptural drawing installation where he uses the medium of hot glue gun. “He always says his art is about connecting and I think Prashant has very successfully connected the cultural sensibilities of Maharashtra with that of Bengal,” said Sarkar. For Rubagotti, Patil’s work evoked connections with Italy. “When I was going up and down the gallery looking at your pieces I tried to play a little game. I know your roots are very much here, in India, in Maharashtra and in Bengal but I was trying to imagine you in Italy. The first feature that strikes me is the interplay between light and shadow. So I was imagining you, staying in the beautiful Church of St Louis in Rome, spending hours in contemplation of the masterpieces by Caravaggio. But I am not trying to draw any comparison,” the Italian consul-general told Patil. “The other feature of your work is the research for new material. Once again my mind went back to 1960s Italy when we had the avant garde movement where the people tried to reject the previous forms of art and material and started using new material like rock, sand, rope. This is not to say that you are the new exponent of the avant garde movement of 60 years ago but this is a little game that I like to play, and I think it would be useful also for you to have more and more inspiration and take some time and travel to my country,” Rubagotti added to applause. Patil’s family came down from Maharashtra for the opening as did his friends from Santiniketan. “I feel like he is getting some return for the hard work he has put into his art. From childhood he was most interested in art and was always participating in all kinds of artwork. It feels really good to see his work here today,” said his father Shashikant Patil. For the artist, this exhibition has finally given him the satisfaction that not even working on it for a year-and-a-half had. “Till I was able to see my work displayed, I couldn’t be satisfied. When I was hanging my work the decision between whether shadow was my main preference or the drawing caused a lot of difficulties. It was a difficult decision to make,” said Patil, adding that the shadow of our traditions that we are leaving behind is one of the biggest parts of his work. “Shadow is very romantic and that has been displayed so wonderfully. The effect of the shadow is very attractive. Also at some point it reminds me of reticulate venation we studied in biology, it is so delicate… so fragile, like gossamer. One can enjoy his work for hours,” said artist Shreyasi Chatterjee.  The exhibition is on at CIMA Gallery till March 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||School resumption: Hostel shut, class inaccessible||In-person classes resumed at schools across the city on Friday but many students who depend on government hostel accommodation do not know when they can get back to schools. The state government’s decision to keep hostels shut has cast a cloud on the future of thousands of marginalised students, many of them with special needs. Education is almost synonymous with hostels for these students, most of whom are from very poor families. They do not have a fixed home and Internet connection is a distant dream. A shelter and food are incentives for these pupils. Several government schools in and around Calcutta have hostels for students from financially disadvantaged families. Special schools for differently-abled students, too, are likely to remain open just on paper unless the hostels are reopened, said teachers. At most schools for the blind, the bulk of the pupils are from districts. “If hostels are not re-opened, most of these students are likely to drift away from education. I fear some of them already have. The order to reopen such schools without reopening hostels means nothing,” said an official of the school education department. Haranath High School in Bagbazar has a hostel that can accommodate around 100 students, a third of them in Classes IX and X. But as the hostel has not been reopened, none of these students can attend in-person classes. Light House for the Blind, a special co-ed school for the visually impaired near Tollygunge police station, has 118 residential students, 48 of them in Classes IX to XII. “The students who are to appear in Madhyamik are the worst sufferers. If the hostels do not reopen, some of them will not be able to continue studies. Many girls are likely to be married off,” said principal Amiya Satpati. There are over 70 special schools in the state for the differently abled, most of them residential. The department of mass education runs these schools. Following the school education department’s nod to reopen schools for students of Classes IX to XII, the department of mass education has issued a notice to reopen the special schools. The state government has decided against the reopening of hostels because it fears the physical distancing norm, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19, could not be followed in hostels, where each room is shared by multiple students. “But the government has to realise that the needs of all students are not identical. Shutting the hostel doors means shutting the door of education on many students,” said the principal of another special school. As hostels are still closed, some institutions are arranging accommodations for students. Jadavpur University has recently provided funds to 22 of its visually impaired students so they can stay at rented places that have good Internet connectivity and attend online classes. But most government residential schools lack the resources to extend similar help to the students. “Maintaining physical distancing inside hostels would be difficult. But we are sensitive to the needs of the students of special schools. We are looking into this,” said Roshni Sen, the secretary in the mass education department. An official in the school education department said: “If students of residential schools face genuine problems, if we get enough representation from them, we will look into it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Student returns as bandh blocks Jadavpur school’s gate||Anirban Bera, a student of Class XII at Jadavpur Vidyapith, was looking forward to stepping on the campus for the first time after March last year, when schools were shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. But the student of science had to return disappointed as a group of Students’ Federation of India (SFI) supporters picketed outside the school’s gate to enforce the 12-hour bandh called by Left parties. Bera, who will appear in the higher secondary practical exams from March 10, was looking forward to resumption of in-person classes so he could get some hands-on training. “It is crucial to get the bare minimum hands-on training before the practical exams. Since the institution remained shut for 11 months because of the pandemic, we could not attend any practicals. But as bandh supporters blocked the entry, I decided to return home,” said Bera. The Dhakuria resident, accompanied by mother Mithu Bera, turned up in front of the school around 10.25am. The entrance was blocked by SFI supporters. The group had placed a placard on the gate that read: “Chhatra chhatrider opor aaghater pratibadey aaj dharmaghat safal korun (make the bandh successful to protest the assault on the students).” Police allegedly assaulted supporters of the SFI and the Democratic Youth Federation of India, both wings of the CPM, on Thursday when they were marching towards Nabanna. Bera and his mother waited for around 20 minutes. As the SFI supporters showed no sign of budging, they decided to return home. “We did not want to take any risk. Bandh supporters stood at the gate holding flags. Cops were around. What if the situation worsened? We decided to come back. On our way back, we saw a few students returning home,” the mother recounted. “Some of the teachers were advising me over the phone to wait. But I was not feeling comfortable and returned,” said Bera. At Jadavpur, the bandh supporters were initially protesting in front of gate number 4 of the university. They put up a blockade on Raja Subodh Mullick Road that runs along the boundary of JU. Around 10.20am, the SFI supporters decided to block the entry to Jadavpur Vidyapith and took control of the gate. As the stand-off persisted, headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya went down to the gate to speak to the protesters. “I told them what they were doing was harming the students. The students had come to attend practical and theory classes after so many days. The protesters were entitled to protest peacefully but they could not harm the interest of our students,” said Bhattacharya. The bandh supporters left around 10.50am, following Bhattacharaya’s intervention. “I have heard some students went back home because of the blockade. That was unfortunate. We will ensure that additional classes are held to make up for the loss.” Students entered the campus even as the headmaster stood guard at the gate. Why did the SFI, which had been vocal about reopening schools and colleges, scare students away? “We did not scare anyone away. We explained to the students and the guardians why our supporters were protesting in front of the school. They understood the reason and went back…. After we ended the protest, many students entered the school,” said Debaraj Debaanth, a member of SFI’s Calcutta district committee and a student of JU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Elderly woman with heat-pad charred at Garfa home||An elderly woman who lived alone was found charred on her bed at her Garfa home on Thursday evening. Police suspect the fire that engulfed the bed on which 74-year-old Tapati Sarkar was sleeping was caused by overheating of a heat-pad that she had wrapped around one of her legs and dozed off without turning it off. Cops said they were waiting for the forensic opinion before concluding the exact cause of the fire. Residents of an apartment at Eastern Park found smoke billowing out of a second-floor flat, whose main door was slightly open, police said. On entering the flat, they found a charred Sarkar lying on a bed that was still engulfed in flames. “The victim had been living alone in the apartment since her husband had passed away in 2019. Her only daughter lives with her husband on Cornfield Road. According to their statement, the elderly woman was always advised never to lock her main door so that next-door neighbours could enter the flat in case of an emergency,” said an officer of Garfa police station. Sources in the forensic team that visited the spot said they found a heat-pad wrapped around her leg with its wire exposed because of the fire. “Preliminarily it appears overheating of the heat-pad caused the fire. There is a possibility that the elderly lady had fallen asleep with the heat-pad switched on and carbon monoxide from the burned wire could have caused her death before the fire engulfed the bed and charred her body,” a forensic department official said. The final report, he said, could be prepared only after conducting an autopsy of the body. An unnatural death case has been registered with Garfa police station. The police said no foul play could be detected till Friday. Sarkar’s daughter and son-in-law told the police that they had tried to contact her over the phone on Thursday several times but the phone kept ringing. A domestic help who works in the flat adjoining Sarkar’s had seen the door slightly open and spotted smoke coming out when she alerted other neighbours, the police said. Neighbours tried to douse the fire with extinguishers and water but by then, the woman had been charred to death. She was taken to SSKM Hospital, where she was declared dead. This was the seventh reported case in the city over the past five months of an elderly woman dying of burns suffered at home. The other victims suffered burns while cooking, offering prayers or lighting a cigarette. Police and fire department officers said it was always advisable to switch off electronic gadgets while sleeping or after working. There have been instances where people working with laptops on bed have dozed off with the gadget still on and an overheated cable triggered a fire in the room. There were also reports of a half-lit cigarette butt causing fire in a mattress that killed occupants of the room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools record poor turnout on day one ||Schools across the city recorded a low attendance — much lower than what they had expected — on the day campuses reopened after remaining shut for almost a year because of Covid-19. The low attendance suggests parents are still wary of sending their children to school despite the decision taken by many institutions to phase out reopening in batches and shifts. The government had allowed reopening of schools for students of Classes IX to XII from Friday. On the first day, a number of schools recorded attendance between 20 and 50 per cent of the reduced number of students who were supposed to go. Not a single student turned up in at least two schools — one in Rajarhat and the other in Baguiati. Teachers said parents were in no rush to send their children to school and put their health at risk. "Many want their children to continue attending online classes as there is still the risk of contracting Covid-19,” a teacher said. Parents are also wary because children might not be following the physical distancing norms once they meet friends after almost a year. At Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, only about 30 per cent of students who were called to the campus turned up. The school called students of Classes X and XII and divided them in groups. Of the 140 children who were supposed to attend on-campus classes, 46 turned up. The attendance was around 50 per cent at The BSS School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School, Shri Shikshayatan School and Swarnamyee Vidyapith in Jadavpur. At Jadavpur Vidyapith, about 40 per cent of the students of Classes IX, X and XII who were called turned up. At Hare School, of the 350 students called to the campus, only 80 turned up. At North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools (in Rajarhat and Baguiati), the attendance was zero. “I am scared to send my daughter to school. My mother-in-law is 69 and I do not want my daughter to be a carrier and infect her. We have hardly stepped out since last March,” said R. Singh, whose daughter is in Class XI at a south Calcutta school. Parents also do not want to let their children use public transport. “Parents who are willing to send their children to school are not doing so because they do not want them to travel in public transport or pool cars,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. “The fear of the virus has not gone from the minds of the parents and they will not be ready to send their children to school till they feel the students will be completely safe there. They think the children might not be able to maintain (the mandatory) 6ft distance between themselves,” said Reeta Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools. “Parents are jittery because the pandemic is not yet over. We will have to counsel them,” said Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur. “Technology has allowed children to learn in a personalised way,” said Bratati Bhattacharyya, secretary general of Shri Shikshayatan School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||CMC mulls floor area ratio relief||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will provide 10 per cent additional floor area ratio (FAR) to commercial establishments to enable them to create more built-up space, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the civic body’s board of administrators, said on Friday. He told Metro the CMC had amended its rules to provide the benefit to all commercial establishments. “We will give 10 per cent additional FAR to all commercial establishments. Earlier, we gave 10 per cent less FAR to commercial establishments compared with residential properties. Now, both residential and commercial properties will be given the same FAR.” “The additional FAR will allow commercial establishments to construct more space. More space can employ more people. This is being done so that more employment is generated,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Music contest for the young in north Calcutta||A three-day classical music competition for those aged 19 and below started in a heritage house in north Calcutta on Friday. Thirty participants took part in the round for percussion instruments. The competition, organised by Sutanuti Parishad Chorebagan Anchal in association with Anindya Mitra Musical Trust, has three categories: vocal, instrumental and percussion, and is being held at Chatu Babu Latu Babu’s home, Beadon Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Guardrails for Kalighat bridge||The width of the Kalighat bridge shrank by 4 metres on Friday after guardrails were installed along the two sides, as recommended by a committee of bridge engineers, after weeks of delay. The committee had recommended in September that the sides of the bridge be barricaded. The recommendation followed a health assessment of the bridge that revealed that its sides had weakened and continuous load could lead to a collapse. On Friday afternoon, police installed the barricades along the two sides of the carriageway of the bridge, which runs above Tolly’s Nullah. An engineer of the CMDA, the custodian of the bridge, said 2 metres of the carriageway on both sides had been barricaded. “The actual width of the carriageway is 15.5 metres. After installing the barricades, it has shrunk to 11.5 metres,” said the engineer. “The Behala-bound and Hazra-bound flanks are now 5.5-metre wide each. If dividers are placed, the width will come down further,” the engineer said. A bus and a two-wheeler can pass side by side through each flank, the engineer said. Amitabha Ghosal, who heads the committee of engineers that had recommended that the sides of the bridge be barricaded, said on Friday the concrete in the belly of the bridge had come off in several places and the iron wire reinforcements had been exposed. “The bridge has to be pulled down but as an immediate measure we have recommended that the sides be blocked. The sides are more vulnerable. We have also recommended some strengthening work as a temporary measure,” said Ghosal. Engineers of CMDA said the sides were blocked immediately after the recommendation had been made last year but the barricades were subsequently withdrawn without their knowledge. Metro had visited the bridge at least thrice in the past month but did not find any barricade. The CMDA has floated a tender for the strengthening work, which will extend the bridge’s life by another 18 to 24 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University alumni raise Rs 25 lakh||Jadavpur University’s batch of ’91 of the department of electronics and telecommunication engineering has raised Rs 25 lakh that would be used to rebuild houses in North 24-Parganas that were damaged by Cyclone Amphan. The money will initially go to Baliadanga village in the Hasnabad block. Four batch mates who had launched the initiative - Chittralekha Dutta, Surjodipta Dutta, Arup Chakrabarty and Abhik Mukhopadhyay – visited the campus on Friday along with the five  villagers who will be handed the houses on the occasion of the Bengali New Year in April. They met vice-chancellor Suranjan Das to discuss the initiative. “The scale of devastation is so huge that it is imperative that the help is provided from as many quarters as possible. We had got in touch with the 36 students of our batch last July,” said Abhik Mukhopadhyay, now a professor of computer science and engineering at IIEST, Shibpur. Siddhartha Sengupta, who had graduated from the department of construction engineering in 2011, is helping the house-building project with his expertise. Each family will get a pukka house comprising one living room-cum-bed room, one kitchen and one toilet. “We needed someone who has expertise in building houses that can survive adverse weather conditions,” said Mukhopahdyay. Project CHHAD (roof) aims to build 500 houses in the next two years. “The students of Jadavpur University believe in the motto of giving back to society. So we have decided to help out the villagers in their hour of distress. We aim to create a scalable and sustainable model as opposed to one-time donation,” said Chitralekha Dutta, who works in IBM. Teachers of the university had in June last year raised Rs 2.02 lakh and transferred Rs 1,000 to each student from the Sunderbans to help them in the post-Amphan distress. Students, too, raised resources and delivered essentials such as rice and pulses to their friends in distress. The batch of ’91 came to know about the scale of devastation inflicted by the storm from the students who have been running a community kitchen in the Sundarbans. “We visited Baliadanga village and other areas to assess the situation,” said Mukhopadhyay. Bijoy Ghosh, a resident of the village said, they had received a tarpaulin sheet and other help from the local panchayat but the houses had not yet been rebuilt. “We will have a shelter of our own now,” said Bijoy, who came to JU on Friday. VC Suranjan Das said: “This bonding at the time of crisis is setting an example.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Weekend cruise to Serampore, Chandernagore||A cruise on the Hooghly will take visitors to Serampore and Chandernagore every Saturday and Sunday. The 11-hour ride, which will have its inaugural run on February 14, will cost Rs 350 and will have one-and-a-half hour stops at the former Danish (Serampore) and French (Chandernagore) settlements. The vessel will leave Millennium Park jetty at 10am and return at 9pm. It has a well-stocked library, an open deck and an on-board tuck-shop for quick bites. Tickets can be bought from the Millennium Park jetty. The “European Settlement Boat Ride”, as the cruise has been named, will halt at Serampore around 1pm after nearly an hour’s journey from Calcutta and offer visitors an opportunity to lunch at The Denmark Tavern. Located on the riverfront, the tavern was opened in 1786. It provided lodging and meals for “gentlemen passing up and down the river”, as mentioned in an advertisement in the Calcutta Gazette. One can see Serampore College, established in 1818 by English Baptist missionaries, and visit Serampore Johnnagar Baptist Church, founded in the early 19th century. The other sites to visit are St Olav’s Church, Baptist Mission Cemetery and the Danish Cemetery. The cruise will leave Serampore around 2.30 pm and reach Chandernagore after an hour. During the hour-and-a-half halt at this erstwhile French colony, tourists will get to see the Strand. The Strand is a 700-metre-long tree-shaded promenade along the Hooghly with old French mansions and other colonial buildings along the way. One can also visit the Dupleix Palace, which houses the Chandernagore Museum and Institute. The cruise is being organised by the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), in collaboration with the Danish Cultural Institute and the Oxford Bookstores. “The Europeans first came on a ferry. So this cruise will be an ideal way of seeing the European settlement in Bengal,” said Thomas Sehested, the director of the Danish Cultural Institute India. “The cruise will give people a glimpse into the European history in India which is often undermined,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of WBTC. “It’s good to have such initiatives that make people understand history and appreciate global cultures,” said Priti Paul of the Oxford Bookstores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-143
13-02-2021||Calcutta||Tuhin Kanti Ghosh, former president of Indian Newspaper Society, passes away||Tuhin Kanti Ghosh, who was president of the Indian Newspaper Society and chairman of the news agency UNI in the mid-1980s, passed away at his south Calcutta home on Wednesday. He was 73. He was also a member of the Press Council of India. Ghosh, who chaired the regional committee of the IENS eastern region in the early 1980s, was the grandson of  Tushar Kanti Ghosh, who headed the house that published the newspapers, the Amrita Bazar Patrika and the Jugantar. Tuhin Kanti was known for his musical skills and love of sports. An outdoor person whose childhood idol was Jim Corbett, Tuhin Kanti became a conservationist later in his life. Tuhin Kanti is survived by his wife Subarna and daughters Labonita and Anandita, sisters Rita and Ronita and brother Tamal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-144
