14-02-2021||Calcutta||Twitter: from “emblem of honesty” to “dangerous medium”||Twitter was an “emblem of honesty” as long as the current regime in Delhi could milk the platform but the moment farmers’ protests started getting traction it became “a dangerous medium to promote enmity and polarisation”, a retired civil servant said on Saturday. “They had no problems with Twitter till a few days ago. An army of online trolls used, and continue to use, the medium to abuse any opposing voice. But the moment the farmers’ protests started becoming viral, the government has turned against the platform,” said Jawhar Sircar, who retired as the CEO of Prasar Bharati in 2016. Sircar was one of the speakers at the launch of a book that tracks the “unprecedented amount of fake, hateful and inflammatory information” on Facebook and WhatsApp in India. Twitter had been asked by the government to take down multiple accounts that were allegedly sharing misinformation and provocative content around the ongoing farmers’ agitation. It had also been warned of penal action for non-compliance. There is no clarity, however, in the public domain about what exactly was offensive about those accounts. The micro-blogging platform on Wednesday said it has withheld some of the accounts flagged by the Indian government for blocking “within India only”, but has not blocked handles of civil society activists, politicians and media as “it would violate their fundamental right to free expression” guaranteed under Indian law. The book, Facebook: Mukh O Mukhosh (Face and the mask) has “revisited” the 2019 book, The Real Face of Facebook in India, authored by journalists Cyril Sam and Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, which had taken “a critical look at the working of Facebook and WhatsApp” in the Indian socio-political context. The Bengali book released on Saturday has been co-authored by Sam, Guha Thakurta and Arka Deb, a journalist based in Calcutta. The new book comprises 30 chapters compared to 20 in the original. “Take any riot and or any communal violence in India in the past few years — a Facebook or WhatsApp post has played a key role behind it,” said Guha Thakurta. At Saturday’s launch, the authors and panellists spoke in the same vein on how social media played a key role in the recent flare-ups in Bengal. The authors had toured some of the violence-affected places. The incidents, they said, were projected as if one community was behind all the violence. “Rumours and fake information are key ingredients of any riot. The advent of these social media platforms has made spreading of rumours and fake news much easier than it was,” said Deb. Sircar, who has spent over four decades in the Indian Administrative Service, remembered “being abused by 7,000 people” for one tweet. “The social media platforms have become what port areas used to be when we were growing up. People advised you not to venture into a port area after sundown because you could be robbed, attacked… anything could happen. These mediums have become like the port areas,” he said. Kumar Rana, social scientist and former project director with Pratichi trust, said counter abuse was not the right way to fight the online machinery of the Right-wing ecosystem. “We cannot match them in creating fake content and abuse. But what we can do is try to understand the person in front of us. I cannot discuss lofty issues in JNU-language with a villager. I have to speak a language that he understands,” said Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation links fees charged to regularise buildings raised ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has linked the fees charged to regularise an illegal structure with the existing circle rate of the area where the structure is built, a step that will increase manifold the amount that has to be paid to regularise unauthorised constructions. The circle rate is unique to places and it is higher for upscale localities. The circle rate of a place is usually determined as an amount per sq ft of an area, civic official said. Under the new system, implemented last month, the regularisation fee will be a percentage of the market value of the size of the unauthorised construction. The market value will be arrived at by multiplying the total size of the illegal construction with the circle rate. The percentage of market value that will be charged has been kept very high to dissuade people from building illegal structures, said CMC officials. The practice of regularising illegal buildings or portions of a building has been there for years. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) Act has the provision that allows the civic body to regularise unauthorised constructions, if it deems fit. Earlier, the civic body used to charge a uniform rate for regularising such illegal structures across the city. Now, there will be different rates for Kasba, Behala and Park Street. “An illegal structure in a place like Park Street was sold at a much higher price after regularisation but the owner paid the same amount to regularise it as someone building an unauthorised portion in Behala,” said a CMC official. That system has changed now. “Once we know the size of the unauthorised construction in sq ft, we will put that on the website of the state inspector general of registration. This will give us the market value of the unauthorised construction. Then we will apply a certain percentage as the regularisation fee,” said the official. The percentage that will be applied to calculate the regularisation fee has also been fixed. Officials said that the owner of a four or five-storey building has to pay 75 per cent of the market value of the unauthorised construction as regularisation fee. Owners of buildings that are six or seven-storey will be charged 85 per cent. Buildings taller than seven-storey will be charged 100 per cent of the market value of the illegally built portion. The regularisation fee for buildings up to three-story has been kept low — 25 per cent. “We have kept a low fee for up to three-storey buildings since the owners themselves usually live in them. But buildings that are four-storey or taller are usually built by real estate developers and sold off,” said the CMC official. Baiswanor Chattopadhyay, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of law, said that the objective behind revising the system of charging regularisation fee was done to dissuade developers from building unauthorised portions. “Many developers used to add an extra floor that was not there in the approved building plan and then pay a small amount to regularise the added floor. We have increased the regularisation fee by many times now so that a developer will not be able to make much profit by selling the illegally added portion in the market after paying the hefty regularisation fee,” said Chattopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||Higher secondary council comes out with topic-wise marks listed for HS examinees||The state higher secondary council has come out with topic-wise division of marks in each subject, factoring the reduction in the higher secondary syllabus necessitated by the Covid pandemic. The school education department had in November announced that syllabus would be slashed by 30 to 35 per cent as on-campus classes could not be held. An official of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education said it was crucial that topic-wise division of marks was announced so that the examinees could prepare themselves for the theory examinations that would be held from June 15 on the basis of reduced syllabus. The topic-wise division of marks in mathematics announced on Friday states that algebra will have one multiple-choice question, two very-short-answer type questions and eight short-answer type questions. “The portion on 3-D geometry will have two MCQs, one very-short answer type question, one short-answer type question and one long-answer question. This is how we have sorted marks topic-wise in the theory papers that carry 80 marks,” said the official. Chemistry paper will have one MCQ in solid state and one 3-mark question. The topic on solution will have one MCQ, one short answer-type question and one 3-mark question. This is how the distribution of marks in the theory papers that carries 70 marks have been described, the official said. Saugata Basu, the general secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, said, the topic-wise distribution of marks was a must, considering that although the subjects will carry the same weightage, the syllabus has been reduced. “So the marks distribution that continued over the past few years, will not remain the same this year because of the reduced syllabus. The students needed to get the idea,” said Basu. Schools had remained shut since the third week of March. A council official said since the Classes from IX to XII resumed from February 12, the students now have the time to acclimatise themselves with the question pattern during the in-person classes. “So far the classes were being held online. But students can clear their doubts best during the in-person classes currently underway,” said a council official. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education on December 10 had announced a “blueprint” that provided details on chapter/topic-wise marks distribution in each subject following the pandemic induced reduction in the syllabus. The council in the first phase has published the marks distribution of 19 subjects. The council offers 49 subjects and question pattern of the remaining subjects would be announced in the subsequent phases. “Please note that, the reduced syllabus and the new question pattern will be valid for 2021 only,” reads the notice signed by the council president Mahua Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||2021: Saraswati appears in biodegradable avatar||Saraswati is appearing in a biodegradable avatar this year. Idols of the goddess of wisdom have been created by women of a Baruipur village, using a mix of clay and cow dung. “These idols can be immersed at home in a bucket and on being left for a couple of days will completely dissolve in water,” says Bhaswati Basu, a Golpark resident, who has mobilised the women to create the idols. Even if the idols are immersed in ponds, they will pollute the water much less than the clay idols sold in the market. “This is because our idols are mostly left in the natural state, without colour. We only highlight the hair and the ornaments,” points out Basu. Most colours used by idol-makers are high in chemical content and pollute the water on immersion. Another problem with the smaller idols sold mostly for domestic use during Saraswati puja is many are made of burnt clay. “Those do not remain biodegradable any more,” she pointed out. This is not Basu’s first experiment with the clay-and-cowdung mix. Under her environment-friendly employment generating concern Samvab, she trained women of Joynagar how to make pradip last Diwali, using a moulding machine. “Those worked out well. All 25,000 got sold out,” she said. Her next experiment was with the women of Moloya village in Baruipur. “I installed a machine there to let them create tubs for garden plants. Those have proved popular too.” For the idols, she contacted Samir Pal, an idol-maker of Baruipur. “Initially I had refused as it seemed problematic. But when didi (Basu) insisted, I gave it a try. Now I am happy to have done something new,” Pal told Metro. The two ingredients – clay and dung – are used in equal proportions. To that, he mixes a bit of milk, ghee and yoghurt as the idols are being branded as Panchagavya Saraswati. “It takes much longer to create as dung by itself lacks binding capacity. Nor does didi allow us to use a chemical we use otherwise to separate the clay form quickly from the die. So just six-seven idols can be made in a day with this mix, compared to 20 or so of pure clay,” Pal said. He kneads the clay mix himself, filtering out the stone chips, and delivers the lumps at the doors of village women who shape the idols out of plaster of Paris casts. “The labour cost is higher for this as the process is slow. After taking each idol out of the die, they leave it out to dry in the sun for an hour after which it is firm enough to be given the finishing touches. Then it takes two more days to dry it out completely. We made the idols in two sizes — 1 ft and 7 inches,” Pal said. His team made about 50 idols of each size. Once word went round, villagers flocked to his house to see how the “cow dung idols” were shaping up. “Dung is a part of their daily lives but they never thought it could have a role in idol-making. So they liked the novelty of it,” Pal smiled. Basu, a former cricketer who kept wickets for the Bengal team from 1977 to 1983, became a trend-setter of sorts in the Durga puja circuit when she collected used flowers from 72 community puja organisers, from Golf Green to Salt Lake, in 2019 to create compost. This time her target is both saving the waterbodies and helping the villagers. “They make barely Rs 20-25 per idol. By using such alternative ways and materials, the costing is coming up to Rs 300. So they can earn a bit more.” The idols are being sold under the Samvab logo for Rs 450.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
14-02-2021||Calcutta||‘Jealous’ neighbours kidnap biker, arrested in Park Circus||A man riding a motorbike along the Park Circus Connector was kidnapped early on Friday. Two of his neighbours were arrested on Saturday for being involved in the crime, police said. Mohammad Nadim, 28, a resident of Tiljala Lane, was allegedly stopped while he was riding through the Park Circus Connector on his motorbike and dragged into a yellow taxi by some masked men at gunpoint, the police said. Nadim’s family members have told the police that they had to pay Rs 3 lakh to secure his release. The accused apparently thought that Nadim had amassed a fortune because he had recently purchased a motorbike and got his sister married in a relatively lavish way. Police officers said this was an unusual case where a change in a man’s financial condition grabbed the attention of his neighbours who then planned to kidnap him. A few weeks ago, a gang of men had similarly kidnapped a man from the EM Bypass after he had boarded the car thinking it was a shuttle taxi. The man was robbed of his valuables and money. However, in that case, the victim was not known to the gang members. “But this is unusual when  neighbours got jealous of a person’s finances and decided to kidnap him for ransom,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Nadim, who works as a web designer, was released after one of his cousins gave the money to the kidnappers the same evening. Later that night, Nadim lodged a complaint with the Pragati Maidan police station. The police took Nadim to all the spots where he was taken by the kidnappers in the yellow taxi. From the spot where Nadim was kept hostage, police found a CCTV camera the footage from which revealed the number of the yellow taxi. “After we located the owner of the yellow taxi we found that it had been sold to someone else. We then contacted the taxi’s new owner who helped us zero in on the man who was driving the taxi on the day of the crime,” said an officer of Pragati Maidan police station. The accused were found to be two of Nadim’s neighbours, the police said. They have been identified as Sohail Ali Khan alias Aman, 30, of Tiljala Lane and Sheikh Anwar Ali, alias Niyaz, 35, of Tiljala Masjid Bari Lane. Sohail was driving the taxi. Both have been arrested. The police said they were investigating if more people were involved in the crime. The gun used in the crime is yet to be recovered. Setu stunt: youth’s body found The body of 21-year-old Mohammad Zakir Sardar was recovered from Doi Ghat on Saturday, six days after he had jumped off the Vidyasagar Setu into the river Hooghly. He had been recording a stunt video with a friend. Sardar, who was a resident of GJ Khan Road in Tiljala, had been missing since the incident on February 7. His body was identified by his relatives on Saturday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
