15-02-2021||Calcutta||An island of quiet: The Sant Kutiya Gurdwara ||Avtar Singh is taking us on a tour of Sant Kutiya Gurdwara on Harish Mukherjee Road. The five marble floors of the gurdwara rise serene and white against a February afternoon, like an island of quiet in fidgety Bhowanipore. Singh leads us into the spacious prayer hall, the Darbar Sahib, on the first floor, and gestures, gently and respectfully, towards the golden canopy in front of us, under which rests the Guru Granth Sahib, the sacred book of the Sikh faith. It is considered the living, the eternal guru, says Singh, the general secretary of the gurdwara. He is 59. The Guru Granth Sahib contains words and hymns of Sikh gurus, and each copy has 1,430 pages. “The gurdwara is the doorway (dwar) to the guru,” explains Singh. In Sikhism, God is the Oneness that permeates eternity and entirety. Akal, meaning timeless, is a word integral to Sikh faith and religion. The words of the gurus describe God. This is Singh’s third term as the general secretary of the gurdwara. But Singh, a lean, brisk man, who was in the transport business earlier, would much rather speak about the gurdwara than about himself. He was born and brought up in Calcutta. He studied at Birla High School and Bhowanipore Education Society. But his life seems to be here, at the gurdwara. Floor by floor, he takes us through the gurdwara, to the Nishan Sahib on the top, the sword-imprinted flag that proclaims a gurdwara. It is like an ascent, through the idea of Sikhism, its practices and its elaborate symbolism. It also perhaps gives a glimpse into how faith holds up a mass of people elsewhere in the country, out in the cold, pitted against the powers of the state. “The Guru Granth Sahib not only contains the hymns of the Sikh gurus, but also that of 13 Hindu Bhakti movement poets, including Jayadeva, who was from this part of the country, and two Sufi Pirs,” he says. The book is written in Gurumukhi script, but in many languages, such as Brajbhasha. The Sikh religion incorporates elements from many religions and the gurdwara is open to visitors from all religions and communities, says Singh. It preaches peace, harmony and tolerance. The afternoon light has filled the prayer hall. Every day people congregate here to listen to the readings from the Guru Granth Sahib. Men sit on one side of the floor, women on the other. “Everyone sits at the same level. The Sikh religion believes in equality, including that of gender,” says Singh. The community has dwindled in Calcutta. Once a thriving population that dominated the transport business in the city and also was present in the hotel business, now it has come down to a few thousands. Many among the younger generation have gone abroad. Singh’s three children have left for Canada. Singh, a widower, lives alone. Fewer people come to the gurdwara now, but the gurdwara, like the other gurdwaras in the city and elsewhere, remains waiting. And keeps the community together. The two floors above the two-level Darbar Sahib are used for langar, the meal served free to any visitor. The floors are strewn with giant pots that are used to cook food on special days. On other days the amount cooked is not huge. Langar is a simple vegetarian meal, meant for the needy and the hungry. It is a seva, selfless service, a defining feature of Sikhism, says Singh. In Sikh lore, the practice of langar goes back to the first guru, Guru Nanak, says Singh. Guru Nanak’s father had given him Rs 20 for a business. With that money, Guru Nanak fed the hungry. “It was sachcha sauda (true business),” says Singh. The practice also conveys the message of equality: everyone eats together, sitting on the floor. It is said that on the suggestion of Guru Amardas, the third Sikh guru, emperor Akbar had langar. That it has the power to sustain even a movement is evident at the farmers’ protest in Delhi. The kindness of food can go a long way and embrace everyone, including policemen posted at the protest site. “Seva and simran,” says Singh, are the two pillars of Sikhism: service and remembrance of God. On top of the gurdwara stands the Nishan Sahib, a triangular flag with the composite emblem of the two-edged sword khanda, a chakkar, a circular shape, and two single swords flanking the khanda and the chakkar. On the left is the sword called Piri and on the right is the Miri, representing spiritual and temporal sovereignties. “It is not right to call the farmers’ protest a Sikh protest,” says Singh. “Because it is a national protest.” But at the same time he cannot not talk about what the Sikhs, or the people from Punjab, have contributed to the nation and brought to the protest. “The Green Revolution happened in Punjab. And we are in the Army too.” How can farmers’ interests not be looked at by the state? There is a proverb that says uttam kheti, madhyam vyapar, nikhad chakri (the best occupation is farming, then comes business and the last is working for someone else),” says Singh. “The protest will not stop. The Sikhs are a very determined lot,” says Singh. “What we have to do, we do. Jo bole so nihaal, Sat Sri Akal. One who says the words, feels fulfilled; true is the Timeless Lord. The word and its accomplishment are simultaneous, as are the spiritual and temporal sovereignties.” But one day, feels Singh, he has to leave Calcutta. When he is old and has to be taken care of, he will leave the city to stay with his children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Waste powered electricity to light up New Town streets||A biogas plant will convert waste collected from houses, restaurants and office complexes in New Town into power that will light up some of its streets. Electricity generated from the plant near Balaka Abasan in Action Area I of New Town will power street lights on a 2-km stretch on either side of the housing complex. “The street lights are now lit with the power drawn from the regular electrical grid in New Town. Once the biogas plant starts generating electricity, the regular power lines will be kept as back-up,” an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. “The plant is likely to be operational towards the end of March. Work to connect the street lights to the plant's electrical outlet has started.” The plant will process wet waste or biodegradable items and has a composting tank. This tank is filled with vegetable peels and fruit pulp collected from offices, houses and restaurants. It will take around a month’s time for the biodegradable waste to break down and produce biogas. “This unit will help us greatly reduce the amount of biodegradable waste that finds its way to landfill sites,” said the official. A biogas plant — described as an anaerobic digester — comprises an airtight tank filled with microorganisms and bacteria that can transform biomass into biogas. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said the plant could process five metric tonnes of wet waste. “As a pilot study, we will use the electricity generated by the plant to power street lights in the vicinity,” Sen said. Vegetable peels, fruit pulp and even maize stalk can be put into the tank to produce biogas. The compost that will be produced, in another unit inside the complex, will be mixed with soil in median dividers where trees have been planted. “After the production increases, we will use the compost at Eco Park and the ‘tall tree nursery’ and other places that have greenery,” another NKDA official said. The composting unit, which officials said will be sealed and odour-less, will be able to produce at least 100kg of compost after every refill. Waste management professionals said the trend across the world was to recycle waste to reduce its volume and produce new products from it. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has started a composting unit in Ward 82 (Chetla), where market waste is treated to generate manure. But there is no biogas generation unit yet in the CMC area. According to Sen, collecting raw materials for the biogas plant and the composting unit would not be a problem since most houses, offices and restaurants in New Town were segregating their waste and handing out biodegradable waste in separate containers to door-to-door collectors. “We started segregation of waste at source and almost all the houses and establishments in New Town have been given colour-coded bins (for separate disposal of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste). Almost all of them are doing this. Biodegradable waste items such as vegetable peels and fruit pulp will be used to make compost and biogas,” said Sen. The NKDA has also started upcycling e-waste collected from the township and Sector V and making them fit for reuse in an attempt to prevent accumulation of hazardous materials at dumping sites. Metro had reported earlier how old smartphones, personal computers and other electronic gadgets were being collected from homes and offices. These are then repaired and restored so they can be used once more. “The ones that cannot be repaired will be used to make various household items, including decorative pieces,” an NKDA official said. The repaired and refurbished items are put on display at the Zero Waste shop near the New Town bus stand intersection to encourage people not to throw away their electronic gadgets with other household waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Violence against women is the biggest war on earth: Kamla Bhasin||Violence against women is the biggest war on earth, one which happens inside homes, writer and feminist Kamla Bhasin said while addressing survivors of violence and college students. “There is no war bigger than this (violence against women). It’s sad that this war happens inside our homes,” said Bhasin. She was the keynote speaker at an online programme by One Billion Rising India & Calcutta chapter to celebrate Rising Gardens, Rising Women. One Billion Rising is a mass action to end violence against women. The global campaign started on Valentine’s Day in 2012 as a call to action to rise against violence. “For me every day is a day of love. Not just February 14. Because I don’t believe in hatred, I don’t believe in fighting,” said Bhasin, the south Asia coordinator of One Billion Rising. She said a 2012 report of the World Health Organisation stated that one in three women in the word was a victim of violence. “If you total this number, it comes to 100 crore women…. So we have to mark One Billion Rising to strike, dance and rise. Dance because one need not remain a victim any more but be a survivor and a driver of our lives,” said Bhasin. “Small changes can be brought by a small organisation or a family. But if we have to bring about big changes, we have to have big movements… and this rising 100 crores does not only comprise women… it comprises men, transgender, children. All those who respect and love women.” The two-hour online programme, held on Friday, was organised by 11 NGOs. Organisers and others said the pandemic had only intensified the violence against women. “This year we had to address double the number of cases. The intensity and the frequency of violence both have increased,” said Anuradha Kapoor, the founder and director of Swayam, a women’s rights organisation. Kapoor said that while an increasing number of women wanted to leave home because of violence, they were facing problems related to unavailability of transport and shelter homes. “In March last year we had started with three helplines for women. Now there are 10 helplines…. During a pandemic or any crisis, violence against women increases,” Kapoor said. “Women are locked in houses with their abusers during a pandemic. For men whose mobility has been restricted (by the pandemic) or who have lost jobs, women become easy targets.” During the programme, survivors of violence shared their experiences of coming out of their situations. They faced violence, which has left “permanent scars” on them, not just from in-laws but also in parental homes. The campaign follows a theme that “resonates with every woman,” and this year’s theme is violence on nature. Keeping in mind the connection between nature and mother earth, who receive the harshest of blows, the theme “Rising Garden, calls out for revival, restoration and transformation”. “Let us grow gardens of hope, gardens of love and gardens of loving communities,” said Bhasin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Days set  to get warmer in Calcutta: Met office||The Celsius has risen nearly seven degrees in Calcutta in less than a week’s time. On February 9, Tuesday, the Alipore office of the India Meteorology Department had recorded a minimum temperature of 13.2 degrees. On Sunday, the minimum was 19.6 degrees. The maximum temperature has also jumped a few notches to remain in the 30-degree-Celsius range over the past couple of days. The minimum temperature is likely to touch the 20-degree mark over the next couple of days. The days could get hotter, the Met office has said. “The north-westerly winds, which bring chill to Calcutta, have almost stopped, marking the end of winter. The direct insulation from the sun rays is going to make the weather warmer,” said a Met official. The winter chill overstayed in Calcutta this season. At 11.4 degrees, Monday (February 1) was the coldest February day in over a decade and the second coldest this winter. A week ago, many Calcuttans were seen wearing warm clothes in the afternoon. But not any more. The umbrellas are not out yet but the sun has been making its presence felt. On Sunday, people waiting to enter an exhibition on the Rabindra Sadan premises were seen protecting their heads from the sun with newspapers. Ditto for visitors to the Alipore zoo. Fans and air-conditioners are back to on-mode at many homes during the day time. “The evenings and early mornings will still be pleasant for a few more days. The temperature will go up gradually,” the Met official said The only breather — the humidity level is not expected to go up significantly. “The western districts of Bengal could get some thunderstorms on Thursday and Friday. In Calcutta, there is little chance of rain,” the Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt schools sweat over ‘safety gap’ on campus||Government schools are finding it difficult to rearrange tables and benches to ensure physical distancing among students, the heads of several institutions said. The authorities are managing because fewer students are now going to school but once students of more classes are called to the campus, it will be difficult to enforce physical distancing, a key precaution against Covid-19. Schools have reopened for in-person instruction for students of Classes IX to XII following a nod from the state government. The students of five classes can now attend in-person classes because Class X has two batches — one that has just been promoted from Class IX and the other that will write Madhyamik in June. Schools are now trying to seat two students on one bench and one in the next row. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, each bench would seat up to five or six students. Many schools have split a class into smaller sections and assigned separate rooms to each. Some are calling students in batches, while others are conducting classes in halls so more students can be accommodated adhering to the physical distancing norm. At Jadavpur Vidyapith, students are being called in batches. “Depending on the size of the room, we can accommodate 12 to 16 benches that can seat 18 to 24 students. We are calling students in batches because we have to accommodate all of them,” headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya said. Class IX at Krishnachandrapur High School in South 24-Parganas has 560 students - 140 in each section. “We don’t have enough benches to accommodate all students and yet maintain the physical distancing norm,” headmaster Chandan Maity said. “This problem is faced by many schools. To overcome the problem, schools are calling children on alternate days,” said Maity, who is also the secretary general of an organisation of school heads. “We have used up all the benches we had. We are now using halls to conduct classes. Once students of Classes V to VIII start coming, we will possibly run out of benches or rooms,” said Pulak Roy Chowdhury, the headmaster of Kanaknagar SD Institution in Hingalganj, North 24-Parganas. Several heads said the situation was still manageable because the number of students going to school was much less than what they had expected. “That is helping us maintain the physical distance protocol in each classroom,” a headmaster said. “The attendance was never 100 per cent even before the pandemic struck, so we could seat every student who came,” said Sajal Dey, the headmaster of Barajirakpur Tarun Sangha High School (HS) in Basirhat. “Over the last two days, about 37 per cent of the students who were asked to go to school turned up. That helped us maintain adequate distance among them,” Dey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||250 birds in cages rescued from Babughat bus stand||More than 250 Alexandrine parakeets were seized from a bus near the Babughat bus stand on Sunday morning. Forest department officials said the bus had started from Ranchi and the birds were to be delivered at several places across the city, including Galiff Street in north Calcutta where birds are sold on Sundays. “Trading in indigenous birds is prohibited. Alexandrine parakeets are protected under the wildlife protection act,” a forest department official said. “We were tipped off that a large number of birds were being smuggled in from Ranchi. We had specific information about the bus, on which the cages had been loaded. Our men spread around in the Babughat area. They kept watch and as soon as the cages were unloaded, they surrounded the bus and apprehended the man who was bringing them,” the official said. Toufiq Alam, who allegedly brought the birds to the city, and Narayan Singh, the driver of the bus, have been arrested. The Bankshal court remanded them in judicial custody. “The Alexandrine parakeet is protected under Schedule I of the wildlife protection act,” said a senior forester. Schedule I animals enjoy the highest protection. A person convicted of trading, killing or hunting a Schedule I animal faces at least seven years’ imprisonment, the official said. The website of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) mentions that the Alexandrine parakeet is near endangered and “occurs in moist or semi-evergreen forest in lowlands, hills as well as low lying mountains. It is known for its ability to mimic sounds, including human speech”. “The population is suspected to be in decline owing to trade and to widespread forest destruction, although rates of decline are unlikely to be higher than moderate, as this species is tolerant of secondary and degraded habitats,” the website adds. Samik Dutta, a conservationist working for an NGO, said that despite raids by the forest department, birds protected under the wildlife act are sold on Galiff Street every Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
15-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt sets February Covid vaccine deadline for health-care workers||All health-care workers in Bengal have to be administered the first dose of a Covid vaccine by February 20, the state government has said, prompting hospitals to draw up a list of employees yet to be inoculated. Bengal has so far administered the first dose of Covishield or Covaxin (the two Covid-19 vaccines approved for emergency use in India) to 495,845 people, the vast majority of whom are health-care workers, health department officials said. “Around 2 lakh health-care workers are yet to be given the first dose. Close to 6.8 lakh health-care workers in the state have been registered for Covid-19 inoculation,” an official said. “We have set February 20 as the deadline for administering the first jab to all health-care workers. This is part of the plan to move forward with vaccination,” the official said. The Centre has informed the health department that vaccination of people above 50 and those suffering from comorbidities would start after March 6. “During an online meeting with us, officials of the Centre told us to remain ready so that vaccination of the general population can start after March 6. But no date was mentioned. We expect the date will be announced this week,” another official of the health department said. “Since we have to begin vaccination of people above 50, we cannot carry on vaccinating health-care workers for an endless period. There has to be a deadline.” Various vaccination sites in the city – private and government hospitals, as well as ward clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation – have started identifying health-care workers who are yet to be inoculated and are informing them about the deadline. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said on Sunday that about 95 per cent of the hospital’s health-care workers have been inoculated. “The state health department has informed us about the February 20 deadline. We have asked the heads of all departments at our hospital to inform the health-care workers in their respective departments who have not yet received their first dose about the deadline,” he said. “We are identifying the health-care workers in our hospital who have not yet been vaccinated.” Jyotirmoy Pal, a professor at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital who is actively involved in the inoculation programme at the hospital, said repeated WhatsApp messages were being circulated in the groups of doctors and other health-care workers of the hospital, informing them about the deadline. “The majority of the health-care workers at our hospital have got the first dose of a Covid vaccine,” he said. Indranil Biswas, the medical superintendent of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said they, too, were spreading the message through WhatsApp and word of mouth. “Taking the vaccine is voluntary. We cannot force anyone to take it, but we can spread the information about the deadline so that no one who is willing to take the jab misses out,” said Biswas. The state health department has also planned to conduct a mop-up operation between February 21 and 25, but what will be done during the period is still not clear. “It could be that the  health-care workers who are not registered to get the vaccine will get a last chance to do so. In that case, they may be asked to receive the first dose by February 25,” said an official. Many private practitioners, who are not associated with any hospital or nursing home, are still to be vaccinated, he added. Vaccination of frontline workers such as police personnel and municipal workers started about 10 days ago. It will continue for some more time. The state has about 2.8 lakh frontline workers, close to 1 lakh of whom are from Calcutta. The administration of the second dose of Covid vaccines began in the state on Saturday. The health-care workers who had received their first dose on January 16 got the second dose on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-142
