16-02-2021||Calcutta||DYFI leader dies in Calcutta, Left blames police action  ||Maidul Islam Middya, a 33-year-old DYFI leader who took part in a protest on Thursday in Calcutta that witnessed clashes between the police and Left supporters, died in a nursing home on Monday morning. A preliminary post-mortem report said no internal injury had been found, according to the police. But the Left and the Congress said Maidul, an auto-rickshaw driver and the sole breadwinner of his family, was beaten up by the police during the foiled Nabanna march last week seeking jobs. When chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s attention was drawn to the death, she said at Nabanna: “Any death is unfortunate. We will have to identify the true cause of the death. If anyone from his family is willing, we will offer a job.” Mamata added that she had spoken to CPM legislator Sujan Chakraborty on the subject. The backlash against the death brought hundreds of Left supporters to the streets in the run-up to the elections. At least one policeman was roughed up and heated exchanges took place. The DYFI and the SFI have given a call to demonstrate in front of all the police stations in the state on Tuesday to protest the death. “The preliminary post-mortem report suggests superficial abrasion on the knee of the deceased person,” a police officer at Lalbazar said. “There were no internal injuries to any organ.” CPM leaders said Maidul, who hailed from Bankura’s Kotulpur, died at the Calcutta nursing home from injuries suffered when the police lathi-charged members of Left student and youth organisations. “The lone breadwinner for a family of six, Maidul was initially admitted to my hospital on Thursday. He was shifted to another hospital on Sunday but he died of injuries suffered during the police lathi-charge,” said CPM leader and doctor Fuad Halim. Halim said Maidul had been referred to another hospital on Sunday because medical tests had shown that his condition had deteriorated. Maidul’s death sparked outrage across the state with Left leaders and supporters coming out on the streets to condemn the “unprovoked brutality of the police on youths demanding jobs”. At Nabanna, Mamata asked why the police station concerned was not informed of the injury. “I heard that his family wasn’t informed until February 13, while the incident took place on February 11. No police complaint has been registered so far,” Mamata added. A large number of DYFI and SFI supporters gathered in front of their organisational headquarters at Entally to pay their last respects to Maidul on Monday. Hours before the body arrived, some Left supporters got into a heated argument with the few policemen who had turned up to manage the crowd. While a policeman managed to run away as tempers rose, another was caught and roughed up. Later, SFI leader Srijan Bhattacharya whisked the cop away to safety. Bhattacharya said the two officers had insulted Maidul’s “sacrifice” and this had angered those who had come to pay their respects to the departed leader. “The policeman should be grateful that we were there. We saved him from the angry mob,” he added. Another heated exchange took place at the Calcutta Police Morgue near College Street. CPM leaders Mohammad Salim and Chakraborty had to intervene to calm the supporters. Left leaders hinted that they would move court. A senior officer at Lalbazar said later in the evening that a case would be started against unknown persons for assaulting policemen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Three hospitals asked to pay compensation for negligence ||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Monday asked Megacity in Duttapukur, North 24-Parganas, and Specialists’ Corner in Salkia, Howrah, to pay Rs 2 lakh each as interim compensation to families of patients who passed away at the nursing homes. The panel found the nursing homes negligent. Megacity did not take necessary steps when a 25-year-old woman’s condition was deteriorating, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said at a news conference on Monday. The woman eventually passed away. The hospital said during Monday’s hearing that they had alerted the doctor who was treating the woman, but he did not turn up. “The hospital’s duty is not just to inform the doctor. As the doctor had not turned up, the hospital should have taken other steps, which they did not do,” Banerjee said. “We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh as interim compensation to the family. We have also told the family that they can approach West Bengal Medical Council if they have any complaint against the doctor. If they get a verdict in their favour, the family can approach us again and we will award a final compensation.” The woman was under the doctor’s supervision ever since the early days of her pregnancy, said Banerjee. She was admitted to the hospital in October 2019. Banerjee said the woman gave birth to a baby in the morning. Complications started soon thereafter, but no doctor examined her. She passed away around 5.30pm. At Salkia’s Specialists’ Corner, a 50-year-old woman passed away after developing complications post-surgery, but the doctor who performed the operation did not turn up. Banerjee said that during a hearing in August, the owner of the nursing home, a doctor, had said the surgeon was responsible for the patient’s death. The owner had said the woman’s doctor had admitted her by force and the hospital could do nothing. “The chief medical officer of health (CMOH), Howrah, submitted a report, where it is clear that the patient’s medical details were present in the OT register. Since we found the patient’s details in the register, the nursing home cannot absolve itself of responsibilities,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the nursing home to pay Rs 2 lakh as interim compensation to the woman’s family and also asked the family to approach West Bengal Medical Council. If they get a verdict in their favour, they can come back to us and we will award the final compensation,” said Banerjee. The woman was admitted to Specialists’ Corner in August 2020 for a surgical procedure. She was admitted at 7.30am, underwent surgery at 9am and the complications started after some time. She remained unattended for long and then passed away, said Banerjee. The commission also asked Sarada Seva Sadan to pay a patient Rs 50,000 as compensation and also return the entire bill amount barring the doctor’s consultation fee and medicine charges. The patient developed a severe infection in the arm as a channel made in the arm at the hospital led to complications, said Banerjee. The patient was admitted to the hospital for an orthopaedic intervention. “There was a need to create a channel in one arm. The procedure to do the channel was not done properly because of which his hand had swollen severely,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to conduct odd semester exams from March 8 to 26 digitally ||Calcutta University will conduct the undergraduate exams of the odd semesters (first, third and fifth) from March 8 to 26 digitally as the campuses are yet to reopen because of the pandemic. The university’s undergraduate board of studies met on Monday to finalise the schedule for the students of the BA, BSc and BCom programmes and the mode of exams, said vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. The resolution adopted at the meeting says: “According to the UGC guideline dated 24th September, all odd semester examinations will be held during March 8-26 by online/ slash digital mode”. The university will send soft copies of the question papers to the affiliated colleges on the exam days. “The university will also upload questions on its website,” the VC said. Once students get the question paper, they can write the answers on their computer or smartphone and mail them back to a designated address. “Students after downloading the question papers can also write the answers in the pen-and-paper mode. In that case they have to scan the answer copy and mail the scanned copy in the form of a PDF file,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to conduct 2nd counselling for BTech||Calcutta University will conduct independent counselling for the second time since December to fill 50 of the 237 BTech seats that are still vacant. The second round of independent counselling will take place more than a month after the start of first-year classes. The university had conducted the first round of decentralised counselling in December to fill 89 seats that had remained vacant after the centralised counselling conducted by the state JEE board. The university decided to hold the second round as seats across departments fell vacant after enrolled students left for newer NITs, which offer better infrastructure, a CU official said. “After scrutinising all application forms a list will be published on 19th February evening on our site www.caluniv-ucsta.net. Spot counselling will be done on February 23 at the technology campus Salt Lake,” reads a notice issued by the university. An official said independent counselling by the university to fill BTech seats was not unusual. “What is unusual is the fact that the university has been forced to hold two rounds of counselling in as many months. The BTech programme at CU was considered to be a coveted course, next to Jadavpur University. But now the university struggles to retain students in the course,” an official said. “Several new NITs have come up and CU seems to be conceding ground to these new institutes, which offer better infrastructure. A large number of students are opting for NITs despite the fact that the cost of studying there is way too high compared with CU,” another official said. This was not the situation when the university launched the four-year BTech programme in 2015. Earlier, the BTech course at CU was of three years. ’’Another point of concern is that we will get students lower down the merit list through the second round of decentralised counselling,” he said. The notice has stated that an engineering aspirant intending to take part in this round decentralised counselling for admission to the BTech programme has to be domiciled in Bengal. The domicile clause was introduced when the first round of decentralised counselling was held. Seats have remained vacant in disciplines like electronics and communication engineering, information technology, jute and fibre technology. “The first semester exams are due in March. We don’t know how the freshly enrolled students will prepare themselves for the exams,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Artists from Bangladesh and India mark Vijay Diwas||A mother clasping her child on her right hip, draped in a sari and standing on a bed of bones with two wings on her shoulders, the stature upright and the eyes reflecting a resolve. An acrylic painting by Atin Basak displayed on the Vatika lawns of Fort William on Monday captured the mood of the occasion — the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas to mark India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the birth of Bangladesh. The 4X5-ft canvas was among several paintings that were on display on the lawns of Fort William, the headquarters of Indian Army’s Eastern Command, where artists from Bangladesh and India shared space to express their thoughts on the event through paintings. The art camp — titled “1971: retrospective through an artist’s eye” — provided an opportunity for painters of the two countries to come together for the first time to showcase the contribution and sacrifices of the Indian Army and the valiant Mukti Jodhas towards the birth of a nation. “The victory of the Indian Army and the formation of Bangladesh marked the liberation of a motherland from the clutches of Pakistan. The wings on the two shoulders of the mother in the painting represents the sense of freedom of a mother that comes with independence,” said Basak. “The mother here represents all mothers of Bangladesh and their collective feeling of freedom at the cost of a war that resulted in several deaths. The bed of bones under her feet represents the death of the soldiers in the liberation war.” A painting by Ahmed Shamsuddoha captures a fighter plane flying over a battleground, which has war wreckage strewn around. Ahmed Shamsuddoha, Jamal Uddin Ahmed and a few others comprise the team of painters from Bangladesh. Subrata Gangopadhyay’s painting shows men from the army in their battle fatigues fighting a war holding on to their guns. At the far left corner is a woman with her hands up in the air and a newborn is floating in the sky. “A mother sacrifices her son to fight war for his country and the son lays down his life so that another mother, the motherland, wins freedom. That is my idea on the canvas about the sacrifices of our men in the 1971 war,” Gangopadhyay said. Vijay Diwas is commemorated on December 16 in India and Bangladesh to mark Bangladesh's liberation from Pakistan. The war also resulted in unilateral and unconditional surrender of Pakistan’s army and subsequent transformation of East Pakistan into an independent Bangladesh. Following their defeat, the chief of the Pakistani forces, General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, and 93,000 troops surrendered to the Mukti Bahini and the Indian Army, led by General Jagjit Singh Aurora. India will celebrate the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas on December 16. The art camp was inaugurated by Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command. It will continue till Tuesday (from 10am and 1pm). Senior army officers said this was part of year-long celebrations that have been planned as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||At 42%, Covid-19 vaccine score tells a tale||The Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Bengal stepped on its 24th day on Monday but only around 42 per cent of the targeted recipients have been inoculated so far against the disease. Officials in the state health department and several hospitals said there was still reluctance among a section of people to get vaccinated. A health department official said 32,323 people were vaccinated across 719 sites in Bengal on Monday, against a target of 71,310 — around 45 per cent. In 24 days, 5,53,422 people have been administered vaccine doses in the state against a target of 13,32,430 — around 42 per cent. The vaccination campaign started on January 16 but in Bengal doses have been administered on 24 days. Heath-care workers and frontline workers are being inoculated in the current round. Officials said the reluctance was mostly among health-care personnel. “No adverse reaction has been reported for the third consecutive day on Monday. We are expecting this data to remove doubts from the minds of those who are still reluctant to take the first dose of a Covid vaccine. All hospitals and health clinics, government and private, have been requested to do more counselling,” an official said. “The concern is not so much about the second dose because those who have taken the first dose are ready for the next round.” The state government has said all health-care workers have to be administered the first dose of a Covid vaccine by February 20, prompting hospitals to draw up a list of employees yet to be inoculated and start a mop-up operation. “In the initial days of the vaccination, the reluctance was almost 80 per cent. There is still reluctance among our health-care workers, but the percentage has come down to 10 or 15,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said of the 3,200 employees in the three units of the group in Calcutta, around 2,500 have taken the first dose of a vaccine. “Those who have suffered from Covid are unwilling to be vaccinated. They are saying that since they have been infected by the virus and developed antibodies, they do not need to get the jab,” Barua said. At SSKM Hospital, around 2,500 out of the 9,500 health-care personnel, including doctors, medical students, nurses and other employees, are yet to take a dose. “Among those who are yet to be vaccinated are many medical students who are at home. We are asking them to come to the campus and get vaccinated by February 20,” said an official of SSKM. At Peerless Hospital, around 100 of the 2,000-odd health-care personnel have not taken the first dose. “Around 20 per cent have genuine medical reasons like pregnancy and allergies. There are about 80 per cent who need to be counselled,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said the most common reason cited by those who are unwilling to be vaccinated is resistance from family members, who are still scared of adverse reactions. “We are constantly counselling them. We are telling them that many recipients have taken their second dose, too. We hope everyone will get the first dose by February 20,” said Mitra. Health department officials said they had informed the Centre that they were ready to start vaccinating people above 50 and those suffering from comorbidities after March 6. According to a state health department official, about 65 per cent of around seven lakh health-care workers have been vaccinated. “If we can’t complete vaccination of health-care and frontline workers by Feb-ruary 20, it would be difficult to start vaccination of the general public,” said an official of the health department. Metro reported on Monday that many vaccination sites in the city had started identifying healthcare workers who are yet to be inoculated and are informing them about the deadline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Women stitch together Saraswati image on cloth, offer puja ||A group of women who learnt tailoring to cope with the financial hardships posed by the Covid pandemic will on Tuesday offer puja to an image of Saraswati they have stitched together on a piece of cloth. At a village in South 24-Parganas, 20 women have created their goddess of learning themselves. All puja-related arrangements have been done by the women and the priest is a woman, too. “This puja is to celebrate our learning and perseverance,” said 30-year-old Minakshi Bhowmik. Perseverance is in pursuing a skill in the face of resistance at home. A woman has to drop her four-year-old daughter at her sister’s house 10km away because her in-laws will not look after the child while she attends training sessions. Perseverance is exemplified in the struggle of a 36-year-old widow who lives alone with her son. She has made use of worn-out clothes and bedsheets to stitch dresses. The puja at their Konchowki village, a few kilometers from Joka, is to celebrate a new beginning and a sense of empowerment the women have achieved from their newly acquired skills. “For us this training is our Saraswati and we hope that with the skill we have acquired, we will be able to fight our circumstances and live a better life,” said 36-year-old Milan Singh, whose son will appear in Madhyamik this year. The group includes 20 women aged 18 to 40 and they have chosen Saraswati puja to showcase the work they have done so far and get a sense of what people think of their creations. Many of these women had never stitched before. The Covid pandemic forced them to “take a plunge” and upskill themselves in a situation where their husbands had lost jobs. The training in stitching, tailoring and embroidery started in November and has been conducted in three phases by the NGO Santoshpur Agantuk. The organisation, which works among women and children, has rented a space at the village where the women can work together. “These women were already financially deprived. The pandemic has only intensified their troubles. Some of them had to fight resistance at home to an extent that they had to forego a few days' training. But they came back,” said Tushu Naskar, the creative head of the NGO. “The idea is to make them independent and arm them with a skill because at the most what they were allowed to do is work as a domestic help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Petroleum dealers caution customers about water seepage in vehicles' fuel tanks||Petroleum dealers are cautioning customers about water seepage in fuel tanks of their vehicles. The increased presence of ethanol (limit raised from 5 to 10 per cent) in petrol attracts water because of its hygroscopic property, which often stalls cars and creates jerks while vehicles are in motion. In 2019, especially during the monsoon, a number of such complaints had arisen where vehicle owners alleged that fuel pumps were mixing water with the fuel. Auto workshops reported several cases of water-petrol mix in June, July and August. Fuel pump owners are now telling their customers to ensure that no water gets into their fuel tanks because that will mix with ethanol and create layers of impurity in the petrol, leading to engine damage. Ethanol attracts water and creates distinct layers and settles down at the bottom of the fuel tank. Fuel pump owners are also saying that customers will be solely responsible if water is found in their vehicle’s fuel tank. The West Bengal Petroleum Dealers Association is carrying out an awareness drive through social media and hoardings at petrol pumps and also talking to customers coming for refills. “We are carrying out the awareness drive well ahead of the monsoon season, when there are a number of cases where vehicles stall because of this issue,” said Tushar Kanti Sen, the president of the association. “Earlier, when ethanol content in petrol was five per cent, few such cases of petrol-water mix happened. But now since the ethanol content has risen, petrol is prone to getting mixed with water. And since customers are not aware of this, they tend to blame petrol pump owners for having mixed water with petrol.” Vehicle owners tend to wash their vehicles with water, which may lead to water seepage into fuel tanks. “Vehicles should only be wiped and not washed,” said Sandip Banerjee, a manager at a workshop. Recently, at a vintage car rally, a WhatsApp message from the Petroleum Traders Welfare & Legal Service Society was circulated among the participants. The message read: “Motorists are advised to exercise care so that water does not come in contact with petrol. This may happen during routine car washing or during rains…. We, petrol dealers, are taking extreme care in this regard and the same is advised for the motoring public.” The awareness message also advised customers to check the quality of petrol from the nozzle of the dispenser at the retail outlet. It warned: “Water found in the tank of a customer's vehicle is his responsibility.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Symbol of vigil against citizenship regime passes away||A woman who was instrumental in starting one of the longest vigils against the citizenship regime died on Monday. Asmat Jamil, in her early 50s, was synonymous with the sit-in at Park Circus Maidan against the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Register of Citizens and the National Population Register. The vigil, the longest after Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, was halted by the pandemic after completing 83 days. Jamil was suffering from cancer, said family members and associates. She leaves behind her husband and two daughters. On January 7 this year, a wheelchair-bound Jamil took part in a rally against the new farm laws and the citizenship thrust. “The pandemic has slowed, not stopped, us. I have not given up. There is a lot of fight left in me,” Jamil had told this correspondent that day. On January 7 last year, a small group of women led by Jamil — mostly homemakers in and around Park Circus — started a 24X7 vigil against the citizenship thrust at the Park Circus Maidan. Gradually, the demonstration went on to become the fulcrum of the massive protests against the citizenship regime in Calcutta, inspiring similar protests at several corners of the city. Students, artists and common citizenry from near and far, Park Circus Maidan drew visitors from all walks of life. Jamil and her associates had kept the vigil apolitical till the end. Slogans of amity and communal harmony, rising from the makeshift stage, were audible at every nook and corner of Park Circus every day. From the dadis of Shaheen Bagh to the great-grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, every visitor had hailed the women for the long-standing Calcutta campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
16-02-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur Vidyapith students recreate change at Saraswati Puja||A goddess who is typically adorned by stacks of books and pens will have around her smartphones and computers this time. The classroom reality has changed in the post-pandemic normal and students at Jadavpur Vidyapith have recreated the change at their school Saraswati Puja. Their theme: Sikshar Nabarupayan (the new in education). In-person classes resumed for Classes from IX to XII on February 12, but many schools, like the one in Jadavpur, are continuing with online classes as well. The schools have split each class into smaller sections, which are taking turns in attending in-person and online classes, to avoid crowding. On Monday afternoon, on the eve of Saraswati Puja, Class XII students Anirban Manna and Anjan Madal and several others were busy setting up the makeshift dais for the goddess on the campus of Jadavpur Vidyapith. The goddess contained in a model of a smartphone has two replicas of classroom on either side — one suggesting how it looked like in the pre-pandemic times and the other reflecting the post-pandemic reality. The blackboard of the pre-pandemic classroom bears the date March 18 — the day in-person classes were held for the last time before campuses were shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. There is also a replica of a teacher sitting in front of a desktop addressing students in an online class. “The contrast was necessary to depict how students and teachers have adapted themselves to the changing times in their quest for education. We have gone digital,” said Somsuvra Dasgupta, an assistant teacher of the school who is involved in organising the puja. At the base of the dais there are models of two students, both holding smartphones with earphones plugged into their ears. One student is seated and the other is in a reclining posture. “While attending online classes, we at times recline on a cushion. At other times we remain seated,” said Anirban Manna, a Class XII student of science stream. Classmate Anirban said: “We can relate to the theme as we have lived it and will continue to live it for quite some time.” Masks and a replica of the novel coronavirus have been used as décors. “This will remind the visitors that the pandemic is still on and we have to keep following the safety measures till the threat of the virus is neutralised,” headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya said. A pedestal of lamps has been set up. “This is to suggest that the light of education will continue to burn through the pandemic,” Bhattacharya said. The school has engaged 10 students of Classes XI and XII to set up the models and do other puja-related work. The usual get-together on the campus on the occasion of Saraswati Puja has been cancelled because of the pandemic. Visitors will have to see the idol and the decoration from outside. “Fruits (without being cut into pieces) and 500 pieces of sweets will be distributed. We will try to livestream the puja on digital platforms and share the links with students,” said Mita Bhattacharya, another teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-141
