17-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta primary school teacher merit list||The Bengal government has published within a month of completion of interviews a merit list of 15,248 candidates who will be appointed as primary school teachers. Officials said the recruitment process was likely to be completed in a week. Many of them admitted that they had rarely seen such promptness in appointing teachers. The West Bengal Board of Primary Education usually takes several months after concluding the interviews to publish the merit list. The weeklong interview of the aspirants had started on January 10. On Monday night, the board came up with a notice announcing the publication of the merit list. Aspiring teachers have been among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government in recent times. The resentment against the government heightened after the high court had on December 11 quashed the process initiated by the school service commission to recruit around 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools (Classes V to VIII). The day the judgement was delivered, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that 16,500 teachers would be appointed at the primary level (Classes I to IV). The candidates who had cracked the teacher eligibility test (TET) and undergone DLD (diploma in elementary education) training were interviewed from a pool of aspirants. They had applied between December 23 and January 6. “We were eagerly looking forward to faster recruitment at some level after the court had struck down appointments at the upper primary level,” said an official of the school education department. The notice from the board says 1,216 remaining posts have been kept vacant “for further recruitment of the same recruitment process from out of remaining candidates who had submitted online applications but are not included in the above merit list ….as well as candidates who had submitted their applications offline pursuant to the orders passed by the Hon’ble High Court and others”. Para-teachers, who have been vocal against the gov-ernment over the past two years, have been given preference in the recruitment process. Para-teachers were appointed by the respective school management committees between 2007 and 2009 before the implementation of the right to education act, which mandates that all children aged between six and 14 will be covered under the school education system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Fatal end to unavoidable venture into Sunderbans||A man who had ventured deep inside the Sunderbans to catch crabs and fish died after being mauled by a tiger on Tuesday morning. Samaresh Ray had set out on a small boat with several others from Kultali in South 24-Parganas, a forest department official said. According to the forest department official, the tiger attacked Ray from behind deep inside a forest. Before the other men could realise what was happening, the animal had dragged him away. The men hit the tiger with axes and sticks, but it managed to drag Ray deeper into the forest. Officials of the forest department and villagers later recovered the body. The lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, which has left most fields and ponds in the Sunderbans inundated with saline water, have resulted in loss of livelihood for many people, according to foresters and people working for the welfare of those living in the Sunderbans. Even inexperienced groups have been venturing into the forests in search of a living, an official said. “Many migrant workers have returned to their villages after losing their usual means of livelihood during the lockdown. Several have fallen back on the forest and have taken to catching crabs and fish in order to make ends meet,” Sagnik Sengupta, a member of Stripes And Green Earth (SAGE), an NGO, said. More than 20 fishermen have been killed since March 2020 in tiger attacks in the mangroves — two more than the number of persons killed in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Farmer’s struggle on canvas in Calcutta ||The painter’s brush has rallied behind the farmer’s plough at an ongoing art exhibition in the city. A series of paintings and sculptures on display at a gallery at the Academy of Fine Arts speak of the turbulent times in the context of the long-standing farmers’ protests on the borders of Delhi. An acrylic on canvas shows a farmer woman, with sad but piercing eyes, holding out a fresh-looking vegetable in one hand. The other hand embraces a child. The thought behind the painting — farmers do not keep their best produce, not even for their own children. They give it to the  consumer. An oil painting shows the subject in an almost supine posture, her body marked by many bruises, some of them very fresh. She represents “wounded and tortured farmers”. Next to it, another painting shows a “corporate hand” tapping a plough, triggering a protest in the form of raised fists. Firmly with farmers — on canvas, an art exhibition, is being organised by Prachi Protichi, a cultural organisation. The exhibition, which started on Monday and will end on February 21, features the works of over 20 artistes, including the likes of Jogen Chowdhury, Hiran Mitra and Subrata Ganguly. “This exhibition is our humble tribute to farmers. The canvasses mirror the revolutionary times that we are living in,” said a curatorial note of the exhibition. On one of the walls, an acrylic painting shows a plough and its shadow, under the gaze of farmers. The canvas also has drops of blood. The background is “chaotic”. Instead of trailing the plough, the shadow is on the front so that the “viewer cannot escape the reality”. A terracotta sculpture sits on a table beside the painting. The figure is that of a skeletal farmer, his face writhing in pain. “Humans, who were dependent on hunting, took to farming for a permanent supply of food. That was tens of thousands of years ago. Till date, there is no alternative to farming. In a way, all of us are descendants of farmers and have farmers’ blood flowing in our veins…. This exhibition is in solidarity with the farmers’ protest,” said Tapos Mallick, the founder-secretary of Prachi Protichi. Author Swapnamoy Chakraborty, one of the guests at the inauguration of the exhibition, said farmers had never got social respect. “During my time in the radio, there was a programme on farmers. It was called Chashi-bhai der jonno…. We never address doctors and lawyers as brothers but addressing a farmer or a weaver as brother is acceptable,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta teachers wade towards Mamata’s backyard ||A group of para-teachers tried to reach chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s house in Kalighat by wading through the water of Tolly’s Nullah on Tuesday morning, demanding pay parity with regular teachers. Senior police officers, headed by Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, rushed to the spot to block the protesters. Mamata was at her home then. Tolly’s Nullah flows behind the chief minister’s Harish Chatterjee Street home. The agitators, some of whom had reached the mid-point of the canal by the time the police team had reached the spot, could be prevented from reaching Mamata’s home. Six men and a woman were arrested from the spot. The incident, which took place between 10.30am and 11am, prompted the senior brass of Lalbazar and officers of the state directorate of security to review the security arrangements in and around the chief minister’s home. Mamata’s house is heavily guarded and no one without a valid  reason is allowed within 500m of the Kalighat address. Sources, however, said the rear of the house, which opens onto Tolly’s Nullah, was relatively less secured as the canal forms a natural cordon, officers said. A senior officer said Tuesday’s incident was “more to seek attention than being a security breach”. Para-teachers were recruited between 2007 and 2009, before the implementation of the right to education act. The government made the recruitment hoping that enrolment of students would see a jump following the implementation of the act, which says all children between six and 14 have to be covered under the school education system. However, being part of the unorganised sector, the salaries of para-teachers are much less compared with regular teachers. The para-teachers who had gathered near Mamata’s house on Tuesday — some of them were holding placards — said they were demanding pay parity with regular teachers. Last month, another group of para-teachers had demonstrated outside the Assembly complex and some of them had scaled the compound’s main gate, threatening to jump over. On Tuesday, they demanded a meeting with the chief minister for a quick resolution of the matter, one of them said. “We were promised equal pay in 2011. Again we were made the same promise in 2016. Another Assembly election is approaching but there is no change in our status,” one of the agitators said, referring to the promise reportedly made before the previous two Assembly polls. The para-teachers had gathered near Alipore and sneaked past a bylane adjoining the Alipore Central jail that opens into Tolly’s Nullah. The chief minister’s residence is located on the other side of the canal. Sources at Lalbazar said they were reviewing the security arrangements to increase human vigil and install barricades to cordon off the canal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur alumnus: What’s behind renaming?||Several former IIT Kharagpur students have expressed outrage at the institute’s decision to rename a multi-speciality hospital, originally named after Dr B.C. Roy, after Syama Prasad Mookerjee and posted comments on the Facebook page of director V.K. Tewari. “What is the purpose of renaming the hospital from BC Roy to Shyamaprasad other than satisfying the PM and his coteries?” wrote Indrajit Dutt. “Please remember, the hospital was named with great fanfare as BC ROY Hospital by APJ Abdul Kalam and you cannot take away this name of a great doctor on whims and fancies. You may be aware Shyamaprasad had no credentials in medicine or surgery and BC Roy excelled in this matter. I am attaching the photographs of the earlier inauguration as blatant proof of the glaring mistakes you are making. Tagging a few fellow IITians….” Dutt told Metro later: “Such was the degree of outrage that I did not wait to write a formal letter to him. I thought I should immediately post my reactions.” He said he was in the same batch as Tewari at the IIT. The director, however, has not responded to any of the comments posted on his timeline about the renaming. Dutt posted a picture of the plaque bearing the name of Dr B.C. Roy, which was installed by the IIT authorities in 2007 while naming the proposed multi-speciality hospital after the former chief minister of Bengal on the occasion of the laying of the foundation stone. The hospital has come up in Balarampur, off the IIT campus. Syama Prasad Mookerjee is the founder of the Jana Sangh, the precursor to the BJP. Dr B.C. Roy is the maker of modern Bengal. The eight posts that are critical of the decision to rename the hospital were among the 37 comments on Tewari’s Facebook timeline till Tuesday evening. Most of the remaining posts lauded the director for holding the convocation virtually and involving the Prime Minister in the proceedings. The Prime Minister will be the chief guest at the February 23 convocation. Responding to Dutt’s comments, another former IITian posted: “I only hope the name of Azad Hall is not changed someday.” The former student later deleted the post. The Azad Hall of Residence is a students’ hostel on the campus named after India’s first education minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. Monish Chatterjee posted: “Good point. Azad, Nehru, Patel — the essence of the Old Campus.” Chatterjee, who had studied electronics and electrical communications engineering, shared a link of The Telegraph report on the renaming and wrote it “indicates a political agenda behind this re-naming, and it serves no other purpose than catering to a narrow, sadly sectarian agenda…. This denigrates both Bidhan Chandra Roy and also Shyama Prasad Mukherjee. This re-naming serves no purpose other than politicizing honorable names.” This newspaper had on Sunday reported that director Tewari had made a Facebook post about the upcoming convocation on February 23, stating: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur.’’ Fourteen years ago, on May 17, 2007, then President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam had laid the foundation stone for the hospital. Posting on the same thread, Kamalendu Ghosh wrote: “Human beings respond to incentives: post-retirement perks bring out sycophantic zeal’’. A post by Umesh Kumar Dubey is steeped in sarcasm: “Dr Tewari, congratulation on organising the convocation. Is this the same institute...?” He then shared a link that contains the IIT’s publications about the super-specialty hospital named after Dr B.C. Roy. “How could they rename a facility about which they have come up with publications even last year? It’s not that the facility was in the process of being built. It’s illogical and has been done with a purpose to derive political mileage,” Dubey, who had studied electrical engineering at the IIT, told this newspaper. Repeated calls to Tewary went unanswered. He did not respond to a text message from this newspaper either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Keep following protocols: Doctors on Bengal Covid panel||Senior doctors on the Bengal government’s committee for management and containment of Covid-19 have urged people to continue adhering to the protocols strictly because the coronavirus is still active even though the number of cases is going down. The doctors said vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers, which is on, should not be a reason for the rest of the population to feel complacent about the pandemic. It is still a long way for the rest of the population to be vaccinated against the disease and the coronavirus continues to remain virulent, they said. “We haven’t eradicated the coronavirus and it is still a long way for everyone to get vaccinated. So there is no alternative to adhering to the Covid-19 protocols because we are still admitting patients who have tested positive,” said Ajay Krishna Sarkar, a pulmonologist and critical care specialist at Peerless Hospital. “This is also the time when several other strains of viruses and bacteria remain active and the coronavirus finds it easy to infect those who are immuno-compromised.” Till Monday, according to figures from Swasthya Bhavan, around 5.53 lakh health-care workers and frontline workers were vaccinated, out of a total of around 13.32 lakh. Which means around 42 per cent of the two categories of workers have been vaccinated. Senior officials said there was still no specific directive from the Centre about enlisting the next category for inoculation and the entire population would not be covered anytime soon. But that obviously didn’t matter to many. On Tuesday, on the occasion of Saraswati Puja, a large number of people on the roads across localities and markets in Calcutta were not wearing masks or wearing masks on their chin. According to Lalbazar, 45 people were booked across Calcutta for not wearing masks till Tuesday noon. But officers admitted that such action contributed little to spreading awareness on the Covid protocols. Experts from the state’s Covid-19 management and containment committee described the situation as scary and appealed to the people to stick to the basics of wearing a mask, maintaining social distance and sanitising hands. They said strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocols would not only keep the coronavirus at bay but protect people from a host of seasonal infections as well. “We have made it clear to all that there is no immediate winding up of the arrangements for Covid-19 across all facilities that are under the state health department. It is still not the time,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of the Covid-19 committee and also the gastroenterology department at SSKM Hospital. “We might be scaling down the arrangements a bit but there is no reason to believe the battle has been won. So please continue to abide by the Covid-19 protocols.” Senior doctors of the committee said they would start visiting medical colleges and other hospitals in Calcutta from next week to ensure the post-Covid clinics keep functioning properly. They said this was important since it was still unknown how the coronavirus would react after entering the human body and which organs it would target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
17-02-2021||Calcutta||Jab drive in Calcutta trips on ebbing fear, poor data||The reluctance among a section of people to take Covid-19 vaccine doses is because of abating fear of the coronavirus and lack of adequate data, public health experts and government officials said on Tuesday. State health department officials said the reluctance was more among healthcare workers than frontline workers, the two categories chosen for the ongoing first round of vaccination against Covid-19. Those who will refuse to take the first dose of a Covid vaccine by February 20, the deadline set by the Centre, will not be given priority after that, the officials said. Metro reported on Tuesday that after 24 days of vaccination since January 16, only 42 per cent of the targeted population had taken a shot against Covid till February 15. “I think there are two factors responsible for the reluctance. The darkness and fear about Covid-19, which was there in people’s minds even a couple of months back, has diminished to a large extent. Second, there is a lot of confusion about the vaccines, particularly Covaxin,” public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said. “There is not enough data about the efficacy of Covaxin. So, it seems the drive for vaccination is driven by belief and not scientific data in India…. The rule that one has to sign a consent form before taking a Covaxin dose has only heightened the confusion. Many health workers wonder why they should take the trouble when the number of Covid-19 cases is coming down,” said Chowdhury. Covaxin and Covishield are the two vaccines against Covid-19 cleared for emergency use in India. Chowdhury said more scientific data about Covaxin should be published by the Centre to make the vaccination drive more successful. Several hospitals in Calcutta said fewer health-care workers were taking the shots compared with frontline workers over the past few days. Vaccination of frontline workers, such as civic staff and police personnel, started a few days ago, while health-care workers have been getting the shots since January 16. A senior official of the health department said health-care workers had access to the data of daily Covid cases in their hospitals and are seeing the numbers coming down sharply. Bengal reported 151 new Covid cases and two deaths on February 16. The corresponding figures were 133 and 1 the day before. In contrast, the state had reported 2,293 new cases and 46 deaths on December 16. “This has led to complacency among a section of health-care workers. Also, people are still concerned about side-effects. But we have to keep in mind that Covid is far from over and vaccination is important,” said Ajoy Kumar Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services. Another health official said the efficacy trial sample for Covaxin was so small that it was difficult to convince people based on scientific evidence. The result: the number of health-care personnel taking vaccines at many sites is much less compared with frontline workers. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, on February 15, 80 per cent of the recipients of the first dose were frontline workers and 20 per cent were health-care personnel. At Peerless Hospital, 87 frontline workers took a dose on February 15, compared with 25 health-care personnel. Hospitals said they were not receiving any fresh list of health-care workers for Covid jabs. “There were many health-care workers who did not take the vaccine on their scheduled dates. Now, we are convincing some of them to come and take the shots. But we apprehend several will not be vaccinated,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We think 25 per cent of our health-care workers will not take the vaccine. Since this is voluntary, we can’t force anyone,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN tagore hospital is a flagship unit. State health service director Chakraborty said he was trying to counsel reluctant health-care workers. “The health-care workers have to keep in mind that they are most exposed to the coronavirus as they are treating patients. If they don’t take the shots, they are leaving themselves as well as the patients and their family members, many of whom are elderly, at risk,” Chakraborty said. “The health-care workers who will not take the first dose by February 20 will no longer be given priority. They will have to wait for months for their turn," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
