18-02-2021||Calcutta||Raft on canal near Mamata Banerjee’s home||Seven police pickets were set up near the Tolly’s Nullah and a raft was deployed on the canal behind chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Kalighat home a day after some parateachers tried to reach her house by wading through waistdeep water. They held placards demanding pay parity with regular teachers. The raft will have disaster management group personnel who will patrol the canal through the day, officers attached with the chief minister’s security said. Police presence has been increased along Alipore central jail in the lanes and bylanes leading to the canal. From Wednesday, seven police posts were set up along Alipore central jail where personnel were posted on different shifts to ensure that no one would be able to reach the canal without being frisked or giving a satisfactory reason. Many residents in the neighbouring areas go to the canal for their daily chores, police said. Civic volunteers from the locality will assist the police to verify that the people going to the canal are from the neighbourhood. The stretch of the canal that flows behind the chief minister’s home is partially marshy and has not been dredged in several years, sources in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said. CMC boats sometimes cross the stretch to spray insecticide and larvicide as part of antimosquito drives, said an official of the civic body. The police top brass is contemplating initiating action against the officers who were on duty and in charge of the security of the chief minister’s home from the Tolly’s Nullah approach, sources in Lalbazar said. On Tuesday, a group of parateachers had waded through the Nullah and tried to reach the chief minister’s home with demands of pay scale parity with teachers recruited by the government. Mamata was at home at the time. Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra rushed to the spot and ensured that the agitators were prevented from reaching the chief minister’s residence. The chief minister’s home on Harish Chatterjee Street is guarded by multiple pickets and heavy radio flying squad vehicles on all sides except one, sources said. The back of her house adjoining the Tolly’s Nullah usually remains unguarded. The group of men and women who tried to cross the canal on Tuesday had used a bylane adjoining Alipore central jail, apparently unnoticed and unintercepted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||RKM convocation minus guardians||The Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous) in Narendrapur will hold its convocation on March 6 but degree recipients have been asked not to bring guardians for the event to avoid crowding amid the Covid pandemic. The ceremony will be held at an auditorium on the campus that can accommodate 950 students, an official of the college said. “Around 140 outgoing undergraduate and postgraduate students will come to the campus to receive their degrees,” said Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college. Students who would not be able to attend the convocation will have to go to the campus later to collect their degree certificates in a staggered way. The ceremony will be live streamed on digital platforms. A notice signed by principal Swami Shastrajnananda says: “As Covid-19 precautionary measures, you will come to campus on the day of the ceremony and return after the event. There will be no on-campus accommodation facility this time around.” At the Narendrapur institution, the college usually allows outgoing students to go to the campus days before the convocation, stay there and spend a few days on the campus post the ceremony. As hostels have been shut because of the pandemic, this custom has been done away with, said an official said. The degree recipients have been asked to fill up a Google form — https://forms.gle /qGJ7UJ9rVyKaeSaE6 — to confirm that they will attend the programme. The last date to submit the form is February 28. The chief guest for the convocation will be Sangamithra Bandyopadhyay, the director of the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. “You are expected to follow the standard Covid-19 protocols — wearing of masks, carrying hand sanitiser, physical distancing and the rest,” the principal’s notice says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Sector V: call centre racket busted ||Salt Lake police arrested two director-cum-owners of a call centre in Sector V for allegedly duping Spanish, German and Australian nationals posing as officials of a software giant, police said. The police have identified the two as Shuvashis Jana and Rahim Passa. The other owner-directors are on the run, the police said. A team from the Bidhannagar Commissionerate conducted a raid at the fifth-floor office of Dreambolic Technology Pvt Ltd at EN Block in Sector V on Monday afternoon. The cops found at least 50 men and women working at the office. “The arrested duo have confessed that they used to dupe foreign nationals by calling them posing as officials of a software firm. They would warn them against a virus attack on their computers and offer help. After given access to the computer,s they would siphon-off money from their accounts using various payment gateways,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Xavier’s report cards to mention offline or online mode of exams||St Xavier’s Collegiate School has said the report cards of students of Classes X and XII will mention whether they took the pre-board exams in offline or online mode. “The report cards will carry the information ‘Pre-Board Offline’ and ‘Pre-Board Online’,” says a notice signed by the principal and sent to parents and students of Classes X and XII on Wednesday evening. “We welcome the parents who chose the offline mode because they showed a great courage and confidence in the school...We also respect the other parents’ opinion (who chose online mode),” principal Father M. Thamacin Arulappan told Metro. The notice also asked parents not to change their decisions on offline/online exams. Those writing the exam in the online mode will have to send the PDF of the answer scripts within 10 minutes after the writing time is over. Late mails won’t be accepted. The school said about 90 per cent parents have given consent to offline exams that starts March 1. “....We have decided to hold the Pre-board examinations in offline mode to increase the confidence of our students...A large number of our parents have given the consent letters in view of Offline Examination...We respect the concerns of other parents too,” the principal’s notice reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Open-heart surgery simplified||A conventional open-heart surgery, involving a long stay at the hospital and a longer recovery time, is the usual procedure to replace a non-functional valve. But under a new minimally invasive method, in which a catheter is inserted through a very small opening in the leg, the hospital stay is much shorter and the recovery time quicker. Doctors at a city hospital on Wednesday explained some innovations in cardiology. Here’s a lowdown on some of them. Valve On most occasions, replacement of a dysfunctional valve requires an open-heart procedure, in which the chest is surgically cut open to implant a new valve. “But under a new method, all it takes to implant a new valve is inserting a catheter through a small opening in the groin. As a result, the patient’s hospital stay is much shorter,” said Anjan Siotia, interventional cardiologist at the BM Birla Heart Research Centre. The new method is called transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). A woman underwent a TAVI surgery at the hospital during the lockdown and was doing fine, the doctor said. Pacemaker A leadless mini pacemaker, roughly one-tenth the size of a usual pacemaker, was flaunted at the programme. A conventional pacemaker, that signals the heart to beat when the heartbeat is irregular, comprises a pulse generator, one or more leads and an electrode on each lead. The lead is an insulated wire connecting the generator and the heart’s chambers. “Some of the complications associated with conventional pacemakers with lead are infections, hematoma and lead fracture. The leadless pacemakers do not have these complications. The mini pacemaker is implanted through a small hole in the femoral artery (groin), similar to an angioplasty. There is no need for a surgical incision in the chest. The surgery is a quicker process. The mini pacemaker lasts around 10-12 years, similar to a conventional pacemaker,” said Anil Mishra, interventional cardiologist at the Alipore hospital. Bluetooth-enabled pacemakers were also being used on cardiac patients, especially those who cannot visit the hospital regularly, doctors said. “The device can be connected to the patient’s phone. All the data can be accessed by a central server. A patient living at Alipore can visit us anytime he wants but the same is not true for patients living far away,” said Siotia. The new innovations are mostly dependent on imported devices and the surgeries are costlier than conventional procedures. “Implanting a mini pacemaker could cost two times the surgery to implant a conventional pacemaker,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Ambedkar bridge flank curbs for load test||One of the flanks of the Ambedkar bridge on the EM Bypass, which takes vehicles from Parama to Ruby, will be shut to traffic from 11pm on Friday to make way for load test of the structure. The blockade would be removed at 5am on Monday. The bridge is crucial for vehicular movement on the Bypass, considering the volume of traffic it handles. Located near the PC Chandra Garden on the Bypass, the Ambedkar bridge is over 30-years-old. In 2016, engineering consultancy company RITES had listed it among five bridges and flyovers in Calcutta that needed immediate repairs. The four others on the list were — Bankim Setu in Howrah, Sealdah flyover, Baghajatin rail overbridge and Chingrighata flyover. Two years after this, the urban development department had replaced the expansion joints of the bridge. The department has now decided to conduct a load test. “We would want to find out whether the load bearing capacity of the bridge has gone down since it was built or if it requires certain repairs so that the capacity can be enhanced,” a senior engineer of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which is responsible for the bridge’s upkeep and maintenance, said. “All the four others that were on the 2016 list have undergone some sort of repairs,” the CMDA engineer said. During the time when the flank that carries vehicles from Parama to Garia will remain shut, the police have decided to divert the traffic to the other flank that takes vehicles from Garia to Ultadanga. “The flank would be split into two halves with guardrails,” said a senior officer of Tiljala traffic guard. “Though the traffic load is comparatively less on Saturdays and Sundays, if the tail up is more, vehicles will be diverted from Parama and Ruby.” Officials in the urban development department said the load test of the Ambedkar bridge would comprise mounting several loaded trucks first on the lane that is to be tested followed by empty trucks. A team of engineers would check how different components of the bridge — such as the deck slab, bearings, piers and the cables — were responding to  the loads. Deflections of different components of the bridge would be calculated and the report would be sent to the bridge monitoring committee that the state government has set up in 2018 after the Majerhat bridge collapse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||Portion of Lake View Road renamed Basant-Sarala Birla Sarani||A portion of Lake View Road in south Calcutta was renamed Basant-Sarala Birla Sarani on Wednesday evening. Basant Kumar Birla, affectionately called “BK Babu”, was the son of industry doyen Ghanashyam Das Birla (GD Birla) and the patriarch of one of India’s most illustrious business families. Sarala Birla, to whom Basant Kumar Birla was married by Mahatma Gandhi, was the guiding force in his life. In an interview with this newspaper during the 69th anniversary of their wedding, Basant Kumar Birla had said that he never went ahead with anything without her approval. The stretch of Lake View Road, between its intersection with Rashbehari Avenue and Anil Roy Road, was renamed Basant-Sarala Birla Sarani at a programme organised by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The portion between Anil Roy Road and Southern Avenue will remain Ashoktaru Bandyopadhyay Sarani, the name which was given to the whole of Lake View Road earlier. Vidula Jalan and Maitreyi Kandoi, grandchildren of Basant and Sarala Birla, were present at the programme on Wednesday. “We thank everyone for renaming this road after our grandparents. We are too emotional to say much today,” Maitreyi said. The honour for the Birlas comes at a time a debate has been raging about the identity of the “sons of the soil” and “outsiders”. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused the BJP of parachuting “outsiders” — leaders from several other states — to steer its election campaign in Bengal. The BJP has tried to turn that around and spin a narrative in which Mamata is someone opposed to the city’s predominantly Marwari business community. Speaking about the contributions of the Birla family towards Calcutta’s growth, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, said: “They were 300 times more Bengali than me.” “Nowadays there is a lot of talk about insider and outsider. I think Basant and Sarala Birla were 300 times more Bengali than me. Or for that matter, R.S. Agarwal and R.S. Goenka (founders of the Emami group). Once upon a time, they came from Rajasthan to do business here. Today, they are sons of Bengal,” Hakim said. He also mentioned the Kandoi family, pointing towards Maitreyi’s husband Vikash Kandoi, who was present. Among industrialists present at the ceremony were Sanjay Budhia, managing director of Patton Group, and Sushil Goenka, managing director of Emami Ltd. “The Birlas are a rare breed of industrialists. They built such a large business when there was licence and quota raj. Post-liberalisation, it is easier to build business but it was not easy in that age,” said Budhia. Sources in the CMC said the reason for renaming Lake View Road after the couple was their close association with the Birla Academy of Art and Culture, which is about 20 metres from where Lake View Road meets Southern Avenue. The website of the Birla Academy mentions the role of Basant and Sarala Birla in its foundation. “It all started when Sri & Smt B.K. Birla, foremost industrialists of India, had started collecting rare and valuable treasures of art out of their profound love for art & beauty. With a sizeable collection in place, it was decided that such veritable treasure troves of history should be accessible to all. A public Charitable Trust was created in 1962 with a view to collecting, preserving and exhibiting art objects for the public,” the website says. This is the first road in Calcutta named after a Birla family member, many of whom made the city their home. Painter Suvaprasanna had proposed to Mamata  that the road be renamed after the two. “She immediately agreed and asked the CMC to do the necessary,” Suvaprasanna told Metro. Basant Kumar Birla was born in Calcutta and went to Hare School. Most of his business ventures are headquartered in the city such as Kesoram Industries Ltd and Jaya Shree Tea. Even when Basant Kumar Birla was ailing because of age and he mostly spent time in Mumbai with his grandson Kumar Mangalam Birla, he expressed a desire to be back in Calcutta, at the Birla Park residence on Gurusaday Dutt Road. “There are other roads in Calcutta named after illustrious Marwaris who lived or worked here. Banstalla Street was renamed Sir Hari Ram Goenka Street in 1938 and there is Jamnalal Bajaj Street in Burrabazar,” said Debasis Bose, a former member of CMC’s road renaming committee. “Alipore Road was renamed RP Goenka Sarani after Rama Prasad Goenka passed away. Russell Street was renamed Anandilal Poddar Sarani and Pageyapatty Street was renamed Basantlal Murarka Road,” said Bose. Basant Kumar Birla built two institutions to promote art and at least six schools to encourage education, especially among girl children, mainly at the behest of wife Sarala Birla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
18-02-2021||Calcutta||60% dip in Calcutta Metro passenger count||Only about 40 per cent of the pre-pandemic number of passengers has been taking Metro trains even though the transportation system resumed operations from mid-September last year. The suburban trains, too, are less crowded than they used to be before the Covid-19 pandemic. Many people losing their jobs because of the pandemic, others working from home and educational institutions remaining closed, except for few classes in the schools, are some of the main factors for the transportation systems not having passengers like the normal times, several officials told Metro. Metro Rail has had 2.1 lakh to 2.3 lakh passengers daily this week. The number has gone up from 21,336 passengers on September 14, the day services had resumed. The number of trains has also gone up from 110 to 240. However, after five months of resuming operations, the passenger count is still far less compared to 6.5 lakh passengers taking Metro trains daily before the pandemic. Then, 284 trains would run on weekdays. Metro services were closed from March 23 last year. The passenger counts for suburban trains have also not touched pre-pandemic levels. Eastern Railway is recording a daily passenger count of around 25 lakh on an average in its suburban trains as against 30 lakh earlier. South Eastern Railway now has around 7,500 passengers compared to the earlier daily average of 10,500 passengers in the suburban trains, said an official. Tens of thousands of people staying in the fringes of Calcutta would take a suburban train to Calcutta for work. Many of them would take a Metro from stations like Dum Dum to get to the heart of the city where their offices are located. There would be others who would take a Metro to travel short distances within the city for work. During the Covid-triggered lockdown, many lost their jobs and are yet to find another one. An elderly resident of Belghoria in the northern fringes of the city, who used to work as a security guard for a retail store in a mall in south Calcutta, would take a suburban train to Dum Dum and then a Metro to Rabindra Sarobar station. From there, he would take an autorickshaw to reach his workplace. The store, a retail chain, decided to do away with security personnel as a cost cutting measure. “I am yet to get a job. There are a few stores I have contacted but at the moment no one is hiring me,” he said. There are many like him who are no longer travelling on suburban and Metro trains to come to Calcutta for work every day. A Metro official said the footfall at Dum Dum station, an interface for suburban and Metro passengers, was 80,000 passengers daily. The number is 39,000 now. “We are trying to encourage people to travel by Metro by withdrawing the e-passes. Now, passengers can buy smart cards for travelling,” said Indrani Banerjee, Metro spokesperson. Metro is yet to introduce tokens because they apprehend these could lead to the spread of the coronavirus. A Metro official said many passengers who are buying smart cards are returning them after a day or two. “People don’t want to keep the money deposited, even though it is a small amount.” A Metro smart card can be bought for Rs 100 and if it is returned, a small amount including the ticket price for the rides is deducted. According to the official, in January 2021, nearly 1.42 lakh smart cards were sold, out of which almost 29,000 were returned by passengers after a few days. In January, 2020, 21,240 cards were sold and only about 3,000 were returned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-140
