19-02-2021||Calcutta||BJP youth-wing leader arrested with 100 grams of cocaine in Calcutta||BJP's youth-wing leader Pamela Goswami was arrested with cocaine from south Kolkata's upscale New Alipore area on Friday, police said. Goswami, the state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was along with a friend, identified as Prabir Kumar Dey, in her car when both of them were nabbed, they said. Around 100 gm of cocaine was allegedly found in her handbag, and other parts of the car, police said. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of the New Alipore police station made the arrests when she was parking the car, an officer said. "She was involved in drug trafficking for quite some time. Today, we got information that she along with her supplier Prabir was reaching the spot to hand over the drugs to the purchasers," the officer said. A team of policemen in eight vehicles surrounded Goswami's car and made the arrests, he said. "An investigation into the matter is underway. We are trying to find out whether she is involved in any drug racket," the officer said. The BJP said that it suspects the police's role in the drugs recovery but if Goswami was wrong, the law should take its course. "We had earlier seen that the state police had named several BJP activists in arms cases. I do not have much information about this incident that is why I will not be able to say more. Pamela is a young girl. If she has done anything wrong, the law will take its course," BJP MP Locket Chatterjee said. State BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, "I do not know whether this is planted. The model code of conduct is yet to come into effect and the police are still under the state government. So, anything can be possible. We need to see whether the packets were planted inside her vehicle and her bag. I am not sure." State minister and senior Trinamul Congress leader Chandrima Bhattacharya slammed the BJP and said it was a shame that even women from the party were found involved in such illegal acts. "Earlier, we saw the involvement of several BJP leaders in child trafficking, and now drug trafficking. Every time they cannot cry conspiracy. It's a shame that their (BJP's) women leaders are involved in such illegal activities," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Amitendranath Tagore no more||Eminent Sinologist Amitendranath Tagore passed away on February 7 at his house facing DL Park. He died in his sleep of cardio respiratory failure. Son of Abanindranath’s eldest son Alokendra, Amitendranath was 98 and is survived by his wife Arundhuti and son Ayanendranath. “He complained of a discomfort in his chest and asked for a sip of water around 2.30am. I was to take him to a doctor in the morning,” Bholanath Das, his Man Friday for 32 years, told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Amitendranath had spent 19 years — 1966 to 1985 — teaching Chinese at the Oakland University in Michigan. On his return in 1987, he had settled in CL Block in a rented house with his parents while the DL Block house was being built. He was among the earliest students of Cheena Bhavana, Visva Bharati. He joined there after completing B.Com, when his grandfather Abanindranath was the university chancellor. He would get selected by the government for a study trip to China in 1947 and completed his MA at the National Peking University. He later taught at Cheena Bhavana and also at the National Defence Academy before a Fulbright fellowship took him to the United States in 1961. He was a keen golfer and had penned an autobiography called Amit Katha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Book fair in New Town ||New Town Book Fair will be held at the fairgrounds between February 26 and March 7. This will be the seventh edition of the fair and will have around 50 stalls including those by Ananda Publishers, Dev Sahitya Kutir and Penguin. The fair will be inaugurated by Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation and other eminent guests will include poets Joy Goswami, Subodh Sarkar and theatre personality Debsankar Halder. The highlight of the fair is the fifth national poetry festival, to be held on February 28 and March 1, 4pm onwards. A number of poets will congregate, recite and take part in a discussion on universality in contemporary Bengali poetry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Memorial meet for fair body secy||Kakali Mitra, who had been secretary of the New Town Book Fair for the last four years, passed away on February 3. She was 78 and succumbed to tuberculosis. Mitra was a retired college professor, in the field of nutrition. She was not married and lived by herself in Mahisgot, between New Town and Salt Lake. The book fair committee held a memorial service for Mitra at Swapno Bhor recently. “The last time I met Kakali di it was at this very room, at our AGM,” said Urmila Sen, president of the committee, who was anchoring the memorial service. “She seemed uncharacteristically restless and out of breath. Little did we know she was already sick from within. But she was happy to know that our book fair would be taking place after all this year.” Other members of the committee recalled how Mitra, cap on head, would walk all over the fairgrounds supervising affairs till the gates shut at night. Musical tributes poured in from the likes of Debasri Mukhopadhyay and Saikat Ali Molla. Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), conceded that he did not know Mitra too well but that she was always conspicuous by her activity. “Here at Swapno Bhor we talk of a second innings in life and this lady was a living example of that. My request to the fair committee is to name something — a stage or stall perhaps — after her.” Anup Matilal, curator of Rabindra Tirtha and Nazrul Tirtha, and Prasanta Majhi, the in-charge of Swapno Bhor, paid tributes too. Some spoke of the books she wrote, such as a book on nutrition called Panchatantrey Sustho Sundor Jiboner Chabikathi. One of her publishers, Gourdas Saha, of Parul Prakashani, spoke. “Once bordi had told me that she wanted no one to mourn her demise, whenever it happened. Rather, she had hoped it would inspire us to work harder,” said Sanjay Jana, assistant secretary of the committee. “It is with her blessings that we are getting positive response from publishers for the upcoming fair despite the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Sulekha Banerjee’s roses will make you want to celebrate V-Day||One look at the huge red Roses in Sulekha Banerjee’s garden will make you want to celebrate Valentine’s Day all over again. But she also has a large collection of Petunias, that are so abundant that one can barely see the leaves underneath. Even her Bougainvillea and Hibiscus nearly cover the walls they grow in front of. My interest in gardening developed when my husband and I moved to Rourkella and then to Kulti. When we came to Salt Lake in 1997, I brought along my plants but very few survived. Heartbroken, I asked my husband to get me some more from Sealdah nurseries but little did I know how many he would order! An entire pushcart full of plants trailed my husband’s car! I was taken aback but also delighted. Thereafter almost all the plants growing in our house are but descendants of that first batch. I am most fond of flowers so Roses, Chrysanthemums, Petunias, Jasmines, Hibiscus, Bougainvillea are always around me. Some of the Roses stay in bloom for up to 15 days and some are light pink at the centre and deep pink on the edges. Some even bear red and pink flowers together. Passers-by often stop to admire the flowers at the gate and couples have sought permission to pluck a Rose or two. But I don’t have the heart to tear them off. Once when we returned from a trip to my son’s place in Mumbai, I found nine plants missing from my front yard. I was furious and upon enquiry learnt that a chap living in a nearby garage had stolen them. I went over and threatened to have him arrested. He returned the plants but not all of them survived the onslaught. We have some fruits and vegetables too. The Aata tree bears delicious fruits, the Lime tree bears more fruits than I can distribute among friends and family... Only the Litchi tree, gifted by my son from Mumbai, is yet to mature. If I had my way I would have flooded our driveway with plants but my husband grumbles for space to take the car in and out of the garage. So we have compromised. It’s not just plants that I love but the entire process of gardening, warts and all. A few weeks ago, when it had got extremely cold my family members tried to coax me into hiring someone to water the plants but I refused. What would be my contribution to the garden if I outsource the gardening?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Blooms on sale from roadside bed||This Valentine’s Day, there were Chrysanthemums on sale which were grown not in a far-away nursery but on the divider of a road, overlooking which stands Biswa Bangla Gate. And as long as there are flowers in bloom, they would continue to be sold right from the spot. “People loved the chance to choose the flowers themselves directly from the garden that they want the bunch they buy to be made with. So we plan to continue with the sales counter by the divider till perhaps Dol,” said the chairman cum managing director of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) Debashis Sen. Hidco had harvested a two-acre stretch of the median divider with Chrysanthemum and Tuberose plants. The Chrysanthemum bed was lit up all December with LED lamps at a height of 2.5ft. Those passing the road going from the Gate towards Balaka Abasan had seen the lights aglow from 6pm to 10pm to boost their growth in the winter weeks when sunlight hours are inadequate. The Chrysanthemums were being sold in bunches of a dozen from several counters, other than by the flower bed, on Sunday — at New Town Bus stand, all the gates along the Major Arterial Road of Eco Park, mother’s Wax museum and Coffee House New Town. “We sold 300 bunches, worth Rs 6,000 on Sunday,” said Sen. But a tour of the sales counters by The Telegraph Salt Lake revealed that Chrysanthemums lagged far behind in sales compared to the bloom of choice for the day of love, the Red rose. Roses rule When 30-year-old Rajnish Roy, a resident of Baguiati, walked in quickly through Gate 1 of Eco Park on Sunday afternoon, he was carrying a cake. After buying the tickets, he suddenly noticed flowers being sold near the counter. He stepped up to ask about the prices. The choices were Chrysanthemums (Rs 20 for a small bunch or Rs 40 for a big bunch) or red Roses at Rs 30 each. But who is bothered about prices on a day when all that matters is a gesture. He opted for the Rose. “Today is Valentine’s Day. My wife is waiting inside and I have got cake that we can cut together. It’s almost sunset and I haven’t got her a gift. If I don’t buy roses, there is every chance she will not cook dinner tonight. So red Rose it must be!” he said, while paying before quickly heading in. The Chrysanthemums were being sold outside Eco Park at Gate 1, 2, 3 and 4. Not all of them sold Roses as well. Prashanta Dhar, who was in charge of the flower counter at Gate 1, said: “I have sold six bunches of Chrysanthemums since morning. People are asking for Roses. Most of them went back because we didn’t have any.” The stall at the Biswa Bangla Gate sold merely eight bunches through the day till 4pm. It did not stock any Roses either. Swapan Bagchi was selling flowers on a table outside Gate 3, beside Misti Hub. “I don’t sell flowers every day, but only on special occasions like Valentine’s Day, New Year and Christmas. On other days, I sells toys. Today I have sold Roses for Rs 50 each. All the customers come for Roses and I have them in all colours right from red to white, yellow, peach, etc. I source my flowers from Howrah and on such occasions a bunch costs Rs 450 each. Red Roses are the most expensive,” he pointed out.  Three steps further up, the Chrysanthemums were being sold by a uniformed security guard of the park. Here too sales were dismal, in single figure. Sneha Sikdar, a third year student of The Bhowanipore Gujarati Education Society and a resident of BA Block in Salt Lake, was entering Eco Park with two of her friends. They stopped to buy yellow roses at Gate 1 which she said stood for friendship. “I am here to celebrate Valentine’s Day with my friends. But Chrysanthemums are not suitable for this day. The idea is novel but not apt,” she said, when the cheaper Chrysanthemums were pointed to her. As the day wore itself out, the excited chatter died down in the park and selfie cameras flashed from unexpected corners in the bushes for the last souvenir of the afternoon. Most couples retreated into Misti Hub and Cafe Ekante for a bite before heading home walking past the unsold bunches of Chrysanthemums. “We allow salesmen to sell Roses privately outside the gates against a token fee for occupying the space. Whether Chrysanthemums would have sold better if the Roses were not available on sale is a hypothetical question but we had no intention to deprive visitors of a bit of fun and the sellers a quick buck. What is important is our Roses inside the park were unharmed,” said Sen. Indeed, the guards posted near the rose garden inside Eco Park looked relieved as dusk set in. In 2019, Valentine’s Day had proved to be quite a nightmare for them. The flower beds had been vandalised as most of the roses were mercilessly plucked by the visitors. “They were running away before we could spot them from afar and catch hold of them,” a guard recalled. This year, however, the authorities had stationed guards all along the garden so that no one could touch the roses. The outlying branches were netted in. The guards patrolled the Rose garden on all sides and kept strict vigil even on those trying to take photographs. The efforts bore fruit and the Rose garden remained unharmed till sundown. Would Hidco consider selling the Roses from its garden next year on Valentine’s Day? “We realise Roses would have worked better. That’s a learning. We will work on it,” Sen replied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Library in coffee house||Cosy corner: Residents of Action Area IIA now have the benefit of a mini library close to home. The New Town Library at Nazrul Tirtha has started borrowing facilities at its extension counter at Coffee House New Town. The counter, open six days a week from noon to 7pm like the Coffee House, has about a catalogue of 550 books in English and Bengali which will be refreshed from time to time from the main library. “One has to become a member of the library to take books home. Individual membership costs Rs 1,000 annually while family membership fee is Rs 2,000. While an individual can borrow two books at a time, a family membership entitles one to four books and entry for four members to the main library,” said an official. The library at Nazrul Tirtha houses about 14,000 books and DVDs. Both are closed on Mondays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Stew to steak, icons’ picks served at museum café||Some of the icons whose statues are housed at Mother’s Wax Museum have lent their names to dishes being served at a newly opened cafe on the ground floor. “Just as we have gathered the best sweets of Calcutta at Misti Hub, we are serving streetfood which are famous across Calcutta here. Be it Chicken Stew from Dacres Lane or Chilli Chicken of Tangra, we have tried to bring it all. Those who come to Eco Park do so after lunch and have dinner after going home. What they needed was a place to have snacks. This cafe will serve that purpose,” said Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen. The menu has a section called Icons’ Favourites where eight dishes have been highlighted, with names linked to personalities from Calcutta and abroad. The humble piyazi is described as a Netaji favourite and costs Rs 79 a plate. Bhuna Khichudi, at Rs 169, is linked to Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman of Bangladesh in what happens to be Bangabandhu’s centenary year. An Argentine favourite, Steak with Chimichurri Sauce, at Rs 229, is the tribute to Maradona, who has visited the city twice and stayed in a New Town hotel in 2017. The Chicken Stew, which is served with Toasted Quarter Bread for Rs 169, is linked to Sourav Ganguly. An English staple, Fish and Chips, costing Rs 159, is named after the British sitcom character Mr Bean, immortalised by Rowan Atkinson. Sweet teeth are attributed to Mother Teresa, after whom the wax museum is named, and Michael Jackson, with Date Walnut Kheer (at Rs 89) and Monte Carlo (at Rs 119) respectively connected to them. Though MWM Cafe opened on February 2, an informal opening programme was held on January 31, where live music was organised by the platform Gaanpeon. A young trio of Samuel Halder, Ankita Mitra and Suman Ruj presented refreshing songs, ranging from Anjan Dutt hits like Mary Ann to the classic Hoyto tomari jonyo to Bollywood numbers like Main koi aisa geet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Murshidabad blast a plot to kill minister: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday morning visited SSKM Hospital where the minister of state for labour, Jakir Hossain, and Trinamul supporters injured in an explosion in Murshidabad the night before were admitted and alleged a conspiracy to assassinate her cabinet colleague before the Assembly polls. Calling it a “grisly, horrific” incident, the chief minister said she had deployed multiple state-run agencies to probe the matter, which she accused the Centre of taking lightly. A special investigation team headed by the additional director-general (CID) and comprising officers from the state special task force, intelligence branch, counter insurgency force and local police has been formed to probe the attack. “I spoke to him (Hossain) just before he was taken to the operating theatre, over the phone…. His surgery isn’t over yet. I met his wife. Another 10 people who were injured, three-four of them grievously injured. Four more such patients coming here,” Mamata said at SSKM. Besides Hossain, at least 15 people injured in the blast at Nimtita station have been admitted to the trauma care unit of SSKM. Doctors said the condition of two — Shamiul Seikh and Mashem Ali — was extremely critical. On Thursday afternoon, a team of surgeons operated on a part of the minister’s heel bone before moving on to repair a few blood veins that were severed near the heel. A preliminary inquiry suggested an improvised explosive device had been used. “The matter is grave, it is grisly, horrific…. One of the boys with him, his nephew, told me… it was a remotely triggered blast…. Of course, it was deliberate,” Mamata said. “It took place at a railway station. There were purportedly no railway police personnel there at the time. The place was also dark…. Inside a railway station, the law and order is the Centre’s responsibility, not the state’s,” she said. At a party event later in the day, Mamata said she believed Murshidabad would be in the first phase of the Assembly polls, which is why “they” tried to have Hossain eliminated. She announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for those seriously injured and Rs 1 lakh for those with minor injuries. Sources said a wire and remains of two batteries found on the railway track adjoining the blast site made the sleuths suspect that the blast was triggered using a detonator near the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Doctors’ body seeks shots for pvt medics||Protect the Warriors, an umbrella body of doctors, has placed two demands before the health department. They are seeking the vaccination of private medical practitioners who could not register through the Co-WIN app which has stopped accepting registrations. They also want the start of vaccination of the elderly before a second wave of Covid-19 hits India. “Unfortunately it is being noticed that other than doctors or nurses or healthcare staff, non-clinical workers of hospitals who are not directly exposed to patient contact like office staff, marketing and HR personnel have been given priority. Most of the doctors are still awaiting their turn or have to request the concerned institutions...,” said their appeal submitted a fortnight ago. The central government wants the first round of vaccination for healthcare workers to be done by February 20. “Bengal has 50,000 doctors and barely 10,000 have been vaccinated. Those doing private practice are unable to access the vaccine as well as those involved in alternative medicine though they too get exposed to patients,” said a PTW office-bearer, adding that they want elderly parents of healthcare officials to be given priority in the next round. He admitted that certain extranuous circumstances might have kept some from taking the vaccine. “Those taking flu shots, for example, might have avoided the vaccine as one has to wait for at least 15 days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Spring’s first fair||Head to Central Park to enjoy one last fair before the weather gets unbearable. State Swayangsiddha Mela shall continue there till February 23, 2pm to 8.30pm. The fair has 285 stalls representing over 900 self help groups (SHG). An initiative of the State Urban Development Agency, the fair was earlier held at Acropolis Mall before the Pujas. When it received good response, more were held across the state to support the members of the SHGs. Here is a glimpse of the items the women have brought to the fair — What: These cute dolls, made to resemble the character Chutki from Chhota Bheem, are made of three halves of coconut shells — one each for the head, torso and skirt. Wool and fabric paint complete the look. “We also have Chhota Bheem dolls made similarly which will come in soon,” says Sanchita Shaw of Baidyabati. Where: Stall 22 Price: Rs 55 What: Anupama Nandi freezes the beauty of roses, chrysanthemums and even some leaves in cube-shaped adhesives like resin. Besides paper weights, they also have these in pendants and earrings. Where: Stall 80 Price: Rs 50 to 100 for paper weights, Rs 60 for earrings and pendants What: These attractive pen stands are made of burnt clay, painted and then polished with lacre for that glossy look. “We have them in cartoon motifs like Doraemon as well as Ganeshas,” says stall-keeper Anupama Nandi. Where: Stall 80 Price: Rs 130 What: Not only is this a beautiful showpiece reminiscent of the bygone era but it is fixed with wires and contraptions, making it useable. “We have brass gramophones, irons and cars too but they are all showpieces. The phones can be used as landlines,” smiles Anwara Begum of Joynagar. Where: Stall 163 Price: Rs 4,000 What: Tanusree Sarkar has brought eye-catching wall hangings of Durga, made of clay, adorned in shola and plastered on powder blue or yellow backgrounds. The 1.5ft pieces are three dimensional and secured with glass. “We have similar artwork for veenas, boats and roses. Response is great and we have even got some orders at this fair,” says the artisan from Murshidabad. Where: Stall 206 Price: Rs 1,000 What: The problem with oxidised jewellery, says stall keeper Silpi Karmakar, is that they turn dark or even rusty with age. “But black polish metals will not change colour,” she says, adding that her jhumkas are inspired by heavy Afghani designs. Where: Stall 35 Price: Rs 180 What: Buffalo horns have been molten and flattened to create showpieces such as this. “The black portions of this piece are buffalo horns; the white are Australian cow horns. It takes me a week to make something of this size,” says Subhas Jana of Kolaghat. He also has smaller items like combs and key chains. Where: Stall 220 Price: Rs 4,000 What: These glass bottle lampshades look beautiful from afar but no one will guess that they are covered with broken eggshells. “We wash, spray paint and then break the eggshells into different shapes and sizes. Once glued to the bottle, the diffused light from within looks beautiful,” says Anita Gon. Where: Stall 32 Price: Rs 275 What: Some of these idols will fit — not just the palm but — a finger. “They are made of stone dust, mixed with water to create a clay-like substance. We then use the scalpel on it to carve out designs,” says Soma Karmakar, who specialises in Ganeshas. She has them in meditative postures as well as on swings and boats. Where: Stall 126 Price: Rs 200 What: Asmina Ahmed has packed home-made orange, mango, pineapple, litchi, guava and jeera juice into cute pencil-like pouches. “Children are especially loving these because of the cute packaging with cartoons,” says the resident of Tamluk. “The pineapple, orange and jeera flavours are getting many repeat customers.” Where: Food stall 24 Price: Rs 10 The fair also has Zero Shop, which is selling recycled clothes — children’s ones at Rs 20 and shirts, jeans and kurtis for adults at Rs 50. “The clothes have all been donated to us, which we wash and iron before selling,” says Joy Basak of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). The original Zero Shop is located opposite the bus terminus in New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Lorry mows down college boy on EM Bypass||A 19-year-old college student died after a lorry hit the two-wheeler on which he was riding pillion on EM Bypass, near the Maniktala Main Road crossing, around 3.20pm on Thursday, police said. Uttaran Bakshi, a resident of Belgachhia, was riding pillion on the bike of friend Soumik Roy, 21. They were returning home from college near Topsia. Both were wearing helmets, the police said. The two fell on the road and Uttaran came under the wheels of the lorry. The offending vehicle, belonging to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, has been seized and the driver arrested. Uttaran was declared dead at Maniktala ESI Hospital. Soumik was treated and discharged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Book fair to celebrate mother language day||A book fair celebrating the Bengali language and literature and Bengal’s culture will be held from February 21 at the Taltala ground, near South City Mall, to mark the International Mother Language Day (February 21). The Publishers and Booksellers’ Guild has invited chief minister Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate the fair, which will be on till February 28 (2pm to 9pm). “The need to protect the Bengali language and its culture is being felt more during these times and hence the decision to organise the fair,” said Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey, the general secretary of the guild. “Reputable publishers in English and Bengali from across the state as well as from Bangladesh will participate in the fair.” The alleged threat to the language, and more particularly to Bengal’s culture, has been at the centre of a political discourse. During the week-long fair, which is being jointly organised with the Jodhpur Park Utsav Committee and the state urban development department, the guild has lined up a series of debates in the evenings centering around the Bengali language and Bengal’s culture. On February 22, for instance, there will be a discussion on whether the Bengali language and the culture are under threat. On February 26, the deliberation will be on whether the Bengali language is undergoing a change. The next day’s topic is about fighting for a language. The chief guest at the inaugural programme on February 21 is author Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay. “Folk artistes will perform every evening. Authors, writers, booksellers, publishers, poets and artists from across the state will come to the fair,” guild president Tridib Chatterjee said. “We hope to hold this fair every year.” The 45th edition of the International Calcutta Book Fair this time will be held in July at Central Park in Salt Lake. The dates are still being worked out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid fighters feted||Some did not take a single day’s leave from their outpatient department duties through the pandemic; some got the virus themselves but joined back immediately on recovery; some performed crucial surgeries without knowing whether the patient under the scalpel would test positive for Covid-19 or not as there was no time to lose in waiting for the report… Doctors of all ages and specialisations gathered to celebrate the bravest amongst them who served society through the coronavirus crisis at a programme held recently at The Stadel. Protect the Warriors (PTW), an umbrella body of doctors created towards the start of the pandemic, had organised the felicitation of 42 frontline healthcare workers and some from other professions too. “We fought, we got hurt, some of us died. Yet we are fighting. We want everyone to get the vaccine though we are grateful that health workers have been given the priority. Many of us have taken the vaccine and we are all fine,” announced PTW vice-president Suddhasatwya Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. PTW secretary Abhik Ghosh, who is a senior ENT consultant at Apollo, outlined the journey of the organisation. “We started with 25 doctors 10 months ago. When the lockdown was declared, there was not enough protective gear available for the medical community treating Covid-19 patients. Some of us decided to raise funds for the purpose. That was our first mission. Today, we have 1,000 doctors with us. It has become a social platform and we are working in eight districts.” He went on to describe the activities undertaken by Protect the Warriors, some of which have expanded beyond the ambit of Covid-19 — feeding 2,000 streetchildren in conjunction with the NGO Food Education Economic Development, taking charge of the education of 50 children in Boronti village in Purulia, reaching supply of essentials door-to-door in Diamond Harbour, offering free tele-consulation by specialist doctors to over 750 individuals and providing pulse oxymeters to 110 familes in home isolation in the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency area on a request from local MLA Sujit Bose. There was a two-minute silence in memory of those who lost their lives to Covid-19 before the felicitations began. Doing the honours were two people revered by the medical community. One was Sukumar Mukherjee, aged 84 and described as the “teacher of teachers” by Chatterjee, who was the first to take the vaccine in the state on January 16. Mukherjee reminded the gathering that exactly a year had passed since India’s first positive case was reported in Kerala. “Since then, 1.5 lakh people have sacrificed their lives.” The biggest challenge that the zoonotic virus posed, he pointed out, was that its genetic sequencing was unknown, a reason why it had taken years to discover vaccines for plague and rabies. “But it was done within 12 days in China after they reported their first case on December 31. This is a major reason why the development of the vaccines could be put on a fast track.” He warned everyone that the pandemic was not over. “The virus is craftier than the human brain,” he said, referring to the three mutants reported in the UK, South Africa and Brazil. The Spanish Flu, he said, took a greater toll on the young. “This time, it is the reverse. But if we can vaccinate fast, we can save our elderly population.” Referring to the debate over whether it was safe to take the vaccine while being on blood thinners, he said he was on aspirin while he took the shot. “I will test for antibodies in March but no one knows how long the antibody will last. Maybe yearly vaccination will be necessary for the next two years,” he said, signing off with the message: “Be positive, think positive but with knowledge”. The other guest on stage was Shyamal Kumar Basu, a former principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, who had many of the attending doctors pass out during his tenure. “You have saved so many lives by not just medical consultation but with social service. I’d have been privileged if I could be part of your activities,” he lauded his former students and their peers. Other than the doctors who were felicitated, there were bank employees, civic workers, firemen, police and media personnel. “All of you went out and provided service when the nation stayed locked down at home,” said PTW treasurer Anirban Dalui, who has recently joined as assistant professor, department of community medicine, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. Among those who got the biggest applause was Prosenjit Dey, a youth who had come all the way to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals from Arambagh to donate plasma for the Covid-affected father of a senior schoolmate, who was a stranger to him. The programme ended with Suman Mitra, consultant in medicine at Calcutta Medical Research Institute, singing Kabhi Alvida Na Kehna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Back at school||Schools have finally begun to reopen but like everything else, they’re not what they used to be. As per government orders, classes IX to XII can now hold face-to-face classes but there are plenty of precautions and still much fear about the long walk to school. Schools got the nod to start classes from last Friday but with the strike call, the weekend and then Saraswati puja shortly afterwards, the first few days have been a trial run of sorts for many institutions. Some private schools have only started practical classes for science students; others are calling students for offline exams. The government schools, however, have thrown the gates open to all students upwards of Class IX but attendance has been poor. Still, no one is happier than the students who can finally walk through the gates of what was once their second home. An emotion called school “This one year, I sorely missed my friends, teachers, labs, even the building and benches,” says Snehasish Bar of St Francis Xavier (SFX) school. “Returning to school was an emotional moment for me and I broke into a smile when we were welcomed at the gate on the first day with chocolate bars.” For Rohit Ghosh of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education (SAIE), school isn’t just a place to learn but also socialise. “Yes, I did go out to my BB Block neighbourhood now and then but it’s nothing like having 43 peers in the room to interact with.” Silajit Chakraborty, also of SAIE, says working together in the lab allows students to help one another and gives rise to healthy competition. “This wasn’t possible studying separately at home. Plus I missed our adda — cracking silly jokes, discussing football... At home, one doesn’t always have the privacy to talk freely over phone.” Precautions aplenty Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (BVB) has installed a sanitisation tunnel at its gate. A batch of 40 science students are being divided into two and called for practicals on different days. The 20 students are further divided into two classes — one at the lab and another at the make-shift lab. “To avoid crowding, we schedule some batches to come in after the first one leaves but they use different staircases. Teachers are on duty at the stairs to ensure students practise distancing,” says principal Sujata Ghosh. At the SFX assembly on the first day, students stood in circles marked out by the authorities and are being asked to wear two masks for safety. “I felt like hugging my friends when I met them after so long but I knew we were being watched on CCTV so had to make do by talking from afar,” said Rohini Saha of Class X, Bidhannagar Government High School in BD Block. At Hariyana Vidya Mandir (HVM), teachers are supervising even the tiffin break and students are allowed to use washrooms one at a time. Desks have been numbered and assigned to students to use. Thermal guns are being used to check temperatures and sanitisers have been handed over to guards at the entrance. “Since many students have chosen to continue with online classes, our teachers are teaching in class with the camera on for both online and offline students,” says HVM principal Sanghamitra Banerjee. “This is especially for students who are out of town and cannot come back immediately. Also, there are some others who are still scared to come to school and want to wait and watch.” At Kendriya Vidyalaya 1, near Labony Estate, less than 10 per cent of the class has been coming and teachers are teaching twice — online and then offline. “Parents are not realising how important it is for students to get practice of writing exams before their Boards,” says one of their teachers. Saltlake Point School is asking students to show up for offline exams. “We shall only make exceptions for students who haven’t returned to town or are unwell. Some parents did have reservations initially but they are welcome to come and inspect our safety measures. We are seating no more than 18 students per room for the exams,” says academic advisor Juliana Shukla. But at Salt Lake School on Monday, The Telegraph Salt Lake saw guards use sanitisers sparingly and not wear masks too while collecting projects from students. When asked about it, they evaded the question. How to get to school In the absence of the car pool, Karnika Purohit, a final year student of Our Lady Queen of the Missions (QMS), is now using app cabs to get to school. “But I’m not confident. The drivers aren’t wearing masks and there’s no point asking them to,” she sighs. AC Block’s Ria Roy is taking the public bus to Bethune Collegiate School but the crowd on the bus is freaking her out. Snehasish got jittery seeing the crowd at the bus stop on the first day of school and decided to walk for half an hour to SFX from his home near Bengal Chemicals. “If buses remain crowded this is what I’ll do,” he says. Rohit bought a cycle during the lockdown and now rides it from BB Block to SAIE. Swarnajit Bhattacharya used to take the bus to New Town’s Apanjan apartments earlier but is now getting fetched by his parents. “This is saving me a lot of time, actually. I’m not complaining,” says the BVB student. The rickshaw drivers at the stand outside BVB said they were hopeful about business picking up once schools reopened: “But very few kids are coming in the first place. And out of them, only 30 per cent are taking rickshaws. Most of them are commuting by private cars,” says rickshaw driver Debu Mondal. To wake up early again The screens were tiny and network lousy, but online classes provided a luxury offline classes could not  — time. “All these days I woke up at 11 but now I have to wake up at 7.30 for school,” Abanti Ghosh of QMS made a long face. “I didn’t miss school actually. I loved studying at home, in the comfort of my bed.” Ansruta Nandi, also of QMS, says that since online classes eliminated commuting, it gave her more time to study. “I had quite settled into the online system. Now that I have to come to school, I’m having to work out new time slots to fit tuitions,” said Swarnajit. The tutions are also online. Masked up all day Then there’s the agony of keeping the mask on for so long. “I’m having trouble breathing and it’s making me irritable,” says Rima Roy, a Class XI student of AE Block’s Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya. “I wish we had the option of continuing online classes,” laments the AC Block resident. Her sister Ria, in Class XII, says that all the hours of keeping the mask on amounts to nothing when they have to remove it anyway to eat tiffin. “It defeats the whole purpose,” she shrugs. Then there’s Soumyadeep Kar, a Class IX student of the BD Block school, who has an unusual issue with the mask. “I’ve grown a beard in the lockdown and now it itches if I wear a mask over it!” Fun and games While students are grateful to return to school, they are sorely missing sports and extra-curricular activities. On Monday during tiffin break at the BD Block School, Class IX boys were seen playing kabaddi in the corridor since they were denied access to footballs and cricket kits. They groped, kicked, rolled on the floor and laughed like they hadn’t in months. These were children who had a year stolen from them. “Our parents have lots of rules for us — don’t go close to others, don’t share tiffin — but we are leaving these sermons at the gate and coming to school,” said a student. Another one said friendship was sharing tiffin and that they were sanitising their hands before eating out of one another’s boxes. But final year students are dead serious about the situation and jokes in class are few and far between. “Maybe if someone takes off his mask to mouth pipette in the chemistry lab, we get a glimpse of someone’s face and remark at how he’s put on weight or grown a moustache,” says Rishiraj Roy of SFX. Silajit says he missed receiving a farewell the most. “Last year, we gave a grand farewell to our seniors but we barely got to see the school the whole year,” says the Class XII SAIE student. This is why the BD school students were so desperate to hold Saraswati puja. “We missed sports, functions, farewells — everything — and so pleaded with our teachers to at least let us celebrate this,” says Arijit Roy of Class XII. Thanks, but no thanks Despite the temptations of face-to-face classes, many, if not most, students have opted to continue online. Rudroprasad Bandyopadhyay of HVM is one such. “It’s not worth it,” reasons the BJ Block resident. “Our exams begin on March 1 and there’s no point breaking the routine for barely a fortnight. If I was in Class XII, I might have decided otherwise but being in Class XI I can afford to take this decision now,” he says. Sreejana Sharma, of Class XII,  (humanities), SAIE, has opted for online classes and exams. “This isn’t an ideal situation but we’ve got used to it. The end is near and so I’m just putting up with it,” said the resident of Sector V. Looming fears On Monday, about 15 parents of Class XI students of BVB had gone to meet the principal to seek an option for online exams. “Neither are our children prepared to appear for full-length exams offline nor is it safe. What if someone gets Covid after appearing for one offline exam? Will he be promoted? What about students who are still recovering from Covid? They cannot sit at a stretch for three hours and that too with masks,” the parents reasoned. Some guardians of Saltlake Point School students are in the same quandary. “The school is insisting on offline exams but we are not confident about sending my kids yet,” says a parent of a Class XI student. Some teachers mention how 150 students and 34 teachers tested positive at a government school in Kerala after it reopened earlier this month. “The urgent need was only for the outgoing Class X and XII students. What was the need to bring Class IX and Class XI?” asks a teacher of a Salt Lake-based government school. “If a class has to be broken into two groups, we don’t even have so many teachers to take separate classes or rooms,” she says. School has reopened for students of classes IX and above in state-run schools from Friday. At SAIE, the authorities had sought consent from students of Class X but barely 15 per cent parents agreed to let their wards come. “They are still scared,” says principal Debleena Bhattacharya. “We were ready to hold offline exams with distanced seating but things did not work out due to the lack of consent. There is mixed reaction in Class XII. “While in commerce and humanities streams, the positive response from guardians was barely 30 per cent, for Class XII science students the figure is almost 90 per cent as they are aware of the necessity of the practical classes. So we are taking offline exams only for them. But common subjects like English cannot be taken offline as commerce and humanities students are also involved.” Teachers suspect that “a bit of laziness” has crept into the students too. Online exam cannot be held for long hours. “They are at best for 20-25 minutes for the MCQ (multiple choice questions) tests. But we plan to have longer tests for both Class X and XII which would be a combination of objective and descriptive exams. We are asking them to mail the scanned files as well as submit the hard copies in school as it becomes difficult for the teachers to check so much on screen,” the SAIE principal says. Anindita Sil, a teacher of a government-aided school, said she has been disappointed with the poor attendance. “Nonetheless, I am overjoyed at being able to take offline classes and shall put in extra effort,” says the resident of ED Block’s Sourav Abasan. “I shall also call up the students personally and ask them to come.” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty and Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Bengal will not be able to vaccinate all health-care workers by Feb 20||Bengal will not be able to vaccinate all health-care workers against Covid-19 by the February 20 deadline, an official in the state health department said. Till Thursday (February 18), the official said, around 80 per cent of the target has been achieved. The Centre has said all health-care workers have to be given the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by February 20. Health-care and frontline workers are being given the jabs in the ongoing first phase of Covid-19 vaccination. Bengal has around seven lakh health-care workers. “About 80 per cent of the health-care workers have been vaccinated. There are around 1.2 lakh who have not taken the first dose. They are being called again. We have to push back the deadline to February 25,” the health department official said. “Most of the health-care workers who are yet to be given the first dose are reluctant to be vaccinated.” Officials said chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay would hold a meeting with officials of all districts and Calcutta to discuss how to increase the pace of vaccination. “On Thursday, the 27th day of Covid vaccination in Bengal, 32,924 persons were vaccinated, against the target of around 66,600. Which means around 49 per cent of the day’s target has been achieved,” an official said. “We have to vaccinate more people every day. It should be double the existing rate.” He said each site was supposed to vaccinate 100 people every day, but only about half the target is being achieved on an average. The reluctance among a section of recipients to take the shots and lethargy among those who are administering them were the two factors responsible for the slow pace. Metro has reported that many health-care workers are reluctant to take the shots and are being counselled by those who have been vaccinated. Lack of enough data about the efficacy of Covaxin (one of the two vaccines approved for emergency use in India, the other being Covishield) is one major reason for the reluctance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||IIM students say Net link on campus poor||Some of the IIM Calcutta students who had returned to the campus because internet links in places where they lived were poor have now complained that the premises of one of India’s premier B-schools is lacking in IT infrastructure. A letter from the student council to the institute director has said: “We don’t have facilities to provide a stable internet connection to the students in their hostel rooms.” The letter, sent on February 16, goes on to add: “No steps have been taken for years to invest and update the infrastructure. Hence we have reached a point where there is a need to revamp and invest heavily in the IT infrastructure.” The students, who pay Rs 22 lakh to pursue the two-year MBA programme, have written: “Unfortunately, we don’t have one of the most important things required in today’s scenario, a good IT infrastructure.” Around 70 per cent of the 482 students of the two-year programme were recalled to the campus last November so they could stay at hostels and use on-campus connectivity to attend online classes amid the pandemic. Repeated calls to director Anju Seth went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages either. The students are also concerned about the poor IT infrastructure impacting placements because job interviews will be held online this year. The letter says: “Placement is scheduled from 25th February and the future of second-year students depends on the quality of internet they will be getting. Kindly take some immediate action.” Once second-year classes started online on August 4, students, especially the ones from tier-II and tier-III cities, kept encountering connectivity issues while attending classes. They had petitioned the IIM authorities that they be allowed to return to the campus and use the institute’s Net connectivity to attend classes. But repeated disconnections during live classes because of link failure have prompted them to again approach the director and other officials, said some students who did not want to be named. “This is happening in several rooms in the four hostels where the students have been staying since their return,” said a student. A teacher said that once a student is getting logged-off, he or she was finding it difficult to log in. “The session had started in August instead of June (when it usually starts) because the institute took time to finalise the infrastructure for online classes. Now if disruptions happen, they won’t be able to make up for the classes they have missed out on for a delayed start,” said a teacher. Listing what is lacking, another student said the institute is required to install Wi Fi routers in as many rooms as possible. “It has to be realised that reliance on digital platforms has increased manifold post-pandemic. So there is a need to improve the bandwidth facility more,” said a student. Following the absence of IT infrastructure, the students have written: “The reason our campus exists is the students community. But the problems of the students don’t exist in the eyes of the administration.” An IIM Calcutta teacher said in institutes like the London School of Economics, the authorities saw to it that the students were provided with glitch-free connections. “High-speed connectivity to the hostels is ensured at any cost. This comes from state-of-the art multiple lines for high speed internet installed across the campus. The authorities invest heavily in improving the IT infrastructure over the years,” said a teacher. At IIM Calcutta, teachers, too, had flagged concerns over “poor digital infrastructure” on the campus in a letter addressed to the chairman of the institute’s board of governors, Shrikrishna Kulkarni, in early September. The teachers had written: “The digital infrastructure on the campus is in poor shape with frequent connectivity issues and now the incoming MBAEx (one-year MBA executive programme) students will also face similar problems. We are therefore, not sure if this decision to bring them to the campus will improve the quality of online education that these students receive.” The students’ letter states: “We don’t have the required infrastructure in our classrooms to conduct hybrid classes.” In hybrid classes, some students are called to the classes and the lectures are live-streamed to the other section. Sections take turns in attending in-person classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Wetland in Howrah to shelter fishing cats||A mini-wetland is coming up inside a park in Howrah to provide a home for rescued fishing cats. The enclosure, carved out of a portion of land at Garchumuk Deer Park in Uluberia, around 60km from the heart of Calcutta, is fenced by a mesh of steel wires. Bamboo shoots have been planted inside the enclosure. An artificial shallow water body has been dug. Tall reeds like khori (Saccharum narenga) and hogla (Typha elephantina and Typha domingensis) will be planted there. Two pairs of fishing cats, rescued from Howrah, have been just released into the open enclosure, said a forest official in Howrah. Once there is thick plant cover, the enclosure will be opened to visitors. It should take a couple of months, the official said. Fish will soon be released in the pond for the cats to hunt. A spike in the death of fishing cats over the past year has had conservationists worried. At least eight fishing cats have been killed in the state since May 2020, according to conservationists. Fishing cat, baghrol in Bengali and Bengal’s state animal, is included in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It is supposed to receive the highest conservation measures — akin to tigers and elephants, said animal activists. Killing a fishing cat can invite a jail term of three to seven years and/or a fine up to Rs 30,000. The nocturnal animal thrives in wetlands. Though it is said to be the top predator in its habitat, fish is its favourite prey. Shrinking wetlands has dwindled their numbers and forced them to stray into human settlements and prey on fish and livestock. “Howrah is home to many fishing cats. Once the enclosure opens for visitors, both children and adults will be educated about their habitat. People can come and see the fishing cats and their fear is likely to go,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. The project is being executed by the Bengal Zoo Authority in association with the state forest department. The male and female fishing cats released into the enclosure were rescued from different pockets of Howrah. The usual destination of rescued fishing cats is the Alipore zoo, where they are kept in a cage. “It is not always possible to keep them in a familiar habitat. But the enclosure in Uluberia will provide that,” said a forest official. In Uluberia, each male and female cat was kept in separate cages to start with. “The plan was to get them accustomed to each other. If they are released together at one go, there is a risk that the male would attack the female,” said Sarkar. “This open enclosure mimicking features of a wetland habitat will be unique as it will introduce residents of the area to these enigmatic felids and educate the general mass about their habitat preferences,” said Tiasa Adhya, the founder of the Fishing Cat Project, a campaign for research on and conservation of the animal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-138
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Homemaker held on jewellery theft charge ||A 43-year-old homemaker has been arrested for allegedly stealing a pair of diamond-encrusted earrings worth Rs 1.46 lakh from a prominent jewellery store at the Hudco crossing, where she had gone posing as a customer. The alleged theft happened on January 31 but was detected only two weeks later while the stocks were being reviewed, officials at the store have told the police. “We started scanning the store CCTV cameras and zeroed in on a suspect. The woman was wearing a mask and had not purchased anything after seeing a number of designs, the store staff could recall,” a senior police officer said. “Luckily, this store has a policy that every person who steps in has to remove the mask once and get photographed. We managed to get the photograph of the woman whom we suspected in this case.” On prolonged examination of the staff and guards at the store, it emerged that the store officials recorded the contact numbers of those who had special requests for any particular type of jewellery, an officer said. “One of the guards recalled that this woman had left her number so that she could be contacted once the jewellery of her choice was available.” The cops used WhatsApp to locate the suspect’s number from a list of 20-odd clients. Investigators saved mobile numbers in their phones to check if their display pictures were available on WhatsApp. The display picture of one WhatsApp account matched with the suspect’s photograph, an officer said. By analysing the details of the address registered against the contact number, the police zeroed in on the 43-year-old homemaker. She was arrested from her flat in a residential complex in Anandapur and the stolen earrings were recovered. The accused was produced in court on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Fake passport website alert||At least nine fake passport websites have been identified by the Calcutta regional passport office through which hundreds of Calcuttans are filing their applications and getting duped, officials at the city passport office said. These websites look almost identical to the website set up by the ministry of external affairs to apply for a passport, the officials said. “We are frequently getting complaints from people who are getting duped by applying through fake websites. Applicants need to be cautious…. If they are duped by a fake website, it is impossible for the passport office to address their grievance,” said Calcutta regional passport officer Bibhuti Bhushan Kumar. The only website through which one should apply for a passport in India is www.passportindia.gov.in. “Some websites charge double and get the work done by processing documents with the original website and generating the application reference number,” said an official. However, in many cases, the applicants are completely duped as the websites do not process their papers at all. The charges for getting a 36-page passport and a 60-page passport are Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000, respectively, Kumar said. The complaints have been forwarded to the cyber cell of the external affairs ministry. Cop report Records at the RPO show Bidhannagar police have been the fastest in Bengal in preparing verification reports. Compared with the national average of nine days, Bidhannagar police are completing the process in 10 days, followed by East Burdwan (19 days) and Calcutta police (20 days). Calcutta police were once the first on the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
19-02-2021||Calcutta||Students experience learning loss during pandemic||Many students from financially deprived families, whose parents struggled to survive during the lockdown and after, have suffered “learning loss” in the past 11 months, heads of several NGOs who work with children said. The students have been promoted but some of their academic standards have remained at the level of the earlier class, a teacher in an NGO said. Teachers of some NGOs are having to counsel parents to send their children back to school. The challenge is to get them back to studies as some parents feel they are “better at home”. The senior students have started going to school in small batches after a long gap, during which many of them could not be in regular touch with books or classes. Some of the children are now involved with household chores or parents have engaged them in odd jobs to earn some extra money. Schools had been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid. “There has been a learning loss amongst students during this period. We did an assessment to gauge the loss despite the tele-calling classes and designed a curriculum that would not just look back but look forward to covering the loss,” said Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director of Ek Tara. There has been “an orientation and discipline loss”, said Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project. Many of the children have lost the habit and routine of studying regularly like they would around 11 months back. Though organisations would send them work, the system has not been foolproof because the “digital divide” is huge. “Not all children who were at home were motivated to study. Some thought they do not need to study since they are at home,” said Bijli Mallik, director, Institute of Psychological & Educational Research. Organisations are planning remedial classes and extra lessons to help the children reach the level commensurate to their age and class. The presence of fewer students in the class, because of physical distancing, is helping students get extra attention, said a teacher at an NGO. It is not an “irretrievable loss” but it would take a few months to address the setback, some teachers said. During the lockdown, the families of these students suffered huge financial losses. Some parents of first-generation learners pushed the children into marriage or work. “We got information that they have started working and education has taken a backseat. We are having to talk to parents to convince them that the children have to continue studies,” said Tanmoy Patra, who runs Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra in Bagnan. Patra said the pandemic undid a lot of work that centres like theirs had done and in some cases, they have to start from scratch, including counselling parents to send their children to school. Ek Tara is also counselling parents and encouraging mothers and fathers to come to the centre to discuss their problems. “Counselling parents is taking our time and energy because parents are also under pressure to get the girls married off. We are calling the parents to the centre to try and make them realise what their children are missing and hear them out as well to help them get the right perspective,” said Bagchi of Ek Tara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-139
