20-02-2021||Calcutta||Pamela Goswami accuses Vijayvargiya aide of conspiracy day after getting arrested||BJP's youth-wing leader Pamela Goswami, arrested in a drugs case, on Saturday demanded the arrest of party colleague Rakesh Singh, accusing him of conspiracy, and sought a CID probe into the matter. Goswami, the state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was arrested along with a friend, Pradip Kumar Dey, and her personal security guard from south Kolkata's New Alipore area on Friday after around 90 gm of cocaine worth lakhs of rupees was allegedly found from her handbag and car, according to police. "I want a CID investigation. BJP's Rakesh Singh, the aide of Kailash Vijayvargiya, should be arrested. This is his conspiracy," Goswami told reporters while being taken to lock-up from a city court. Singh, a BJP state committee member, alleged that the ruling Trinamul Congress and the Calcutta Police were conspiring against him and have "brainwashed" Goswami. He said that he has not been in touch with Goswami for more than a year and was ready to face any investigation. "If I am involved, they can call me or Kailash Vijayvargiya or Amit Shah. I think the police have brainwashed her. I am not in touch with Pamela for more than one-and-a half-years now," Singh told PTI. "This can be that the Calcutta Police is following the Trinamul Congress's instructions. They are conspiring against me. These are baseless accusations and I am ready to face any challenge," he added. The Trinamool Congress said that the whole episode portrays the "true character" of the BJP. "Earlier, one of their leaders was arrested for involvement in child trafficking. Now another one is arrested in the drugs case. This only proves what the BJP and its leaders are up to," TMC's secretary-general and state minister Partha Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Track  set for vroom fest at Shyam Business Park in Singur||Four-wheelers, two-wheelers, some with four-wheel drive gear boxes, some with just two-wheel drive gear boxes, will kick up some dust on the dirt track of Shyam Business Park in Singur this weekend. A bunch of Cedias, Polo GTs, Swifts, old Esteems, Royal Enfield Himalayas will burn rubber at the Kolkata Moto Fest 2021 in association with The Telegraph. The 900m track is a combination of dirt and tarmac, said organiser Debasish Bhattacharjee. The circuit has three straight laps ending with a circuitous lap. “There is a path of 80m that is tarmac, the rest is gravel. Four-wheelers will do two laps of this track, while two-wheelers will do five laps. There will also be a sand track that the vehicles will need to negotiate,” he said. The four-wheel contest has three categories — Modified, Open and Pro-Stock. According to engine capacity, these categories have further sub-categories like up to 1400cc, up to 1650cc and over 1651 cc to 2000 cc. Vehicles are further categorised on the basis of four-wheel drives and two-wheel drives. In the Open category, there is no restriction on engine capacity but vehicles need to be four-wheel drives to negotiate the partial sand track. The two-wheel contest has three categories — Modified, Stock and Partial Sand Track. Here, too, participants will compete according to engine size and two-stroke or four-stroke engines. Two-wheelers have been classified into up to 165cc and upwards of 165cc and 260cc groups. Trophies that will be awarded to the top three participants in every category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Danish lesson for Calcutta’s water use||Only about 4 per cent of water pushed into the distribution system in Denmark is unaccounted for, the Danish ambassador said. The figure stands in stark contrast to that of Calcutta, where unaccounted for water is nearly half of what is injected into the network. “Only 4 per cent of the water that is pushed into the distribution network in Denmark is unaccounted because of leaks and other factors, whereas in most Indian cities it is about 50 per cent,” ambassador Freddy Svane told The Telegraph on the sidelines of an interaction with industry leaders at the Bengal Chamber of Commerce on Thursday. “Our endeavour is to reduce the volume of unaccounted water. We would love to work with Indian cities. We can share our knowledge in reducing the waste of water.” The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) sends 488 million gallons of water into the city’s distribution system every day, officials said. But nearly half of it goes to waste or is unaccounted for. Water resources experts said about 250 million gallons of water should be adequate to meet the daily needs of Calcutta. Unaccounted for water is the volume that is lost because of leaks in pipes. It is also the water that overflows from a reservoir. Experts have warned that non-judicious use of water will reduce the scarce resource sooner. “We are very fortunate that we have the Hooghly next to the city, which is why we are still not feeling water scarcity in a way cities like Chennai are facing. But if we keep wasting water, we will soon lose this advantage,” said Asis Majumdar, a professor of water resources engineering at Jadavpur University. A project undertaken by the CMC has revealed that Calcuttans consume abnormally high volumes of water, far surpassing the limit set by the Central Public Health and Environmental Engineering Organisation. The limit is 150 litres per person per day in metropolitan cities. As part of the project, the CMC installed water meters in wards 1 to 5 in north Calcutta to read the volume of water entering into houses. It was found that households were consuming up to 900 litres per day. “A person does not need 900 litres a day. It can only happen if water is wasted abnormally,” said a CMC engineer. Majumdar said the turbidity of the Hooghly water had increased over time. “The water that is collected from the river is more turbid and saline than before. It is pushing up costs of treatment. A time will come when the treatment costs will become so high that the government will find it difficult to increase production. That will lead to water scarcity. So it is time we stopped wasting water and use it judiciously,” Majumdar said.   Smita Bajoria, the honourary consul general of Denmark in Calcutta, will be conferred the Order of Danneborg on Saturday. The medal will be handed over to Bajoria by Svane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta|| BJP leader Pamela Goswami held over ‘powder’||A secretary of the state unit of the BJP’s youth wing, Pamela Goswami, was arrested on Friday for allegedly carrying a white powdery substance in her bag. “Acting on a tip-off, New Alipore police station conducted an operation and spotted a Honda BR-V car in front of Parameswari Bhawan on Nalini Ranjan Avenue, Block B, in New Alipore. On searching, approximately 90g of suspected cocaine worth approximately Rs 10 lakh was found,” said deputy commissioner (south) Sudheer Kumar Neelkantam. Goswami, 23, Prabir Kumar Dey, 38, and Somnath Chatterjee, 26, have been arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, he said. They will be produced in Alipore court on Saturday. Dey has been identified as Goswami’s friend, while Chatterjee is a private guard engaged for her protection. The police said some white powder in small packets was found inside Goswami’s handbag and some were found on the front seat of the car. Senior police officers said the charges were drawn only after prima facie confirmation that the white substance found in the car was a banned psychotropic substance. According to the rule, a chemical is used to carry out an indicative spot test to confirm whether a white powder is cocaine. A positive result is enough to register a case. For an assertive test, a sample of the seized material will be sent to the forensic laboratory, whose reports will be considered as evidence in court. Goswami, who joined the BJP in 2019, is one of the state secretaries of the BJP Yuva Morcha and an observer for the youth wing’s Hooghly zone. An active member of the party, she rose through the ranks over the past few months and had become a regular face in party meetings and gatherings in Calcutta, sources in the BJP said. The Yuva Morcha’s state president, Saumitra Khan, was a mentor to the young leader, said sources in the party. When a lot of attention was directed towards Khan on Friday, he rubbished the allegations against his party colleague and dubbed her arrest a “political conspiracy”. “This is nothing but a political conspiracy. They felt threatened by Pamela because she is young and yet doing good political work in south Calcutta and Bhowanipore. We will provide legal support to her on behalf of Yuva Morcha,” Khan said. The punishment for carrying up to 100g of cocaine, under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, can vary from six months to 10 years in jail. Carrying more than 100g of cocaine invites a jail term varying between 10 and 20 years. Senior officers in the narcotics department said one gram of cocaine is enough for an individual to snort and it was rare for a person to procure 90g at a time for personal use. “It is extremely expensive and not many can afford such a large quantity at a time,” said an officer of the narcotics department. BJP leader Locket Chatterjee said the allegations were false. “The police used to frame our leaders with ganja (cannabis) cases. Now they are framing women leaders with cocaine. This is how they want to stop the BJP. This is absolutely a conspiracy against us,” Chatterjee alleged. Goswami, Dey and the guard were taken to New Alipore police station for examination. Sources said they allegedly failed to explain the presence of the banned psychotropic substance in their possession. The red vehicle in which they were travelling was intercepted in the middle of Nalini Ranjan Avenue in New Alipore by eight police cars, apparently waiting after a tip-off, police sources said. As the red vehicle came to a halt and its occupants stepped out, wondering why they were stopped in the middle of the road, women police officers in plainclothes emerged out of the police vehicles and started searching the car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||JEE forms to be submitted online between February 23 and March 23||The students planning to write the Bengal joint entrance examination have to submit forms online between February 23 and March 23. The pen-and-paper exam, which one has to crack to gain entry into an engineering college in the state, will be held on July 11. Details in the application can be corrected online from March 24 to 26 and admit cards can be downloaded from July 6 to 11. The state JEE board announced the schedule in its information brochure, which has been uploaded on the board’s website www.wbjeeb. nic.in The candidates will write the mathematics paper in the first half (11am to 1pm) and physics and chemistry in the second half (2pm to 4pm). “The date for the publication of the results will be notified later,” JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha said. The information brochure states that “all dates are tentative and can be changed in extraordinary circumstances’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Car hurtles into water, one dead in Thakurpukur||A car apparently lost control and broke through the fencing of a water treatment plant in Thakurpukur and plunged into the water around 10feet below on Friday afternoon. A man’s body was fished out of the water an hour later. Police said they would continue searching the water body on Saturday in case there was anyone else in the car. A driving license found in the car read “Sonai Ghosh”, a resident of RN Tagore Road in Thakurpukur. The police said late on Friday the victim was Sanjit Das and he was driving his friend’s car. The incident happened around 3.45pm when people at Dhalipara Jheelpark spotted a car travelling fast towards the water treatment plant, the police said. “The car was moving at a high speed. Before any of us could react, it rammed into the mesh fencing of the water body and fell into the water,” aid an eyewitness. Personnel of the disaster management group started the rescue operation around 4.30pm, the police said. “All the windows and doors were closed when the car was pulled out of the water. On opening the driver’s door, water gushed out of the car and a man was found in an unconscious state on the driver’s seat,” said an officer of Haridevpur police station. The man was taken to hospital, where he was declared dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Tough time for Covid-19 vaccine counsellors||⚫I have taken a Covid vaccine and so have hundreds of others. Nothing untoward has happened to any of us. So, it’s safe for you, too. ⚫We have all treatment facilities at the hospital. If you fall sick after taking a vaccine dose, we can take care of you. ⚫Since you are a government employee who has to take part in public interactions, it’s your duty to take a vaccine to keep yourself as well as those who come in contact with you safe. In the absence of much knowledge about possible adverse reactions and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, these are the only words of motivation used by the authorities at various hospitals across Bengal to motivate potential recipients who are still reluctant to take a dose. Doctors and public health experts said they were unable to answer a lot of queries in the absence of enough data. The Centre has said all health-care workers should be given the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by February 20. Till Thursday (February 18), only about 80 per cent of the health-care workers were inoculated. A doctor at a private hospital was suffering from herpes infection on the day he was to get a shot. Another doctor at the hospital, who counsels potential recipients, said he had no idea whether someone suffering from herpes could take a Covid vaccine. So he advised his colleague to defer the vaccination. Several others said that in the absence of guidelines, they were asking potential recipients to defer the vaccination when faced with similar situations. “The health ministry has issued guidelines for Covid vaccination. But many recipients are approaching us with situations that are not covered by the guidelines or during the training sessions. In such cases, we are not taking chances and are asking them not to take the shots for the time being,” the CEO of a private hospital said. Some doctors who are counselling colleagues to take vaccines said they were banking on clinical judgements to answer many queries. “There are a lot of unexpected situations which the guidelines do not mention. Someone with a health condition is asking whether he can take a Covid vaccine. We are using our clinical judgement to guide such persons but in most cases we are advising them to delay the vaccination,” infectious disease expert Chandramouli Bhattacharya said. “For some people who are on long-term significant immunosuppressive drugs, it is better to delay the vaccination if the treating doctor says the dosage of the drugs will be reduced soon. Because otherwise, the vaccine might not be very effective,” he said. At a meeting on Friday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay asked senior officials of the health department to increase the number of vaccination sites and ensure that all potential recipients get to know about their vaccination date and time. “The chief secretary asked us to ensure that everyone gets the communication about the vaccination date and time. He stressed the need to send the message to all healthcare workers that they have to get the first dose of a vacc-ine by February 25,” said an official of the health department. “Opening more vaccination sites will mean taking the inoculation closer to a health-care worker’s home,” the official said. Officials, however, pointed out that there were already enough sites in most districts. Two officials said Calcutta and North 24-Parganas have 70 sites each and they felt the numbers were quite high. “There are many sites where the number of people turning up is much lower compared with the targeted figure,” said an official. The reluctance among a section of recipients to take the shots and lethargy among those who are administering them were the two factors responsible for the slow pace. Lack of enough data about the efficacy of Covaxin (one of the two vaccines approved for emergency use in India, the other being Covishield) is one major reason for the reluctance. According to health department officials, out of more than 6.5 lakh doses administered, only 26,500 were of Covaxin. On Friday, only about 60 per cent of the targeted vaccine doses could be administered. “Many recipients do not want to take Covaxin. Also, there is a lot of documentation involved, including signing a consent form. All these are preventing Covaxin numbers from going up,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
20-02-2021||Calcutta||Compensation order to Calcutta hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Friday asked BM Birla Heart Research Centre and Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) to pay Rs 2 lakh each to the families of two patients who acquired infections while in hospital. Both patients, who were admitted for other illnesses, passed away, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. A 58-year-old man was admitted to BM Birla Heart Research Centre in September 2019 to undergo a surgical procedure. The surgery was conducted but he acquired an infection at the hospital. Banerjee said the man did not have the infection when he was admitted. “We examined the medical records and found that he had acquired the infection while he was admitted there. Since this happened inside the hospital, we asked the hospital to pay the family Rs 2 lakh as compensation,” said Banerjee. A similar complaint was lodged against RTIICS by the family of a 67-year-old man who was admitted with neurological ailments but developed pneumonia in the hospital, said Banerjee. “We asked RTIICS to pay Rs 2 lakh to the man’s family because the patient got infected with pneumonia after he was admitted in the hospital. The patient died eventually,” said Banerjee. KPC Medical College was asked to pay Rs 1 lakh to the family of man who developed bedsores while in hospital. The commission also asked Institute of Neurosciences to pay Rs 1 lakh to the family of an 80-year-old man who was not allowed to be taken into the hospital from the ambulance in the early days of the pandemic because doctors who examined him said he had no neurological ailments. “The man’s family said that doctors said he had cardiac ailments and since the hospital was a place for neurological treatment, they cannot admit the patient,” Banerjee. “We told the hospital that it was not possible for the family to know if it was a cardiac ailment or neurological ailment. When the man was taken to the hospital it was their responsibility to give primary and arrange to shift the man to a hospital that would treat cardiac ailment.” The commission asked the hospital to pay Rs 1 lakh to the family as it did not find the hospital’s conduct proper. Lila Hospital in Berhampore was asked to pay the family of a woman Rs 3 lakh. The woman died after giving birth to a child. Banerjee said that though the woman had developed complications post-surgery, the hospital had failed to notice that and take appropriate steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
20-02-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival revs up to a flying start||The first day, first show of the much-awaited The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival revved up to a flying start. The latest models from the major marquees drew crowds as potential buyers made a beeline to check out the variants and the deals on offer at the Carnival, which will be held at City Centre Salt Lake till February 21 (11am to 8pm). Some booked test drives, others did test rides and gathered price lists as personal mobility is on a post-pandemic surge. Electric vehicles, internal combustion engines (ICEs), diesel powertrains — customers can take their pick. Hyundai, the South Korean auto major which completes 25 years of operation in India, is at the carnival with its latest transmission technology, the iMT (intelligent Manual Transmission) that does away with the clutch. MG’s ZS is the electric vehicle to watch out, while Kia, Hyundai’s sister company, is luring buyers with its seven-seater Caravan and small SUV Sonet, which also has an iMT. “We are participating in such a physical event for the first time since the pandemic started. We are eager to have our customers come and see, touch and feel our cars,” said the Hyundai representative at the carnival. The just launched Renault Kiger, a compact SUV from the French company, drew a lot of gaze. “We are old participants in this carnival and we knew that if physical marketing were to begin, it had to be here,” said a Central Renault spokesperson. It was MG’s ZS EV that stole the show with its charging port in the grille. Visitors milled around this electric vehicle asking for its range and price. “I am interested in EVs but am not sure if there will be enough charging stations on roads,” said Aniruddha Sen, a visitor. At the centerstage of the Kund was Japanese maker Nissan’s baby, the Magnite, the most affordable B-segment SUV. The company is also betting on its SUV Kicks to draw some enquiries. Also, the newly launched Volkswagen Polo together with its premium SUV Tiguan All Space drew customers. Premium bike maker BMW Motorrad is participating in the carnival for the first time. “We have come here with our 300cc bikes, the 310 R and 310 GS, the most affordable range. We want Calcuttans to be familiar with our brand and our products,” said a dealer representative. Both the bikes from Motorrad are for a pocket pinch of Rs 3,15,000 and Rs 3,55,000, respectively. Giving Motorrad company was Piaggio Vespa and Aprilia. The sunshine yellow Vespa ZX, a 125 cc scooter, was a show stealer as was the Aprilia Storm and Aprilia SXR, a 125 cc and a 160 cc motorbike from the Italian maker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-137
