21-02-2021||Calcutta||Hari Vasudevan: A scholar in demand among bureaucrats||A scholar in demand among bureaucrats. An incredible travel companion. A teacher who gave his students boundless freedom. An evening to remember historian Hari Vasudevan celebrated many facets of the man. Vasudevan, who was an authority on Russian history and politics, passed away on May 10 last year after being diagnosed with Covid-19. He was 68. Vasudevan was associated with a host of institutions but his career was built at the department of history, Calcutta University, where he joined in 1978 and taught for four decades. At Gorky Sadan on Thursday, everyone had his or her own “Hari Vasudevan story” to share. While Vasudevan’s erudition, the vast range of his scholarship and his craft as a historian was hailed by every speaker, the evening regaled with delightful personal anecdotes on his warmth, affection and genial nature, qualities that endeared Vasudevan to one and all. “Historians, teachers, scholars and institution builders will come and go. But what is becoming increasingly rare today is humanism and broad-mindedness, which were towering in Hari’s personality, disposition and temperament,” history professor Suranjan Das, vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, said at the outset of his speech. “Hari was one of those very few people no one spoke ill about. That is a rare quality. Not that he did not lose his temper, not that he would not give it back. He did, but at the end of it you would realise that there was no malice in it,” said Jawhar Sircar, former Prasar Bharati chief. At the start of the programme, Tapati Guha-Thakurta, Vasudevan’s wife and a professor of history, launched a new website dedicated to him. Some excerpts from the session. Teacher to friend Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator at the Victoria Memorial, met Vasudevan at Calcutta University, during his MA course. Vasudevan came across as a “handsome and dapper man with a French-cut beard who looked erudite and classy and spoke with a clipped British accent that became for me a template back then about how the English language should be spoken”. He was “Professor Vasudevan” to Sengupta, a figure of “reverence and admiration”. But soon enough, he got to know the other side of his teacher. “As a research scholar, I dropped by at the Hazra Law College campus fairly often, especially since I was dating my future wife, Aparajita, Hari’s student, and present here this evening. “On one of those afternoons, as I strolled into the college, it was Hari, of all persons, who stopped me in my tracks, with a twinkle in his eyes and a wide, knowing smirk on his face, asking, ‘Hey, listen, what brings you here now? Shouldn’t you be working in the National Library or something?’ I mumbled something and he laughed it off, giving me an encouraging pat on my back,” Sengupta recalled. “That was a moment when we seemed to strike up a secret bond, and for the first time, this guy called Professor Hari Vasudevan suddenly transformed into a friend called Hari, who I realised had many things under his watch other than the teetering fortunes of the Soviet Union.” Travel buddy Vasudevan joined Calcutta University in 1978, the same year Suranjan Das completed his master’s. The “incredibly parochial (with hardly any non-Bengali teacher) place” that Calcutta University “was, and still continues to be”, Vasudevan’s joining the history department in 1978 was news, said Das. The two went on to have a four-decade-long association. Das called Vasudevan an “excellent editor” who often edited his “academic papers and convocation speeches”. Having made several trips together, Das also remembered Vasudevan as an “incredibly enjoyable, informative and affectionate travel companion”. “He would advise us on what to wear, where to eat, which sites to visit and whom to meet. Whenever we travelled abroad together, I would inevitably fall back on his advice in selecting gifts for my family, especially for my daughter….  The absence of Hari has been an irrevocable personal loss to me, all three members of my family,” Das said, his voice choking. Delhi’s delight Sircar, who retired from the civil services in 2016 after a four-decade career in the administration, said Vasudevan was highly rated in Delhi, not only among scholars but bureaucrats as well. “Even in the bureaucracy of the foreign service, which I can assure you is more of a bureaucracy of bureaucracies, Hari was accepted without sneer. Once people get in there, they start sneering at the rest of the world…. Hari was an acknowledged resource person to the ministry of external affairs. He was rated not because he had once studied east European or Russian history but because he was up to date, analytical and unbiased,” said Sircar. The “most precious memory” that Sircar has of Vasudevan remains “bottled in a bottle”. From a trip to China, Vasudevan got a bottle of Maotai (a potent Chinese alcoholic beverage). “It’s half empty, half full, whichever way you look at it. I shall preserve it till I join him upstairs,” said Sircar. Trip to remember A documentary film on an expedition that Vasudevan directed, titled Footsteps of Afanasii Nikitin, was screened at Gorky Sadan on Thursday. The film is the record of an expedition organised by the New Delhi-based Adventurers and Explorers’ Society between November 2006 and March 2007, that was conceived of and led by Vasudevan. It retraces the epic 15th century journey of the first major Russian traveller to India, Afanasii Nikitin. The expedition led later to his own book, In the Footsteps of Afanasii Nikitin: Travels Across Eurasia and India in the Twenty-First Century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
21-02-2021||Calcutta||Auto carnival draws serious buyers||The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival, on its second day, drew some serious buyers who braved the pandemic to arrive at the Kund area of City Centre Salt Lake, compared specs, chose colours, collected price lists, and had a dekko of the latest models, all under one roof. From compact SUVs like the new Kiger, the Magnite  the Venue and the Sonet to the extra spacious Carnival and Tiguan Allspace, and the Kicks, the carnival had something for all. With post-pandemic cost cuts, some of the visitors opted to check out the hatches like the Glanza, the Polo, and the i20, others enquired about the range of MG ZS. Two-wheeler lovers whetted their appetite with most premium brands present at the carnival, the BMW Motorrad and the Aprilia and Vespa. The carnival is on till February 21 (Sunday), from 11am to 8pm. Events ⚫ The Telegraph Auto Weekend Carnival, at City Centre Salt Lake, 11.30am to 8pm. ⚫ TCL India Women’s League — 2, partnered by The Telegraph, at TURF XL, New Alipore, 7.30am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
21-02-2021||Calcutta||Drug trafficking: Pamela Goswami names BJP leaders at Alipore court||BJP youth wing leader Pamela Goswami, who was arrested on Friday for alleged possession of a white powdery substance, shouted the names of two BJP leaders while she was being produced in court on Saturday. She said: “Ami chai CID tadanta hok, ebong BJP’r Rakesh Singh jeno arrest hoy. Eta onar chakranto. Kailash Vijayvargiya ghonishtho Rakesh Singh jeno arrest hoy, eta onar chakranto (I want the CID to probe this case and Rakesh Singh to be arrested. This is his conspiracy. Rakesh Singh, who is close to Kailash Vijayvargiya, must be arrested. It is his conspiracy).” When she was escorted out of the Alipore NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) court, Goswami again shouted out Singh’s name saying he had sent someone to frame her and plant the narcotics in her car. Goswami, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and private security guard Somnath Chatterjee were remanded in police custody till February 25. Asked about the allegations, BJP leader Rakesh Singh said he was not in contact with her for the last few years. “She has been tutored by Calcutta police…. Why was she silent when she was arrested yesterday and after eight hours suddenly take my name? This is a political conspiracy by the ruling party and the police are hang-in-glove with them,” Singh told Metro. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, on being asked about Goswami's allegations, told TV reporters: “I am not aware about this (that Goswami has taken his name). I will not comment.” Asked about the charges against Goswami, he said: “I have faith in the law. If someone is wrong, law will take its own course. I will not comment on this matter.” Police had intercepted Goswami’s car on NR Avenue in New Alipore on Friday afternoon and allegedly seized 90 grams of suspected cocaine worth around Rs 10 lakh from her handbag and the front seat of the car in which she and the two others were travelling. The state’s lawyer said the police needed Goswami’s custody to establish the drug trail and find out if there was a larger racket. He said that her remand may help the police get information that could lead to the recovery of more banned psychotropic substances. According to the rule, the presence of psychotropic substances inside the vehicle was enough to arrest all the occupants of the car. “In such cases it is presumed that all occupants had knowledge about the presence of the banned drugs in the vehicle. Hence all are arrested,” said an officer. Goswami’s defence lawyers pleaded before the court that their client had been framed. They, however, did not mention anyone’s name. They blamed the police for some “procedural lapses” while registering the FIR and making the general diary entry when the police team had started from New Alipore police station for the operation on Friday. “Our client has told the police that there was another man in the car who had got off some time before this incident happened. She has been framed by that man,” one of her lawyers, who did not wish to be named, told Metro. The police said they had kept the investigation open and “all angles will be probed”. The court granted the prosecution’s prayer and sent Goswami and her two associates to police remand till February 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
21-02-2021||Calcutta||New Market traders threaten agitation against hawkers||Traders in the New Market area have threatened an agitation against hawkers who they allege have taken over two-thirds of the road space, making it difficult for buyers to reach their shops. The Joint Traders Federation, an association of traders of markets in the area, including SS Hog Market, Sreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall, Traders Island and standalone shops, will hold a rally on Wednesday. They also plan to submit a list of demands to the police and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “If there is no action against the hawkers, we will have no other option than to shut down our shops,” said Ashok Gupta, the president of Joint Traders Federation, who owns a kitchen appliances shop in New Market. The numbers of hawkers have increased in the last few months and even the doors of the shops and the gates of the markets are not being left free, the traders alleged. Parking cars along Bertram Street, Lindsay Street, Fenwick Bazar Street or Humayun’s Place — roads in the area — is now impossible because of the hawkers, the traders alleged. A visit to the area on Saturday showed that hawkers had spread out their wares on  roads, placed stands to display items. The footpath along all the roads were occupied, leaving hardly 3-4ft space for pedestrians. The state government had framed rules in 2018 that barred hawkers from occupying the metalled road. The rules also mentioned that two-thirds of a pavement must be left free for pedestrians. But in the New Market all these rules have been violated. Shaktiman Ghosh, the all India general secretary of the National Hawkers Federation said he was opposed to cars being allowed on the roads in the shopping hub. But said hawkers should not encroach the footpath in front of a gate or door. “We are not in favour of hawkers sitting on a  roads or occupying more than one-third of a footpath’s width,” he said. Nearly 1200 shop owners in the shopping hub went on a three-day strike in 2013 against the encroachment but the traders said situation has worsened. “The police act only when we raise some hue and cry. Within days things again return to the ways. If this continues, the shopowners will also start sitting on the road with our wares,” said a shopowner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
21-02-2021||Calcutta||Plea against skywalk encroachment in Dakshineswar||Members of the Dakshineswar Kali temple trust have appealed to police to not allow stalls owners on the skywalk that leads to the temple to encroach on space meant for pedestrians. In 2018 chief minister Mamata Banerjee had inaugurated the skywalk to ensure that devotees can reach the temple smoothly, avoiding the narrow Rani Rashmoni Road below. The skywalk links the suburban railway station at Dakshineswar to the temple. This week, once the Dakshineswar Metro is inaugurated, the temple authorities fear the footfall will go up sharply. “More cops are needed on the skywalk to ensure that no stall owner encroaches on the pedestrian space for smooth movement of visitors,” said Kushal Chowdhury, secretary, Dakshineswar Kali Temple and Debottar Estate. Officers of the Barrackpore police commissionerate said they have already re-examined the arrangements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
21-02-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC will announce schedule for Class X and XII board exams when poll dates are out||The ICSE council will announce the schedule for the Class X and XII board exams as soon as the Election Commission announces the dates for the Assembly polls, council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Saturday. “As soon as the election dates are announced we will announce the schedule of the Class X (ICSE) and XII (ISC) boards. It could be within a day or two from the announcement. We are ready and waiting for the dates (of the election),” Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), told Metro over the phone. On Saturday, Arathoon addressed about 150 principals of schools from across the country at the annual conference of the Association of Heads of Anglo-Indian Schools in India. The 99th edition of the conference was held online this year because of the Covid pandemic. During his session, Arathoon also discussed the ISC practicals with the principals. The dates for the practical exams (for subjects like physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music and fashion designing) will be finalised by the visiting examiner in consultation with the head of the exam centre (the school’s principal) and the supervising examiner of the centre. “This is so that schools can maintain proper distancing during the practicals (because of the pandemic). In the old pattern when the council would fix the dates for practical exams, one set of students would appear for the practicals and another set would be locked up in a room. But this cannot happen now,” Arathoon told Metro. The schools will have to divide the examinees into batches depending on the number of students and the capacity of the laboratories, a principal said. “The visiting examiners would be required to visit the Examination Centre to check the size of the laboratory/laboratories and then plan, in consultation with the head of the examination centre and the supervising examiner of the centre, the number of batches in which the practical examination for the concerned subject would be conducted at the centre. This should be done in compliance with the with the social distancing norms…” a circular from the council said. The visiting examiner will also set the question papers for some subjects based on documents provided by the council, the circular said. On Wednesday, the CISCE sent the circular to heads of schools presenting candidates for ISC 2021 about dates of practical exams and question papers. The Telegraph had reported the next day that the circular was meant for practical exams in physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani), fashion designing, computer science and home science. Computer science and home science have two components — planning and examination. The date for the planning session will be fixed by the council and that of the examination will be finalised by the visiting examiners in consultation with the exam centre’s head and supervising examiner, the circular had said. The council will set questions for these two subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-136
