22-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta HC stays WBBPE notification appointing 15,284 candidates as teachers||The Calcutta High Court on Monday stayed a notification of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education (WBBPE) appointing 15,284 candidates as teachers. Passing the interim stay on the notification of February 15, Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj directed the state government and the board to file their affidavits in opposition within five weeks and asked the petitioner to file reply, if any, within another three weeks after that. The court directed that the matter would appear for hearing again in the month of May. The court noted that out of 16,500 posts that were vacant, only 15,284 vacancies have been filled up by the board. Justice Bharadwaj observed that the rules lay down the procedure of selection and specifically speaks of consideration of all eligible candidates for earmarked vacancies. The court ordered a stay on the notification as, prima facie, all eligible candidates have not been considered. Petitioner’s lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya submitted that no merit list was published by the board, but the notification issued by the board on February 15, 2021, informs about the appointment of 15,284 candidates out of a vacancy of 16,500 posts. He submitted that the notification was not in accordance with the rules prescribed under West Bengal Primary School Teachers Recruitment Rules 2016 and as such is bad in law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
22-02-2021||Calcutta||School students tired after writing two to three hours on-campus tests||Students have been putting their heads down and looking tired after writing two or three hours at a stretch, teachers of several schools where on-campus exams are being held said. Constant wearing of masks is only adding to the children’s woes and some have requested teachers to allow them to take off the face cover. Students have lost the habit of writing for two to three hours at a stretch, especially in a “formal atmosphere”. Ever since the campuses shut down last March as a precaution against Covid and schools switched to online classes and exams on digital platforms, students had been writing shorter papers. “There is a stress of writing exams in school. With it is the uneasiness of wearing a mask. Some of them are asking teachers if they could lower the mask,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Teachers are noticing a change in the body language of students who are unable to “sit straight” or are being “fidgety”, teachers said. Several schools have started the pre-board exams for Classes X and XII on campus. At many others, the exams are scheduled for next week or March. The government allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for the students of Classes IX to XII. “Tiredness and lack of confidence are visible in their postures as they are putting their heads down while writing the papers. We want them to develop the confidence of being able to sit through an exam and know where they stand before the board exams. These rehearsals are not about marks or how much they score,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. For the students, however, academic apprehensions remain as many of them are asking teachers whether failing in one exam would mean they would not be allowed to write the boards or their “poor performance” in the finals would affect their overall marks. Psychologists feel it is only natural for students to be tense and that can have behavioral manifestations. “After a gap of 11 months students have come into a space where a ‘norm’ is expected and they have to be given time and space…. Exams are in any case anxiety-provoking... now more so as they have not sat at one place for so long,” said psychotherpist Farishta Dastur Mukerji. The heads of several schools said they were allowing students to go out and lower their mask for a couple of minutes. “We don’t allow them to do that in the examination hall. But teachers have been asked to let them go out, lower their masks for a couple of minutes and then come back,” said Richard Gasper, the principal of St Augustine’s Day School. The exhaustion is apparent even outside the examination hall, some teacher said. “When they are coming out after writing a paper, they are much quieter than before. Unlike what they would do before, they are not discussing the paper,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Psychiatrists said students would have to gradually wake up to the fact that they would have to go back to school. “There is an apprehension because some students had taken going back to school rather lightly as if it is not going to happen, but now they will have to gradually get used to it,” said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University announces schedule for distribution of grade cards in staggered way||Presidency University has announced the schedule for the distribution of undergraduate and postgraduate final-year grade cards in a staggered way because of the Covid pandemic, said a university official. In previous years the university held the convocation - where degree certificates are handed out - following the distribution of grade cards. This year the convocation will not be held because of the pandemic. A notice issued by the secretary of the faculty council says the grade cards will be distributed from Derozio hall from February 25. The campus has remained closed since last March. As part of the staggered distribution process, each department has been given a specific date. “Even within a department, separate timings have been allotted for undergraduate and postgraduate wings to minimise chances of crowding,” said an university official. The distribution of grade cards will start with the Bengali department, which has been assigned February 25. Postgraduate and PhD students have been asked to turn up between 11.30am and 1.30pm and undergraduate students from 2pm to 4pm. The distribution will go on till March 10. The notice says that if any student fails to collect the grade card on the scheduled day, he or she may collect it on March 15. A Presidency official said Derozio Hall had been chosen as the distribution venue because it is spacious and physical distancing norms could be maintained. The students have been asked to produce documents like original ID card, original registration certificate, clearances from the respective department heads and the dean of students (for hostel clearance only). “Those who wanted digitised copies of grade cards have already received them,” said vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia. When asked when the convocation could be held, she said: “It cannot be held at this moment because of the pandemic. We cannot risk anyone’s health.” This will be the second time in two years that Presidency will not hold its convocation. Last year, the university had not held the convocation and had distributed digital degree certificates amid the buzz that the authorities were reluctant to organise the event to spare itself the trouble of inviting the chancellor — governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — to the programme. The governor had last year faced students’ protests on several campuses, mostly because of his comments in support of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||BJP leader case: Cops search salon in New Town||Arrested BJP leader Pamela Goswami was escorted by a team of police officers on Sunday to a salon in New Town that she had apparently taken on rent to find more about her alleged drug deals. Police sources said Pamela would meet her clients in the salon, located on the third floor of a mall, and strike deals on sale of banned drugs. “We have learnt during investigation that Goswami had a number of clients, who would meet her in the New Town salon. Hence, it is important for us to visit the place and gather whatever evidence is available,” said a police officer. Goswami, a secretary of the BJP Yuva Morcha, was arrested on Friday on the charge of carrying a white powdery substance that the police suspect was cocaine. The police had intercepted her car on NR Avenue in New Alipore on Friday afternoon and allegedly seized 90 gram of suspected cocaine, worth around Rs 10 lakh in the grey market, from her handbag and the front seat of the car in which she, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and guard Somnath Chatterjee were travelling. Dey and Chatterjee were arrested along with Goswami. The police team that visited the 1,300 square foot salon in New Town seized hard discs of CCTV footage of those who used to visit her. The sleuths had tried to enter the salon on Saturday, too, but could not because the keys were not found. Goswami has alleged that her arrest was the result of a police conspiracy and raised the question why a fourth person in the car, who is “absconding”, was not arrested. “(BJP leader) Rakesh Singh is behind this and it appears that a section of police officers is involved in a got-up case,” Goswami had said on Saturday evening during the trip to New Town. “There was another person in the car, who is absconding. Why wasn’t he arrested?” Singh, first named by Goswami when she was produced in a court on Saturday afternoon, has said that he has not been in contact with her for the last few years. Senior officers from New Alipore police station said the entire event of intercepting the car and the arrest of the three had been captured on camera and there was no scope of any slip-ups. “These are baseless allegations. We are now trying to find out if some more persons are involved in these drug dealings and whether they are from other states,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Touch and feel back at weekend auto carnival after Covid gap||Curtains fell on The Telegraph Weekend Auto Carnival after a weekend of test drives, deals, bargains and bookings. Cretas, Magnites, Sonets, Kigers, Venues were the top picks. Followed by the i20s, Polos, Glanzas, said organisers. Potential buyers, who had already done their market surveys online, visited the carnival at City Centre in Salt Lake to check and compare their selected models. Dealers, who had thus far avoided on-ground activity found the carnival useful to get back in touch, literally, with their customers. “It is actually nice to have faces for the enquiries. So long everything was online,” said a Hyundai representative, who had a booking for Creta at the carnival right at the onset. There were quite a few enquiries for the seven-seater Carnival that was parked right in front of the Kund. “People are checking out the Carnival. A lot of them are collecting the specs sheet. But hot enquiries are for Sonet,” said a Kia salesperson, who confirmed a couple of bookings for Sonet. A similar tale for Nissan. Magnite is stealing the show with its Rs 5.49 lakh price tag. People sat on the back seat and checked out the dashboard of Kicks, the bigger SUV. It is the B-segment SUV that is the rage. Giving Magnite competition is Renault Kiger. The newly launched compact SUV has a price tag starting from Rs 5.45 lakh. “The compact SUV styling has caught on. It is affordable, has a road presence and is good for city rides,” said a Renault salesperson. MG, which showcased the electric ZS, got enquiries and booking for Hector. Towards the evening all action seemed to be at the centre of the Kund. Checking out the Polo GTI was Aniruddh Deshpande. “I am all for German engineering and Volkswagen has been my favourite brand,” said the architect from Salt Lake. He had also checked out Carnival. “I need to buy a car but I am yet to decide which one,” he said. The Tiguan Allspace was an eye-catcher. A premium vehicle, visitors checked out its interiors with interest, some even opted for photos. The time-tested Glanza brought on a good number of queries as did i20. These premium hatches are on the top of the list of buyers wanting personal mobility. “We had people booking test drives, we also gave a few test drives during the weekend,” said a Toyota representative. However, through the three days, the BMW Motorrad bikes and the Vespa, Aprilia had youngsters milling around them, asking the price, wanting the specs sheet, taking selfies. “I came to see the Motorrad bikes,” said Vishal Jain, who was taking a selfie with the 310R. It was this see-touch-feel that the BMW Motorrad salesmen wanted. “We want Calcuttans to see the bikes and this was a lovely platform,” said a sales representative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation to open five more Covid-19 vaccination sites on Monday||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has decided to open five more Covid-19 vaccination sites on Monday to try and speed up inoculation of frontline and health-care workers, officials said on Sunday. The state health department has set February 25 as the last date for all health-care workers to get the first dose of a Covid vaccine. With the opening of five more sites, the number of Covid vaccination centres run by the CMC will go up to 80. Metro reported on Saturday that chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had asked officials of the health department to increase the number of vaccination sites so more health-care and frontline workers could be given the jabs daily. Only health-care and frontline workers are eligible for Covid jabs in the ongoing Phase I of the vaccination campaign. One of the five new sites will be set up at the civic headquarters on SN Banerjee Road and another in the CMC clinic of ward 72 in Bhowanipore. CMC sources said a large number of employees at the civic headquarters need to be vaccinated. “We held an interaction with health-care and frontline workers of borough 8 on Saturday and explained to them some basic facts about Covid vaccines. We told them that they will remain under observation for 30 minutes after taking the shot. A doctor will be present to attend to them (if they suffer from any adverse effect). We are hoping many will turn up to get the doses,” said Sandip Ranjan Bakshi, the coordinator of the borough. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, said on Sunday about 75 per cent of the 6.8 lakh registered health-care workers in Bengal had received their first dose. “We are expecting that it will go up to 80 per cent by February 25.” An official of the CMC said they were planning to open two more sites in each of the 16 boroughs in Calcutta soon. “We were running 17 sites in the 16 boroughs till Saturday. From Monday there will be 22 sites, but we want to have two sites in each borough,” said an official. The CMC has over 3,000 health-care workers registered for Covid vaccines. Around 35,000 frontline workers of the civic body are registered for the jabs. Sources said a large number of frontline workers are yet to be vaccinated. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines of the Centre has listed the municipal workers who are eligible to receive jabs as frontline workers. They include waste collectors, sweepers, waste management plant operators, engineers, revenue and other department staff and cremation ground staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Jesuit priests, former students gather on St Xavier’s campus to pay tributes to language martyrs||A group of Jesuit priests and former students gathered on the St Xavier’s College campus on Sunday to pay tributes to the martyrs of the Language Revolution Day (Bhasha Andolan Dibas). On February 21, 1952, students were killed in Dhaka (then part of East Pakistan, which is now Bangladesh) in police action launched to suppress the movement that demanded recognition of the Bengali language. The day is now celebrated as the International Mother Language Day. On Sunday morning, floral tributes were paid at the erected martyrs’ column on the college campus on Park Street. The column was designed in the style of the original one at Dhaka University. A minute’s silence was observed in memory of those who had laid down their lives on this day in Dhaka in 1952. “It is a Jesuit principle to respect and also to create opportunities for different mother languages of people spread across the world,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “St. Xavier’s College has a rich tradition of respecting the mother languages. The college is now offering MA in Bengali on its rural campus in Raghabpur in South 24-Parganas and Bengali honours on both the campuses. There is also ample opportunity at St Xavier’s College for flourishing literary talent of the students of all streams in their respective mother languages,” he said. The celebrations at St Xavier’s College were muted this year because of the pandemic. Missing was the usual procession of students, staff and alumni, taken out every year to mark this day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans decode Mars atmosphere loss||Indian scientists exploring how wind from the Sun might influence a planet’s habitability have shown that Mars suffered a catastrophic loss of most of its atmosphere after its internal dynamo and magnetism shut down. Their landmark study has illustrated how the steady blast of solar wind — a supersonic stream of electrons and protons — stripped Mars of its atmosphere after the planet's magnetic field shut down early during its geological history. The study by two researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Calcutta, is the first to probe using computer simulations how solar wind will interact with a Mars-like planet with and without a magnetic field. Astronomers have suspected for years that Mars once had a magnetic field activated by mechanisms similar to those still active on Earth -- heat-driven convection of magnetic materials such as nickel and iron deep in the planet’s interior. Using spacecraft to detect residual signatures of ancient magnetism, groups of scientists in the US and Canada have estimated that Mars lost its magnetic field between 3.9 and 3.6 billion years ago through mechanisms still are under debate. A planet’s magnetic field serves as a protective shield that curbs the impact of solar wind. The IISER study has shown how solar wind stream have quickly eroded the Martian atmosphere after the planet lost its magnetic field. The study has been accepted for publication in the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society. “Our simulations suggest a Mars-like planet can quickly lose its atmosphere — the precise numbers of months or years over which that happens aren’t important, they  depend on the assumptions about the atmosphere and solar wind,” said Dibyendu Nandi, associate professor at IISER who led the study. “But these simulations provide insights into the beautiful physics of the process,” Nandi said. The study by Nandi and Arnab Basak, a post-doctoral scientist, both at the Centre for Excellence in Space Sciences at IISER, Calcutta, provides fresh insights into the geological history of Mars at a time three new spacecraft are set to explore the panet. China’s Tianwen-1 spacecraft is already in orbit preparing to deploy its lander. The United Arab Emirates’ Hope spacecraft is also in orbit, while America’s Perseverance spacecraft landed on the Martian surface on Thursday. The IISER duo’s 3D simulations of the interaction of the solar wind and a Mars-sized planet suggest that the solar wind would abruptly slow down at a distance of about 1.5 times the radius of the planet. This is close to the estimates of 1.45 to 1.58 through observations by earlier US spacecraft such as Phobos and Mars Global Surveyor, Basak said. Scientists believe planetary atmospheres influence the habitability of planets and many of the ongoing and planned future studies of exoplanets — planets orbiting other stars — are trying to determine the composition of the exoplanet atmospheres. Nandi presented the study’s findings at a meeting of the Astronomical Society of India on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
22-02-2021||Calcutta||Surgery: Elephant trunk-shaped graft inserted in Manipur man's chest||An elephant trunk-shaped graft was inserted in the chest of a 47-year-old man from Manipur at a city hospital to replace a leaked pipe that provides oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body. The 15-hour surgery was among the first of its kind in eastern India, said doctors. The patient was suffering from what doctors call aortic dissection. In layperson’s terms, it is a condition marked by a split in the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. The force of blood pumping can split the layers of the artery wall, allowing blood to leak in between them. This process is called dissection. “The condition can be fatal and warrants immediate treatment,” said Atanu Saha, a cardiac surgeon at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. On February 2, the patient from Manipur underwent the open-heart surgery, done by a team led by Saha. “His chest was opened. We had to lower his body temperature to stop the circulation of blood to other parts of the body except the brain, which continued to receive blood. The graft was then deployed inside the descending aorta and drawn out through the open end, shaped like an elephant trunk,” said Saha. “The other end of the graft was sutured to the remaining portion of the ascending aorta. It was further used to reconstruct the vessels that branch out to the head and neck,” the doctor added. “The procedure is called frozen trunk because the stent-graft is reinforced with pliable metal which, when inflated, takes the shape of the aortic tube.”. An official of the hospital said: “Given the complexity and the duration of the surgery, post-operative recovery of the patient was uneventful and he was subsequently discharged on the eighth day.” The patient had no post-operative complications and was leading a normal life, he said. After discharge, the usual recovery time is around a month, said Saha. The advantage of the frozen trunk technique is that it reduces chances of further surgical re-intervention, thereby reducing mortality risk, doctors said. “Earlier, we could replace one of the aortas and the arch at one go. But the downward aorta was not accessible. It remained faulty because another surgery involved a big risk and cost implications,” said Saha. The frozen trunk technique is costly since the graft is imported, said an official of the hospital. “A frozen trunk surgery could cost upwards of Rs 12 lakh,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-135
