23-02-2021||Calcutta||Golf Green gets police station||Residents of the Golf Green area on Monday got a police station that will primarily focus on the safety and security of the aged, who are vulnerable to online and other crimes. Golf Green, an area dotted with standalone buildings and apartment blocks, was under Jadavpur police station. The new police station, which was inaugurated by state minister Aroop Biswas in the presence of Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra and special commissioner Debasish Roy, will have its jurisdiction from Jubilee Park in Tollygunge to Baghajatin. The police station, which looks after an area measuring 2.7sq km, is housed in a building near the Dhaka Kalibari bus stop. “More police presence in lanes and bylanes has been our long-standing demand. But as Jadavpur police station’s area was huge, it was practically impossible to focus so much on Golf Green alone. With the creation of the new police station, we feel there would be more police presence in our area now,” said Sandip Nandi Mazumdar, a senior resident of Golf Green. Many incidents of snatching, burglary, thefts and online frauds have been reported from pockets of Golf Green in the past and the majority of the victims were elderly citizens. The police said their first step would be to connect with the elderly population and initiate a confidence-building measure among them, especially those whose children stay abroad or outside Bengal. The area — which is known for its greenery and vital installations like the office of Doordarshan Kendra —witnesses a daily footfall of hundreds of morning and evening walkers, many of whom are from areas adjacent to Golf Green. “The nature and characteristics of the residents in the Golf Green neighbourhood is slightly different from the remaining pockets of Jadavpur police station and the area requires special attention. Our main focus will be on increasing the vigil and reach out to the elderly people who stay alone there,” said a senior police officer in Lalbazar. Golf Green police station becomes the 80th police station in Calcutta. It is flanked by Jadavpur police and Tollygunge police stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
23-02-2021||Calcutta||How do birds feel? Eco Park cage tells you||A cage has been created at Eco Park to highlight and give a first-hand feel of how it feels like being caged. Birds, butterflies and local fauna should be free and living in a natural habitat rather than being caged and made to live the life of a pet. The focus is on integrating bio-diversity principles in the development paradigm. Amidst the din and bustle of the city, the New Town park provides roosting, nesting and foraging habitats for more than 150 birds, which have been documented. Out of this, in just three months in the winter season, various rare migratory species like  Wryneck, Black Redstart and Plaintive Cuckoo have been spotted at the park and Siberian Stone Chat has been spotted in the immediate vicinity. Eco Park with its varied landscapes provides spaces for such varied biodiversity and is upholding the mantra of “Let live to live”. To promote biodiversity, a workshop on the local floral species and the birds at Eco Park was organised by the Nature Environment & Wildlife Society (NEWS) last week. The event was attended by Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, senior officials of New Town Kolkata Development Authority, NEWS secretary Biswajit Roy Chowdhury and NEWS joint secretary Ajanta Dey. Students from Calcutta University’s environmental science department participated in the workshop. The event started with the inauguration of the cage, which is “a promotional tool towards non-caging of wild birds”, Sen at Pakhi Bitan. It was followed by releasing of caged birds and butterflies to raise awareness against caging of wild birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Scholars back on NIT Durgapur campus||Project and PhD scholars at NIT Durgapur started returning to the campus on Friday following production of parents’ declaration about the health and recent community interaction of a scholar’s family. The institute has decided to call the scholars back to the campus on the basis of the Centre’s Unlock-V guidelines which allow higher education institutions to reopen for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams who require laboratory/experimental work. In the declaration form, a parent has to state whether anyone who lives at his or her address has returned from domestic or international travel within the last 14 days. A parent has to declare whether anyone living at his or her address has been in physical contact with a person/persons diagnosed with Covid-19. “Is any one who lives at your address currently under a form of self isolation as the result of an order of a government authority or as the result of a recommendation of a health professional?” reads a question in the declaration form. “The parents will have to tick ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ against each question and declare that the information provided is a true and proper representation of the family’s health and recent community interaction and have no objection to send their wards back to the institute,” said an official. The institute will be calling back 550 PhD scholars and 100-odd project scholars. “The scholars are coming according to the slots they are being allotted,” said NIT director Anupam Basu. The institute has started bringing the 75 MTech final-year students back to the campus for lab-dependent hardware projects. “We are planning staggered physical reopening across all the years. The fourth-year students will be asked to come from mid-March. The decision to call back research scholars and MTech students is a precursor to that,’’ said Basu. NIT is planning to bring final-year BTech students of the eighth semester and those who are in the third year and second year to the campus so that they can do lab sessions to make up for the classes lost since March last year, when all campuses were shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. “If your ward feels unwell with any symptoms of Coronavirus (COVID-19), however mild, you must keep them at home and get them tested,” the declaration form states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Vaccination of election officials from today||The poll officials enlisted for the upcoming Assembly elections will be vaccinated against Covid-19 from Tuesday, state health department officials said. In Calcutta, the poll officials will be inoculated at four government medical colleges. This will be in addition to the vaccination of police personnel that is already underway as part of inoculation of frontline workers. The Central Election Commission has enlisted around 6 lakh poll officials across the state. “Vaccination of poll officials will begin on Tuesday. Four teaching hospitals — RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital and NRS Medical College and Hospital — will inoculate poll personnel,” said a health department official. “Personnel of central forces who have arrived in the state will be vaccinated at SSKM Hospital.” “We have been given the target of vaccinating 250 poll officials on Tuesday,” said an official at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. “We will run four sites on our campus from Tuesday. One of the sites will be dedicated to poll officials.” The RG Kar Medical College and Hospital has been set the same target, too, said an official of the hospital. The state government has also requested the election commission to vaccinate operators of private buses and cars that are requisitioned for poll duty. A senior official of the state government said the government felt the need to vaccinate the drivers and helpers of buses and cars since they would come in close contact with poll officials and security personnel. If drivers and helpers contract Covid-19, they can in turn pass on the virus to poll officials and security personnel. “We have requested the election commission to vaccinate the drivers and helpers of private buses and cars that are requisitioned for election duty,” said a senior state government official. “The number of vehicles requisitioned for poll duty is significant. The drivers and helpers in the vehicles will be sharing the same space with poll officials for quite some time. So they need to be vaccinated,” the official said. According to a rough estimate, between 45,000 and 50,000 buses and cars will be required to conduct the Assembly polls. All district administrations are sending the names of poll officials to the election commission so they are vaccinated, said an official of the Hooghly district administration. “Doctors are visiting poll personnel during their training sessions, which are being held now. The doctors are explaining to the personnel the positives of getting vaccinated,” the official said. The number of polling stations in the state will see a sharp rise this time because of the election commission’s order that any booth with more than 1,500 voters must be split into two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid patient shift compensation ||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday decided to hand over Rs 1 lakh as compensation to a family of a man, who was forced by Woodlands Hospital to shift as soon as he tested positive for Covid-19 last June. A 79-year-old man was admitted to Woodlands in June. Soon after his admission he tested positive for Covid-19. Banerjee said the report arrived in the evening. “The hospital immediately started putting pressure on the family to shift him elsewhere,” he said. Banerjee added the hospital had arranged for the patient’s transfer to Desun Hospital and also arranged an ambulance. “The patient was covered by medical insurance. The bill for the treatment at Woodlands was Rs 2.09 lakh. The family wanted to pay the amount the insurance company would not pay. But the hospital did not wait. The hospital insisted the family pay the entire amount in cash.” Banerjee said. The commission also asked Jagannath Gupta Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Budge Budge to deposit Rs 5 lakh with it. Banerjee said the patient’s family was verbally told that the patient had tested positive for Covid while he was undergoing treatment at the hospital in July. The hospital, however, did not give the family a copy of the report, though the family insisted on getting it. A few days later, the hospital told the family that they would do a test. The sample was collected thereafter. “We have asked the hospital to keep Rs 5 lakh with the commission as we have found prima facie substance in the complaint,” Banerjee said. The commission had first heard the complaint in August and asked both parties to give affidavits. But the hospital could not submit the affidavit as the patient party did not serve a copy of its affidavit to the hospital. “We have fined the patient party Rs 5000 for not giving a copy of the affidavit to the hospital. We have also asked them to serve a copy to the hospital soon,” he said. In other decisions, Desun Hospital was asked to pay a patient’s family Rs 50,000 as the patient’s bed sore had worsened during his stay at the hospital. The 76-year-old patient had first degree bed sore when he was admitted in the hospital. But the hospital admitted that he developed third degree bed sore while his stay there, Banerjee said. Belle Vue Clinic was asked to offer a discount of Rs 50,000 to a patient’s family as the commission found the hospital had not offered discount on medicines and the cost of some of the pathological tests were high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||New Market steps against hawkers||Traders in the New Market area have decided to organise a rally on Wednesday against the rise in encroachment by hawkers in the shopping hub. They will meet the municipal commissioner and the deputy commissioner of police, central, on Thursday to demand action against the encroachment. The traders held a news conference on Monday to unveil their protest plan. They said if the meetings with senior government officials yielded no result, they would down their shutters and go on a strike. “We will meet the municipal commissioner on Thursday. We pay taxes to the corporation to run our shops. We will also meet the deputy commissioner, central, and tell him how difficult it has become for us to run our businesses,” said a trader. Metro reported on Sunday that the traders had threatened to start an agitation because of the way hawkers were encroaching on roads and footpaths in the shopping hub. Ashok Kumar Gupta, the president of the Joint Traders’ Federation, said they had gone on a strike in 2013 that yielded temporary results. “The police came, the hawkers were pushed back and made to leave some space open on footpaths. But the change only lasted for a few months,” he said. “Since the Unlock began, we have been noticing a steady increase in the number of hawkers. They have hardly left any space on the footpaths and now they are increasing the area they have encroached on the roads.” The Joint Traders Federation has several traders of SS Hog Market, Sreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall and Treasure Island as its members. Besides, the owners of a number of standalone shops on Lindsay Street, Humayun Place, Bertam Street and other roads in the area are its members. “About 1,200 traders from the area will walk in the rally on Wednesday. We will carry banners and inform people how the encroachment of roads and footpaths is affecting our business,” said a trader. Hawkers spread out their wares on roads and place stands to display garments. On footpaths, they hardly leave any space for pedestrians to move. Cars that enter the place have a harrowing time negotiating their way through hawkers and pedestrians. The state government had framed rules in 2018 that barred hawkers from occupying metalled roads. The rules also mention that two-thirds of pavements must be left free for pedestrians. All rules are violated in the New Market area. The traders said some of their customers complained to them they could no longer visit their shops because hawkers hardly left any space for cars to park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Community leaders sign declaration of unity at conclave||Several religious leaders and community heads who came together for an interfaith conclave on Saturday signed a declaration to “condemn violence, tyranny and subjugation that oppose the constitutional framework that governs the nation”. “We acknowledge and accept our rights and obligations as empowered citizens to uphold the guarantee of life, liberty, equality, fraternity, dignity, justice and freedom. We condemn violence, tyranny and subjugation that oppose the constitutional framework that governs the nation guided by the rights enshrined in the Indian constitution… We appeal to all faiths, religious, social and political affiliations and their representatives to refrain from coercion and using violence as a means to assert power and domination,” reads the declaration that was signed at the end of the conclave. The organisers — United Interfaith Foundation – India, a body of religious leaders and community heads and International Justice Mission, an NGO — said the declaration would be sent to all political parties, chief ministers, governors, police chiefs and community leaders. “We solemnly declare that peace and harmony in our society is only possible through the promotion of social justice at every level,” the declaration reads. “Though we are different in many ways, we are all united in the unique bond of humanity… It inspires us to recognise that we are all children of god and brothers and sisters of one another. We wish to assert very strongly that we are all united irrespective of the privilege of our birth, our religious affiliation, our social status, and our current position in society.” The conclave had representatives from different religions and community heads like Archbishop Thomas D’Souza, Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of Gurdwara Behala, Moulana Shafique Qasmi, the imam of Nakhoda Masjid, Arunjyoti Bhikku, the director of Tollygunge Sambodhi Buddhist Monastery, among others. “In a statement issued at the end, all the participants pledged their commitment to social justice and peace at all levels. They called on people of all faiths to actively promote peace by working for social justice, saying ‘No’ to violence, hatred and injustice and ‘Yes’ to truth, harmony and peace,” said archbishop Thomas D’Souza, who is also the president of United Interfaith Foundation – India. The interfaith conclave — Sarvadharm Shanti Nyay Sankalp — aimed to promote social justice and harmony, said Ahluwalia, the general secretary of the foundation and the convenor of the conclave. “This conclave was about recognising the need to promote interfaith dialogue, which would help us to stand by each other, and if we interfaith leaders stand by each other, we shall always stand for peace and harmony,” he said. “The declaration should be recognised as the collective voice of religious leaders and community heads,” Ahluwalia told Metro. A pledge has also been translated into Hindi and Bengali and will be distributed among people through the community leaders. “It is a reminder to the common people that peace is not just to be propagated by religious or community leaders but to be followed by each one of us in our every day life,” Ahluwalia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University bars entry of 5 former students for puja lapse||Calcutta University has disallowed the entry of five former students, all current or former members of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad, for two years because they had organised Saraswati Puja that was accompanied by “a loud and frivolous programme inside the campus”. An inquiry committee was constituted last week to probe who played the key role in organising the puja on the College Street campus at a time normal academic activities have not yet resumed because of the Covid pandemic. The committee’s report was placed before the CU syndicate on Monday, following which vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee announced the decision to bar the entry of the five former students into any of the campuses of the university. “On 16.2.21, certain persons had organised some performances (involving some music and dance etc, which appeared to the academic community to be of low and degrading taste, and violative of the rich heritage and cultural standards followed by the University) in the College Street campus of the university without any permission of the university authorities,” reads the resolution adopted at the syndicate meeting. “….the unauthorised arrangement of a loud and frivolous programme inside the campus in this manner had shocked the academic community at large.” The VC said the syndicate members unanimously decided to disallow the entry of the five into any of the campuses of the university for two years. The VC named the five - Manishankar Mandal, Raja Mehedi, Debarshi Ray, Tirthapratim Saha and Ronny Ghosh. Mandal, an assistant professor at the Sanskrit College and University, told Metro that “there was no question of seeking permission” because education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on February 3 that Saraswati Puja could be organised on campuses following safety protocols. “The current students must have organised the Saraswati Puja. CU is a state-aided university. I just went to see the puja like several others. If the university formally communicates to me about the decision, I will move court,” said Mandal, a former office-bearer of the CU students’ union. Asked about minister Chatterjee permitting the Puja, the VC declined comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court stay on teacher hire||The Bengal government's plan to appoint about 16,500 teachers for primary schools hit a roadblock on Monday with a Calcutta High Court judge ordering an interim stay on the recruitment process following complaints of discrepancies in the merit list. The recruitment had started last week. The interim order was issued by Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj following petitions filed by job aspirants whose names did not feature on the list issued by the West Bengal Board of Primary Education. The petitioners alleged many discrepancies in the list and said the court should scan the selection process before allowing the state to go ahead. Sources in the education department said the litigation was a tactic to slow down the recruitment process, already long delayed. The government tried to speed it up ahead of the Assembly elections. The judge will hear the case in detail after four weeks. The state has been restrained from appointing teachers till further orders. Lawyers familiar with the case said the state government was likely to challenge Justice Bhardwaj’s order before a division bench of the court within a couple of days. An official in the school education department said: “After the board issued the notice about the recruitment process, the candidates had to enter their roll numbers on a portal to know whether their names figured on the list. But the candidates said a merit list must contain names with details like how much they scored in each phase of the screening process.” In December, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that 16,500 teachers would be appointed at the primary level (Classes I to IV). The candidates who had cracked the teacher eligibility test (TET) in 2014 and undergone DLEd (diploma in elementary education) training were interviewed from a pool of aspirants in January. The primary education board, which usually takes several months after concluding the interviews to publish the merit list, did so within a month of the interviews on this occasion. The Bengal government had wanted the newly recruited teachers to report to their respective schools by the end of March. This is the second time in three months that the court has raised objections to the recruitment process at the primary level. On December 11, the court had quashed the process initiated by the school service commission to recruit around 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools (Classes V to VIII). Aspiring teachers are among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Narendra Modi virtually flags off Dakshineswar Metro||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the Dakshineswar-Noapara route of the north-south Metro corridor on Monday. A train decked out in flowers but without passengers left Dakshineswar station at 4.55pm, after Modi flagged off the journey from his dais in Dunlop. The Dakshineswar-Noapara stretch will be open to passengers from Tuesday. The first passenger train will leave Dakshineswar at 7am on Tuesday, the carrier said. A 31km journey from Dakshineswar in the north to Kavi Subhas (New Garia), the terminal station in the south, is expected to take 62 minutes, said an official. Metro now runs 240 trains from Monday to Friday. From Tuesday, the count will go up to 244, said a Metro official. But all trains will not run till Noapara. From Tuesday, 158 (79 pairs) of the 244 trains will run between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas stations. The first and last trains will leave Dakshineswar at 7am and 9.18pm, respectively. The last train to Dakshineswar will leave Kavi Subhas at 9.30pm, an official said. There will be 228 trains on Saturdays, 156 of which will run between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas. On Sundays, the carrier will run 102 trains, 100 of which will connect the two terminal stations. The new link is expected to benefit thousands of office-goers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Ariadaha and other areas on the northern fringes. Since the closure of the Tallah bridge in 2019, a large section of these commuters has been using Noapara Metro station, which is not easily accessible via road. Because of the diversion, the bus routes to Dum Dum from BT Road, already infamous for snarls, have become much more congested. The 4.1km Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch on elevated tracks goes via Baranagar station. From Tuesday, thousands of commuters are expected to take Metro from the two new stations — Dakshineswar and Baranagar. Residents of Hooghly and thousands of passengers of suburban trains in the Howrah-Burdwan and Howrah-Tarakeswar routes can also take Metro by crossing the Bally bridge to reach Dakshineswar. The maximum fare has remained unchanged at Rs 25, the carrier said. But tokens are now suspended in the wake of the pandemic and a smart card is a must for a Metro ride. The Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch, conceived as part of then railway minister Mamata Banerjee’s Metro extension plan, faced many roadblocks, the construction of a viaduct near the Dunlop bridge being among the most recent. On Monday, Modi also inaugurated a slew of other railway projects, aimed at improving passenger and freight train infrastructure in this region. Among them was a fourth line between Dankuni and Baruipara (Hooghly) in the Howrah-Burdwan section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
23-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid test for fliers at Calcutta airport||Passengers from the UK, Europe, South Africa, Brazil and the West Asian countries will have to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 after arriving at the Calcutta airport from Tuesday even if they carry a negative report of a test done before boarding the flight. The decision was taken after the ministry of health issued a guideline in the wake of reports that mutant variants of SARS-CoV2 that are more contagious than earlier strains are in circulation in many countries. According to airport officials, nearly 500 passengers who will arrive on four flights from west Asian countries on Tuesday will undergo the RT-PCR test. New counters for collecting swab samples of passengers were set up at the international arrival area on Monday. The ministry of health has issued a new advisory for international travellers, particularly those more at risk of contracting Covid-19. “There is increasing evidence that the mutant variant of SARS-CoV2 are in circulation in many countries and these mutant variants are driving the pandemic in their country of origin. So far the three SARS-CoV2 variants in circulation vis-a-vis UK variant, South Africa variant and Brazil variant have been detected in 88, 44 and 15 countries respectively,” the guideline issued by the health ministry stated. According to the guideline, all international travellers coming or transiting from flights that originate from the UK and other European countries and West Asia will have to undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test after arriving in Calcutta. Those arriving from South Africa and Brazil will also have to undergo the test. “They must have the RT-PCR negative report of the test done within 72 hours before boarding flights from those places. After arrival, their swab samples will be collected at the new counters and the passengers will be allowed to leave,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the director of the city airport. The health department will contact the passengers who will test positive. International passengers arriving in Calcutta from these places and then transiting to other Indian cities have to wait for six to eight hours at the airport after giving the swab samples for the test reports, the health ministry guideline has said. Airlines will have to inform the passengers about the wait. “If a passenger tests positive, his or her sample will be sent for further tests to find out whether the virus is a mutant variant of SARS-CoV2,” said an official of the health department. Earlier, passengers arriving from the UK without an RT-PCR test report were made to wait at the airport after collecting their swab samples. Officials, however, said it was not feasible to keep hundreds of passengers waiting at the airport for more than six hours. So, it has been decided that they would give the samples and go home. Six counters have been set up by Suraksha Diagnostics at the Calcutta airport to collect the swab samples. A passenger will have to pay Rs 950 for the test, said an airport official. “If any passenger refuses to pay, we’ll inform the state government authorities,” said the official. Metro had earlier reported how many international passengers had refused to pay for going to a quarantine centre after arriving at the airport. Of the four flights from the Gulf region that will land in Calcutta on Tuesday, one (Qatar Airways) is from Doha. The three others are from Dubai and they are operated by Emirates, IndiGo and SpiceJet. Calcutta does not have any direct flight to Europe. Passengers coming from the UK, Europe, South Africa or other countries either transit through West Asian countries or Delhi and Mumbai. “Now, we are having regular flights from Dubai, Doha, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan,” said an airport official. “Those passengers coming on flights from Doha and Dubai need to undergo the RT-PCR test. Others will have to self-monitor themselves for 24 days,” said the official. State health department officials said they were keeping a watch on the Covid situation and have set up a ward at the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata for those found to have been infected with a mutant strain of SARS-CoV2. The state is also not allowing flights from cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad to operate daily to Calcutta. Flights from these cities are coming three days a week. “There is again a surge in Covid cases in states like Maharashtra. So, as of now, there is no plan to increase the frequencies of these flights,” said a state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-134
