24-02-2021||Calcutta||Coal smuggling: CBI questions Abhishek Banerjee's wife||CBI officials questioned Rujira Banerjee, wife of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee, on Tuesday for less than an hour in connection with a probe into a coal smuggling case. The CBI team turned up at the south Calcutta home of Rujira around three minutes after chief minister Mamata Banerjee, aunt of Abhishek, had left the address on her way to Nabanna. Mamata lives in the same locality but sources close to her could not recall when she had last visited Abhishek’s home. “She is Abhishek’s aunt and can always visit his home.… She might have visited to stand by the family. Don’t try to read much into it,” said a source close to Mamata. Rujira’s questioning was shorter compared to the two-and-a-half-hour-long session that CBI officers had with Maneka Gambhir, her sister, on Tuesday. Rujira, a Thai national, was questioned as a “witness”. “For the time being, we will analyse what she said and then decide the next course of action,” a CBI source said. A nine-member CBI team, including two women officers, and lawyers from the agency’s legal advisory team reached Abhishek’s house, Shantiniketan, on Harish Mukherjee Road around 11.35am, a few minutes before Mamata was seen walking out of the address. Abhishek’s daughter saw off the chief minister. Police officers said it was an “unscheduled” visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Dakshineswar Metro makes commute a breeze for many||The north-south corridor of Calcutta Metro lived up to its name on Tuesday when a train left Dakshineswar station at 7am and reached New Garia (Kavi Subhash) a few minutes past 8am. The two terminal stations, on the northern and southern fringes of Calcutta, were connected as commercial services on the extended Noapara-Baranagar-Dakshineswar stretch started on Tuesday morning. The Metro passenger count on Tuesday was 2,60,014. Around 9,000 of the passengers were from the two new stations, said an official. Passengers from areas like Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Khardah and other areas on both sides of BT Road took Metro from Baranagar. Many people living across the river in Hooghly took the Metro from Dakshineswar. The Telegraph spoke to many passengers who boarded trains from Dakshineswar and Baranagar on Tuesday morning. Here’s how their daily commute has changed. Ayan Roy, 27 Lives at Hindmotor. Works at an architecture firm in Chandni Chowk, near Yogayog Bhavan. Usual route: Toto from home to Hindmotor station. A suburban train from Hindmotor to Howrah. Then a bus to central Calcutta. Time taken: Around 100 minutes Time taken on Tuesday: Around an hour — 20 minutes on a two-wheeler from his home to Dakshineswar Metro station and “a little less than 30 minutes” on Metro. Roy boarded a train from Dakshineswar at 10.05am. “Getting a toto took some time. The suburban train used to stop for long durations at the Liluah car shed regularly. Compared to the cramped ride on crowded suburban trains and buses, the air-conditioned Metro ride was like a breeze on the first day,” said Roy, an architect who graduated from IIEST, Shibpur. Karamjit Kaur, 29 Lives near Ashokgarh and works at the Deshapriya Park outlet of a parlour chain. Usual route: Her daily journey included two auto rides, from home to Dunlop and then from Dunlop to Noapara. From there to Kalighat on Metro and finally another auto to Deshapriya Park. Usual time taken: Around “90-100 minutes”. Time taken on Tuesday: She took one auto to Baranagar station. The total journey took her “55 minutes flat”. “On several days in the past, while returning from work, I had to walk from Noapara to Dunlop because there was no auto,” the beautician said. The road is riddled with potholes and the walk would take Kaur around 40 minutes. Autos and mini-vans are the only transport options between Dunlop and Nopara. The service becomes erratic as the evening progresses. Baranagar station, in comparison, is “around 10-15 minutes” from her home. “Having Metro at your doorstep makes a world of difference,” said Kaur. Anil Surana, 42 Lives at Rishra, works with a construction equipment supplier at Chandni Chowk Usual route: Walk from home to Rishra station and then a suburban train to Howrah. From Howrah, an air-conditioned bus to Dalhousie. Usual time taken: Ninety minutes. Time taken on Tuesday: Around one hour. Surana boarded a train from Rishra to Bally and then took an auto to cross the Bally bridge and reach Dakshineswar. The journey from Rishra to Dakshineswar took 30 minutes. From Dakshineswar, a Metro ride to Chandni Chowk took 30 minutes. Even if his work got over earlier, Surana used to wait till “8-8.30pm” at his office to avoid the evening rush on buses and trains. “From today, I can expect to leave office as soon as I finish work,” the 42-year-old said. Sarabjit Singh, 32 Lives near Vikram Market in Dunlop, works with a real estate developer’s office near Tollygunge Phari Usual route: Auto from Dunlop to Noapara and then Metro Usual time: 75-80 minutes Time taken on Tuesday: 50 minutes. His house is “walking distance” from Baranagar Metro station. The ride on Tuesday morning took him “around 40 minutes”. Singh took a 10.40am train from Baranagar. His destination was Rabindra Sarobar. The ride took him around 40 minutes. Getting an auto between Noapara and Dunlop is not easy, especially during the evening. During the monsoon, Singh has had to wade through the waterlogged road between Noapara and Dunlop many times because no vehicle was available at night. “By taking the Metro from Baranagar, I will not save more than 15-20 minutes. But the journey is much easier,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Doctor falls to death  in Kasba||A 50-year-old doctor died after falling from the terrace of a Kasba building around 11.15am on Tuesday, police said. A few residents of Hastings Tower saw Joyita Ghosh standing on the parapet of the 10th-floor terrace and alerted guards. Before the guards could reach the terrace, Ghosh had fallen. She used to live alone in an apartment on the fourth floor of the building, the police said. Ghosh was declared dead at the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. No suicide note was found till Tuesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Boat patrol to save lives from tigers in the Sunderbans||A patrol vessel equipped with searchlights was deployed by the forest department on Tuesday to prevent fishermen from entering and mooring their boats deep inside the Sunderbans. The vessel, with forest department personnel on board, will be on duty 24X7. MV Aronyo Prahari, deployed by the forest department in collaboration with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Discovery India, will maintain vigil in the mangroves to prevent human-animal conflicts and protect tigers from poachers. The patrol vessel has been deployed in the South 24-Parganas division of the Sunderbans. Many fishermen in the Sunderbans, who lived off the fish netted from rivers and creeks, lost their lives in tiger attacks. Metro had reported that two fishermen who had gone to catch crabs and fish deep inside the core areas of the mangroves died in tiger attacks earlier this month. One of the tiger attacks took place in the South 24-Parganas division. Milan Mondal, the divisional forest officer of the South 24-Parganas division, said fishermen from villages in these areas often ventured into creeks and moored their boats to lay crab traps. “Once on land, they are at the risk of being attacked by tigers. We are holding regular awareness camps in the villages,” said Mondal. According to official figures, nearly 20 fishermen died in tiger attacks last year. The actual figure may be much higher. A forest officer said the Sunderbans had fair weather only during four months in a year. “Maintaining constant vigil inside the mangroves is a challenge for the foresters because of a variety of reasons, including inclement weather,” he said. The vessel will bolster the patrolling capabilities of the forest department as well as help prevent human-animal conflict, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||BJP leader Rakesh Singh detained in drug case||BJP leader Rakesh Singh, whose name came up in connection with a cocaine seizure from a party leader’s car last week, was detained in Galsi in East Burdwan, around 125km from Calcutta, while he was allegedly trying to flee the city. The detention came after a day of drama during which Singh first wrote to police that he was going to Delhi for a party meeting and he would not be available for three days. Then, he went to Calcutta High Court to seek relief. His prayer was turned down. On Monday, he had promised to cooperate with the police in the investigation. Singh’s sons Shubham and Saheb — who had allegedly delayed the police’s entry into their Orphangunge home, in Watgunge, by almost four hours — were detained in the evening and taken to Lalbazar. Singh’s tower location was reportedly tracked by making his sons call him up on a phone he was carrying. Once the call was connected, his location was tracked down to Galsi. Singh was picked up from Galsi some time after the police had stepped out of his home after a three-hour search. The police did not announce the arrest till late on Tuesday. The police said they had found evidence suggesting Singh had planted the cocaine in the car of Pamela Goswami, a leader of the BJP Yuva Morcha, through an associate. The associate was allegedly in the car and got off minutes before a team of officers from New Alipore police station cordoned off the vehicle and seized the banned drug on Friday. The police have found that the associate has fled to Bihar, sources said. A team had left for Bihar looking for him but he was at large till Tuesday evening. Goswami has apparently told the police that this person had promised to take her to a BJP top leader who was in the city on Friday and they were waiting for another person to join them on NR Avenue in New Alipore before heading for Kasba. “According to her statement, this man (Singh’s associate) was on the front seat and had stepped out of the car to make calls when they were waiting for another man to join them. Then suddenly police came and this man fled amid the confusion, Pamela has claimed,” said an officer who had examined Goswami. Sources said investigators have found Singh’s purported text messages on Goswami’s phone threatening to kill a friend of hers. “Prima facie evidence suggests Singh had been threatening Goswami through text messages and voice notes over the past few months,” an officer said. Goswami is also said to have claimed before the police that Singh had been physically abusing her, for which she had earlier lodged a police complaint. Apparently, no action was taken. Goswami, who was arrested with her friend and guard for alleged possession of 90 gram of cocaine, had purportedly told the cops about Singh’s alleged involvement after her arrest. A section of the police brass feels there was a delay in summoning Singh, though his name had emerged four days ago. The ball started rolling only after the case was handed over to the detective department on Monday evening. The police said they had found a purported audio clip in her phone in which one of her friends was warning her to “remain alert” while moving through some parts of the city. Singh was unreachable over the phone throughout the day. The police team that reached Singh’s home around 1pm was made to wait outside by his family for four hours. “How can I allow so many officers to enter my house unless they tell me the purpose of the visit? If they wanted to serve a notice, we are ready to receive it here. They have come with such a large force. They are free to barge in forcefully. But I will not allow anyone inside without producing valid documents,” Singh’s younger son Saheb said when the cops surrounded their home. After 5pm, five officers were allowed to step in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Pokhriyal’s IoE claim draws protest from JU||Union education minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal said at the IIT Kharagpur convocation on Tuesday that Jadavpur University was among the institutes of eminence (IoE) in India. An official of JU, which is among the 10 institutes shortlisted for the tag, wondered what good such a label was if it did not fetch any money for the development of the institute. Pokhriyal, who attended the convocation virtually, referred to JU in his address while lauding institutions of higher learning in Bengal. In his speech, the minister named several institutes in Bengal, including IIT Kharagpur, NIT Durgapur and IIEST Shibpur, saying all these were doing significant work. “On the other hand, Jadavpur University has also got the status of IoE,” said Pokhriyal. JU was seventh on a shortlist of 10 “public institutions” drawn up by an empowered expert committee of the UGC in July 2018 for the tag of eminence. The tag would have resulted in a grant of Rs 1,000 crore over five years. JU had then missed out on the funds as the UGC had selected three institutes — IISc Bangalore, IIT Bombay and IIT Delhi — from the list. JU again missed out next year as IIT Madras, Banaras Hindu University, IIT Kharagpur, Delhi University and Hyderabad University were chosen for the tag. Bengal’s education minister Partha Chatterjee had objected to the sudden slapping of a condition that the state government would have to provide more than a matching grant to make JU eligible for the institute of eminence tag. “Nothing has happened since this stand-off has not been resolved. Had we been awarded the status, JU would have received the money? What good is the status if it does not fetch money,” said a JU official. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had said in September 2019 that the university was not aware of any such clause (about the state government having to provide a part of the funds). “We were enlisted among the institutes for the status. We have proved our academic worth. But it is a matter of deep regret that we did not receive the money despite repeated attempts and submission of revised budget. Therefore we are at a loss to understand what is exactly our status,” Das told Metro on Tuesday. A JU official wondered how could the Union education minister claim that the university had received the status when his ministry had in August 2019 come up with the condition that the state government would have to provide more than a matching grant to enable the state university to earn the honour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Inauguration of renamed IIT Kharagpur hospital ‘deferred’||IIT Kharagpur held its 66th convocation on Tuesday and there was no announcement of the inauguration of the Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. Instead, the director of the institute prefaced his speech with a tribute to Dr B.C. Roy, the revered medical doctor and Bengal’s first chief minister, after whom the institute of medical sciences was initially named. “We have entered into the 70th year of existence and are heading towards the 75th year. Here we must not forget the great visionary, our Dr B.C. Roy, who had thought of such an eminent institute, first time in the country 70 years back,” director V.K. Tewari said. On February 13, Tewari had made a Facebook post on the upcoming convocation: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur”. Asked why the hospital was not inaugurated, IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath told Metro: “The inauguration has been deferred following some technical reasons”. Asked whether the Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research would be inaugurated on a later date, he said: “At this moment we can only say that the inauguration has been deferred.” Nath had said last week the institute’s board of governors had approved the renaming. Repeated calls to the director went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. Sources on the campus said the inauguration plaque — on which “Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research” was written in Hindi, Bengali, Sanskrit and English — was wrapped in a white piece of cloth on Monday night. The super-speciality hospital has come up on an 18-acre plot at Balarampur, just outside the IIT campus. The IIT has set up the hospital as part of its plan to open a medical college. Teachers on the campus said they had got the impression the plan to inaugurate the hospital had been shelved for the time being after several alumni publicly questioned the decision to rename the hospital after someone who had nothing to do with the institute or the medical science. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister gave his convocation address that lasted for about 20 minutes, focusing on issues like “Make in India”. He exited the video screen immediately after his speech. According to the initial plan, Modi was to inaugurate the hospital after delivering the convocation address. The director and other officials were on the dais. This newspaper reported the renaming effort on February 15. The alumni, upset with the decision, expressed outrage by posting comments on the Facebook page of director Tewari. As many as 180 alumni in a letter to the Prime minister had said they were “dismayed to find that the name” of the Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research had been changed to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. One of the signatories of the letter, Ajay Kumar Roy, a former head of the school of medical science and research at IIT Kharagpur, said on Tuesday: “We are happy to know that the Prime Minister did not inaugurate the hospital. We hope that the super-specialty hospital will continue to be known as Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. It was named after B.C. Roy because of his contributions to the field of medical science.” B.C. Roy’s name had been proposed by Roy and former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam had laid the foundation stone for the facility in May 2007. On Tuesday, even as the convocation proceedings were being beamed on YouTube, someone who was watching the proceedings wrote in the comment section: “RP Hall hai kya? (Is the RP hall still in existence)?” Another person wrote: “Azad ka naam b na change kr de ye log. (These people can even change the name of Azad hall).” The RP Hall of Residence, one of the hostels on the campus, is named after first President Rajendra Prasad. The Azad Hall of Residence, another hostel, is named after India’s first education minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. As many as 2,815 students were awarded degrees on Tuesday. Of them, 75 students were invited to receive the gold and silver medals conferred by the IIT. In addition, several dignitaries were present to receive DSc (honoris causa), Life Fellow and Distinguished Alumnus Awards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
24-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid test for 500 from Doha, Dubai||Passengers arriving on flight from the Gulf countries had to undergo RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 at Calcutta airport from Tuesday. Airport officials said swab samples of nearly 500 passengers of four flights, one from Doha while others from Dubai,were collected at the six counters set up at the international arrival area. “Initially, there were a few passengers asking why they had to undergo a paid test. We explained to them about the new guideline from the Union health ministry,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. An official of a private airline operating a flight from Dubai said they were making in-flight announcements ab-out the tests at Calcutta airport. The health ministry has issued a new guideline stating that passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, Gulf countries, South Africa and Brazil have to get themselves tested again after arriving in India because mutant strains of SARS-Cov 2 virus that causes Covid-19, have been detected in many countries. Officials said many passengers were asking questions on what they needed to do after giving the sample and what would happen if they tested positive. Metro spoke to the state health department and airport officials to find answers to some of the questions. What do I need to do after arriving at Calcutta from the above mentioned places? Can I go home after swab collection? A passenger needs to stand in an additional queue for giving swab sample at six counters managed by Suraksha Diagnostics. After the swab collection, a passenger can go home and Suraksha would send them the reports by email and message, said an official of the diagnostic centre. However, those passengers on transit to other Indian cities, have to wait at the airport for six to eight hours and can board a flight only after the report is ready. What happens if the RT-PCR test result is positive? The passenger would be contacted by the state health department and taken to the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Beleghata where a separate 120-bed isolation ward has been created for anyone who tests positive for a mutant strain of SARS-Cov 2. “If someone wants to get admitted at a private hospital, he or she can do so provided that the healthcare unit has an isolation room at the Covid ward,” said the official. He said the sample would be sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani, for further testing. Till the report comes, which takes about 10 to 12 days, the person has to be at the hospital, said the official. What happens if mutant strain is detected? The state government would do contact tracing of the passenger. The passenger, who was admitted at the hospital, would be discharged after three days if there is no symptom. Then the person would have to stay in home isolation for seven days. What happens if the result is positive, but not mutant strain? The person gets discharged if there is no symptom for three consecutive days and stays in isolation for a week at home. What happens if the report is negative? The person needs to be home quarantined for seven days. What are the rules for those flying back from Calcutta to these destinations? In most cases, including Dubai and Bangladesh, passengers must be negative in an RT-PCR test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-133
