25-02-2021||Calcutta||Low-key Puja in schools||St Xavier’s Institution, Panihati St Xavier’s Institution, Panihati, celebrated Saraswati Puja with students giving pushpanjali virtually. The traditional rituals were performed with utmost sanctity. Unlike every year, the school premises was devoid of students and parents coming together to take part in the puja. “Although this year the pandemic obstructed the entry of over 11,000 students, guardians and other invitees to the school compound to witness the puja, we at least managed to offer pushpanjali on a virtual platform. Moreover, children have adapted to the new ways of learning very quickly and are making us proud,” said headmistress Anju Banerjee. Principal Lipika Ghosh said: “When I go to a marketplace, I see that people are out on the streets as if there is no fear of Covid-19. So, I wonder why they are so afraid to send their children to school. It seems as if the virus lives in schools and nowhere else. I hope the parents understand this and agree to send their kids to school. And it goes without saying that although we did celebrate Saraswati Puja, every festivity in school is incomplete without the presence of students.” Bidya Bharati Girls’ High School observed Saraswati Puja on a virtual platform because of the pandemic. The kids’ performances had been compiled into a video clip, and then was shared with all teachers and students. The primary theme was Devi Saraswati in the old, middle and modern eras. There were speeches, Saraswati Vandana and a chorus song, presented by the students of classes V, VI and X. The participants explained the vedic system of Saraswati Puja. The programme also showcased various paintings of the idol from the time of Mughal miniature art to Mysore paintings and so on. “Goddess Saraswati symbolises knowledge. She blesses her children with wisdom. Students must respect their teachers, who guide them to acquire knowledge,” said headmistress Sharmistha Banerjee. Abhinav Bharati High School celebrated Saraswati Puja with only a few students of classes X and XII because of the pandemic. Members of the school’s managing committee, faculty and staff members were there. The celebrations continued under safety standards. No cut fruits were distributed. “We just gave a few students, who did turn up, food packets post puja. The celebrations had to be low-key this time given the pandemic. The Class XII students were disappointed to miss out all the fun in their final year. But they did look resplendent and positive as they came decked up for the festivities,” said principal Sraboni Samanta. Present and former students and faculty members of Heritage Academy High School came together to celebrate Saraswati Puja, following the Covid-19 protocols. The students were allowed to enter the school between 9am and 1pm. “Every year our school organises Saraswati Puja, but this year, owing to the pandemic, the festivities were restricted. However, it was welcome that the puja could be organised in a wonderful way, following all the necessary protocols,” said Sourya Sadhan Bose, the administrator. Students and teachers of Fun-Learn Day Boarding School welcomed spring through Saraswati vandana on a digital platform. They invoked the goddess of learning, music and arts through renditions of soulful folk songs from different parts of the country. The children donned yellow costumes and ornaments of marigold flowers to set the mood and colour of spring. They sang folk songs in Bhojpuri, Gujarati, Bengali and Rajasthani mellifluously. “Children are influenced by songs from motion pictures. So, we made it a rule that they should only sing the original folk songs. This was an education for them as they were introduced to the wealth of our Indian folk culture,” said school founder Udita Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Eco Park honey hits stores ||Honey collected from flower plants and fruit-bearing trees at Eco Park have hit the shelves in New Town. The 480-acre Eco Park is dotted with flower and fruit-bearing trees. The West Bengal Housing and  Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), the custodian of the New Town park, has tied up with a women’s self-help group to collect and package the honey. More than 50 bee boxes — wooden hives that have a mesh in the middle where the bees deposit the honey — have been placed at various points across the park, particularly in places where there are flower plants and trees like mango, litchi, mustard and calendula. Members of the self-help group, comprising residents of villages across Rajarhat, have been trained to raise bees by apiculture experts. “Several workshops were held last year for the villagers,” a Hidco official said. “It is a dual advantage for us. Bees not only generate honey but are also excellent pollinators. They play a big role in maintaining the health of the trees at Eco Park,” said the official. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said the honey sourced from Eco Park was on sale at the Cafe Ekante restaurants and outlets. Each bottle is priced Rs 100. According to Sen, workshops are being planned across New Town where residents will be taught how to raise bees. “Anyone interested can take home bee boxes and place them on the window ledges,” said Sen. Hidco is also looking for other venues that have favourable conditions for apiculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Special kids excel in talent hunt||A young adult in Pittsburg played the piano and a nine-year-old girl in Asansol recited from Sukumar Ray’s Abol Tabol. Children and individuals with special needs and mental illnesses participated in an online talent hunt organised by a city NGO, which their parents said helped them to be meaningfully occupied. It made them feel accepted at a time when they have been confined to their homes, a situation that has dealt a major blow to their confidence, some parents said. Around 250 participants from India and some from outside the country took part in the two-day programme “Open the Door” — a talent hunt in singing, dancing, music, recitation and mono act — that was held online for the first time in eight years. “There are many children and individuals who feel restless with confinement and the inability to step out, something that the pandemic thrust upon them. Barely 10 per cent have accepted it while many others could not and some required constant counselling. This kind of a programme kept them occupied with rehearsals, they were excited and had something to look forward to,” said Ishita Sanyal, psychologist and founder-director of Turning Point, the NGO that organised the event. The programme helped them “connect” with the world outside their homes and believe in their “identity as individuals”, Sanyal said. The number of participants this year went up by over a 100, compared with previous years. Not just the students, but parents, too, were excited. One of them, Madhabi Chattaraj, called the organiser the day after the event to confirm if she had heard right that her daughter Priyanka had won a prize. “My daughter’s circle of friends is limited because she is not so physically agile to go out and play. Her world revolves around recitation and music. She recites even during her physiotherapy sessions and such a programme is important because it rebuilds her confidence,” her mother said. Priyanka recited from Abol Tabol. The participants included individuals like a 22-year-old student in Maryland who is majoring in music and 21-year-old Dimitri Seal, a student of hospitality management in Calcutta, who played the synthesizer. “Who does not need encouragement or acknowledgment? We all do. And as for my son, the acknowledgment helps him to push back the negative emotions that develop in him when he is unable to do something,” said Dimitri’s mother Tapasi. The performances, that were not judged through any special lens, left the judges feeling inspired because of their quality and the “self esteem” of the performers. “When we started years back, we thought that this opportunity would change their lives, but their potential and talent have changed our lives. It is so rewarding to watch all of them perform. Some of them are great performances... We find a lot of joy and excitement in discovering that some who don’t speak clearly have a beautiful sense of music and rhythm,” Sanyal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||AMRI asked to pay Rs 3 lakh compensation for keeping parents in the dark||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked AMRI Hospitals Mukundapur to pay Rs 3 lakh compensation to the parents of a seven-year-old boy, who had died at the hospital, after it found that the authorities did not communicate the boy’s condition to his parents properly. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said at a news conference on Wednesday that the parents were in the hospital when the condition of the boy, who suffered from Down Syndrome, turned critical. But the hospital apparently “did not counsel the parents and did not communicate the boy’s condition” to them, he said. “The family complained that the parents were in the hospital’s lounge when the child was admitted to the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), yet the hospital did not inform them when the child passed into a critical stage,” Banerjee said. “The hospital claimed that they had counselled the child’s parents, but we did not find any documentation of the claim,” he added. The commission also asked RSV Hospital in Tollygunge to pay Rs 1 lakh as compensation to the family of a 34-year-old man, who passed away at the hospital in October. The man left behind a note where he wrote that a housekeeping employee of the hospital did not change the bed one night despite it getting wet.  “As the patient tried to urinate on his own, the bed got wet. When he requested the housekeeping employee to change the wet bed, the man refused,” said Banerjee. During Wednesday’s hearing, the hospital claimed they had terminated the service of the employee but the commission felt that the hospital could not absolve itself of all responsibilities by firing the employee. On Wednesday, the commission also asked Dr Pal’s, a hair transplant and hair loss treatment clinic in Salt Lake, to return Rs 1.04 lakh to a person, who had paid the amount to the clinic. “The 41-year-old complainant told us that he had lost hair after undergoing treatment at the clinic, instead of growth of hair,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Livelihood crunch drives fishermen to jaws of tigers||The lure of crabs that fetch good prices is proving to be fatal for fishermen and inexperienced groups venturing deep inside the core areas of the Sunderbans to lay traps despite the risk of tiger attacks. Metro had reported how two back-to-back tiger attacks on February 17 had left two fishermen dead. With these two cases, at least 22 fishermen have reportedly been killed by tigers in the Sunderbans since January 2020, an official of the state forest department said. These, however, are official figures and actual figures may be higher. According to a forest department official, fishermen spend three to five days in the creeks to lay traps to catch crabs. “Once they return, they can sell their catch for Rs 30,000-40,000 in the wholesale market. The groups generally comprise five or six people. Sometimes three of them venture out on small rowboats to collect crabs,” said the official. The Covid pandemic has doubled the hardships and many people have become dependent on the forests for their livelihood. Many of them are venturing deep into the tiger territory, risking their lives, to catch fish and crabs every day. Licensed boats are allowed to fish in the rivers in the mangrove delta but venturing into the forests and shallow creeks is prohibited. The creeks draw fishermen because of crabs. But they are extremely dangerous because tigers often venture into these creeks. Soumen Roy, a resident of Kultali, was mauled by a tiger deep inside the Pirkhali forest and Atul Baidya was attacked by a tiger in the forests of Benefeli. Both had ventured deep into the core area of the mangroves where fishing is prohibited. A senior forest department official said directives were given to the fishermen on a regular basis. “We have time and again held awareness camps. We ask fishermen not to moor their boats in the creeks and get down to lay traps as that is when they are vulnerable to tiger attacks. However, the attraction of higher earnings leads them to venture deep inside the core areas,” said the official. Tempers, however, are frayed in the region because of the series of deaths. Forest department officials have been holding meetings with panchayat pradhans, members of the joint forest management committee and villagers from the Sunderbans asking them not to harm tigers if they spot one. According to Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, regular boat patrols are conducted in the core areas and fishing boats found moored along the creeks are asked to move away. “We actively discourage them but the lure of money is too high and they are fully aware of the risks involved,” said Das. Awareness campaigns in the villages will be held where fishermen will be asked not to go into core areas, he said. Migrant youths who had returned home during the lockdown opted for fishing and are desperate to earn a living, villagers said. It is a challenge for a boat with around five personnel to keep a tab when hundreds of fishermen venture out, an official said. “There is no denying that several boats manage to enter the creeks in the core areas.” “We have taken up awareness drives among fishermen, urging them not to risk their lives and to try alternative sources of income like apiculture (bee-keeping for honey), but it appears that the lure of the earnings that crabs fetch is stronger,” an official said. Metro had reported on Wednesday that a patrol vessel equipped with searchlights was deployed by the forest department on Tuesday to prevent fishermen from entering and mooring their boats deep inside the Sunderbans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Car ride to gauge women’s safety||A woman from Kerala is touring the country in a car to gauge how safe India is for women. Nidhi Sosa Kurian, 33, is stopping by farmlands, fishing villages, temples and markets — wherever she can interact with other women. Emerging out of the informal meetings are many stories of grit, determination and perseverance which Kurian hopes to retell the world in the future. Kurian left her hometown, Kochi, on February 7 in a Renault KWID. She has already covered close to 3,700km, driving across places like Puducherry, Chennai, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Puri and Bhubaneswar before entering Calcutta on February 20. She intends to complete her 25,000km journey in 100 days. Kurian starts driving early and tries to reach a destination before evening. She spends nights at youth hostels, sometimes at hotels booked via an online aggregator. In Calcutta, she is living with her relatives in Ekbalpore. Much of her journey centres around “exploring a place and its women”, ranging from a woman idol maker in Kumartuli to an artist in Odisha whose canvas is the coconut shell. “There are so many stories that are worth telling. I have met so many fascinating women,” said Kurian, the creative head of a movie production house. In Andhra Pradesh, she spent time with fisher-women who “toil hard from dawn to dusk”. “After collecting fish from a harbour, they bring the catch home to dry it under the sun. They are also the ones who sell it in the market,” said Kurian. Days before entering Calcutta, she encountered a group of women at a mustard field off a highway in Odisha. The women, who were carrying lunch for their men tilling the farmlands, had invited Kurian for lunch. “They even packed me some food; complete strangers but full of warmth and hospitality,” said Kurian. She had also stopped by a village of artists painting on coconut shells where “every house is like a mini handicraft gallery”. One of the artists was a woman, the only earning member of her family. An “aged woman” who runs a small sweet shop outside Puri’s Jagannath temple has also left a lasting impression on Kurian. “Her husband is dead. She lives alone and works hard for a living. But her appetite for life is amazing,” said Kurian. Kurian has a fairly lengthy stop in Calcutta, though this is her third visit to the city. She has already visited Kumartuli. On Wednesday, she drove to Santiniketan. Kurien carries basic kitchen equipment, including a 5kg cylinder, in the boot of her car. She usually cooks a Spartan meal of rice and dal or some curry. “I am not on a food trip but in Calcutta, I have made an exception. The street food here is the best and I will sample some,” said Kurien. She will leave Calcutta this weekend, heading to the Northeast. Himachal Pradesh, Kashmir, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan are the next few stops. Kanyakumari is going to be the last destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine trail leads to seat-for-cash claim||A senior police officer said the probe into the cocaine case has led them to evidence that suggests an associate of BJP leader Rakesh Singh had promised Pamela Goswami and a man tickets in the upcoming Assembly elections if they paid Rs 2 crore each. The officer of the city police said a purported meeting had been fixed between the two and a central minister who was in the city on Friday, the day Goswami, a leader of the BJP’s youth wing, was arrested for alleged possession of cocaine. The police have contacted the man and prima facie found that his version matched that of Goswami regarding the promised ticket, a police source said. The police on Wednesday submitted a prayer before court seeking permission to record the statement of the second “ticket aspirant” as one of the “prime witnesses” in this case, sources said. If the prayer is granted, the person will have to appear before a magistrate and get his statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC — which is considered as “primary evidence” in court of law. The police have submitted a similar prayer for recording the statement of another “witness”, whose identity has been kept under wraps for security reasons. The police have yet to ascertain whether there had been any financial transaction over the promised ticket or whether the Union minister was aware of such an offer. Asked about the alleged cash-for-seats offer, the Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “It is a deep-rooted conspiracy by the police to project the BJP in a bad light ahead of the polls. The allegations are absolutely baseless. One doesn’t get tickets like that in the BJP. Election tickets aren’t sold in our party. There is a proper process. Moreover, why would we give tickets to any Tom, Dick or Harry.” Along with Rakesh Singh, who has been booked for alleged direct complicity in the cocaine case, the police have arrested one of his suspected associates named Jitender Singh in connection with the case. Jitender is suspected to be one of the two linkmen who had allegedly lured Goswami into  believing that she was being taken to meet the minister. The other associate, who Goswami had purportedly said was inside the car but fled once the police arrived, was at large till late on Wednesday evening. Rakesh and Jitender both were produced in the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Court in Alipore on Wednesday and remanded in police custody till March 1. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. If convicted, they can be jailed for up to 20 years. Rakesh’s sons, Saheb and Subham, who were arrested for allegedly preventing public servants from performing their duty when the police had gone to search their Orphangunge house on Tuesday, were produced in another court in Alipore and granted bail against a personal bond of Rs 5,000 each. Goswami and two others, who were arrested last Friday and are in police custody, will be produced in court again on Thursday. Sources said the police would again seek her custody so that she and Rakesh could be questioned together. According to a statement by Goswami to the police, the man who was apparently taking her to meet the central minister had asked the driver to stop the vehicle on NR Avenue in New Alipore. The other person who was also allegedly promised a ticket was expected to join them there, the police said. “The man who was apparently taking her to the minister was on the front seat of the car. Her (Goswami) statement mentioned that the moment they parked the car, the man stepped out on the pretext of calling up the minister’s personal assistant. She said he was speaking in his mother tongue and so she was unable to follow the conversation. Minutes later, the police arrived and this man fled, she has claimed,” said an investigator. On analysing call details of the man (who is still at large), the police have found that he was speaking with Jitender Singh and not with anyone related to the minister. Jitender Singh was arrested with Rakesh Singh on Tuesday night while the BJP leader was allegedly trying to flee to Bihar. Rakesh Singh’s lawyers blamed the police in court for the “illegal act” of searching his home and arresting him when he was “ready to cooperate”. The prosecution said the fact that he was fleeing the city proved his complicity and involvement in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||New Market traders to distribute leaflets to shoppers||Traders in the New Market area will distribute leaflets containing their demands to shoppers and others on Thursday in an attempt to build opinion against encroachment of roads and footpaths by hawkers, the traders said on Wednesday. This is the first time traders in the central Calcutta shopping hub are taking their protests against encroachment to the general public. The leaflets say the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the police have to find out a solution to the problem. On Wednesday, about 500 traders joined a march that wound its way through Lindsay Street, Bertram Street, Humayun’s Place, Chowringhee Road and returned to Lindsay Street before going past the main gate of the CMC. “There was no slogan. We carried banners and posters that had our demands written on them. We will again organise a rally tomorrow and go to the CMC. We have written to the municipal commissioner saying we want to meet him on Thursday. We will go the CMC headquarters and try to meet him and convey our grievances to him,” said Rajeev Singh, the general secretary of the Joint Traders Federation, the umbrella body of traders at SS Hogg Market, Shreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall, Treasure Island and other markets and standalone shops in the area. The shopowners have also planned to meet the deputy commissioner of police (central) on Friday and narrate their difficulties to him. “We have also decided that we will distribute leaflets among the common people, shoppers and other pedestrians in the area. They must know why we are agitating and that our demands are not unjustified,” Singh said. The traders are demanding that the administration fix the size of the dala (the space occupied to display wares) of hawkers who are allowed to do business. The ones who are barred from doing business should not be allowed to occupy any part of a road or a pavement. They are also demanding that hawkers be barred from packing their wares in plastic and tying them to the walls of the markets at night. “If a fire breaks out at night, the plastic will fuel the flames and the markets will be destroyed,” a trader said. Another demand is that the roads be kept free of hawkers so that ambulances, fire brigade vehicles and customers’ cars can move unhindered. The state government had in 2018 framed hawker rules that barred hawkers from displaying their wares on a road. Violation of the rule is the norm in the New Market area. Hawkers freely display their goods by occupying parts of Bertram Street, Lindsay Street, Humayun’s Place and other roads. A leader of the hawkers said there had been a rise in the number of mobile hawkers, who do not sit at any place but hang their wares from their neck and shoulders. “Most of the youths lost their jobs during the lockdown. But there is no increase in the number of hawkers who hawk on footpaths,” he said. The traders, however, alleged that the numbers of hawkers on pavements and roads had increased so much that even the gates of markets and entry to standalone shops would get blocked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid report must for fliers from 4 states||The Bengal government has made it mandatory from February 27 for all passengers arriving on flights from Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana to have a negative report of the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 before boarding the aircraft. The test has to be performed within 72 hours before the departure of a flight. In a letter to the civil aviation ministry on Wednesday, the state government said the decision was taken because of the increasing number of Covid cases in these states. “In view of the increasing trend of Covid cases in the states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana, this is to inform you that the State Government has decided that from 12 noon of 27th February, 2021, all passengers coming to West Bengal from the aforesaid 4 states shall mandatorily carry a Covid negative RT-PCR report for such test conducted within 72 hours of flight departure,” read a letter from Bengal's home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kahrola. Calcutta now has three-days-a-week flights from Mumbai. From Kochi in Kerala and Bangalore in Karnataka, there are daily flights to the city. Officials at the Calcutta airport said 19 to 20 flights arrive from Bangalore daily on an average, while three come from Kochi. From Mumbai, flights arrive three days a week with 19 to 20 flights each day. Flights arrive three days a week from Pune, with four flights each day. “We have informed all airlines about the state government's decision,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. Flight operations to Calcutta from six cities that had a high Covid prevalence had remained suspended since July 6 following a request from the state government. From September 1, the state government allowed flights to arrive from these cities three days a week. Now, flights from these cities are arriving on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. “We don’t want to put a ban on flights at this stage. So, getting a Covid negative report is the best option given the fresh surge in cases in these states,” said a state government official. Since Monday, international passengers arriving from Gulf countries, the UK, Europe, South Africa and Brazil are being made to undergo the RT-PCR test for Covid after arriving at the airport even though they tested negative before boarding the flight. The decision was taken by the health ministry in the wake of mutant variants of SARS-CoV2 having been detected in several countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
25-02-2021||Calcutta||Kasba school shut after teacher tests positive for Covid||A school in Kasba has been closed indefinitely after a teacher tested positive for Covid. The teacher of Kasba Chittaranjan High School, who underwent the test at a private facility on Tuesday, had been visiting the campus since the resumption of in-person classes on February 12. As he informed headmaster Anindya Chattopadhyay about the test report, the school authorities in consultation with the education department decided to shut down the campus till the situation improved. Schools across Bengal, which had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid, reopened for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 following a nod from the state government. Students of Classes XI and XII of Chittaranjan High School have been asked to undergo tests for Covid as the humanities teacher who tested positive gave lectures to them. The teacher is under home isolation. An official of the education department said the school had been asked to take students of the two classes to a government hospital to undergo the tests. “We plan to take them to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital for the tests on Thursday. A guardian can take his ward to a private hospital,” headmaster Chattopadhyay said. Students of Classes IX and X could also be asked to get themselves tested. “But as those who are in Classes XI and XII came in immediate contact with the teacher, they have been asked to get tested at once,” he said. An official of the department said two more teachers had been running a temperature and not been going to the school since Tuesday. “The teachers, too, must undergo the test,” said the official. Asked about the two teachers, the headmaster said he did not have any such information. A team from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation went to the school to sanitise the campus. The closure at the school in Kasba has triggered uncertainty across institutions. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said the reopening of schools was a must for the Class XII students as they will write the higher secondary practical exams from March 10. Till in-person classes resumed, they did not have the bare minimum hands-on training for the tests. “Now, if guardians get scared and refuse to send their children to school, the Class XII students will suffer the most. How will they appear in the practicals? Some of the guardians have already got jittery,” he said. A teacher wondered whether it was prudent to resume in-person instructions for the students of Classes IX to XI. “We wanted the schools to be reopened only for the students of Class XII science stream,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-132
