26-02-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta train timings after cancellation, rescheduling ||Three express and several suburban trains from Howrah, Santragachhi and Shalimar have been cancelled, and some rescheduled, for Saturday because of an infrastructure upgrade. The 02073/02074 Howrah-Bhubaneswar-Howrah Special, 02227/02228 Howrah-Purulia-Howrah Special and the 02257 /02258 Howrah-Digha-Howrah Special have been cancelled. Over 60 EMU locals have also been cancelled. The Howrah-Yesvantpur Special will leave Howrah at 4.50pm instead of 10.50am on Saturday. The Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Special will leave Howrah at 5. 05am instead of 2pm. The Howrah-Ahmedabad Special will leave Howrah at 1am on Sunday instead of 11.45pm on Saturday. The Howrah-Ernakulam Special will leave Howrah at 5. 25pm instead of 2.55pm on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Rs 1 lakh compensation for shock during anaesthesia||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Thursday asked Royd Nursing Home to pay Rs 1 lakh as compensation to the family of a woman who went into shock during anaesthesia and later passed away in another hospital. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said the commission could not probe the cause of the woman’s death because the nursing home on Royd Street did not preserve the syringe or the vial containing the drug used for anaesthesia. “We ordered the Rs 1 lakh compensation against the hospital as they did not preserve the syringe or the drug,” said Banerjee. The 30-year-old woman was admitted to the nursing home in May 2019 to undergo a maxillofacial surgery. During anaesthesia, she went into shock and also had convulsion, said Banerjee. The woman was later shifted to Peerless Hospital, where she passed a few days later. During Thursday’s hearing, Royd Nursing Home told the commission that they did not preserve the syringe or the drug used for anaesthesia as no one had told them about it. The commission also asked Repose Nursing Home to pay a compensation of Rs 20,000 to the family of a 30-year-old man who was allegedly not given any treatment at the hospital for two hours. The nursing home was also asked to return Rs 10,000 that the family had paid them during admission. The family shifted the man to another hospital where he was treated. Banerjee said the man suffered injuries in a road accident. He was taken to the nursing home from SSKM Hospital as the state-run hospital did not have vacant beds. “The doctor who was supposed to treat him said over the phone that he could not come because he was at KPC Hospital. The doctor said that the patient had to be taken to KPC,” said Banerjee. “The patient lay without any treatment for two hours,” he added. Repose, however, did not return the family the initial amount of Rs 10,000. “We have asked the nursing home to return the Rs 10,000 they had paid. We have also asked the nursing home to pay the family Rs 20,000 as compensation,” Banerjee added. The commission also asked Horizon Lifeline Multispeciality Hospital on CIT Road to return Rs 97,000 and Rs 1,03,00 to two patients of the same family because the commission found the bill to be inflated. The two senior citizens were admitted in the hospital in July and August with Covid-19. “We found that the charges for personal protective equipment (PPE) were more than what has been stipulated,” said Banerjee. Charring Cross Nursing Home in Phoolbagan was asked to offer a Rs 13,000 discount to a Covid-19 patient. The bed charges were very high and the hospital also did not offer discounts on pharmacy products, said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||71 shops can sell ‘Banglar Rasogolla’||A little over three years after Bengal bagged the GI tag for Banglar Rasogolla, a clutch of sweet shops in the city and the districts have qualified to sell the GI-tagged pure white sweet spongy ball as “authorised user”. Out of more than a lakh sweetmeat sellers in Bengal, only 71 have cleared the tests carried out by a team of scientists from the patent cell of the West Bengal State Food Processing and Horticulture Development Corporation Limited. The Geographical Indication (GI) tag certification comes after an elaborate and time-consuming testing process because of the specifications that are laid down for the syrupy sweet to qualify as Banglar Rasogolla. What are some of these specifications? The dumpling needs to be made of pure chhana. No starch can be added. Careful kneading is required because the “mouth feel” of a Banglar Rasogolla depends on this. Each spherical dumpling should weigh around 10gm each. The syrup needs to be light — the stipulated sugar concentration is 30 to 40 per cent — and have a transparent appearance. Banglar Rasogolla should also conform to the metric of sponginess and have a smooth, soft texture with an average moisture content of around 50 per cent. “Each of these aspects were carefully tested through different processes and the results were matched with those that have been laid down as specifications for Banglar Rasogolla,” said Mohua Hom Choudhury, the lead scientist of the team under the state government’s department of science and technology. “We are trying to devise a technology that would help a customer scan a code and understand whether the rasogolla seller is authorised for Banglar Rasogolla.” Some of the sweet shops in Calcutta that bagged the certificate are KC Das Private Limited, Mouchak, Sen Mahasay, Mithai, Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick and Chittaranjan Mistanna Bhandar. The representatives were given the certificates at a programme in the city on Thursday, which was organised by Mishti Udyog, an umbrella organisation of sweetmeat sellers across Bengal. “This certificate makes us accountable for selling authentic GI-tagged Banglar Rasogolla. Only those certified as users can sell the real GI-tagged rasogolla from now on,” said Dhiman Das, director of KC Das Pvt Ltd and great grandson of Nabin Chandra Das, who is credited with creating the rasogolla in 1868.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Four workers die in sewer near Kudghat||Four construction workers died after being trapped inside an under-construction sewer under a manhole near Kudghat on Thursday, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said. The officials suspect the sewer line had become deoxygenated. Three colleagues of the victims were undergoing treatment at Baghajatin State General Hospital. All of them were engaged in the construction of the sewer. An official of the CMC said the civic body was building a sewer network along with a drainage pumping station in the area — Purba Putiary — to improve the drainage capacity. The sewer lines are being built as part of the Calcutta Environmental Improvement Investment Programme (CEIIP). Work was nearing completion and the manhole where the four workers were trapped is barely 25 feet from the drainage pumping station. “We have already built the sewer network in the area. The final connecting line between the sewer lines and the drainage pumping station is being built now,” said an official. “The manhole under which the men got trapped was the intersection point of all sewer lines. From here the sewage will go into the drainage pumping station through one sewer line, which is being built now.” The police identified the four deceased as Sabir Hossain, 19, Mohammad Alamgir, 35, Jahangir Alam, 22, and Liyakat Ali, 20. All four were from Malda’s Purba Talsai, under Harishchandrapur police station. Hossain and Alamgir were declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Alam and Ali were declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. “The sewer lines coming to the manhole had sewage inside. We had built walls on four sides under the manhole where the men were going down to construct the remaining sewer line that will take sewage to the drainage pumping station,” a CMC official said. “One of the workers was trying to find out whether the sewage was leaking through the walls or if the walls had developed any crack. He slipped and fell. The bottom of the under-construction sewer line is nearly 16ft deep there. When he cried for help, three other workers went down. All of them got trapped and could not come up. Fire brigade and disaster management personnel of the police came and brought them out,” the official said. The cause of the death of the four workers was still not clear. A police officer said the bodies had been sent for post-mortem. The police are questioning the contractor who had hired the four men for the work. A professor of engineering at Jadavpur University said that it seemed the workers died because of lack of oxygen. “If sewage had leaked through the walls and filled the area when the men got trapped, then there is a possibility of the men inhaling methane and hydrogen sulphide that are generated in sewage channels. It could also be that the place where they got trapped did not have adequate oxygen because of lack of air circulation,” said the professor. “Ideally, the presence of anaerobic gases should be measured before someone goes underground to work, especially in a sewage line. Also adequate air circulation must be ensured so that there is enough oxygen inside. There are available machines to take these protective measures.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mystery of the missing toucans at Alipore zoo||Three exotic birds known for their oversized and colourful bills and worth “at least a few lakhs of rupees” have allegedly been stolen from Alipore zoo, their home for the past few months since being rescued from smugglers near the Bangladesh border. The iron mesh of a bird enclosure at the northeastern corner of the zoo, near the 15ft-high boundary wall on Orphangunge Road, was cut open to steal three toucans, a zoo official said on Thursday. An “improvised net” and a makeshift ladder were found at the spot, police said. A case was lodged with Watgunge police station after the alleged theft was detected by keepers who visited the enclosure on Thursday morning. The “steal” comprised two toco toucans and one keel-billed toucans, said a zoo official. “While the bill of a toco toucan is orange, that of a keel-billed toucan is rainbow-coloured with a dominant hue of light green. Both have thick black plumage. They are popular and costly pets,” said birdwatcher and conservationist Sujan Chatterjee. “It is fairly certain that more than one person was involved. The theft seems to have taken place when one guard’s shift ended and another’s was about to begin. The thieves knew minute details and planned thoroughly,” said a zoo official. The zoo has some 90 CCTV cameras and around two dozen guards are deployed at night. But the cameras do not cover all enclosures properly, said sources in the zoo. In August 2009, eight marmosets were stolen from the zoo. Seven of them were rescued from Chhattisgarh three weeks later and a man was arrested. “The toucans, seized last year by BSF personnel, had been kept at an enclosure opposite the lion’s enclosure. The three allegedly stolen birds were kept in a room inside the enclosure. They were recovering from minor injuries sustained in infighting,” said Asis Samanta, the director of the zoo. In 2018, over 50 wild birds seized from smugglers died in quarantine at the zoo, prompting questions on how safe the zoo and its hospital were for an exotic menagerie. Asked about any lapse in security and the possibility of the involvement of insiders in the latest theft, Samanta said: “We are cooperating with the police. All sides are being probed.” Saurabh Chaudhuri, the member-secretary of the Bengal Zoo Authority, said: “I have asked for a complete security audit of the zoo.” Toucan is the common name given to several species of tropical American forest birds. Toucans are not included in the Indian wildlife protection act. “Trading in these birds is allowed if there are valid papers and taxes are cleared. But traders smuggle these birds to evade customs and other taxes,” said a wildlife official. At online trading websites, the price of toucans ranged from $1,900 (Rs 1,45,000) to $ 10,000 (Rs 7,40,000) on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine second dose footfall low||The mop-up drive of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the first dose receivers was completed on Monday at the Duttabad primary healthcare centre. The second round of vaccination too has started here and according to an official, most of the people on the list have yet to turn up for the second round of shots. “Around 90 persons took the shot during the mop-up of the first round and we are expecting the second round numbers to swell during the mop-up drive as well,” said an official. However, the percentage of vaccine receivers in the first round remained low with around 35 per cent people who featured on the list finally turning up to receive the shot, according to sources at the vaccine centre. A Swasthya Bhavan official said vaccines were now being administered to civic body workers and Bidhannagar Commissionerate personnel apart from healthcare workers at the centre. “The drive for civic workers is on. However many are not turning up. In places where Bidhannagar Commissionerate personnel are being vaccinated the turnout is encouraging,” he said. According to an official at the centre, now even the CoWin app was performing moderately well and sending out text messages to the recipients regularly. “The app, although initially glitchy, is performing moderately well and the recipients are getting SMS updates in the run-up to the date of vaccination regularly,” said the official. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said that they were receiving various reasons from civic workers for not taking the vaccine. “While many are still scared of the vaccine itself many are perturbed that they might have to make lifestyle changes if they take the vaccine,” said the official. According to the official, they were planning to hold awareness camps at Poura Bhavan as well as in different borough offices of the civic body to encourage more civic workers to take the shots. On Wednesday, emphasising it is important to roll out rapid vaccination programme for people of the state before elections, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, stating that the government of West Bengal had decided to procure adequate quantity  of vaccines for members of the public at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Civic boss damper for New Market traders||Traders in the New Market area who have been agitating since Wednesday against encroachment of roads and footpaths by hawkers alleged that they were denied a meeting with the municipal commissioner on Thursday. The traders said the police personnel on duty at the gate of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s headquarters told them that the “commissioner would neither meet them nor receive their letter”. The traders said they had hoped to explain to the commissioner why they were protesting and how encroachment of roads and footpaths was affecting their business. When Metro contacted municipal commissioner Binod Kumar on Thursday evening, he said: “Please check with my office on what happened.” An official in the municipal commissioner’s office said: “Anyone can submit a letter to the commissioner and we will accept it…. As far as we know the traders had come in a group and wanted to submit a memorandum.The CMC rules say a memorandum can only be submitted to the mayoral council member (currently member of the board of administrators) concerned,” said the official. The traders were unhappy at being denied a meeting with the commissioner. “We had submitted a letter outside the municipal commissioner’s chamber earlier intimating him that we would like to meet him on February 25,” said Rajeev Singh, the general secretary of the Joint Traders Federation, an umbrella body of traders in SS Hogg Market, Treasure Island, Shreeram Arcade, Simpark Mall and other markets as well as standalone shops in the area. “We wanted to explain to him our problems. Everything cannot be explained in a letter,” said Singh. “We want a permanent solution to the problems we have been facing for years. Every time we raise some noise, the police come and things are in order for a few hours. As soon as the police leave, the same old chaos resumes,” said a trader. The traders have been demanding that the size of the dala (the space where wares are displayed by hawkers) be fixed.Their other demands include that the hawkers be barred from wrapping their wares in plastic and hanging them from the walls of SS Hogg Market at night. They fear that if a fire breaks out at night, the plastic will fuel the flames and the market will be gutted. The traders distributed leaflets, containing their problems and demands, to shoppers and pedestrians in the area on Thursday. They also organised a rally. The traders have planned to meet the deputy commissioner of police (central) on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Art street in Eco Park||A stretch along the Eco Park boundary wall, parallel to the Major Arterial Road, is coming alive with artistic activity every afternoon. A streetside art gallery has started operating outside gate 1 ticket counter from 4pm to 7.30pm. “We want to create an atmosphere like on the Seine river bank in Paris where artistes paint and sell their work. That way affordable art can be promoted and we hope common people will get interested,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Hidco, who inaugurated Art Street on February 16, which happened to be Saraswati puja. Hidco has entered into a one-year contract with On Canvaz, a platform for art and artistes which is run by a Sector V-based creative agency. “So many artistes pass out of art college every year but fade away for lack of opportunities. We want to create a studio with a bunch of artistes on our payroll,” said Ashis Pal, an artist cum entrepreneur. There are about 300 paintings on display on Art Street, which are taken off the wall every evening when Eco Park closes. There will be live art too with artistes painting on the spot. Passersby can stop to get their portraits created as well. The 30m stretch is designated as “art street” in the masterplan of Eco Park. The park authorities had held a day-long art display and workshop in 2014 but the momentum could not be sustained. Pal is confident of building up visitor interest. “We will get artistes to hold free workshops for children now and then.” He has built up a stock of over 3,000 paintings which he will put on display rotationally. “People may get bored with the same painting hanging in their drawing room year after year. We are ready to rent paintings which we will change every month or so,” he offers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mamata complains to PM on webinar curbs||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to the Prime Minister on Thursday complaining that the Union education ministry “has put several restrictions in respect of holding online/virtual international conferences/ training even for state aided universities, without consulting the state governments”. As education is on the concurrent list of the Constitution,  Mamata wrote to Narendra Modi, “any non consultation by the Government of India, before issuing any such instructions to the state governments, will be against the spirit of federal structure enshrined in the Indian Constitution”. The education ministry’s revised guidelines of January 15 on “online/ virtual conferences/ seminars/ training, etc”, have sparked concerns across academia. The guidelines say: “Ministry or Department, PSUs, Central Educational Institutions, Public Funded Universities or an organisation owned and controlled by the Government of India or State Government or Union Territory should take approval of its Administrative Secretary for the (virtual) event as well as for the list of participants.” Mamata wrote: “The Union ministry of education office memorandum has put several restrictions... without consulting the state governments.” The chief minister sent the letter on a day The Telegraph reported that IIT Guwahati had made permission mandatory for faculty members to participate in all types of webinars, going a step further from the Centre’s order that had covered only international online seminars. Mamata wrote: “Our universities must enjoy the highest possible degree of self-governance and freedom to conduct their educational activities in regular interaction with their counterparts abroad. Knowledge is neither created by nor belongs to any single country or community.” She mentioned in the letter that “reasonable restrictions and regulations” are understandable. “However restrictions imposed… further highlights the intention of (the) Government of India towards centralization of (the) Higher Education System in our Country,” she wrote. The central guidelines say that while giving approval for online/ virtual conferences/ seminars/ training, the ministry should ensure that the subject matter for online events is not related to the security of the state, border, states in the Northeast, the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, or any other states which are clearly related to India’s internal matters. The guidelines say “appropriate level of scrutiny to be exercised to identify the nature and sensitivity of data or content of the presentations or the information to be shared by an Indian delegation”. Mamata wrote: “In other words, is it not an attempt of the central government to introduce thought policing in educational institutions by trying to impose ‘ONE NATION, ONE THOUGHT’? Such communication will only be seen as an example of contempt for constitutional powers of the states…. “It may be pertinent to mention here that the State Governments are duly empowered under law to deal with any act committed by any educational institution which violates any law or contrary to the interest of National Security.” According to her, digital platforms have become a boon for teachers and students in remote areas, small towns and also in cities to get the benefit of interactions with scholars around the world. The letter ends with an appeal to the Prime Minister that he issues a directive to the education ministry and advises the ministry to hold discussions with the state governments “before issuing any such directions/ orders, in future”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mask-up call in village trip||Wearing masks is as important today as it was in March 2020. Some time back we, from St. Xavier’s University, had organised a programme in which we distributed masks to people who were not wearing one. Twenty of us, who volunteered for the event, were divided into three groups. The first went to Kathalberia village, which has been adopted by our university, the second went near Rosedale Plaza and the third to Biswa Bangla Gate. Our team reached the Kathalberia village panchayat office and spoke to the head about our plans. Then we started off, with two professors guiding us. At our chosen site, we found no one was wearing a mask. We were also nervous about coming in close contact with them as they could be carriers of coronavirus and infect us while we were handing them a mask. We also stopped vehicles to reason with maskless passengers who tried to pass the buck. Our teachers helped us by initiating the process and eventually we got the hang of it. Some passersby took our masks, wore it to take pictures in and took them off right after the photo session was over. They refused to wear them despite repeated requests and rode off without paying any heed to us. Some people put on the masks and also asked for some more so that they could give them to their family members, which made us feel happy and useful. It was a day well spent and we hope that people wear masks and take every precaution prescribed by the World Health Organisation to curb the spread of the virus. The authors are students of the department of Bachelor of Management Studies, St Xavier’s University, New Town||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine case: Suspect’s call went to Rakesh, says sleuth||The man who had allegedly told BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami that he was taking her to meet a central minister and was calling the minister’s personal assistant when their car was parked on NR Avenue in New Alipore last Friday had called Rakesh Singh instead, an investigator involved in the cocaine probe said. Minutes after the phone call, a team of officers from New Alipore police station surrounded Goswami’s car and seized 90gram cocaine from inside. The man who made the call apparently fled the spot and could not be apprehended till late on Thursday. Based on Goswami’s statement, the police had analysed the call details of the man who had arranged a purported meeting between her and a central minister and also allegedly promised her a ticket in the upcoming Assembly elections, officers said. The police apparently found that the call he had made from the spot had terminated to a SIM card issued in the name of Jitender Singh, who is known for his proximity to Rakesh Singh. After interrogating Jitender Singh, it emerged that Rakesh Singh had recently purchased a SIM card and a phone using Jitender’s identity documents, the police said. “Jitender Singh claimed that although the SIM card and the phone were in his name, they were being used by Rakesh Singh. The same SIM card and phone were recovered from Rakesh Singh’s possession after his arrest in Galsi (in East Burdwan) on Tuesday night,” said an investigator. Officers at Lalbazar have also stumbled upon information related to another associate of Rakesh Singh, who is believed to have tipped off New Alipore police about the purported cocaine in Pamela’s car, a source said. “Interestingly the same person, who has multiple cheating cases pending against him in Calcutta, had alerted Pamela Goswami to remain cautious and avoid travelling through the jurisdiction of four police station areas, including New Alipore. It is clear now he was playing both sides,” an officer said. Goswami was arrested along with her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and security guard Somnath Chatterjee. Dey and Chatterjee both were allegedly in the same car as Goswami. They had been in police custody since Friday. On Thursday, their police remand was extended till March 4. The police sought her remand during the day to interrogate her in the presence of party colleague Rakesh Singh, a co-accused in the cocaine case. On her way to the court on Thursday, Goswami alleged that one of Rakesh Singh’s associates had trapped her by promising a ticket for her friend Dey and another man named Rajesh Kumar Prasad for the upcoming Assembly elections and that they were supposed to meet a central minister on the same day she was arrested. She also identified the minister. “Rakesh Singh had interest in me. He used to assault me physically. My primary allegations are against him. I was trapped by his man Amrit Singh. He planted the cocaine. That day he was taking us to **** (the central minister). Amrit Singh had promised tickets to Prabir (Dey) and another CA named Rajesh Prasad. My allegations are against Rakesh Singh and OC, New Alipore,” Goswami shouted on her way to the court. The officer in charge of New Alipore police station could not be reached for comment. He did not respond to a text message seeking his reaction. The court on Thursday approved the prayer for recording the magisterial statement of Prasad, a chartered accountant, and ano-ther person named Sandip Agarwal as “witnesses” in the case under Section 164 of the CrPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Students rock mock parliament||The chairs were set. The chief minister, along with the rural development minister, the finance minister, the health minister and the education minister took their seats in presence of the Speaker and three Opposition members to discuss the current condition and new policies of the state. A mock assembly session was taking place at Labanhrad Vidyapith, organised by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) in collaboration with the Rotary Club of Calcutta Labanhrad and Prantakatha, an NGO. “It is very important for children to know about their rights and have political awareness while they are growing up. Soon they all will be 18 and will have the right to vote, then we cannot expect them to suddenly be aware of the current scenario. So this is an attempt to make them more aware. It is also important to know what these kids are thinking as it helps us work better,” said Ananya Chakraborti Chatterjee, chairperson of WBCPCR. “Last year was very difficult for children, especially with schools closed. The online way of learning is a very creative approach and now they are again going back to their classrooms. Everyone is still scared to go out but we need to believe that we can overcome this,” said Sudeshna Roy, special consultant of the commission. The session began after the Speaker asked everyone to maintain a minute of silence for those who lost their lives to the pandemic. The chief minister, after introducing herself, talked about the importance of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and how it protects a child from sexual harassment and violence while safeguarding their interests. She also talked about different schemes through which free cycles are given to students, medicines are distributed free as are sanitisers and personal protection equipment for doctors. The education minister talked about building more schools in remote areas and hostels for those who cannot travel everyday to school. The health minister informed the house that they had built more than 400 hospitals, repaired intensive care units and built quarantine centres. But soon the atmosphere of the Assembly changed when the Opposition leaders started raising questions about government schemes and picked faults in them. If the government had indeed built so many hospitals then why were people still dying in hospital corridors and on the road without treatment due to lack of beds, they demanded. They also blamed the government for its failure to keep people at home to stop the spread of the virus. “I have never seen a real Assembly in session but we keep visiting different political gatherings and I know about Pocso. This was my first attempt at a mock parliament and I am happy we did well,” said 17-year-old Shaista Shirawat from Rajabazar, who played the part of the chief minister. “With schools about to reopen, we are repainting and sanitising the premises. This event is like a prelude before we let the students in,” said Sajal Kanti Mondol, headmaster, Labanhrad Vidyapith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Glimpses of Saraswati Puja across the twin townships||The Saraswati puja at IC Block drew more crowds than last year. “Devotees came from IB Block, Mahabir Vikas and other blocks too. Halfway through, we realised we would fall short of prasad and had to send volunteers to buy fruits afresh,” said Bikash Kumar Singh, one youths organising the puja. The pandal resembled a mountain — brown and lifeless but with faint greenery visible at the edges. “It symbolises the way life is gradually returning to normal after a dry spell under Covid-19,” said Singh. While the pandal clearly mentioned that those without masks would not be allowed in, many walked in unshielded anyway. “They reasoned that lakhs of people were attending political rallies without masks and so it wasn’t a worry anymore.” So the organisers started distributing free masks and sanitiser pouches at the sit-and-draw contest held for children. “We also denied entry to participants at the phuchka-eating contest without masks and that rule worked rather well,” he said. Much of the cultural programmes were called off so the sound would not distract students studying for examinations. Anjali was held but participants were asked to get their own flowers. Jal Vayu Vihar in Salt Lake’s Sector III held a Saraswati puja at their community hall. “To avoid crowding, we allowed only 12 people per batch during the anjali and sent packed bhog to all homes in our complex,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice president of the board of the co-operative housing society. Students of Bidhannagar Government High School in BD Block pleaded with the authorities to let them hold Saraswati puja and the latter relented. “But to keep crowds at bay we cancelled anjali,” said Chaiti Banerjee, life science teacher who was one of five people at the venue at 11.30am. “The puja will be conducted as per norms, by an ex-student in fact.” Two former students had come for anjali but left disappointed. “We are first year college students and since we’ve not had face-to-face classes yet, we are more attached to our school. We were hoping to meet friends and teachers today but there is hardly anyone here,” said Sagnik Ash, a resident of Shymali Abasan. The Saraswati idol at the Salt Lake BE Block Nagarik Sangha puja had the 108 names of the goddess printed on  a backdrop. The names were given in Bengali and English along with the meanings of the names. “The intention was to educate the next generation,” said Narottam Dutta, secretary. So Mahabhadra is explained as the goddess who is supremely auspicious and Pustakadhruta as the goddess who is holding a book. Held in the community hall, the budget of the puja in its 17th year was less than that in previous years but they still went ahead with free community lunch, where about 160 people joined in for khichudi, labra, beguni, kuler chutney, papad and payesh. Another Saraswati puja was also held in the block this year, organised by a BE (East) committee. The members of Swapnobhor and Snehodiya organised puja at the senior citizens’ club. The priest came all the from Midnapore. Unlike Durga puja, when only fruits were offered, bhog was cooked with members preparing a dish each at home. A cultural show was held in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Mall shift hope for Baisakhi stalls||Vendors of the temporary market at Baisakhi have been asked to submit relevant papers to initiate the process of them moving into the basement of AMP Vaisaakkhi mall but the vendors aren’t counting their chickens yet. They suspect this could be yet another eyewash to keep the voters in them happy before the assembly elections. “We were called for the same verification back in 2014 but it amounted to naught,” said secretary of Baisakhi Bajar Byabsayee Samity Somnath Dey. “After verification we went to meet the then mayor Sabyasachi Dutta and he told us on our faces that as long as he was mayor he wouldn’t let us move into the mall. We never went back to him. MLA Sujit Bose has been trying to help us but it’s taking too long.” Some of these vendors have been selling around Baisakhi since the 1970s till the CPM-led civic body asked them to move into a field so the mall could be built and they be accommodated inside it. That was in 2008. The vendors paid the municipality between Rs 10,000 and 20,000 for mall space but despite the mall opening in 2014, have not received possession certificates from the civic body to move in. This time many of the 200-odd shopkeepers had initially refused to submit their papers a second time. “Before every election, these politicians promise to let us move into the mall and then forget about us after winning,” said vegetable-seller Basanti Rajbanshi. Fishmonger Alauddin Molla talks of the inhumane working conditions in their makeshift market. “We do not have electricity so I cannot sell after dark. Our tinned roof flies or falls off every time there is a storm; we are asked to share with slum-dwellers a toilet that is so dirty that we have stopped using it,” he says. Another fishmonger Basu Das says business is down ever since new hawkers have set up shop outside the temporary market. “If we sit in a clean, hygienic mall I’m hoping customers will prefer us. But I have no faith in politicians any more. We have been shoved around for way too long,” says the vendor who is in the business since 1981. “I won’t believe their promises till I move into the mall and start selling from there.” A civic official looking into the matter said the process had been restarted. “The previous verification had been done by the municipality. Since the system is now under the corporation we had to repeat the process to update it. But no comments can be made on the next step,” he said. Dey, the secretary of the market, said they are on the verge of moving court. “We have suffered enough and are holding back only because of Sujitda’s assurances. Held-up work across the state is getting cleared now because of the impending elections and if we are ignored we shall take the legal course.” Shoppers too are fed up of visiting the dilapidated market. “Most shops shut down after 8pm as the generators stop working. And fish and meat shops don’t even try to stay open after noon as they never receive enough light to cut and chop safely,” said a resident of Baisakhi Abasan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||App bikes stolen, thief tracked||Two app bikes got stolen from New Town recently but thanks to technology, the thief has been arrested and the vehicles recovered. Chartered Bike runs the grey and green cycles visible across New Town. Users can pick them up from designated cycle stands, drive them around and drop them off at any of the other designated stands. The fare is charged through a mobile app. “On February 11, a customer had hired a cycle from the Axis Mall stand and kept it for over 24 hours,” said city manager of Chartered Bike, Pronab Kumar Halder. “We got suspicious and tracked it down.” The bikes have in-built GPS systems which will pinpoint their location at any given time. “However the GPS is in the lock and the customer had broken the lock and fled with the bike. We found the lock lying in a field behind St Xavier’s University.” The officers then scrutinised the account created by the thief on the app. “He had submitted a fake name on the account but the payment had to be made through an authentic mobile wallet. His email account also had to be authentic. We then went to the police armed with all this information,” said Halder. The police arrested and retrieved on February 22. “It wasn’t easy to track the thief but we traced him through the mobile wallet he used for the payment. The thief is a resident the KLC (Kolkata Leather Complex) area and had sold off one bike and retained the other,” said an officer of New Town police station. “We have arrested the thief and the person who bought the stolen bike.” The bikes in question cost Rs 64,000 each. “Chartered Bike does business in several cities of India but this was the first time anyone tried to steal a bike. These bikes are part of public transportation and the thief had tried to steal public property. We hope this sends a message to the masses and we never have to go through such an ordeal again,” said Halder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Tribal museum at Eco Urban Village||A museum showcasing tribal culture will come up in Eco Urban Village. The two-storeyed structure will be inspired by Black House in Kala Bhavana, Santiniketan. “The place is popular for picnic in winter but draws scanty footfall the rest of the year. The main reason seems to be the lack of a central attraction. It will be modelled on the tribal houses of Birbhum and on Kalo Bari of Santiniketan,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Hidco. A circular structure with a thatched roof open on all sides, called Akhra, is being dismantled to make space for the museum. “The hay is rotting and the wooden superstructure damaged for quite a few years now. We were thinking of what to build in its place,” Sen said. The proposal for the tribal museum came from Rupchand Kundu, an artiste who had built the akhra as also designed the two visitors’ galleries at the Village. “The galleries are modelled on Kalobari, painted black and with walls having a clayey texture. But they are made of cement as we had later realised that structures made of natural material were tough to maintain,” Sen added. Kundu, a resident of Anahita Housing Complex in Action Area II, plans to do up the museum with ornaments, musical instruments and artefacts used by tribals. “The walls will have relief work on tribal motifs like they have at Black House,” he said. Built by Nandalal Bose and Ramkinkar Baij in 1934, the Black House is a clay structure coated in coal tar. It has beautiful murals on its walls. An iron superstructure will be built over which the two-storeyed hutment-like structure will come up. To be built over 1,500sq ft space, it will house some sculptures too. The cottages that visitors rent for the day at the Village will be reinforced with brick and mortar as leaky roofs are proving to be a hazard in the sliced bamboo structures. “But we will retain their natural look,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 1932: Shankha Ghosh is born in Chandpur in Comilla on February 5. He grows up to become a renowned poet under the pen name Kuntak. He also becomes a critic and academician and wins the Jnanpith Award in 2016. Ghosh goes on to settle at Iswar Chandra Nivas in Ultadanga in the early 80s. National 1882: Nain Singh Rawat, one of the first Indian explorers employed by the British to survey the Himalayas and Central Asia, dies on February 1. Since the borders to Tibet were closed, Rawat’s work was almost that of a spy-explorer, hiding his techniques of surveying. He hid notes inside prayer wheels; a string of prayer beads, which usually had 108 beads, was modified to have only 100 beads and Rawat was trained to move one bead every hundred paces to count his steps and he was trained to have an exact stride length of 33 inches across varying terrain. 1946: Sailors at Bombay harbour go on strike on February 18, demanding better working conditions. The Royal Indian Navy mutiny spreads across British India, to ships at other locations, the air force, army, police and even the general masses who hold widespread riots from Karachi to Calcutta. Historians later study the episode as a struggle for freedom. 1953: The National Library of India is opened to the public on February 1 by minister of education Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. It is formed by merging several libraries and becomes India’s largest library designated to collect, disseminate and preserve printed material produced in the country. It is founded in Alipore, in what used to be the residence of the Governor-General of India. Global 1840: Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom marries Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha on February 10 but instead of opting for a colourful gown as brides of the day wear, goes for a white silk satin gown with lace work instead. She thereby starts the tradition of Christian brides wearing white. 1918: A deadly virus starts spreading in February and lasts till April 1920, infecting about a third of the world’s population — 500 million people — and kills between 20 and 50 million, making it one of the deadliest pandemics in history. Cases are reported in the US as well as Europe but its news is played down, to prevent panic. The Spanish media gives it extensive coverage, leading to the false impression that Spain is hit very hard. This leads to the name Spanish flu. 1971: The Ramsar Convention is signed on February 2 at Ramsar, a city in Iran. The convention is an agreement among different countries about the protection of wetlands. Every three years representatives of these countries meet to update policies. East Calcutta Wetlands, behind Sector V, is a Ramsar site. Sports & entertainment 1904: Binod Behari Mukherjee is born in Behala on February 7, myopic in one eye and blind in the other. Still, he goes on to become a pioneer of modern art, particularly in Contextual Modernism. One of the first modern Indian artists to popularise murals, he continues painting and creating murals even after going completely blind. He becomes principal of Kala Bhavana and wins the Padma Vibhushan too. 1940: The first of a series of short animated cartoon films releases on February 10. Created by William Hanna and Joseph Barbera, the show is about the friendly rivalry between a Tom, a cat, and Jerry, a mouse. Tom and Jerry becomes immensely popular for generations to come, winning multiple Academy Awards and become the highest-grossing film series of its kind at that time. 1980: Yelena Produnova is born in Russia on February 15 and grows up to become one of the greatest gymnasts of her time. She wins multiple Olympic medals and gets one of the most difficult vaults in women’s gymnastics named after her. Years later Indian gymnast Dipa Karmakar wins hearts by performing the Produnova at the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
26-02-2021||Calcutta||Fresh guard, new beginnings||Look around and you’ll see a new shop, restaurant, laundry or grocery store around every corner. The pandemic has led to many businesses shutting down but the silver lining is that several entrepreneurs are recovering. They are rebuilding their lives, giving employment to those who have lost jobs and providing fresh options to customers. “I had invested heavily in a cloud kitchen that I opened in September 2019 and just when things were about to look up the lockdown happened. All my staff left and I had to shut down,” says Gaurav Agarwal, who had started the kitchen from his CJ Block home. Not to be deterred, Gaurav has turned the space into a departmental store now — Krishnam. “While the future of the restaurant food was hazy I realised there would be a steady demand for grocery items come lockdown, strike or riot. So I began this store with my friend’s mom.” Rabi Singh was dejected about his business in the infrastructure field. “After demonetisation and GST, Covid was the last nail in the coffin. The only businesses making money during the pandemic were liquor, medicines and food. Since I am a food connoisseur and have a base in Lucknow, I decided to bring authentic Lucknowi cuisine to the city in the form of Galawat in AE Block.” Eyeing an opportunity In the early days of the lockdown everyone was busy trying out new dishes and proof of the pudding would be all over social media. Yashvee Dewan, a home baker, spotted an opportunity here. “People finally had the time to realise their love for baking but top quality ingredients weren’t available. So I started All About Baking in BE Block which sells cooking chocolate, different kinds of cheese, premixes and even cake boxes. Lots of bakers are coming now. About 70 per cent of them bake professionally and the rest bake for their families,” says Yashvee. The new kid in CB Block is Mr Grocer’s. “We realised people were still scared to venture far from home so a friendly neighbourhood grocery store would fill the gap. We have home delivery services and started a mobile app last month too,” says supervisor Joy Kar. Vansh Modi, a college student who had always wanted to host the perfect combination of cafe and restaurant, took the plunge this month. “I am confident about this venture as despite the pandemic, food is something people are not compromising on. We shall offer all-round entertainment in the form of pool table, live music and are also opening a rooftop lounge soon,” says Vansh, who opened Ciel in AJ Block. Lizard’s Skin Tattoos, that has its flagship store opposite South City Mall, decided to branch out to CF Block after getting numerous calls from this part of town during the pandemic. “Tattoos are something people are passionate about; many students save up for months to get one. But they were feeling unsafe to take app cabs to south Calcutta to get inked. So we set shop here,” says manager Sriya Roy Choudhury. Just by chance Then there’s Kabir Ray, a US-based tattoo artiste who had come to visit his family last year and could not return. “I’ve had a tattoo studio in City Centre 2 for 10 years now but obviously that was shut and I started getting random calls from people asking me to go over to their houses and ink them,” says Kabir. So he opened a branch of Black Hive Tattoo in BF Block and has been getting not just clients for tattoos and piercing but also students to learn the art. “I’m also selling tattoo equipment,” he says. Opportunity knocked on Ashish Manpuria’s door when his CF Block tenants — a burger joint — packed up after March. “We run Archies outlets around town but had wanted to dabble in the food business too,” says Ashish, who nimbly took a franchise of Krazy Kulcha and opened up earlier this month. The right time Mabesha, the popular sari shop of Gariahat, has been a permanent fixture at Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) for years. “Visitors would request us to open a Salt Lake branch and though we had taken up space around Kwality More eight years ago, were somehow unable to open up,” says Keka Paul, a resident of CF Block. Things finally fell into place during the pandemic and they decided to open in February. “Since the fair has been cancelled this year, we wanted to compensate by presenting customers an entire store at around the same time,” Keka smiles. They are slightly apprehensive due to Covid and since many sari shops have had to shut down but are expecting sales to pick up gradually. Osho, the chain of dry cleaners, had plans of opening in BE Block for a while now but waited till November. “We wanted to be sure that people were ready to come out again. Even now customers ask about our safety and hygiene measures,” says an executive of the store, Moumita Das. “Also, a lot of our staff members were not back in town yet. Without them we couldn’t run our Beleghata factory.” They now have a free pick up and drop facility that is being widely patronised. Then there are the likes of Sweet Bengal, that had plans of opening in both CF Block and Lake Town but had their plans deferred due to the pandemic. “These months have been like being in jail for residents. They are now desperate to get out, even at the risk of falling ill,” says Pradeep Ruia, who has started the Chitrakut sweet parlour in DA Block recently. On weekends, people throng the footpath outside their store for breakfast of club kachoris and chhole bature. Some restaurants opened during festive seasons — Durga puja, Christmas, Valentine’s Day — to encash on the heightened footfall. The dhaba Javed Akhtar worked at initially was a partnership with a food home delivery app in CK Block but at the first hint of the lockdown, the app asked them to shut shop. “We knew we had a loyal customer base so afterwards took up space in CJ Block. We ran a cloud kitchen but on public demand opened a dine-in too.” In fact, their space now holds — not one but — three outlets — Just Fry for snacks, Apna Dhaba for vegetarian and Dhaba Wale for non-vegetarian food. Incidentally, this CJ Block space used to house a different restaurant before. Covid worries While Gaurav is satisfied with the performance of his new grocery store, Krishnam, he says competition has got stiff. “Time was when the profit margin in this business was 25 per cent but so many outlets have opened during the pandemic that we are forced to give heavy discounts. Profit margin is now 5-8 per cent,” he says. “Anyway, it’s also true that people are staying away from hyper markets now to avoid crowds. The queues there are serpentine, home delivery takes long. These are points where we score high,” Gaurav explains. Anand Saraf, manager of Yumpty The Family Store in AC Block, says customers have less money in hand now. “Basic food items will always have takers but we specialise in things like luxury chocolates, sale of which has slowed down.” Joy of Mr Grocer’s agrees. “We can make out pockets are tight as the cheaper varieties of rice are selling more than the premium ones,” he says. Upside of pandemic “Since so many shops shut down, newcomers like us got to choose from property in prime locations,” says Singh of Galawat. “Rent has dipped by about 30 per cent too.” Cafe Darshini in CF Block got lucky with recruitment. “Ours is an authentic south Indian restaurant and we wanted southern chefs,” says Arun Kumar. “That we found them easily was only because they had lost their jobs elsewhere.” The outlet, that opened in December, is doing well during breakfast and snack hours, “but we are noticing office-going folks come and ask for thalis so we may start those during lunch time,” says Arun. Small is in The restaurants that have opened in the pandemic are all compact in size, seating about 15 people. And why not, since many customers are preferring take-aways to dining in. The seafood restaurant Pisces has moved out of a 40-seater joint to a 24-seater in CA Block. It is now Rindex Pisces, thanks to a business deal. Millie’s, that used to have three of four tables laid out at their CG Block counter, does not have any seats at all at their newly-opened AE Block outlet. “Customers are asking for sitting arrangement so we will start it but frankly, we don’t want a crowd while Covid-19 is around,” says supervisor Resmi Panda. They are now selling cakes and macarons but have yet to re-start pizzas and other savouries they were famous for. Tweaks and cuts The new outlets are trying new tactics to get customers to come over. Malt, the pub at New Town’s Astra Towers, is hosting even international musicians but maintaining social distancing by limiting the tickets they sell. “Our space is massive, with a capacity of 2,600 but we taking only 200 people for such events now. We had to refuse many reservations for events like Valentine’s Day too,” says director Abhinav Shandilya. Rindex Pisces has edited its previously elaborate menu and adjusted some prices. “We have done away with Goan cuisine and are concentrating on Thai now. Our Red Snapper dish, which used to cost Rs 1,500 is available within Rs 1,200. Previously we used to sell two or three of these everyday but now expensive items have slowed. We have reduced prices of our chicken dishes from Rs 310 to 280 too,” says Kundan Kumar. Seejh, the handicraft store in CF Block, is holding free workshops to pull crowds. “We are teaching them to make 90 per cent of what we sell —jewellery, clay models, chocolate, ghee, pickle etc. It is giving people something interesting to do and also letting them take a look at our store,” says Sulekha Singha Roy. “We also want to hold yoga, meditation classes and discourses on physiotheraphy and ayurveda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-131
