27-02-2021||Calcutta||Tiger carcass in Sunderbans creek||The carcass of an adult tigress was found floating on the waters of a narrow creek in Khanakali, between Pirkhali 4 and Pirkhali 5 range, in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve on Friday, a forest department official said. The carcass was spotted by a patrol team on a mechanised boat. “We have sent the body for post mortem to ascertain the cause of the death. It is an adult tigress and was found floating on the waters of a creek,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||First philatelic club for all ages opens||The country’s first circle-level philatelic club, to be run by the West Bengal circle of the department of posts, was inaugurated at the General Post Office on Friday. “We started school philatelic clubs across the country last year before Covid to spread the hobby among students.  This would be the first for philatelists across age groups,” said secretary, department of posts, P.K. Bisoi after inaugurating the club. “Our idea is to create a meeting ground which can be used for training and exchange of ideas. The members will include nominated representatives of government institutions like libraries, museums and universities other than young philatelists and winners of our philatelic contests. We will encourage members to suggest subjects for commemorative stamps which we will forward to Delhi,” said Niraj Kumar, postmaster general, Calcutta. The department plans to hold workshops and talks by eminent philatelists. Membership will cost Rs 500 per month. A philatelic museum was also opened. “While we have a postal museum next door which chronicles the history of the postal system, this will be a temple of philately,” said Kumar. The museum houses a library of books on stamps that club members can use. The central exhibits showcase how stamps relate to our lives. Thus. a baluchari sari hangs next to a stamp on baluchari. Next to a stamp on Lalan Fakir hangs an actual ektara while a sarod, a violin and a shehnai are exhibited with stamps on Ustad Bismillah Khan, Ustad Allauddin Khan and V. Lakshminarayana. A touchscreen kiosk has information on select stamps. A trumpet is heard if one touches a 1951 stamp on elephants. Similarly a Hemanta Mukherjee stamp issued in 2016 is linked to his song Runner, on the predecessor of postmen.  Touching a screen with Netaji stamps plays the Indian National Army marching song Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja. Debasish Sarkar, a postal employee, has contributed pastel drawings of some of India’s earliest stamps that look as life-like as photographs. A gold-plated replica in silver of a stamp from India’s earliest series, Jai Hind, dating back to 1947, was released on the occasion. “We plan to make smaller and affordable versions available soon,” Kumar said. A two-day exhibition on Netaji and the freedom movement is under way at the GPO Rotunda, showcasing the collection of Raunak Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Elephant strays into Midnapore from Salboni forests||An elephant strayed into Midnapore town from the forests of Salboni on Thursday evening, triggering panic among residents for over four hours before it was tranquilised and taken back to another jungle by foresters. The elephant, which forest officials described as a male sub-adult, was first spotted on the Midnapore College ground around 8.30pm. “The elephant strayed into the town from the Bhadutala forest in the Salboni range (around 12km from the town). It seems to be a loner, not part of any herd,” said Sandeep Berwal, the divisional forest officer of Midnapore. Within a short time, a large crowd gathered around the elephant, which moved towards the Midnapore Collegiate School. The crowd started swelling and followed the jumbo as it headed from the school towards the Midnapore Medical College and Hospital compound. A large police team led by the additional superintendent of Midnapore reached the spot soon, followed by a team of foresters. The cops were partially successful in keeping the crowd at bay. They kept making announcements, asking people to let the elephant move freely. The forest team, which reached the spot on an improvised mini-truck fitted with hooter sirens and a variety of flashlights, carried tranquilliser guns and an assortment of slings, nets and iron shackles. The team initially tried to drive the elephant towards the Chandra forest range. “But the elephant was traumatised in the presence of so many people. It was not aggressive but seemed scared and confused. So, we decided to tranquilise it,” said A.P. Singh, the chief conservator of forests (western circle). The elephant took refuge in an abandoned grassland behind the hospital, said local forest officials. It was darted well beyond midnight. Industrial rubber belts attached to the arms of the crane finally lifted the animal around 1.30am. A sub-adult elephant weighs around 2.5 tonnes (2,500kg). The crane placed the elephant on a truck that ferried it to the Sukhakhali forests in the Chandra range. It was well past 2am, when the elephant was released in the forest. A team of guards kept a close watch on the jumbo. “Around 8am on Friday, the elephant was seen moving freely in the forest,” the local forest official said. Jumbos tagged Two more elephants in the forests of north Bengal have been tagged with radio collars. On February 22, an elephant from a herd in Gorumara was tagged and on Wednesday, another elephant from a different herd in Jaldapara was tagged, a forest official said. The objective is to understand the movement patterns of elephant herds and preempt  their raids on human settlements, thereby reducing human-animal conflicts, said a forest official in north Bengal. Both tagged elephants are females in “leadership role” in their herds, said the official. “The collars have been provided by a German institution, GIZ, which is collaborating with us in the project,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Green activists urge parties to focus on environment ahead of Assembly election campaign||Political parties should spell out in their manifestos how they will tackle the worsening air pollution, improve the waste management system that is in a shambles and protect the fragile ecology of the Sunderbans, environment activist Subhas Datta said on Friday. The campaign season ahead of the Assembly elections will test the parties’ resolve to protect the environment as the meeting and roadshows could turn into platforms to adhere to -- or violate -- the noise norms. The parties can also make a statement by staying away from plastic, Datta told a news conference soon after the Assembly poll dates were announced. Environmental issues rarely figure on the campaign list of any political party in the state and also elsewhere in India. Leaders rarely raise an issue concerning the environment from their election rallies. Environment activists want the parties to shed their apathy about the environment and clearly spell out their plans on crucial environmental matters. “All political parties are saying how they will alleviate farmers’ problems or how they will keep a check on oil prices. But no one is saying what their plans are about improving the air that we breathe or how they will protect the Sunderbans,” Datta said. The activist listed several issues that hold the key to the future of Calcutta and Bengal. “The parties should say how they plan to phase out commercial vehicles older than 15 years, as directed by Calcutta High Court. They should say what their plans are regarding the introduction of cleaner fuel like CNG for public buses. Have the parties ever thought why there is so much dust on the roads?” he said. Seven cities in Bengal – Calcutta, Howrah, Barrackpore, Durgapur, Asansol, Raniganj and Haldia – have been classified as non-attainment cities by the Central Pollution Control Board because they do not meet the permissible air quality standards. Parthib Basu, a professor of zoology at Calcutta University, said these were life and death questions and the electors as well as those seeking votes should be concerned about them. “The solid waste management rules were framed in 2016 and they mandate separation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Even after so many years, the system has been introduced in only a few places in Calcutta. In smaller cities and towns, the situation is worse,” he said. Basu was not present in Friday’s new conference. The waste separation will enable some of the items to be recycled and reduce the volume of waste. The waste dumping ground in Dhapa has already exceeded its capacity and the situation will only worsen if more waste is dumped on the site. Datta questioned why political parties were silent on the vulnerability of people in the Sunderbans. Large-scale destruction of mangroves, which act as natural barriers to storms, has made the villages in the Sunderbans vulnerable to cyclones. “Saline water from the sea is flowing further upstream and destroying acres of agricultural fields, completely ruining the income source of villagers,” said Basu. “These people are then forced to migrate to the cities in search of livelihood. Besides, if the sea level rises and saline water enters the Hooghly, it will have multiple negative consequences. There is a need for clear climate change mitigation and adaptation policies and actions.” The intent of the parties will become clear during the campaigning, said the activists. “They should adhere to noise norms and not use plastic in campaign rallies and meetings,” Datta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||HS council allows schools to advance practicals schedule||The state higher secondary council has allowed schools “relaxation” in starting the HS practical exams, giving them the freedom to advance the schedule if there is a possibility that the premises will be taken over because of the Assembly elections, officials said. The earlier order had asked the schools to conduct the in-person practical exams from March 10 to 31. An official of the council said that as security forces were expected to enter the schools well before the start of the polls, the institutions have been allowed to modify the schedule depending on the situation. A notice issued by Mahua Das, the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, on Wednesday said: “Now in respect of queries received from the schools, the council has decided to allow a relaxation in the starting date of the practical examination in those institutions, which will be used by the election commission of India for ensuing Vidhan Sabha election…. “In such cases the head of the institution may decide about conducting the examination on some earlier date as per their convenient schedule….” The security forces use school buildings to set up base before starting patrol in a designated segment. “Once the force takes control of the premises, the entry of the teachers, school officials and students will be disallowed. Practical examinations will have to be conducted before the force takes over a school,” a council official said. The election commission announced on Friday that the polls would be held in Bengal in eight phases — from March 27 to April 29. An official of the school education department said the central forces were expected to enter the school buildings of a specified zone at least a week before the polls. “Each school has to find out on which day the particular area will go to the polls and plan accordingly in consultation with the council,” the official said. In Bengal, schools had reopened on February 12 for Classes IX to XII. All campuses had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. One of the objectives behind lifting the closure was to allow Plus-II students in the science stream to get some hands-on training before writing the practicals. “If the exam dates are brought forward, the students will be denied the minimum preparation time,” said Saugata Basu, the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association. Council president Das could not be reached for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Three off roster at Alipore zoo for toucan theft ||Two guards and one supervisor at the Alipore zoo have been taken off the roster for “negligence of duty" following the alleged theft of three exotic birds from an enclosure, officials said on Friday. The three men were in “close proximity (within 40m)” of the enclosure, the iron mesh of which was cut open before the birds were “stolen” late on Thursday, said an official of the zoo. “Our internal probe has prima facie found that the three men were negligent in their duty,” zoo director Asis Samanta said. Two of the missing birds were toco toucans and one was a keel-billed toucan. The men, deployed by an agency hired by the zoo, are being questioned by the police. The detective department has taken over the case. “The persons involved in the theft are well versed in handling wildlife. A toucan is not a very small bird. Even after stealing, the birds have to be fed and treated properly. They cannot afford a sick or dead bird,” said a forest department official. The missing birds were rescued near the Bangladesh border in August and December 2020, while they were allegedly being smuggled in. Both hauls were made by the BSF but no arrests were made. On both occasions, the men carrying the birds fled. “The men carrying the birds are usually couriers. But they can be grilled for information such as who placed orders for the birds. In the absence of arrests, our job to trace the real culprits becomes doubly difficult,” said another official of the forest department. Trade in exotic birds is legal but people try to smuggle them in to evade taxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Tech skills to count in teachers’ appraisals||Several schools in the city will take into account teachers' technological skills during their appraisals this year. In a couple of schools, the format of the appraisal forms have changed and heads of institutions said teachers' adaptability to technology will be given more weightage because classes were held online. Earlier, technology was used to supplement in-person classes but it was not as integral as it has become now, the heads said. Schools have also realised that this system of learning is here to stay and are taking technological skills into account when making new recruitments. “How teachers have used and navigated technology will become an essential part of the appraisal this year. It includes making use of learning apps or customising them to make the classes interactive,” said Anjana Saha,a the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. In the last one year when digital learning became the norm, teachers had to not only take classes online but also conduct exams and invigilate them online. All of these will be taken into account across schools now. "There was a training for teachers on how to proctor exams online and weightage will have to be given to technology because it is part of the system now," said Basant Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls' High School. Schools have had to change the learning process as well as the examination pattern. "We will also see how effectively teachers designed question papers online because it is time-based, competency-based and module-based where the format is different," said Saha. In some schools, the appraisal has started and in at least one school it is done quarterly. Earlier, the blackboard was an important feature in a classroom. Some schools had smart boards but not everything was taught using them. “We don’t see ourselves going back to the system of teaching that was there before. Teachers are expected to switch to different platforms, do screen sharing, make presentations and also show experiments online,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Adapting to change is the key now. “Teachers will have to be flexible and accept this transition,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Schools envisage a change in the system and the need to adapt to that change. “In a post Covid world both the technological knowhow of the teacher and the taught will be important. If we do not make changes to emerging situations we will not be equipping the children,” said Raja McGee, principal of Calcutta Boys' School. A teacher's ability to keep students engaged in a virtual class will also be considered and whether he or she was able to navigate technology and effectively maintain discipline in an online class. In the initial months, teachers were using phones to take classes and schools asked them to switch to tabs or desktops to avoid interruptions of messages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
27-02-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine worry over facilities, personnel||Many private hospitals in Calcutta are worried that if they are not allowed enough time to ramp up infrastructure and deploy personnel, the demand for Covid-19 vaccination could overwhelm them once doses are available for the general public. Officials of private hospitals are calling up the state health department, seeking clarity on the plan for the next phase. But till Friday, not much detail was available. The Centre has announced that Covid vaccines will be offered from March 1 to all people above 60 and those above 45 with chronic health disorders. Many private hospitals said they were willing to vaccinate people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities if they were allowed to do so with the existing infrastructure and personnel. It will be difficult to open more vaccination sites and deploy additional personnel because most hospitals are full with patients. On Friday, the Union health ministry held a meeting with the state governments about vaccination of general public but there was no clear guideline about how many people should be vaccinated at a health-care unit each day, said an official of Bengal's health department. The Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win), a digital platform for real-time monitoring of vaccine delivery and distribution, will be upgraded on Saturday and Sunday so the general people can register themselves for the vaccination, the ministry told state officials. “The health ministry officials told us to ensure that the Phase II vaccination (for the general public) starts as early as possible. But they did not give any detailed guideline about how many people can be vaccinated at one hospital per day or how to register offline. There was no information about pricing of vaccines, too,” an official of the state health department said. “Many private hospitals are inquiring about these issues so that they can make plans about the infrastructure and personnel deployment. But because there is no clear guideline from the Centre yet, we are unable to tell them anything." The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination had started on January 16 with health-care workers. Later, frontline workers were included in the first phase. Officials of private hospitals said they had started identifying sites for Phase II vaccination but were unable to decide whether to take part in this phase because of lack of clarity. “We are awaiting directives from the state government on the methodology of registration and logistics for vaccination. We can accommodate the recipients at our existing site... by opening a second vaccination room. However, arranging a new site with a separate set of manpower will be a major challenge in a busy hospital," said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health. All private hospitals in Bengal were supposed to start administering Covaxin from Friday. But it could not be done because of problems on the digital platform, said officials. “However, even if the technical problem is resolved, it would not be easy for us to start administering Covaxin because the state government wants a different site," said Venkatesh. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, the flagship unit of the group in eastern India, a vaccination site has been set up opposite the emergency ward. "We can have a separate room for administering Covaxin, but we can't have additional sites," said Venkatesh. Other hospitals, too, said human resources would be an issue. Now seven to eight people, including doctors and nurses, are deployed at the vaccination site of each hospital. Deploying more people will be difficult because of the sheer number of patients at each hospital. “We are vaccinating about 300 people at each of our hospitals every day. In the next phase, if it increases to around 600, we can manage. But if it's more than that, we will not be able to vaccinate so many people,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-130
