28-02-2021||Calcutta||Meme shared by Union minister Babul Supriyo attracts backlash||Millennium: The third. Century: 21st. Year: 2021. Date: February 27. Day: Saturday. In this day and age, sample the idea of a meme: “Beti paraya dhan hoti hai… (A daughter is someone else’s wealth…).” A Union minister and BJP leader shared the meme on Facebook and Twitter on Saturday morning. The full meme went like this: an image shows Mamata Banerjee with a mic and the words “I am the daughter of Bengal” written in Hindi. Below the chief minister’s picture is an image of Union home minister Amit Shah with folded hands and the words “Beti paraya dhan hoti hai, iss bar vida kar denge (A daughter is someone else’s wealth, this time we will send her off)”. “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter and no one else)” is the new slogan of the Trinamul Congress. The sharer of the meme —Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change Babul Supriyo — took it down from both social media handles as a backlash erupted. He reposted the meme at 5.35pm. On Facebook, he wrote: “I acknowledge, should not have been shared from my account… That’s it! Period. Nothing more. Nothing less either.” Later, Supriyo told The Telegraph: “This meme was neither created by me nor does it carry my statement. I’ve two daughters. Hence, I wouldn’t need to learn the definition of misogyny from any other party.” He posted this message on Twitter too. BJP parliamentarian Locket Chatterjee found the post “an insult to women”. “This is against Bengali culture. Women are always treated as daughters in our society. Insulting them in such a manner is unwelcome,” Chatterjee said. The meme raises — if not answers — several questions. Needless to say, the meme betrays a mindset that had been faithfully reproduced in many films. The BJP itself has faced persistent charges that it is a manuvadi party. Against such a backdrop, it is inexplicable why a Union minister did not think twice before sharing such a meme without a comment condemning it. At a time the BJP is attacking Rahul Gandhi for his statement on the voters in southern India, the Union minister has shared a meme that uses Hindi but indirectly mentions the slogan of the ruling party in Bengal. Was the minister trying to suggest that only those who speak Hindi will get whatever message the meme was trying to convey? If so, it is an insult to the Hindi-speaking citizens of this country. If the Union minister thought the meme was innocuous, why did he not translate it into Bengali? Did he fear a voter backlash in Bengal? The meme used the image of the home minister of the country. It is not a small matter: the image is a loud and clear claim that such a regressive thought has the endorsement of the Union home minister although there is nothing yet to suggest that Shah is even aware of such a meme or that his colleague is sharing it. Shah does follow Supriyo on Twitter. BJP’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh had previously said Mamata would have to get back to cooking once she lost the 2021 polls. “This kind of attack is being meted out at the only women chief minister of the nation. The BJP is merely a tool in the hands of the RSS that always wanted to control women,” said minister and Trinamul spokesperson Shashi Panja said. She added that Supriyo’s jibe at Mamata exposed the hollowness of the Centre’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Register through CoWin 2 app to get vaccinated||People who want to get vaccinated against Covid-19 in a private hospital will have to register through the CoWin 2 app, as walk-in registration facility would not be allowed immediately, a senior health department official said on Saturday. Most of the private hospitals do not have cold storage facilities to keep vials of the Covid-19 vaccines, he said. The vaccines should not be wasted and the state health department wants to supply the exact number of vials required to vaccinate registered persons. State-run hospitals, however, will offer the option of walk-in registration as well as prior registration through the CoWin 2 app. “We are allowing the walk-in registration facility in only state-run hospitals. All major state run hospitals have cold storage facilities where they can keep extra vials that they can immediately use if there are many potential recipients. But many private hospitals do not have the cold storage facility. So, we have to supply them only that many vials that they require,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the state government’s health department. If only pre-registered persons are allowed to take the vaccine in private hospitals, then the number of vials needed in a day will be known beforehand, said another official. Another reason for keeping walk-in registrations open only at state-run hospitals was that the poorer section of the society goes to state-run hospitals and most of them could feel uncomfortable in using the CoWin2 app, said a health department official. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Nigam and other senior state government officials held a webinar with officials of private hospitals on Saturday, where the hospitals officials were told that vaccination of people above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 will begin from Monday. In private hospitals, vaccination could begin only from Tuesday, said officials of the hospitals. The private hospitals will have to deposit the money for the vials in a bank account designated by the government before receiving them. But the price of the vials was not mentioned during Saturday’s webinar. Nigam said the age on January 1, 2022 would be considered. Someone who is 59 now and will turn 60 by next January 1 will become eligible to receive the vaccine, he added. At least one private hospital in the city said they had decided to open a help desk for those not comfortable with the app. “We have decided to keep facilitators who will register those people who are not tech-savvy...,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. People between 45 and 59 with comorbidities must get a certificate from a registered medical practitioner in a prescribed format. Officials of the state health department said they would try to publicise the format soon. “We will come up with FAQs (frequently asked questions) so everyone gets a clear idea of how to go about with the process,” said an official. The FAQs will be uploaded on websites of the state government. The state government has set a target of setting up nearly 10,000 vaccination centres to cover around two crore recipients in these categories. Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Covid scare: 2 weeks on, on-campus turnout in schools dips||A fortnight into resumption of schools, in-person attendance in classes has dwindled. Several schools that had reported attendance between 70 and 90 per cent in the first few days of resumption, said it had fallen to between 20 and 60 per cent now. Schools across Bengal, which had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid, reopened for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 following a nod from the state government. Many parents are not keen to send their children to school and many students, too, prefer the online mode. Some parents said it was almost the end of the academic session and there was no need to send the children to school. The spike in Covid cases in some states has also made them apprehensive. Parents feel it might break the “rhythm of classes” because children have adjusted to the online mode and teachers are often conducting one-on-one doubt clearing sessions virtually. At St James’ Schools, in the initial few days about 90 per cent of the students who were called to campus turned up but gradually that started fluctuating and went down to 50 to 60 per cent. At Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, only 20 per cent of the students who had consented to attending classes are going to campus. At The BSS School, Class X initially had 85 per cent attendance but that has now gone down to 60 per cent. At Indus Valley World School, for Classes IX, XI and XII, an average of 50 per cent showed up for doubt clearing sessions. The Newtown School had planned to have both online and offline classes for IX and XI but aborted the plan of on-campus classes because the response from parents was very feeble. Parents are not willing to send children to school except for practical classes or if there is no other option. They are not keen to send the students only for revision or doubt clearing sessions. Several schools have had to cancel plans to conduct on-campus exams after parents protested. In many homes, students now have their own space where they are not disturbed. “Initially we would peep in every once in a while. But now, when she is at her desk we know she is not to be disturbed,” said a mother whose daughter is in Class XII humanities. Class XII science students are an exception. “On days that Class XII students have practicals they are on the campus but on other days when it is doubt clearing sessions, the number of students is very small,” said Meena Kak, director, Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. With the option of online classes available, students feel they are not missing out if they do not go to school. The initial excitement dwindled in a few days. “There is a scare of infection among parents and if there is a provision of attending classes from home, they are comfortable doing so. But lessons can be more interactive in a classroom,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. Teachers also feel the absence of extra-curricular activities has made school less attractive. Student life with Covid protocols has become more “restricted”. “We are very strict with them and do not allow them to go play on the field or to the canteen or allow long breaks. In a way it is more constricted,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Classes have fewer students and if their friends don’t turn up, others lose interest too, Ireland said. Some school heads felt the online lessons will have to be integrated into the school system. “Some of the curriculum will have to be taught online.... the turnaround time for doubt clearing is less online,” said Sunil Agarwal, the founder-director of The Newtown School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Jesuit priest Linus Gomes dies at 99||Jesuit priest Linus Nirmal Gomes passed away early on Saturday in the city. He was 99. Most Reverend Linus Nirmal Gomes spent his last seven years at St Xavier’s College Jesuit community as the senior most clergy. He was the first bishop of Baruipur Catholic Diocese, when this new diocese was created, bifurcating from the Calcutta Archidiocese in 1977. The funeral mass of Most Reverend Bishop Linus Nirmal Gomes, SJ, will be held on Monday at 8.30am for common people at St Teresa’s Church, Moulali and at 11am at the Cathedral of Baruipur. The Mass for the priests will be held at 3pm on Monday at the Cathedral of Baruipur. Before becoming bishop, he was parish priest at St Teresa Parish Taltala, Calcutta. Later, as Bishop Emeritus, he was sent to Dhaka in Bangladesh to serve the Jesuit Mission from 1997 to 2014. Most Reverend Linus Nirmal Gomes was born in a village near Dhaka on September 7, 1921. He joined St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, in 1942 and stayed in the college hostel. He joined the Society of Jesus in 1942. Along with other Jesuit priests, he established the first Bengali medium school of the Catholic order, St Peter’s High School at Taltala, Calcutta, and became the first headmaster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
28-02-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College opens wellness centre for students and staff||St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) has used money it had received under a central scheme to set up a “wellness centre” for students and staff. The 1200sq ft  facility houses a gym and a yoga centre. Programmes on mental health will also be held, said an official of the college. The new centre, which has come up near the library, was inaugurated on Saturday by Father Dominic Savio, principal of the college. Father Savio spent some time on an indoor cycle after the inauguration. The students and staff of the institution will get to use the facility for free, said an official of the college. “The campus is still closed for students. But when it opens, the centre should be popular among them,” he said. The college is open for students from 6am to 8pm, in three shifts. “The timings of then facility will be worked out in accordance with the three shifts once the college reopens,” the official said. The centre has been funded by the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), a central scheme for wholistic upgrade of higher education. “The year 2020 has proved the importance of good health, a strong mind and the need for a stable workout. The new wellness centre plans to keep a health record of staff and students to check the current health solidity, offer health screenings and general care to all,” he said. The centre will also provide counselling to students regarding stress management and how to maintain a good balance between academics and lifestyle. “Our new wellness centre is not only a fitness studio with state-of-the-art equipment, but I look at it as the reflection of the holistic education approach which synergises with the Xaverian values and ideology,” said Father Savio. “Very soon we are going to introduce a weekly interactive session on stress management, depression management, meditation and motivation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
28-02-2021||Calcutta||Mercury breaches 35 degrees in February||February is not yet over and the mercury has already breached 35 degrees. The maximum temperature on Friday and Saturday was 35 and 35.1 degrees respectively. The Met office in Alipore issued an alert on Saturday, warning of a rise in day temperature across south Bengal in the coming days. “Due to continuous prevalence of dry weather, clear sky and direct insulation, day temperature is likely to be above normal by 4-6 degrees during the next 3-4 days over the districts of south Bengal,” said the alert. “The entire south Bengal, including Calcutta, is under the grip of unusually scorching days,” said a Met official. “The rise in day temperature has been abnormal. There is not a speck of a cloud in the sky,” he added. The clouds make the weather more humid and, in the absence of heavy rain, the discomfort level goes up, said a Met official. “But the clouds also act as a shield,” he added. The weather in Calcutta this time last year stood in sharp contrast with the weather this time (see chart).  A cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had led to overcast conditions in the city in the last week of February. On February 25, 2020, the maximum temperature was 22.6 degrees, nine notches below normal. The city had received light rain on that day. In comparison, the maximum temperature on February 25 this year was 34.5 degrees, four notches above normal. The contrast is as stark between the start and end of this month as well. On February 1, the mercury plunged to 11.4 degrees, making it the second coldest day this winter and the coldest February day in a decade. Both the minimum and maximum temperature had been much lower than usual in the first week of February. But the impact of then low day temperature was more pronounced. February-end maximum temperature in Calcutta and deviation (in degrees) 2020 February 25: 22.6 (-8.8) February 26: 27.5 (-4) February 27: 29.1 (-2.3) 2021 February 25: 34.5 (3) February 26: 35 (4) February 27: 35.1||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
28-02-2021||Calcutta||‘Vivek Yatra’ starts from February 28||A visit to Swami Vivekananda’s ancestral house in north Calcutta on a tram followed by a trip to Belur Math on a launch and back — this is how you can spend your Sunday, starting February 28. “Vivek Yatra” will start at the Esplanade tram depot at 11am and end at the Millennium Park jetty around 7pm, where the launch ferrying tourists will finally park. The trip, being organised by the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) under the transport department, will last around eight hours and cost Rs 200 per person, including entry to a 3D show at a museum at the ancestral home of Swami Vivekananda on Vivekananda Road. The AC tram will leave from Esplanade at 11am for the Vivekananda address where the sightseers  will get off and walk into the house, which is now known as “Swami Vivekananda’s Ancestral House and Cultural Centre”. Swami Jnanalokananda, secretary of the centre, said: “We will eagerly be waiting to welcome visitors to this institution from Vivek Yatra, which would be of great help to both domestic and international tourists.” After the visit, there will be a break for lunch, which is not covered in the ticket, said a senior official of the WBTC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-129
