29-09-2020||---||Corporates feel farmers’ heat||Bathinda, September 28Corporates have started feeling farmers’ heat in the state over the three agriculture Acts with a protest being held outside a Reliance petrol pump in Talwandi Sabo in the district.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has announced that they would gherao petrol pumps, malls and toll plazas of Reliance and other MNCs across the state in the coming days. Besides, messages are being circulated among farmers on social media, appealing for the boycott of Reliance fuel and Jio SIM cards.“The Acts framed on the pretext of ‘one nation, one mandi’ is a bid to give control to the private players. Ambanis and Adani have a big hand in getting the farm legislations through. These will impact the farmers adversely,” alleged Resham Singh Tungwali, a farmer leader.He threatened if the Acts were not revoked by the Union Government, they would gherao Guru Gobind Singh Refinery at Rama Mandi.Farmers also claimed that the government had left them at the mercy of corporates. “It is preposterous to believe that farmers who have small land holdings will have any bargaining power over private players,” they said.Shingara Singh Mann of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said: “Our target now will be PM Narendra Modi, BJP and corporate houses, such as Ambani and Adani groups. We will meet tomorrow to decide on the gherao of Reliance petrol pumps and malls.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/corporates-feel-farmers-heat-147974
29-09-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||In Malwa, cotton selling below MSP||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 28Cotton is being sold below the MSP in the Malwa region as the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) is yet to start its procurement. The MSP for cotton is between Rs 5,515 and Rs 5,725 per quintal, but is being sold as low as Rs 4,600 per quintal. However, traders have cited excess moisture content in the fibre crop as the reason for paying less.Jagmeet Singh, Mansa farmerCCI yet to start procurement, farmers sufferSince CCI hasn’t started the procurement, I sold six quintals of good quality crop at a rate of Rs 4,960 per quintal, which is way below the MSP.Many farmers are averse to selling their produce to the CCI due to the government agency’s condition of direct purchase. They said they could not break ties with arhtiyas even if they had to sell their produce at a lesser price.Randhir Singh of Jodhpur Romana village in Bathinda said, “We have been dealing with arhtiyas for years now and we cannot think of snapping our ties with them. They are the ones who hold our hand in the hour of crisis. They do not think twice before handing over advance payments to us whenever we need it.”Jagmeet Singh, a farmer from Tibbi Hari Singh village in Mansa district, said, “I had sold six quintals of crops at a rate of Rs 4,960 per quintal, which is way below the MSP. The quality was rich, but with the CCI yet to start procurement, I had no option but to sell it at a lower price.”“If we do not sell the crop at a lower price to private purchasers, who will finance us for the next sowing season?” asked Gurmeet Singh, another farmer. Market analysts said rates wouldstabilise once the CCI started procurement and moisture content in the crop fell within permissible limits of 8-12 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/in-malwa-cotton-selling-below-msp-147969
