06-05-2021||Today's||A political and policy blow to the Centre||For the last seven years, they have been projected as India’s political jodi number one. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, as the larger-than-life strongman leader, and home minister Amit Shah, as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s chief election strategist, have carried an aura of near invincibility. If Modi and his governance model are identified with catchy buzzwords such as “acche din” and “new” India, Shah is branded as a modern day Chanakya. However, the past month has dented this well-cultivated imagery. If the handling of the second Covid-19 wave has raised serious questions over the PM’s governance style, the BJP’s West Bengal debacle has undermined Shah’s image of being a master at winning elections.Take Covid 2.0. A terrifying pandemic offers no easy solutions but can it be denied that an all-powerful political executive at the Centre has been behind the curve in the Covid fight? Be it green signalling potential super-spreader events such as the Kumbh Mela or the utterly confused vaccine policy or the botch-up over oxygen supplies, the Modi government stands accused of bumbling at every turn.That it has taken repeated court interventions to goad the Centre into acting swiftly reveals the failings of a highly centralised and bureaucratic style of functioning that appears trapped in its own echo chamber of complacency and hubris. That Rahul Gandhi, often lampooned as “pappu” by the BJP’s hyper-active IT cells, has been pressing most of the right buttons on Covid should be a cause for further embarrassment. Even the much-vaunted Gujarat model stands exposed by the long queues of ambulances outside state hospitals, a grim reminder of the darker side of a development paradigm that didn’t invest enough in public health.Hype has been confused with reality in West Bengal too. The BJP marched into the Bengal elections like an all-conquering army, backed by massive resources, institutional support and a media blitzkrieg that suggested a landslide victory. For Shah, in particular, the conquest of Bengal was a personal mission, one where his crucial role as Union home minister in a national crisis appeared to lose out to his persona as an aggressive party campaigner. When he should have been focusing on coordinating with all states on Covid protocols, he was distracted with an overwhelming ambition to win another Opposition-ruled state. Here again, there was an unmistakable arrogance in approach, a failure to recognise that a Vidhan Sabha polls is fought on a different template than a Lok Sabha battle. The divisive “Jai Shri Ram” war-cry, which proved so effective in 2019, appeared out of sync in a more localised election. Without a strong, credible Bengal face, the BJP lured key lieutenants of the chief minister to switch sides, exposing their own limitations of symbolising an “Asol Poribortan” (real change) on the ground. As it turned out, a lone Mamata Banerjee in a wheelchair versus the BJP’s muscular men on a chariot only mirrored a compelling narrative of Bengali sub-nationalism — a rooted popular Bengali- speaking mass leader taking on the might of the Hindi-speaking “outsiders”. So is India’s primary political pair on the retreat? Yes and no. Despite the criticism of the failings of the Modi government in handling the pandemic, the PM remains a highly popular leader whose mass connect isn’t going to evaporate overnight. Likewise, as a consummate 24x7 politician, Shah will doubtlessly gear up to fight the next big electoral battle in Uttar Pradesh. Reports of their imminent political demise are exaggerated. Bengal 2021 is hardly India 2024.And yet, underplaying mounting citizen anger at the monumental collapse in basic health services would be politically foolhardy. When a national health emergency puts tens of thousands of people on ventilators, the central government cannot, to quote the Delhi High Court, “be living in ivory towers”. When people are desperately struggling for oxygen and ICU beds, there needs to be genuine outreach to address their grievances, with empathy and common sense and not through typical bureaucratic apathy or crafty perception management. An authoritarian mindset that views any criticism as “anti-national” is dangerous when the country is gasping for oxygen — what stops the PM, for example, from bringing together the finest minds in the country across key sectors to identify mistakes and course correct? Is this not an ideal moment to decentralise decision-making and build bridges with those who might have useful, even if contrarian, views?Unfortunately, the strongman model of political leadership is often unwilling to accept blunders and take responsibility. Rather than pass the buck, the top leadership needs to do a mea culpa, fix accountability and ring in changes. Can, for example, the Union health minister get away by claiming only last month that the country had sufficient stock of vaccines when alarm bells were already ringing across state capitals that vaccine supplies were running out? The “achche din” bubble has been well and truly pricked by the smoke and ash that bursts out of funeral pyres across the country. The nation wants to know who will bear the cross for an unimaginable tragedy. Post-script: Covid 2.0 calls for an urgent redrawing of priorities. Earlier this week, the Indian Premier League was suspended after a few players tested positive. A high-profile sport event in Covid-19 times was going to be a high-risk venture. So here is another suggestion: Why not also halt the construction of the Central Vista in the Capital, a grandiose vanity project, when the health risks facing the construction workers should be prioritised? Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and author The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-political-and-policy-blow-to-the-centre-101620304432568.html
06-05-2021||Today's||India’s judiciary and the rights of refugees||Shortly before the beginning of World War II, the ship, St Louis, left Nazi Germany, carrying on board more than 900 Jewish refugees, who were trying to escape anti-Semitic persecution. United States (US), Canada, and Cuba refused to admit the refugees, forcing St. Louis to turn back for Europe. Historians now estimate that at least a quarter of the refugees aboard the St. Louis were eventually murdered in the Holocaust.Events such as these are legion in the annals of World War II. For these, and other reasons, after the end of the war, an international treaty concerning the rights of refugees was drafted and signed by many nations. At the core of international refugee law is the principle of non-refoulement — that is, refugees fleeing persecution on racial, ethnic, religious, or other grounds, may not be deported back to their country of origin, where their lives will be in danger.While India is not a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Refugee Convention Protection, it is by now widely accepted that the principle of non-refoulement has acquired the status of customary international law, i.e., it is binding on all States that make up the community of nations. This principle was affirmed in an important judgment by the Manipur high court (HC) on May 3, 2021, in a case concerning the status of seven Myanmarese refugees, who had fled to India after the military coup in their home country.Also Read | UN welcomes US President Joe Biden’s decision to admit more refugees this yearIn granting the refugees safe passage to Delhi so that they could apply to the UN High Commission for Refugees for a formalisation of their status, the Manipur HC correctly held that Article 21 of the Indian Constitution — which guarantees to all persons the right to life and personal liberty — included within it the right to non-refoulement.Over the last four decades, the Indian judiciary has achieved worldwide renown for its generous interpretation of Article 21 of the Constitution, expanding it to include a panoply of rights that protect the dignity and freedom of the individual. Relying upon that storied history, the Manipur high court held that Article 21 would continue to apply even in the case of refugees, who had fled to India seeking sanctuary from persecution.The high court’s judgment is particularly important, especially when considered in light of the Supreme Court (SC)’s inaction in a similar case. For the last four years — well before the coup — the Rohingya community in Myanmar has been subjected to genocidal persecution and ethnic cleansing, a fact that was provisionally accepted last year by the International Court of Justice.Since 2017, a petition has been pending in SC, asking the court to clarify that the principle of non-refoulement is part of the Indian Constitution, and that therefore, the government should not deport refugees back to Myanmar without a determination of their status. However, not only has SC not decided the case, but — in two interim orders — allowed deportation to go ahead, pending final resolution. This is starkly reminiscent of the actions of the US and Canadian governments in turning away St. Louis, and consigning Jewish refugees to a terrible fate.Indeed, the Manipur HC is not the first Indian HC to have held that Article 21 protects the right to non-refoulement. The Gujarat and Delhi HCs have also done so, and indeed, the Manipur HC drew upon a rich tradition of Indian jurisprudence that guarantees the basic rights of refugees, in passing its judgment.Thus, it is perhaps in the teeth of the Supreme Court’s inaction that the high court’s judgment stands out as a beacon of judicial courage and principle, in protecting the rights — and indeed, the lives — of the most vulnerable.Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based advocateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-judiciary-and-the-rights-of-refugees-101620304012397.html
06-05-2021||Today's||The suspension of IPL and idea of decency||Another fortress fell this week. The Indian Premier League (IPL), having dodged all kinds of curve balls and leapt over numerous hurdles in its decade-and-a-half of existence, finally stumbled to an abrupt halt, midway into its 14th season.The “bio-security bubble”, as the quasi-airtight logistics of the event are labelled, gave way. A number of players and staff, supposedly insulated from the grimy, pandemic-ravaged world outside, tested positive for Covid-19. The same fear and dread, which the rest have been enduring for over a year, came visiting those who dwelt in their firewalled fastness.Commentators on TV, print and digital media got busy working out the economic impact of the curtailed extravaganza — on the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the participating clubs, the small army of support staff which holds it all together, the fans and, above all, the advertisers who had backed it with thousands of crore of media spending.How badly have the advertisers been served?Marshall McLuhan published Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man in 1964. Six decades on, his principal thesis, that “the medium is the message”, continues to resonate for its prescience and accuracy, and endures through all media forms.A television advertising spot which runs in a commercial break during an IPL fixture is a medium (spot) in a medium (break) in a medium (fixture) in a medium (TV). Unpacking the nesting is important to parse the layers at which a viewer engages with advertising.Also Read | Shane Warne extends ‘love & support’ to India in battle against Covid-19TV is increasingly emblematic of the involuntary confinement we have been subjected to. While it attempts to inform and entertain us, it is also a constant reminder of all the other media which we have had to forsake. It is our solitary window to the world, but one with which we now have a paradoxical, “now I love it, now I don’t”, relationship.Move up a step to the IPL tournament. Over 14 years, hundreds of millions of cricket fans across the country, and many millions overseas, have aligned themselves with the participating clubs and have developed the same sort of parochial tribes which you associate with club sport all over the world. Last year, organisers showed contextual sensitivity when they moved the venue to the United Arab Emirates. The tournament could proceed without imposing pressure on stretched support services.This year, in contrast, with India having declared premature victory over the pandemic, the organisers got swept up in the exuberance and kept it back in India, albeit with severe curtailment in venues and nobody in the stadium stands. While the audiences tuned in, they probably nursed some resentment too. After all, here they were, being instructed to mask up, even when they were at home. And there were the young, brash, larger-than-life players, like gods amongst us, in their impervious bubble, so near in close-ups, so far from our trials and tribulations.Which brings us to the commercial break. By definition, advertising is about hedonism — desire, craving and sensual gratification. Our incarceration has left us leading strangely abstinent lives. Our wardrobes full of different clothes for different occasions have surrendered before unfussy, well-worn tees, shorts and yoga pants. Make-up dries in its pots and tubes. Fancy footwear gathers dust in shoe racks. What may have tantalised in a different time, only serves to aggravate today. The yawning gulf between what we need and what we want has been bridged, on the side of what we need. In the event, anything which belongs to the realm of want, not need, is now superfluous. The string of ad spots in a break is, in lesser or greater measure, a grating reminder of our privations.At this point, it may be redundant to examine what the smallest level of our nested hierarchy, the spot, conveys. It is, however, important that we do so, to determine what gains or losses the advertisers whose media plans were frustrated by the decision to suspend IPS may tot up.Brands are recognised as manifestations of every aspect of the human condition. As such, they manifest, explicitly or implicitly, the joys and sorrows, anxieties and aspirations, interests and aversions, of the consumers they speak to. If they step away from the semantic space which they are expected to inhabit, they face backlash. If they line up with what their loyal users wish from them, they are rewarded with loyalty and advocacy. All too often, the alignment may be entirely involuntary, expressed in media choices. This fraught area of communication analysis is now called “Brand Safety”.Also Read | RCB players and support staff leave for their respective destinationsOver 30 years ago, a small band of visionary marketing communications professionals established the Advertising Standards Council of India. They swore a solemn commitment to “Ensure Honesty, Truthfulness and Decency in Advertising”. They may not have known it then but they were, in effect, enshrining the very same idea.How so? And why does this settle the issue of the gains/losses experienced by advertisers in the current contretemps?Decency is the bridge bridge which connects McLuhan’s medium/message assertion with brand safety. At every level of our nested hierarchy, we encountered a persistent paradox. We were drawn irresistibly to what the medium wanted to share with us. And yet, it also felt like the nagging discomfort of a pebble in our sneakers. The problem with the pleasure principle, by definition, is that it is transient. Pain, conversely, is relentless, persistent.Advertisers, unaware of the immutable law of unintended consequence, were tantalising the sensate. And infuriating the subliminal.There will be another day to advertise and drive those throngs to your brands. Consider yourself lucky. You dodged the bullet.Paritosh Joshi is a media professional with a keen interest in audience measurementThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-suspension-of-ipl-and-idea-of-decency-101620303112422.html
06-05-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: The dream of a modern India is dying||It is a conversation I have had with so many people over the last fortnight that I know how it will go as soon as they started speaking. Usually, the conversation is with young people or with those in what we might call early middle age (35 to 45).They all say the same thing: there is no hope for India. Things will never get better.They cannot see themselves as having a future in this country. If they are young, they talk about wanting to raise a family outside this environment. If they are older they talk about pulling their children out of school and trying to make new lives in Dubai, Australia, Singapore or wherever.I will be honest. Even before the current spate of conversations began, I had heard similar things before.But there was a difference. Most of the people who told me that they were ready to leave were Muslims.They no longer felt wanted in this country, they said. On Twitter and other social media, there was so much abuse and prejudice that they felt physically assaulted by the bigots. At every election campaign, Hindus would be asked, either in coded phrases or more directly, to hate Muslims and to unite under a communal cause.Eventually, for worried Muslims, it boiled down to one thing: did they really want to condemn their children to life in a country where politicians won power by demonising their community?I would tell my Muslim friends to be patient. This was a phase, I would say. The majority of Hindus did not think of Muslims as fanatics and closet Pakistanis. There is a circle to everything. The bigotry will fade. The mood will change.But now, it is not just the Muslims who are eager to leave. It is middle class Hindus; usually Hindus with impressive educational qualifications and good jobs. They have bought houses here; they have advanced in their careers.And still, they are prepared to walk away from it all and start all over again.Many people of my generation faced this kind of choice when we were young. Several of us chose to work abroad. And the generation after us found that they were even more attracted by the West. They left India, found good jobs, and made new lives. (And many of them now run I-Support-Modi groups from the safe distance of New Jersey or wherever.)But enough of us stayed. When I finished university in 1979, India was not yet the economic success story it would become after the 1991 reforms. We would all have made much more money if we had stayed on abroad.We came back anyway. Partly because we believed in India. And partly because this was home. This is where we felt the most comfortable.For years and years I would quote the example of myself and my friends to young Indians who didn’t want to come back. You can always build a life in India.We managed. Why can’t you?I no longer say those things.My assurances to Muslims, terrified by the hatred and bigotry they see in today’s India, have begun to ring hollow. And now, I don’t know what to say to the young Hindu professionals who want to emigrate.The reasons they give can be compelling. They see no hope in our political scene. The middle class has always been suspicious of politicians. But now, that suspicion has translated into sheer disgust.Everyone I know recognises that all societies risk being overwhelmed by Pandemics. But most civilised societies still find ways to cope or to prepare themselves. In India, we have done neither.Take the vaccination program. Everyone knows that vaccines offer the best protection against Covid. We also know that we are among the world’s largest producers of vaccines. And that the Serum Institute was one of the first major producers to get the rights to the Oxford vaccine.So how much of a genius do you need to be to screw that up?Well, you need to work for this government.As has now been established, we refused to order enough vaccines. We turned away or held off other global vaccine suppliers who were offering vaccines (that had already been approved in other countries) out of a sense of ego and stupidity.When we ran out of vaccines, our government first told lies and then eventually reversed all its old positions, finally ordering new vaccines and urging all the manufacturers it had rebuffed to sell us vaccines.By then, thousands of people were dying.So what happened to the guys who condemned Indians to death with their egos and their stupidity?Nothing. They still run the show.Educated Indians see this and they begin to wonder: what kind of government is this? How can the system so cheerfully condemn people to death?Then, there is the oxygen crisis. Yes, demand for oxygen has shot up. It is understandable that it may take a little time for production to expand to handle the increased demand.But how long?We don’t know. Rather than give answers, the government is busy fighting for its right not to supply oxygen in the courts. And yes, once again people die. Not from Covid. But from the failure of the state to give them oxygen.At times like this, people look for some sign that politicians are listening. What they find instead is that they are busy holding super spreader rallies while fighting communalised election campaigns. The Election Commission which should keep a watch on this dangerous, hate-filled madness is the government’s poodle.I could go on. The permission to hold the Kumbh Mela because, as the Chief Minister of the State where it was held said, Mother Ganga would protect them.(He got Covid.) The sad spectacle of the Health Minister bowing and scraping before Ramdev and his dodgy “Covid medicine ”. The gathering at the Baliyadev Temple at Sanand Gujarat where thousands gathered in a Kumbh-like crowd because the local priest told them that Covid was only happening because the gods were angry. Now the crowds would propitiate them.Not only has the system failed but we have regressed to becoming a hate-filled, medieval society where we take pride in superstition and celebrate prejudice.Are you surprised that people don’t want to bring their children up here?What’s worse is the sense of desperation. Nobody can see a way out. Despite the Bengal Election defeat most people believe that there is no real challenge to the present political establishment. They don’t believe the Congress can win elections and they see many more years of the present dispensation.As much as I no longer feel able to dissuade people from wanting to leave, I pray each day for some sign of hope. Maybe our politicians will become more inclusive. Maybe we will throw out the arrogant duffers who did not order vaccines and now lie and claim that oxygen is easily available. Maybe our politicians will finally think about India and not about elections, and vainglorious constructions in the centre of Delhi.Perhaps this will happen. Perhaps it won’t.But either way, what is happening today is a betrayal of hope and a slap in the face of the dream that was a modern progressive India.We will beat Covid eventually. But by then thousands more will have lost their lives. Thousands of others, our best and brightest, will have left the country.And the dream is dying.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-the-dream-of-a-modern-india-is-dying-101620285742981.html
06-05-2021||Today's||In India’s Covid war, the role of the fauj||India’s Covid-19 crisis and the extraordinary surge in the second wave have become a matter of global concern. Public policy experts have offered professional advice based on their own national experiences. In a recent interview with The Indian Express, Anthony S Fauci, the chief medical adviser to the president of the United States, compared the current public health challenge to a war and referred to the Indian military. He noted: “What is the role of the (Indian) military? Can the military come in and help?” Fauci added: “You should think of this, in some respects, like a war. The enemy is the virus. It is almost like wartime because it’s an emergency.”Since the pandemic was acknowledged as a major national challenge in March 2020, the Indian military has been providing “aid to civil power” in a variety of ways. When the virus was spreading slowly last year, the fauj helped set up quarantine facilities and assisted in the evacuation of Indian citizens stranded abroad. Special military medical teams were also sent to some neighbouring nations to help establish Covid-testing facilities.In recent weeks, when the virulence of the second wave called for emergency measures, transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force ferried much-needed oxygen and other medical supplies from donor nations. The Indian Navy carried medical supplies from the neighbourhood. The Indian Army, which has the largest footprint across the nation, created dedicated Covid-19 facilities for civilians, and military medical personnel are at the forefront in hospitals set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also met with the military top brass and emergency measures have been put in place to enable the military to provide assistance to the Covid-19-afflicted. However, while recognising the contribution of the military to India’s Covid-19 effort, the answer to Fauci’s query (can the military come in and help?) is yes — but only when such help is sought by the civilian government. Every nation evolves its civil-military template — and it is important that this balance is not upset. The military must and will help, but it cannot be suddenly expected to fill in all the deficits caused by entirely avoidable policy mistakes of the civilian domain. The primary role of the military is to safeguard national integrity, counter territorial challenges and prepare for war to deter any adventurism. The past year has been particularly taxing for the Indian military — China’s incursions across the Line of Actual Control, and the subsequent Galwan setback, occurred due to the pandemic-induced disruption of the Army’s annual deployment in Ladakh.The Covid-19 tsunami is expected to continue in India till at least the end of May, and remain an issue of concern for the rest of the year. Hence maximising the institutional capacity of the military in the war against Covid-19, without diluting its primary operational orientation, in the backdrop of a resource crunch, is the task ahead for the Indian political and defence leadership. The military’s core characteristics are professional competence, innovation in the face of adversity, proven organisational acumen and a deeply ingrained spirit of selfless service. Add to this the intrinsic training ethos of the military and some policy options can be identified.A key immediate, and medium-term, Covid-19 management objective for India will be to create across-the- broad capacity to avoid the kind of tragic situation of today, most visible in oxygen shortages. Only last week, to address the dire shortage of oxygen in Agra district, the local army and air force helped the district administration set up a new oxygen plant that was completed in a record seven days. Further, the army’s technical corps, the electronics and mechanical engineers (EME) in Agra, repaired a local oxygen manufacturing unit that was non-operational for a few years. It has now been entrusted with a similar task to repair a plant in Saifai. Policymakers must think about whether this kind of civilian-military partnership to boost oxygen production can be replicated on a wider scale and under what conditions. The next Covid-19 crisis for India will be a shortage of trained medical staff — doctors-nurses-paramedics. A large number of under trainees are in the final stages of completing their courses in medical colleges, and the military can play a role in bringing them into the mainstream with focused and rigorous final grooming — in a matter of weeks. Just as the Indian military had trained thousands of young citizens in the mid-1960’s in a warlike environment, it can significantly augment medical human resources capacity. A few high-risk, meagre infrastructure districts can be entrusted to the military for relief and can be scaled up judiciously. Further, the community of retired military veterans is a large, disciplined pool and can be encouraged to join the effort. They can be pulled in for the tasks of coordination, logistics management, and direct medical assistance in the case of trained personnel, among other measures.But all such initiatives will need careful planning, based on envisioning an effective role for the military in pandemic management. Exploiting the military for short-term political advantage and optics (for instance, the location of the first set of DRDO hospitals in Varanasi, Lucknow and Ahmedabad have generated questions) must be avoided. When the death toll is moving towards half a million, the situation, alas, is grim and warlike, requiring all of India’s institutions to weigh in.C Uday Bhaskar is the director of Society for Policy Studies The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-s-covid-war-the-role-of-the-fauj-101620131297517.html
