13-05-2021||Today's||The Taste With Vir | Coronavirus Pandemic India: Telling lies about vaccines||It is now generally accepted that we have screwed up our vaccination drive. Even writers and public figures who are not unsympathetic to the BJP have complained about the failure of the vaccine program.It matters because vaccines are the best weapon we have to fight the Covid Pandemic. We have always known this. And yet, we misused the vaccine drive for political purposes, did not order enough vaccines and are now in a situation where --- because vaccines cannot be bought off the shelf --- we have to wait months to find a solution to the crisis.Even then, we will be too late. Most vaccines have two doses taken around a month or more apart. For immunity to properly kick in, it takes another two weeks. So assume we do get more vaccines by July (as the government claims), it will only give those vaccinated immunity in September.The government’s defenders realise that this is where its incompetence is hardest to justify. So a campaign of untruths has been launched to justify the failures. Almost all of the claims made on the government’s behalf are lies or exaggerations.Here is the truth.Claim: This is no shortage. Non-BJP states have messed up the distribution.Truth: This claim was advanced by the Health Minister and then, shockingly echoed by his officials who are supposed to be apolitical. On social media, trolls used it to attack Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.We know now for sure that this claim is an outright lie because the shortages have been reported across most states including those ruled by the BJP.Since the shortage has become undeniable, the government has been forced to stop blaming Thackeray and other Chief Ministers.ALSO READ | The Taste with Vir: The dream of a modern India is dyingClaim: More recently, the BJP’s IT Cell has blamed the crisis on vaccine hesitancy. Everything would have been fine if there had been no hesitancy we are told.Truth: This is nonsense. Yes, there is vaccine hesitancy all over the world, most notably in the United States. The consequence of vaccine hesitancy is that vaccines lie around unused. This happened in the US.In India, the opposite is true. If we had a lot of vaccine hesitancy, we would have no shortage of vaccines. In fact, we face a huge shortage.Even a ten-year-old (though possibly not JP Nadda who has advanced this lie) can see the contradiction in saying: “People did not take the vaccine which is why we ran out of it.”Claim: The opposition discouraged people from taking the vaccine.Truth: This is based on questions about Covaxin, the vaccine developed by the government (through ICMR) and Bharat Biotech. Covaxin was approved without the third stage trials that are considered mandatory for all vaccines. It was perfectly legitimate to ask why the process had been short-circuited.The government responded by saying that this was a crisis so we could dispense with full testing. Well, maybe. But why not extend that same principle to other vaccines? There were several internationally-approved vaccines that were not given the same easy ride and some ultimately gave up seeking approval in India, or were kept hanging on.If you can dispense with full testing because this is a crisis , then why not extend the same principle to the world’s leading vaccines?Claim: The Opposition opposed ‘India’s own vaccines.’Truth: It is this stuff about “India’s own vaccine” which has got us into this mess. Vaccines are meant to save lives, not promote a political agenda.Yet, from the very beginning our vaccine program has been politicised. In July 2020, the Director of ICMR directed that Covaxin (which ICMR had partnered) should be ready for launch on August 15.This is not how vaccines are tested or approved so the intention clearly was to have a vaccine ready by the time the Prime Minister made his Independence Day speech.Of course the deadline was unrealistic and it did not happen but it offers one indication of how organisations like the ICMR had already become tools of the government’s propaganda program.Then, the Prime Minister decided to announce that our success in developing two vaccines was a symbol of an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. We were told that India would handle the crisis with Indian vaccines.Apart from the naked attempt to win political points from what should have been a life-saving exercise, the statement was also untrue. The vaccine made by Serum Institute was developed by Oxford University and licensed to AstraZeneca. Calling it an Indian vaccine is like saying Coca Cola is a symbol of an Atmanirbhar Bharat because it is bottled in India.Next, eager to associate the government with the vaccination program, the Prime Minister’s photo was put on every vaccination certificate. This is unprecedented in a democratic country (Boris Johnson does not put his photo on these things, nor do Joe Biden or even Imran Khan).It was done because, from the start, the vaccine program had a clear agenda: identify the government with a self-reliant Indian vaccine.It wasn’t the Opposition that played politics with the vaccine program. It was the BJP.ALSO READ | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: The slow death of hopeClaim: It was not possible for us to procure vaccines from abroad.Truth: Actually, it was. But to have done so would have conflicted with the essence of the Atmanirbhar Bharat approach. As far back as November 2020, the Health Minister doubted the ability of Pfizer to manufacture its vaccine in India and declared proudly that “India may not need them”. It was also possible to have procured the Sputnik V Vaccine but we refused to rush ahead.As the crisis has mounted, that position has been junked. We are now talking to Pfizer, importing Sputnik and looking for more foreign vaccines. Unfortunately, this cannot be done at the last minute. If we had ordered more vaccines from foreign manufacturers at the time where the Health Minister was saying we did not need Pfizer, we would not be in this mess today.Claim: The export of vaccines has helped India’s global image.Truth: Has it? Many of the countries we so generously gave vaccines to are now preventing Indians from even selling foot on their territory. The latest is the Maldives which banned all Indians visitors this week.Clearly, the export of vaccines was a political gesture. Even though some of the exports were under the Serum Institute’s obligation to send the AstraZeneca vaccine to other countries, the government clubbed these with its own gifts of vaccines and claimed India had become the world’s vaccine supplier. The initiative was always linked to the Prime Minister personally.In March, the Health Minister declared “Unlike other countries, we have a steady supply of vaccines,” adding the mandatory praise of the Prime Minister: “We are fortunate to have a global leader who insisted that vaccines should be provided.”The Foreign Minister (who really should know better) declared that we were able to give away these vaccines because we had managed Covid so well because our success “resulted from the Prime Minister’s leadership.”Claim: In any case, we only exported a small number of vaccines.Truth: That’s a lie. The Indian Express has calculated that we exported so many vaccines that (at the current rate) we could have inoculated nationwide for 30 days. Put another way, we exported enough to vaccinate the entire adult population of Delhi and Mumbai with the full two doses.Small amount, etc.?Claim: What can India do? Production capacity is limited.Truth: Indeed it is. But we knew that right from the beginning.We were told (and believed) that India supplies 60 per cent of the world’s vaccines. This is misleading for two reasons. First the figure is based on a different statistic: that India supplies 60 per cent of the vaccines that UNICEF uses. This may be true. But UNICEF is not the whole world.Secondly, we produce nowhere near 60 per cent of the world’s Covid vaccines. Facilities making other vaccines cannot be transformed overnight to those required for say, Covishield. That takes time and money. We did not bother to stump up the money or act in time.So, even at the beginning of the pandemic it was clear to anybody who had done 6th standard arithmetic that we did not have the domestic capacity to vaccinate our adult population.We could have expanded capacity. The Serum Institute had been asking for funds to do that. For all the patriotic hype about Covaxin, it has a tiny production compared to Serum Institute’s capacity. We could have easily licensed other manufacturers to make Covaxin.We did no such thing.Claim: It is the fault of the states for asking for a liberalised vaccine procurement regime.Truth: This is a red herring. We had run short of vaccines long before we involved the states in procurement.Claim: The Prime Minister bowed to pressure and allowed all adults to be eligible for the vaccine. It is the fault of those who put pressure on him.Truth: The poor dear! The fact is that the Prime Minister is a strong leader. He doesn’t bow to pressure from anyone. He has refused to sack the idiots who got us into this mess. He has refused to admit to any failings in the program. He has ignored the furore over Central Vista.But on this one issue, his nerve failed him and the poor man gave in?Yeah, sure.Even if he was responding to pressure (Ha!) this was still his decision. He expanded the eligibility criteria when there were not enough vaccines.As he must have known.Claim: Nobody could have predicted the Second Wave which is why we don’t have enough vaccines.Truth: Actually no. Even if there was no Second Wave, we were still intending to vaccinate our adult population. And we would still have run out of vaccines.Besides, the Second Wave was not unexpected. The UK, which recognised that it had a dangerous new variant locked down and stepped up vaccination when its Second Wave was beginning to hit. In India we failed to identify our new variant, then denied its existence for too long and then ran out of vaccines.Claim: The world has appreciated our handling of the pandemic.Truth: Nobody has. The general consensus, summed up Dr. Anthony Fauci, is that we let our guard down, became smug and let the Second Wave kill off so many of our people.We screwed up because our vaccine program is in the hands of pompous, incompetent idiots and the government put politics and image-building over the lives of Indians.And so, people died.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-coronavirus-pandemic-india-telling-lies-about-vaccines-101620903351944.html
13-05-2021||Today's||Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the Night of Power||In the early 1980s, Pakistani dictator General Zia ul-Haq was ostracised by the Gulf Arabs for executing his predecessor Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. His strategy was to go to Mecca on the Lailat al-Qadr, the “Night of Power”, in Holy Ramadan. He knew that the Saudi King and senior Al-Sauds would all be there and could hardly refuse his request to pray together on this auspicious occasion. This networking tactic got him rehabilitated in Saudi Arabia and became an enduring tradition of Pakistani diplomacy.Nearly four decades later, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, facing a similar cold-shoulder from Saudi Arabia, has followed General Zia’s footsteps to Mecca on the Lailat al-Qadr last Friday, albeit with mixed results.Indeed, Pakistan-Saudi relations have lately been at their lowest since the 1980s, as both sides pursue a nationalistic agenda, taking the other side for granted. In 2015, Pakistan declined to join the Saudi-led military coalition against Yemen’s al-Houthi militia, infuriating Riyadh. In 2018, the Saudis upbraided Khan for conspiring to challenge Riyadh’s Islamic order. In August 2020, Pakistan felt frustrated at Riyadh not willing to organise a high-level Islamic meeting to condemn India’s effective abrogation of Article 370 and threatened to go along with Saudi’s rivals. The Saudi riposte was to seek payment of a $1 billion loan from Pakistan. ​Imran Khan’s visit to Saudi Arabia from May 7 to 9 needs to be analysed against this backdrop. Pakistan’s army chief, General QJ Bajwa, two days earlier, averred to both the importance of the visit and hinted at a military quid pro quo. The visit had good but limited optics. Although PM Khan was welcomed at the airport by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS), he was not received by King Salman. Both sides agreed, in a key agreement, to establish Saudi-Pakistan Supreme Coordination Council to be co-chaired by the Saudi Crown Prince and Pakistani PM, mirroring a similar body with India, with which Pakistan seeks parity, although its bilateral engagements are smaller. In 2019-20, for instance, Pakistan-Saudi trade was $2.18 billion, or less than 1/15th of India’s $33.09 billion. Also Read | In the India-Pakistan detente, the role of UAE and Saudi ArabiaThe joint statement after the visit shows attempts at mutual accommodation. Pakistan condemned al-Houthis and the Saudis reciprocated by praising Pakistani “facilitative role” in Afghanistan. The statement was, however, conspicuously silent on several common concerns, such as Iran (Saudi’s bête noir, but Pakistan’s neighbour), and Gulf security (where Islamabad tries to fit in).The statement mentioned Pakistan-India ties, but only at the end of the regional issues. It registers MBS welcoming the recent Indo-Pak ceasefire, adding, “The two sides emphasized the importance of dialogue between Pakistan and India to resolve the outstanding issues between the two countries, especially Jammu and Kashmir dispute, to ensure peace and stability in the region.” By avoiding the usage of the usual Pakistani lexicon on Kashmir, Saudis seem to have succeeded not only in steering clear of the Indian sensitivities but also created a new and more pragmatic template for Pakistan’s position on the dispute.The joint statement is curiously quiet on two issues likely on the Pakistani wish list — Saudi economic commitments and the Pakistani diaspora. While a “framework” for Saudi financing of the projects in Pakistan was signed, there was no mention of any specifics. A Saudi official subsequently put a figure of $500 million for the package, a relatively low number. There was no reference either to the projects, including the Gwadar petrochemical complex, agreed upon during MBS’s 2019 Pakistan visit or any Covid-19 aid. Similarly, there was no mention of the over two million Pakistani expatriates in the Kingdom, remitting £10 billion back home, many of them affected by the Saudisation policy. For Khan, a new-convert to geo-economics, Lailat al-Qadr Summit did not yield the expected Eid hand-outs.Also Read | International travellers will now have to quarantine after entering Saudi ArabiaThis is partly because Saudi Arabia, too, has been hard up. In 2020, the Saudi economy shrank by 4.1% with fiscal deficit and unemployment rising to 11.3% and 12.6% respectively. Besides, Riyadh has to contend with several other challenges — from oil turbulence to a reset with the Joe Biden administration, and from extrication from the Yemeni conflict to containing Iran. To pursue his ambitious “Vision 2030”, MBS has been on a drive to cut losses and make friends. For Riyadh, Pakistan’s return to its fold would be a net gain, particularly as a Praetorian Guard of the last resort. However, after six years of estrangement, it is likely to make haste slowly and cautiously. As an interested party, New Delhi needs to watch the incipient realignment between Islamabad and Riyadh. More substantive economic ties with India have led Riyadh to develop a better, more objective understanding of the Indo-Pak dynamic. Saudi Arabia’s current relations with the two South Asian countries are no longer either a zero-sum game or seen through a religious prism. If anything, Pakistan is on the defensive, and is not likely to get a Saudi carte blanche vis-à-vis India. Yet, it would be unwise for us to take Saudi Arabia for granted. It’s good that recent friction in bilateral oil trade has been put to rest. With or without Pakistan, India and Saudi Arabia have a lot of tangible gains in-store by simply leveraging their potential for economic complementarity. The rest would follow — as day follows night.Mahesh Sachdev is a retired Indian ambassador with expertise in West Asia and President of Eco-Diplomacy and Strategies, a Delhi-based consultancyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/pakistan-saudi-arabia-and-the-night-of-power-101620898190404.html
13-05-2021||Today's||The race to get vaccinated – Fastest finger first||In all the chaos on the vaccination front, one core aspect has missed the attention it deserves. This is to with the core design of the CoWIN portal itself.I noticed it purely by chance as I sought to get my daughter vaccinated. We have been unsuccessfully trying for the last few days to get an appointment. This is despite being tech savvy myself, and having the benefit of having an even savvier daughter and additional support from my office.Due to the fast disappearing vaccine stock at various outlets and the policies decreed by the Government, there is a tremendous sense of insecurity over the shortage of this key commodity even as the pandemic rages and continues to ravage everyone and everything. As expected, the shortage became evident from May 1 when the 18-45 category – about 600 million of our young citizens – became eligible to get vaccinated. Given the extreme shortage, the Government mandated a “ no walk-ins” policy and allowed vaccination only for bookings through the CoWIN portal. That sounds reasonable. The health minister went to the extent of celebrating the fact that the system did not crash on May 1 due to heavy registration traffic ! That was perhaps misplaced, given the vaccine shortage, but so far so good.Also Read | Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panelThe next few days were full of fun and games for those who tried to get a slot. Given the primary design of the portal, the concept of “fastest finger first”, popularised by TV shows, was put to shame. Vaccination slots opened up – at random times throughout the day– and got filled up in a matter of 5 seconds ! Yes, I have timed it. By the time a registered user got through the process of pin codes, OTPs, etc., all slots would be taken. This could mean only one of two things – either some of our immensely tech savvy generation had created scripts to automate the entire process to beat the queue or, very simply, and more likely, people were glued to their phones or laptops with a smartphone in tow throughout the day. It would seem the vaccinations were meant only for those who possessed all three of the following personal characteristics : tech savviness, enormous time at their disposal, and finally, the gift of immensely fast neurological responses! These were the chosen few who deserved to be saved first !This process completely eliminates those who remain on the fringes (or do not possess any of these abilities) from getting a slot any time soon. I cannot even think of the predicament of those of who do not possess a smartphone, or a laptop, or blazing connectivity, or indeed the need to be gainfully employed throughout the day to earn a living.Any hope of overcoming Covid makes it necessary for all of us to be inoculated ; and given a vaccine shortage is certain at least till July, there is an urgent need to apply our best minds to change the design principles of the portal to eliminate this huge barrier placed ,howsoever inadvertently, in the success of the vaccination program. It is fairly simple if one thinks through the primary needs of the population and the desirable outcomes of the vaccination strategy : inoculate all, do so systematically in a predictable manner, and do so without any inherent bias to any segment of the population based on either expertise or time availability or both being a relevant factor.The suggested fundamental design of the CoWIN portal should therefore be structured around the following three steps : one, allow people log in at any time from anywhere and express their preferred centres (up to three, say) in the locations sorted by pin codes ; two, configure the system to aggregate the information and then validate the availability by individual vaccination centres ; three, given the shortage of vaccines, conduct a random lottery to pick the lucky ones. The system then sends out messages to the concerned person with a maximum of again, say, three choices of dates and centres. QED.This will eliminate the problems faced by those wanting to be vaccinated. This will also eliminate the possibility of hoarding vaccines by controlling replenishment of each service provider’s stock. For those being vaccinated there will be enough time to plan their daily schedules instead of the current situation. Furthermore, it will eliminate reported issues with respect to the tech savvier population going to primary healthcare centres in rural districts to obtain the shots whilst depriving the local population in those areas. Most issues of logistics, supply chains and wastage of vaccines due to inefficient intrastate allocation and mismatch of supply and demand at individual centres can also be addressed through this.RS Sharma is one the best tech administrators we have, given the experience the nation has had on the Aadhaar project (under the visionary leadership of Nandan Nilekani ), the Income Tax projects, etc. If he is given the time to redesign the CoWIN system to accommodate the 600 million potential vaccinees in the 18-45 category, it will be a substantive step forward even as we use our energies in fighting Covid at the individual level and organise vaccine availability at the national level.The inherent inequity of unequal economic structures or tech skills cannot be the unstated intent driving the vaccination strategy.Prabal Basu RoyThe author is a director, and an Advisor to Chairmen of corporate boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-race-to-get-vaccinated-fastest-finger-first-101620886549963.html
