14-05-2021||Today's||For Assam’s new chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the top five challenges||Putting an end to intense and prolonged speculation over who would take over as Assam’s chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma took charge as the state’s 15th chief minister on Monday, with outgoing chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal proposing Sarma’s name at the party’s legislative party meeting.He assumes the responsibility at a crucial time, with the state witnessing the highest ever number of daily positive Covid19 cases and deaths due to the disease, with no immediate sign of the numbers decreasing.HT lists the top five challenges for the 52-year-old CM and his new cabinet.Covid crisisAs Sarma was the health minister in the previous Sonowal cabinet, and was hands-on in attempts at controlling spread of the disease, setting up Covid care centres, visiting patients at hospitals, procuring life-saving medicines and all required goods, it was expected he would keep the portfolio even after donning the CM’s chair.But he chose to give the responsibility to Keshab Mahanta, working president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance partner, Asom Gana Parishad. The move surprised many as despite being a senior minister in the earlier cabinet, Mahanta doesn’t have much experience in handling such a crisis and his role as water resources minister in the previous cabinet wasn’t felt to be up to the mark.Assam is recording around 5,500-6000 new Covid-19 cases and an average of 70 deaths a day due to the disease. With positivity rate hovering between 8% and 10%, the state has nearly 40,000 active cases — putting immense pressure on the state’s health infrastructure and all those involved in the medical sector.Also Read | Grenade blast in Assam’s Tinsukia leaves one dead, 2 injuredSarma is aware of the situation. He has already instructed ministers to visit all districts and file a ground report on status of the pandemic within three days. Stricter restrictions have been put in place, including closing down all office in urban areas and increasing the curfew duration to 15 hours daily. On Wednesday, he directed officials to conduct around 100,000 tests daily to detect positive cases early.Fixing finances As finance minister in the Sonowal government, Sarma is well aware of the financial realities of the state. As per government figures the state has liabilities of nearly ₹23,000 cr and total cumulative debt of around ₹85,000 cr. Like other states, Assam too faced difficulties in achieving its projected growth estimates at least in the first two quarters of last financial year, but the state continued to pay full salaries and pensions to its serving and retired employees.Significantly, the CM didn’t keep this portfolio too with himself and gave the responsibility to Ajanta Neog, a former Congress minister and Sarma’s one-time cabinet colleague who switched sides to the BJP just ahead of the assembly polls and won from the Golaghat seat. Incidentally, Neog is the state’s first woman finance minister.Addressing his first press conference on Monday after assuming charge, Sarma said that the state has ₹7,000 cr in its treasury and assured that the new government will be able to pursue its welfare and development schemes without facing any hurdles. “We have one of the best fiscal situations in the country in the entire country. There’s absolutely no cause of concern on Assam’s finances,” the CM claimed.Besides spending on Covid-19 control, the state government will also have to implement its ambitious promises of providing 100,000 jobs in the first year and waiving of nearly ₹12,000 cr of the microfinance loans taken by women self-help groups. It will remain to be seen how Sarma and Neog are able to fulfill them and boost the state economy.NRC re-verification Among its ten commitments to voters of Assam ahead of the assembly polls, the BJP promised delivering a corrected National Register of Citizens (NRC) as per the Supreme Court (SC) mandate, in order to protect genuine citizens and detect illegal infiltrators so that Assam’s civilization “remains protected”.In Assam, as per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971 or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as Indian citizen — a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) updated in 2019. The names of around 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) were excluded from the NRC.Also Read | Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit Assam to meet post-poll violence hit peopleThe BJP has maintained that the updated document is faulty as it has included dubious persons and excluded genuine citizens and needs to be re-verified. The process has remained stuck as the NRC office is yet to issue rejection slips to those left out, allowing them to file fresh appeals for inclusion.“Our view on NRC is very clear. We want 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts. If after that, the NRC is found to be correct, the state government would accept it and take the process forward. But if the NRC is found faulty after re-verification, we would want the Supreme Court to view this issue critically,” Sarma said at his first press conference as CM.NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has filed an application in SC, seeking a complete, comprehensive and time-bound re-verification of the draft NRC as well as the supplementary list of NRC as some “glaring anomalies of serious nature” were detected in the process. The application sought re-verification to be done under supervision of a monitoring committee preferably represented by district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police.ST status to six communities The BJP has also committed to granting scheduled tribe (ST) status to six communities of the state — Koch-Rajbongshi, Tai Ahom, Moran, Motok, Sutiya and tea-tribes, currently falling under other backward castes (OBC) category. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised it ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha polls and it was also part of BJP poll promise in 2016 ahead of the Assam assembly polls.The promise hasn’t been fulfilled yet. Though the Centre introduced a Bill in Rajya Sabha in January 2019 on granting ST status to these 6 communities, voting didn’t take place on it and the Bill lapsed. The state’s first BJP-led government of Sarbananda Sonowal also didn’t take much initiative on the issue apart from creating autonomous councils form Morans, Motoks and Koch-Rajbongshis in September last year — ahead of this year’s assembly election.The six communities are estimated to have a total population of nearly 15 million. While the BJP has been able to keep them pacified with the promise of ST status, by attracting some leaders of these communities to the party-fold and by creating the three new autonomous councils, it will have act fast if it doesn’t want this issue to lead to mass agitations.Also Watch | Assam: 18 elephants killed in lightning strikes in Nagaon district“Our government will try and ensure granting of ST status to these communities through talks with all stakeholders without hurting the interests of other communities who are already in the same category. Our previous government had worked on some ways in which this issued could be resolved and we are confident on doing that in coming days,” Sarma said in his press conference.Flood-free Assam Floods are an annual scourge that affects millions in Assam every year. The state witnesses several rounds of floods during the monsoon season, which leads to loss of lives, large scale erosion, thousands getting uprooted from their home and loss of property. The biggest contributor to this flooding is the Brahmaputra that flows thorough Assam as well as its tributaries.In 2016, the BJP had promised to dredge the Brahmaputra river of excess silt and reduce the problem of flooding. For this election, it listed Mission Brahmaputra with the aim of making the state flood-free on top of its 10 commitments made to voters.The BJP has promised new and scientific measures to control floods. They include dredging, management of Brahmaputra’s tributaries, creating big reservoirs to accumulate extra water from the river, using satellite imagery to identify places where major flooding takes place, and drives to evict squatters from the banks of Brahmaputra and its tributaries.From public health to citizenship, from natural disasters to economy, Himanta Biswa Sarma will have to hit the ground running in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-assam-s-new-chief-minister-himanta-biswa-sarma-the-top-five-challenges-101620995099452.html
14-05-2021||Today's||From UP, a tale of the failure of the Indian state||You’ve lost your father to Covid too,” Vashvi Shukla, a 15-year-old school student said to me quietly. “You know exactly how I am feeling — like I have no security, no one to watch over me.” As she spoke to me, from Uttar Pradesh (UP), she consoled her desolate mother, Savita, whose husband, Abhishekh, a schoolteacher, died from Covid-19 on April 21.Except, Vashi’s father, all of 42-years-old, unlike mine, was quite literally sent to certain death, along with at least 706 other schoolteachers (teachers’ unions in UP say the fatalities stand at 1,000 and counting; the government has disputed the numbers), in an egregious, unforgivable, criminal decision to force them on election duty at the height of the coronavirus pandemic.“Could the elections not have been held online or not held at all?” Vashvi asks me, “Or is it that their dirty politics means that they have no value for human life? In fact, they have no humanity at all.”The abdication by the Indian State, at multiple levels, through the pandemic’s second wave — variously incompetent, ignorant and insensitive — has led to a massive man-made calamity. We are still reeling from the galling, inexplicable, unscientific and immoral decision to have persisted with mass political gatherings and electoral activity through the pandemic.Whether it was the eastern state of Bengal, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi only suspended his own physical election campaign in the third week of April or elections for local bodies in UP, as citizens, we have still not called out the Indian State for consciously endangering the lives of its people.The murderous scandal in UP has received some muted public and media attention but hardly commensurate with the wilful manner in which it robbed thousands of citizens of free will and choice and consigned them to their deaths. The Yogi Adityanath government has argued that the decision to hold panchayat elections was forced on it by the courts.Also Read | Uttar Pradesh reports 15,747 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 1.59 millionBut families left bereft by sudden death — and almost each death was preceded by a desperate hunt for hospitals, oxygen and treatment — tell me the state authorities threatened them with police cases, criminal action and even losing their jobs if their family members did not turn up for poll duty.Among those who died was Kalyani, eight months pregnant. Her husband, Deepak, told me being a teacher meant everything to his wife and she was fearful of losing her job if she didn’t show up for poll duty. With Deepak unemployed himself, the family could not afford the economic risk.Disturbing accounts of threats have come from literally every family I have spoken to over the last week. Entire families have been wiped out in some districts. Aniket and his sister Preeti lost their parents, Lallan and Meena, both teachers, both deputed on election duty.Aniket told me that as his father lay battling for his life in the intensive care unit, he received a call from an administration official “demanding a written explanation, with the warning of possible criminal action”. His sister, Preeti, also a school teacher forced into poll duty, was unequivocal: “My parents have been murdered. The state killed them.”Worse, families that were able to access medical intervention during the dying hours of their relatives, drew from their meagre life savings to pay exorbitant fees at private hospitals. Not only were they consigned to death; they were made to pay the bill for it.Santosh Pandey, whose brother Ramanujan died in his early 40s, says it was as like being told, “Dhakel Diya, Jaao Maro (Here, we are pushing you over the cliff, go die).” As the underbelly of a callous, dysfunctional Indian officialdom stands exposed, different institutions are passing the blame around from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party state government to the state election commission to the courts. “The entire system stands exposed,” says Pandey, asking the imperative question; “If we had to be sent on election duty, could we not have at least been vaccinated before being deployed?”Also Read | All in a day: 58,000 book slots,10,000 skip jabs in Uttar Pradesh“My son sacrificed his life for democracy,” argues the ageing mother of Ashwini Tiwari, another government teacher who died from Covid-19 after being assigned poll duty. “I just want his contribution to be recognised.”The truth is the precise opposite. Elections at the peak of the pandemic did not uphold democracy; they twisted and subverted its very spirit. A brutal Indian State and all of its instruments were turned on the very people it is meant to protect. The same court that declined to postpone the elections has now stepped in instructing monetary compensation to the families of those who have died.“We are not people for them,” says Vashvi through tears. “We are just numbers”.If ever there was a microcosm of the failed Indian state’s response to the Covid-19 calamity, it is to be found in the deliberate carnage inflicted on the homes of the unsuspecting community of teachers of Uttar Pradesh.Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-up-a-tale-of-the-failure-of-the-indian-state-101620994439534.html
14-05-2021||Today's||In its hour of need, Quad members stand with India||As China gains ground in a global competition across the military, economic, diplomatic, and technological domains, the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) made up of Australia, India, Japan, and the United States (US) is finally finding its footing. The extent to which Quad countries can collaborate across all four domains will determine whether China’s designs on the Indo-Pacific will succeed.However, the first order of Quad business is assisting India as it grapples with a ferocious second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. India’s priority is taking care of its sick and getting its population vaccinated as soon as possible. Quad countries — and all of India’s friends — should do what they can to help India in its time of need.While the US was slow to offer needed materials for vaccine production, it has since come through and is providing those items plus oxygen, therapeutics, testing kits, personal protective equipment, and other aid. More importantly, Washington has also decided it will support India’s calls to temporarily lift patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines. The move could be a game-changer for India’s vaccination campaign.Japan, for its part, has provided an initial batch of oxygen concentrators and ventilators and pledged $50 million in grant aid. Australia has announced a support package for India, although Prime Minister (PM) Scott Morrison’s banning of Australian citizens from returning home from India has created a backlash in India and among human rights groups.Also Read | Quad an exclusive ‘clique’, working against China: Foreign ministryChina’s President Xi Jinping has also sent a letter to PM Narendra Modi, offering to assist India in its fight against the pandemic.The letter follows a posting on micro-blogging site Weibo by a Chinese Communist Party-linked account that juxtaposed photos of a Chinese rocket blast and cremation pyres burning in India, with the caption, “China lighting a fire versus India lighting a fire.” The post caused an uproar in India and was criticised by many Chinese. It has since been deleted.While President Xi may view the current crisis in India as an opportunity to thaw relations after last year’s border crisis, New Delhi will be wary of the outreach. The Indian public will look for concrete signs that the Chinese are pulling back forces along the contested Line of Actual Control to pre-May 2020 positions. And even then, Indian leaders will remain skeptical of China’s strategic intentions toward India. Indians will not easily forget China’s border aggression, despite Beijing’s current overtures.While the current focus is on helping India deal with its surge in Covid-19 cases, Quad’s fundamental purpose of upholding the rules-based international order and its vision for the Indo-Pacific is as relevant as ever. Indeed, Quad’s recent vaccine initiative to ramp up Indian production of vaccines to produce a billion doses by the end of 2022 demonstrates its role in providing solutions to the region’s most pressing crises.But Quad has a history of moving slowly — mainly due to a desire to avoid provoking China but also because of the bureaucratic complexity of convening and coordinating among four powerful democratic nations. After 14 years of fits and starts, Quad is beginning to take shape and define its purpose — preserve the open, free, transparent, and rules-based order that facilitates trade, economic and political development in the Indo-Pacific.When Quad countries held their first meeting in 2007, China reacted badly and sent demarches to each nation asking why they were undertaking such an initiative. Canberra and New Delhi downplayed the significance of the gathering and started backing away from the concept, casting it into cold storage for the next ten years.Also Read | US took note of China’s warning to Bangladesh against Quad: OfficialIn the interim, China made significant strides in its military modernisation efforts and used naval power to press territorial claims in the South and East China Seas and extend its influence into the Indian Ocean. It also ramped up aggression along its disputed borders with India, strengthened its grip on Tibet, cracked down on democracy in Hong Kong, and employed both State power and illegal means to ascend toward global technological dominance.It’s now clear that the “go-slow, avoid irritating China” approach to multilateral cooperation has neither helped to moderate Chinese behaviour nor delayed Beijing’s attempts to bend the global order toward its authoritarian ideology.When the time is right, Quad will continue with its work not only on pandemic-related issues but also on establishing resilient supply chains for critical technologies, dealing with climate, maritime security, and providing infrastructure alternatives — just to name a few areas.With so much work to be done, it is imperative that none of the Quad countries bend to Chinese pressure and again back away from the grouping as happened 14 years ago. The misconception that placating China by avoiding collaboration among like-minded democracies might somehow make Beijing a friendlier or more cooperative partner has been laid bare.India is a resilient nation, and it will get a handle on the pandemic wave currently ravaging the nation. When it does, the need for the Quad will be as — or more — important as ever.Lisa Curtis is senior fellow and director, Indo-Pacific Security Program, Center for a New American Security and co-chair, Gateway House Quad Economy and Technology Task Force. She served as deputy assistant to President Donald Trump, and senior director for South and Central Asia at the National Security Council from 2017-2021 The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-its-hour-of-need-quad-members-stand-with-india-101620993960002.html
14-05-2021||Today's||Amma and the women who enable women||With the death of my Amma last week, I joined the hundreds of thousands of Indians coming to terms with grief and loss. Still, I guess, she was one of the lucky ones who managed to get not just a hospital bed but, crucially, oxygen and an intensive care unit support.She put up a fight for eight days before slipping into unconsciousness. My daughters would call her on the speaker phone and Nirmal, her son, told them she would respond to the sound of their voices.Her passing became for me an occasion to reflect on our 27-year-long relationship. I had just given birth by C-section to my elder daughter, when she came to the hospital for an “interview” — swiftly resolved with just one question, the answer to which was that she had worked in her previous job for 16 years. She became a part of our home right then.Also Read | Free education for kids who lost parents to Covid: Delhi CMRenubala Das was solid that way. A widowed, unlettered refugee from Bangladesh who remained unsure about her age, she had come to Delhi with two young sons, acquiring employment, a bank account and a property in what was then called the East Pakistan Displaced Persons Society, now Chittaranjan Park. On the bedrock of her no-nonsense stoicism, I built my career as a journalist.Like so many working women, I depend on the labour of an army of cooks, cleaners and nannies in a lopsided relationship where a privileged employer pays a salary to less-privileged employee. The hierarchy extends to domestic work where the better-paid jobs of driver and cook go mainly to men while women do the more poorly-paid jobs of cleaning and childcare. Finally, there’s the issue of housework itself that, no matter how deep your privilege, remains the business of women.Underpaid and unregulated, domestic workers are bearing the brunt of Covid-19. Yet, to recover from the pandemic’s 2020 avatar when they were disgracefully shut out of housing complexes and laid off work, many now have been “left stranded without jobs or food stock, face severe discrimination and stigma and are combating coronavirus itself,” says Nandita Bhatt, director, Martha Farrell Foundation that works with domestic workers and is seeking to raise relief for 15,000 workers, most of them single mothers, just like Amma.We considered Amma a part of our family, and for my daughters especially, her passing has been impossibly hard to process given that we are still under curfew, still in an age of social distancing, still gripped by fear and anxiety, wondering who this dreadful disease will fell next.Despite the disparity in our incomes, Amma and I were both working women. But only one of us was able to get to work because the other was watching out for her children. Only one of us could put in long hours in the office because the other was putting in longer hours at home. I paid her a salary, but she gifted me the freedom to follow a profession. I regret not telling her how much that meant to me.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/amma-and-the-women-who-enable-women-101620992579192.html
