17-05-2021||Today's||India’s vaccine policy needs an urgent reset||India has four decades of experience in running a national immunisation programme for children and pregnant women. It has successfully conducted large-scale mass vaccination drives for many years for polio elimination. Therefore, there was every reason to believe it could deliver Covid-19 vaccines efficiently; however, the ongoing drive in India is faltering (and even that is an understatement).The initial challenge of vaccine hesitancy was soon replaced by that of short supply (from early April onwards); with the opening of Covid-19 vaccination for all adults in the 18-44 age group, everyone, including those above 45 years, is finding it difficult to get vaccinated. The daily vaccination rate has come down to around two million doses, nearly half the vaccination rate at its peak in April.As per the vaccine distribution formula developed by the Union government and shared with the Supreme Court, for nearly 600 million people in the 18-44 age group, for May, the number of vaccine doses available (to be purchased by the state governments) will be around 20 million (another 20 million will be available to private hospitals). Vaccine manufacturers are not able to supply vaccines to states. The outcome is that many states have either not started vaccinations for those in this age group or have halted it due to a shortage of supply. People are finding it difficult to book a slot on the CoWin portal — the government IT application for vaccination— and there is a real risk of vaccine inequity, where those without access to smartphones and the internet, may not get a shot for a long while.An elementary measure of performance of a well-functioning vaccination programme (or any health programme) is that the people eligible for vaccination (or health services) get it promptly. This doesn’t seem to be happening at the moment and demands the urgent attention of those at the highest levels of policymaking and implementation.A successful vaccination drive is the outcome of assured supply, simplified policies and an adaptive delivery approach. An assured vaccine supply is the first and absolute essential before the launch of the programme. If supplies are limited, doses available have to be used for vaccination of the identified priority groups, with phased openings for additional population groups. All countries across the world first secured vaccine supply and then opened up the vaccination in a graded manner for various population groups. The United States, the United Kingdom and the European Union started to secure supplies by the middle of 2020.India seems to have erred at many steps in this process. It placed the first order with vaccine manufacturers, just a few days before the launch of the vaccination drive on January 16. Nearly 940 million people are eligible for vaccination and the current total vaccine production in India is 70-80 million doses a month. A few weeks ago, the Centre placed fresh orders for a total of 160 million doses for May, June and July, which will be used for the 45-plus age group. However, between March 16 and April 30, a total of 116 million people received their first shot. Even if we exclude a small fraction of those who received the Covaxin shot between March 15-31 (they may have already received their second shot in April, as the gap, in this case, is four weeks), nearly 110 million people were scheduled to return for their second shot between May and July 2021. It is likely that a small proportion of the 110 million people waiting for their second dose would go to the private sector. Even then, of the secured Union government vaccine supply of 160 million for May to July, only 50-million-odd shots would be available for 45 years and older coming for their first shot.Can India be assured of increase in vaccine supply by July 2021? It is unlikely to be to the extent of 150 million doses a month as is being suggested. A large manufacturer in India planned to have a monthly production capacity of 100 million doses by January, a timeline which has now been shifted to July. After all, vaccine manufacturing and scaling up are complex processes and an ambitious timeline does not always work. The situation of other manufacturers is likely to be similar. The contribution of vaccine imports will be marginal to the overall supply for India.In the wake of supply constraints and challenges, the role of vaccination policy and delivery strategy becomes vital to avoid chaos at the vaccination centres. All policy options and delivery strategies should be re-examined and simplified. The increase in the gap between the two doses of Covishield, announced last week, and which was being suggested by many for months, is one such. There are others. Which population group can be safely asked to wait for their vaccine shots? Can vaccination for any age group (18-30 years) be put on hold till assured supply? Some of these are controversial questions – but they need to be addressed.Part of the problem seems to be the fact that there is political decision-making in the areas that are purely technical. The political leadership should give a free hand to technical experts to decide and implement new strategies. The leaders of opposition parties have written to the government to revise the vaccination policy and strategy. This could make the government harden its stand, which it should not do. In the end, all that should matter is whether any policy decision, even if it is a reversal of an existing position, will help in ensuring vaccines reach people.For six weeks now, India’s vaccination drive has been struggling. How long must one wait before acknowledging that what was planned is not working? It is often said that Indian policymakers have mastered the art of drafting policies, which, while being perfect on paper, are poorly implemented on the ground. India’s Covid-19 vaccination efforts have areas for improvement, both in policy and implementation. The government should do all that is needed to make it work, here and now.Chandrakant Lahariya is a public policy and health systems expert. He is the co-author of Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 PandemicThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-vaccine-policy-needs-an-urgent-reset-101621261092043.html
17-05-2021||Today's||On CSR, companies will have to step up their vigilance||The purpose of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is to drive positive social change. India has been at the forefront by making CSR mandatory in select categories under the Companies Act, 2013. Covid-19 has highlighted the need to have a more structured approach, with corporates playing a key role in relief initiatives. But the debate to determine the effectiveness of any previous CSR efforts has thrown up several challenges: Finding reliable implementing partners, monitoring and tracking funds, and assessing their impact. The impact of Covid-19 has acted as a driver for the government to shift from a “voluntary” to “mandatory” approach to CSR. In January 2021, the introduction of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021, brought about sweeping changes, outlining additional responsibilities for companies, boards, CSR committees and implementing agencies. Two key clauses cover unspent funds being transferred to a designated account and conducting impact assessments. This makes corporate governance critical for CSR, putting the onus on stakeholders to maintain the accuracy of records, robust practices and regular monitoring of CSR expenditure. The amendments will compel CSR committees, boards and the chief financial officers (CFO) to institute a transparent monitoring mechanism for the policy and projects, factoring in potential non-compliance, fraud and lapses in integrity.The 2021 rules require registered entities with a credible track record to undertake projects on behalf of a company. All eligible partners need to be registered with the ministry of corporate affairs, and obtain a unique CSR registration number. This will have to be quoted in the company’s annual report.According to an Ernst & Young (EY) survey, CSR in India: re-engineering compliance and fraud mitigation strategies, 65% of the respondents did not have a defined third-party due diligence policy that covered implementation partners. This was alarming, considering 75% said they worked with agencies to execute their CSR programmes. Third-party risk is one of the inherent challenges that companies need to address upfront and bridge the gaps.Having an implementation agency without adequate due diligence can magnify risks. There may be several agencies in the race with questionable track records, litigation history, fraud and corruption issues or dubious affiliations. The process of due diligence cannot be over-emphasised considering concerns including financial misrepresentation, conflict of interest, ghost beneficiaries, tax evasion or inflated expenditure.Our survey also noted that 75% said their businesses did not have a governance structure or a definite policy to address ethical lapses or fraud in CSR programmes. This can be dangerous as the 2021 rules will hold the board, CSR committees and CFOs accountable to oversee and review CSR activities. They are also mandated to disclose the committee’s composition, policy, and board-approved projects on their websites. Further, the CFO or equivalent is required to certify if CSR funds are utilised as approved by the board. Companies will have to ramp up internal controls when selecting, getting information on and functioning of implementing partners to safeguard against misappropriation, misrepresentation and other vulnerabilities. The introduction of monetary penalties can be a deterrent, making it crucial to have strong systems, governance, transparency and maintain regulatory compliance.The accountability of companies has grown manifold, given the additional compliances and strict penal provisions. It is likely to require a significant overhaul in how organisations approach and run CSR programmes. The way forward demands CSR implementation, monitoring, record-keeping and ancillary activities be prominent in the company’s wider corporate governance plan.Arpinder Singh and Saguna Sodhi are partners, Forensic & Integrity Services, EYThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-csr-companies-will-have-to-step-up-their-vigilance-101621261031132.html
17-05-2021||Today's||The role of constitutional courts||Our Constitution delineates both the powers and responsibilities of institutions and those who govern them. This institutional edifice must be protected. If not, those manning the institutions, by their actions, are likely to cater to their enervation and eventual decimation. Today, we are seeing that happening before our eyes. We are ourselves to blame for not raising our voice and calling to attention the malaise that has set in.Our fundamental rights are set out in Part-III of the Constitution. Under certain circumstances, they are subject to legislative curtailment. Equality before the law is a fundamental constitutional premise, prohibiting discrimination on grounds of race, caste, creed, religion, place of birth and sex, subject to the caveat that the disadvantaged may be empowered by acts of positive discrimination.Other rights, fundamental to our existence, including freedom of speech, freedom to form associations, to move throughout the territory of India along with the right to carry on any profession, trade or business, are subject to regulation. They need to be protected from unreasonable legislative and executive interference.Also Read | In Covid-19 second wave, how children are sufferingToday, our lament is that constitutional courts obliged to uphold these rights have, in recent years, often been lethargic and occasionally remiss in protecting citizens from legislative and executive excesses. Any matter before the court, apart from pure personal inter-party disputes, involves individuals and the State. We can assume that in that equation, the State represents power and the aggrieved individual, its target, is relatively powerless. In this context, the largest litigant in this country is the State, as also the most powerful. The role of a court in deciding such disputes must not just be stated but assessed in the context of its performance in recent years.There is no point in having a judiciary in which the judges do not have a liberal mindset. A judge with a conservative disposition is acceptable but not an illiberal judge. Such a judge should not find a place at least in our constitutional courts. A judge with a statist mindset ends up helping the powerful and failing to protect the weak. This does not mean that individuals should be protected, despite their open flouting of the law. It only means that courts should scrutinise the exercise of power by the State on the touchstone of reasonableness, and that the extent of its exercise of power is proportionate to the outcome sought to be achieved. The court must not allow it to be misused to emasculate individual freedoms.A judge who accepts statements by the State without adequate scrutiny does a disservice to his oath of office. The actions of the powerful must be scrutinised to ensure compliance with laws that are reasonable. An unreasonable law upheld by the court itself amounts to denigrating the freedoms we cherish. Laws that presume the guilt of a person, that unfairly shift the burden of proof, that prohibit the grant of bail unless the court believes the person prosecuted is innocent, are laws that are ex-facie unreasonable. They need to be scrutinised.Executive actions misusing provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to target students and those who agitate against government policies should be frowned upon. The constitutionality of laws and actions to prosecute for sedition our young, who have no means or power to overthrow the established government, needs to be adjudicated without delay. Such laws are being openly misused. How else can one justify the existence of constitutional courts, which are obliged to protect the freedoms that we cherish?Constitutional lethargy witnessed in recent years in not deciding matters of great moment with alacrity is another matter of concern. Petitions challenging the November 2016 demonetisation decision have, to date, not been taken up. The challenge to the constitutional validity of electoral bonds, through which political parties are funded, is lying in slumber. The absence of its constitutional scrutiny, in fact, changes equations of power in a democracy threatened by an oligarchic set-up.Also Read | Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5The decision of enforcing a sudden lockdown, without adequate notice, in response to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic left millions of hapless migrants stranded. The nation witnessed tragic images still etched in our minds. The court should have immediately ensured that the mandate of the law to provide migrants with basic amenities was adhered to. A court that chooses to accept the statements made by the State at face value, allows the powerful to act arbitrarily, without accountability.The second wave of the pandemic has shown our State structures to be callous and insensitive. The virus has entered almost every home and the State is clueless and totally unprepared. Hundreds of thousands of people gasped for oxygen for survival. Many succumbed. Floating bodies, heartbreaking stories and the accompanying mayhem have made us numb. The Election Commission has much to answer for. So has the executive. Only the courts can provide oxygen to the system to make the government and institutions and those who man them accountable. That is what courts are meant for.Kapil Sibal is a former Union law minister, a Member of Parliament, Congress leader and senior advocate The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-role-of-constitutional-courts-101621254850627.html
17-05-2021||Today's||Why the judiciary must step back||Much has been written and spoken about the judiciary overstepping its jurisdictional limits set by the Constitution and arrogating to itself powers outside its legitimate domain. The pandemic has led the courts to new levels of overreach in the form of suo moto notice of developments, becoming both the petitioner and judge.The Supreme Court (SC), always called the sheet-anchor of democracy and justice, seemed to have lost its proverbial cool, and reportedly made some derogatory observations, admonishing the Election Commission and the government. Even obiter dicta remarks with a tinge of negativity coming from the bench are likely to make headlines. Therefore, judges are expected to be more circumspect. Perhaps taking a cue from SC, several high courts also indulged in the unfortunate game of admonishing democratically constituted governments.Unlike the United Kingdom, we have a written Constitution which establishes the three organs of the State — the executive, the legislature and the judiciary. It defines and delimits their jurisdictions and powers, demarcates their responsibilities, and regulates their relationship with each other and with the people. None of the three can assume for itself a position superior to the other two, except as ordained by the Constitution.Our Constitution provides for judicial review of legislation and administrative action. But, unlike the United States, our founding fathers provided for only limited judicial review. It was a corollary to their rejecting the “due process of law” clause and instead, accepting the “in accordance with law”, formulation — even though SC has tried to bring back the due process concept through the backdoor because it gives more power and freedom to courts pronouncing on the vires of legislation or executive action.Under the Constitution, the council of ministers is responsible and answerable only to the House of the People. No institution, however supreme in its domain, is above the Constitution and the people. No organ or institution can, therefore, cast itself in the role of a conscience-keeper of the nation or of a superior which can call the duly elected government to order. Courts, in particular, should never be seen as supporting the government in its wrongdoing or as adding fuel to fires lit by the Opposition. Party politics, struggle for power, political management and public administration belong to a different genre, and judges can never be substitutes for those in government or in the opposition.No doubt, the independence of the judiciary is important, but so is the independence of the Parliament, the Election Commission and other institutions. The popularly elected government, which is, at all times, accountable to the supreme masters — we, the people of India — equally deserves to be respected by all citizens and institutions.In the present case, like a superior officer asking a subordinate authority, SC is reported to have gone so far as to have called for data and reports with facts, figures, proposed plans and strategies to meet the situation, as if the government was not responsible to Parliament but to SC acting as a super cabinet.While the situation in the wake of the pandemic’s second wave is too terrible not to disturb any citizen, all the three organs of the State, all institutions (governmental and non-governmental), and all political parties (whether in government or in the opposition), would best serve the nation and citizens by coming together — assiduously performing their assigned role, understanding each other’s difficulties, instead of interfering in each other’s sphere, and shouting, yelling and calling each other names.As far as the judiciary, from top to bottom, is concerned, it has much on its plate which needs to be executed — to prepare a plan and chalk out strategies to clear the backlog of millions of pending cases, improve the justice delivery system, reduce long delays, and make justice less costly and more affordable for citizens.No institution can encroach on the territory of another. For example, Article 124 of the Constitution provides for SC consisting of a chief justice and “of not more than seven other judges”, “unless Parliament by law prescribes a larger number”. This number is now 34. Every time the number has gone up, Parliament has done it by law. It could not be done by SC itself on the ground of independence of the judiciary.On the other hand, in the judges’ appointment case, SC struck down articles 124A and 124B providing for National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC). This was an unconstitutional judgment, violative of constitutional provisions with the court assuming constituent powers which it does not have. To judge the constitutionality of any act, the point of reference has to be the existing text of the Constitution. Also, under Article 368, constituent power is specifically vested in Parliament and an amendment of the Constitution can be “initiated only by the introduction of a Bill for the purpose in either House of Parliament”.The President, the prime minister and all the ministers and, for that matter, all the judges themselves take oath by the Constitution, which includes all the 104 Amendments with the 99th Amendment providing for NJAC. As for the argument that the power to amend is a limited power, the court’s power to interpret is equally a limited power.All this is relevant in the present case because it is felt that things would not have come to such a pass, but for a weak-kneed response in accepting an unconstitutional and untenable verdict delivered by the beneficiaries themselves. And that is why the constitutional way to handle the pandemic is to leave it to the separate organs of the State to perform the functions — and only the functions — they are meant to.Subash C Kashyap is a veteran constitutional expert and former secretary-general of the Lok Sabha The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-the-judiciary-must-step-back-101621168808002.html
17-05-2021||Today's||The new Israel-Hamas conflict is distinct and more dangerous||In the six days since the confrontation began in the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount area in the old city of Jerusalem last Sunday, the Israel-Hamas conflict has claimed the lives of at least 120 Palestinians and eight Israelis, and witnessed over 2,000 rockets being launched from the Gaza Strip and hundreds of Israel aircraft raids and artillery attacks on the Palestinian areas. With both sides determined to escalate, the prospects of an immediate ceasefire and cessation of hostilities look grim.A measured response is not the Israeli style because such minimalist measures do not address its larger military objective — deterrence. Despite international criticism of “disproportionate use of force”, by inflicting a larger price, both in terms of lives and material destruction, Israel seeks to minimise the frequency and intensity of Hamas attacks, if not stop them completely.Going by recent developments, the current round of hostilities will be as severe as the last one. The 2014 Israel-Hamas conflict lasted for 50 days, and Hamas admitted that at least 2,310 Gazans were killed. While Israel false-flagged a ground offensive, the bringing down of a 14-storey building in Gaza city on Wednesday indicates complex ground operations involving controlled demolition.Still, even by West Asian standards, the ongoing Israeli-Hamas conflict is unprecedented and broke several previous landmarks, in the negative sense of the term.One, the conflict is not confined to the Gaza Strip and has already spread to West Bank. During the previous three rounds of violence in 2008-09, 2012 and 2014, when Israel was pounding the Gaza Strip, the West Bank remained largely peaceful. While there were demonstrations in several western capitals and some Arab countries, the Palestinian National Authority (PNA)-ruled West Bank remained indifferent. The Fatah-Hamas hostility was so acute that West Bankers largely ignored the Israeli attacks on Gaza, despite the 2008-09 conflict lasting for 22 days, 2012 for eight days and 2014, for 50 days.The ongoing violence is different, and there are clashes between Israel and the Palestinians in different parts of the West Bank. Though larger Palestinian towns are under the control of the PNA, Israel controls sizeable tracts of territories and smaller habitats. The intersections between the two areas have become friction points between the Israeli Defence Forces and the Palestinians.Second, since the first intifada of 1987, Israel’s Arabs citizens (who make up about one-fifth of the total Israeli population) have largely stayed away from Palestinian violence. There were minor protests shortly after the outbreak of the second intifada, which resulted in the October 2000 riots in Arab towns and cities in northern Israel, leading to the death of at least 12 Israeli Arabs and one Palestinian from Gaza.This time around, protests against the Israeli operations against Hamas have incensed Israeli Arabs, leading to riots in several mixed towns such as Beersheba, Ramle, Lod, Haifa, Acre and Sakhnin. Some of them witnessed violence against Jews and Jewish properties, and a synagogue was torched in Lod. Indeed, for the first time since the military government was abolished in 1966, Israel had to use emergency powers to manage the violence in the Arab sector. The incitement of Jewish extremist groups only made matter worse and several Muslim gravestones were desecrated and there are also reports of lynchings of Arabs and Jews.Three, the Israel-Hamas violence has been used by elements in Lebanon and Syria to launch rocket attacks from the north. These attacks appeared to have been carried out by Palestinian elements in these countries. However, if the Gaza conflict escalates or Israel responds militarily to these attacks, one should expect militant groups in these countries, namely the Hizbollah in Lebanon and pro- and anti-Assad forces in Syria, to join the fight.Thus, Israel is facing multiple challenges, the worst in its history. Even in the October War of 1973, Israel only had two State adversaries; now, it faces non-State adversaries from all sides, in addition to internal challenges from extremist elements within the Arab and Jewish population.Four, the only similarity with the previous violence is the lukewarm administration in Washington. During its three rounds of conflict since 2008, Israel, more particularly, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, was facing Barack Obama, and now has to deal with Joe Biden. Despite his personal association and friendship with Israel dating back to the days of prime minister Golda Meir, Biden is yet to establish a modus vivendi with the Israeli leader. There are acute differences between the two over Iran, and Biden’s desire to tone down some of Donald Trump’s pro-Israeli policies and postures before the current crisis.Several of Biden’s senior officials, including secretary of state Antony Blinken, are of the Jewish faith, but they represent the progressive wing of Judaism and the Democrat party. Hence, their views on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict are radically different from the mainstream Republicans and less friendly than Trump’s.Five, while the international community wants de-escalation and an early end to the conflict, the chances of successful external mediation are not bright. Iran wields considerable influence on Hamas but has emerged as the nemesis of Israeli-Palestinian peace and under Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey is moving towards the enemy camp. In 2014, Qatari mediation backfired and only prolonged the conflict and Palestinian sufferings and other Arab players do not carry any leverage vis-à-vis the militant group. Though China and Russia have been engaging with Hamas, their diplomatic capital is not commensurate with the challenge.The only country that has some leverage is Egypt due to its past engagements with Hamas and its geographical proximity to the Gaza Strip, and President Fattah el-Sisi carries some influence. But a ceasefire will be a stop-gap arrangement until the next round. A real solution rests with the Biden Administration and its ability to earn the trust and confidence of all parties towards restarting the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations.PR Kumaraswamy teaches contemporary Middle East, Jawaharlal Nehru University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-new-israel-hamas-conflict-is-distinct-and-more-dangerous-101621168570722.html
17-05-2021||Today's||For India’s sake, PM Modi must find his voice||Good governments communicate and they do it for one simple reason. Their intention is to carry the people with them. So they don’t simply inform, they also consciously promote the impression we are one. And they seek to do this by delivering a message that can bind the country together. When done effectively, it also wins support for them, even though the going may be rough and their achievements few and far between.There’s also a second truth. Great leaders can find the words that express the resolve or aspirations of their people. Think of Winston Churchill in World War II: “We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender.”Or Franklin D Roosevelt at his first inauguration during the depths of the Depression: “This is pre-eminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today. This great nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper. So, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.”I’m afraid, on both counts, our government and our prime minister (PM) have disappointed us. This is why many feel abandoned and helpless, full of despair and unable to see the flicker of light that can keep hope alive.Let me come to specifics so you can better understand. First, the press conferences our government holds may be long but they’re conducted thoughtlessly. We’re drowned in a deluge of detailed information which is impossible for most people to comprehend. No doubt it’s delivered by well-meaning bureaucrats but they lack the capacity to hold attention and they don’t. But, worst of all, there’s a definite reluctance to reveal the grim truth. You sense it’s being withheld. Consequently your doubts are confirmed whilst your fears remain unresolved. The private news channels rarely show them in full. Last week, on two occasions, even Rajya Sabha TV cut out early.The most inexplicable part is the press conferences are almost entirely in Hindi. It’s as if no one cares whether South India or the Northeast is listening. Their unfamiliarity with or, even, aversion to Hindi is well-known. Is this the time to force it upon them?I watch these press conferences regularly. I learn from them. However, I’m a journalist wanting to find out. But I’ve never met anyone outside my profession who’s tuned in. Many are not even aware they happen. So are they achieving their purpose? I doubt it.However, what truly perplexes me is our PM’s silence. Without doubt, he’s the best communicator we have. He’s capable of heights of oratory and has a gift for capturing the mood of the country. Today, when we are shaken, depressed and some are even losing hope, we need him to give us strength and courage, vision and determination. But he has nothing to say. Indeed, he’s not just silent, he’s almost invisible.But let me go further. At a moment when we need a leader we can identify with, his appearance suggests he’s become a different person. He has a right to grow a beard but is he aware to many it suggests retreat and withdrawal? When we need a warrior, we see instead a Himalayan sage.Now, I know I’m only reflecting my personal views but what else can an individual express? I can’t pretend to speak for others and yet I don’t believe I’m a lone voice either. We know things have gone horribly wrong. We know putting them right won’t be easy. In fact, it will be tortuous. But we’ll only believe we can do it when our government speaks honestly to us. That’s why communication is so important. Alongside that we need the PM to rekindle hope and resolve. That’s why he must find his voice again.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-india-s-sake-pm-modi-must-find-his-voice-101621085047946.html
17-05-2021||Today's||For India’s Opposition, the one big question||India’s national Opposition has a problem — it is a problem that was first spotted in 2014, and then got magnified in 2019. It does not have a leader with the same mass connect, political skills, and public acceptability as Narendra Modi. And till it is able to resolve this question — who will take on Modi in 2024 in what will, yet again, be a presidential-style contest? — the political script in India will be hard to alter.Two events in the past week brought forth the Opposition conundrum. The Congress Working Committee met to take stock of its miserable electoral performance in the recent polls; party president, Sonia Gandhi, acknowledged the scale of the crisis and said that the party had to confront reality. But in the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic, the party deferred its internal organisational election — thus leaving the question of leadership unresolved. Sonia Gandhi wants to quit and get her son, Rahul, to take charge. Rahul Gandhi is in charge of the party’s messaging and strategy, but does not want to take over officially. And the dissenters neither have a leader nor the required internal strength to challenge the Nehru-Gandhi family — and so the limbo continues.Separately, a set of Opposition leaders, Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, veterans Sharad Pawar and Farooq Abdullah, chief ministers Mamata Banerjee, MK Stalin, Uddhav Thackeray, Hemant Soren, political figures from the Hindi heartland, Akhilesh Yadav and Tejashwi Yadav, and Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja, wrote a letter to PM Modi with a set of suggestions on India’s Covid management. At least three of the parties represented in the letter, the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, would like to see their leaders assume national power in 2024.At this stage in a national crisis, nothing is more urgent than a democratic debate, with questions and constructive suggestions, on how India can beat the pandemic. And, so, the Opposition is right to challenge the government on its failure to anticipate the second wave and boost India’s health infrastructure sufficiently, and its flawed vaccination policy. But this is also driven, partly, by what Opposition parties sense as a possible shift in the national mood — visible in independent institutions taking on a more adversarial role, direct criticism of the Centre across platforms, and the agony-laced anger of those who have suffered and lost loved ones against what has come across as an insensitive regime.But if the Opposition wants to move beyond the specifics of the current moment, it cannot avoid the key question which will enable a challenge in 2024 — if not Modi, then who?Postponing the decision till after the elections did not work in either 2014 or 2019, for voters opted for what they thought would be strong and decisive leadership as opposed to a chaotic coalition headed by a weak figurehead — and repeating the same mistake in 2024 is unlikely to yield a different outcome. Postponing the decision will not work because the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does better in national elections than in state elections due to Modi’s popularity, and having a credible challenger is key. And it will not work because just cobbling together state-level alliances, without a clear roadmap of who would assume national leadership, isn’t enough to win over voters (as witnessed in Uttar Pradesh in 2019).And, so, that question will need to be answered now; all other Opposition forces will have to rally behind this mutually-agreed upon common leader; and in the next three years, this Opposition leader will have to expand his or her national appeal, with a conscious attempt at creating a brand and message and following, just as Narendra Modi did in the period between 2011 and 2014.But arriving at a common choice is also, admittedly, the most difficult part.In 2014, the Congress made the mistake of underestimating the power of Modi’s appeal. It did not have a prime ministerial candidate — Manmohan Singh was on his way out, Sonia Gandhi had not become PM when she had the opportunity to do so in 2004 and was not a contender, and Rahul Gandhi was campaigning but was not officially declared the PM candidate. In 2019, Rahul Gandhi was both party president and the party’s star campaigner — and thus de facto PM candidate. In 2024, while the party has not revealed its cards and internal elections may shape leadership possibilities, it will stake claim for leadership, with Rahul Gandhi the favourite to be the party face again.The problem with Rahul Gandhi is not, contrary to what many outside the party fold think, that he is a fifth-generation dynast (voters continue to elect dynasts in India). Neither is it, contrary to what he may think himself, that the Congress organisation is weak and corrupt and cannot carry forward his message. Nor is it that he is not party president — the party can well have one leader in charge of organisational affairs, as distinct from another leader as the public face for 2024.The main problem with Rahul Gandhi is that he is not seen as competent and does not have a political and administrative track record. To be sure, he may well be competent, but voters don’t know it and haven’t seen it. Take the last three prime ministers — Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been a parliamentarian for four decades, a foreign minister, leader of the Opposition, and party leader; Manmohan Singh lacked a mass base but had earned his spurs as a veteran technocrat turned finance minister turned leader of Opposition in the upper house and party functionary; Narendra Modi had been a Rashtriya Swayamsevak pracharak for 15 years (and irrespective of what one thinks about that role, it is hard grassroots work), a party organiser for over 13 years, and chief minister for 13 years.Rahul Gandhi hasn’t led his party to electoral success. He hasn’t been a minister. His parliamentary record is patchy at best. How are voters supposed to know he can lead? Add to this his perceived inconsistency, in terms of commitment to the hard grind of politics, which appears to stem from his ambivalent relationship with power. Yes, Gandhi has made sensible suggestions on Covid-19, but his appeal outside the core Congress vote-base remains limited. And so, while he remains the Opposition’s most prominent face, he faces obstacles in winning across-the-board acceptability of his party, possible allies, and then Indian citizens.On the other hand, the problem with regional leaders is that they are confined to their geographical pockets; that they are still too closely associated with their caste, regional or ethnic identity; that replicating state-level successes at the national level is difficult for any of them; and most of them lack urban and middle-class support. In addition, any leader who begins harbouring ambitions is undercut by all others — both from the Congress and other regional forces. And the BJP is only too glad to adroitly exploit these internal contradictions.Given these difficulties, the Opposition has understandably chosen to focus on messaging and coordination, and left the most difficult question of leadership till later. But later will be too late.To take on Narendra Modi in 2024, India’s Opposition needs to agree on its leader, one leader, in 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-india-s-opposition-the-one-big-question-101621085045428.html
17-05-2021||Today's||In search of today’s community leaders||Where are our leaders?I do not mean political leaders. By our leaders, I mean those who lead us to think, lead us to examine ourselves, lead to a change, if necessary, in our ways. Lead us, not herd us; speak to us, not become loudspeakers; become our thought-partners, not our brainwashers.Where are they?When, with the virus at our throats, it was critical, life-savingly critical, that we thin ourselves out, do not huddle, do not breathe into each others’ nostrils, we saw the Kumbh Mela arranged.Arranged? That will be putting it absurdly mildly. It was assembled like armies in a battle would be, with trains bringing thousands upon thousands of “pilgrims” into Haridwar for the holy dip. They came literally sticking to each other, for our trains are ever smaller than the humanity that swarms into them.Readers from the world of Hindi cinema will remember Harindranath Chattopadhyay’s lyrics in the film Aashirwad. Brahmpur Dharampur; Dharmpur Brahmpur; Mangalore Bangalore; Bangalore Mangalore; Mandwa Khandwa; Khandwa Mandwa; Raipur Jaipur; Jaipur Raipur; Talegaon Malegaon; Malegaon Talegaon; Chhuk Chhuk Chhuk Chhuk…That is how they came to Haridwar and dipped in the waters of the Ganga all at once, getting their bodies’ fluids to flow from one to the other. Why did they converge like that? Did they not know what risk they were taking? Would they, if asked to, jump into a fire? No. But they did precisely that.Where are those women and men in our community – not in our political community but in our human community – who would and could yell to the chhuk chhuks – ruk, ruk, arey ruk (stop, stop, stop)?Newspaper columns, editorials, did, here and there, say that this was suicidal, murderous. But did our sants, mahants, pandits, purohits, babas, gurus, say a word to discourage this? No, they did not. They were silent. Silent as guilt. Silent as crime. Swami Agnivesh, if he had been alive, I believe, would have said stop. But then he is gone. To be fair, I must say here, that some Hindu leader might have done that and, if so, all honour to her or him. But not so as to make counter-waves.In March 2020, similarly, Nizamuddin’s Markaz mosque in Delhi saw a nationwide gathering of Muslims at the Tablighi Jamaat, another super-spreader event which left at least 4,000 cases of the virus and 27 deaths. More recently, at the funeral of a religious figure in Budayun, hundreds converged.Did any imam or maulvi, mullah or shaikh of note say — ruk, stop? Again, to be fair, I must say here, that some Islamic leader might have done precisely that and, if so, all honour to her or him.In all these mass gatherings, participants have come from all over India, funded perhaps from both within and beyond India. They have come with piety, returned with the virus hovering around them.Beyond religious sites, we have the ongoing farm protests. Who can doubt their commitment, their perseverance, their stamina? Who can question their right to protest for their cause? But who can fail to see the danger they are posing to themselves, their near and dear ones and others by being massed like this in the amphitheatre of the epidemic?Unless community leaders speak up, we will not be able to prevent a third and a fourth and more waves, each deadlier than the one before. And we will be bringing to naught the work done by our frontline medical experts, health workers, at great and immediate personal risk to themselves.When after the Chauri Chaura incident on February 4, 1922, Mahatma Gandhi called an abrupt halt to the burgeoning non-cooperation movement, he was being just the kind of leader who is missing now. The leader who sees that something going vitally wrong with the movement or the custom and ends it with one electric ruk, stop.Jinhey naaz hai Hind par, voh kahan hain? (Where are those who are proud of India?)So had Sahir Ludhianvi written in the song Mohammad Rafi sings for Guru Dutt in the film Pyaasa. They were leaders, community leaders. The country thirsts for them.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-search-of-today-s-community-leaders-101621084984200.html
