19-05-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: From zero to gau mutra||It is a quote that still has the power to anger every Indian nearly two centuries after the original work that it comes from was written. In 1835, Thomas Macaulay circulated his now infamous Minute on Education in which he wrote that “a single shelf of a good European Library is worth more than the whole native Literature of India and Arabia.”In terms of logic, the quote has no merit. The Arabs taught mathematics and astronomy to Europeans. India gave the world the zero, without which science or modern mathematics would not have been possible. So, the wholesale dismissal of traditions and knowledge that Macaulay himself did not understand was laughable.Unfortunately, Macaulay’s ignorance and snobbery marked the borders for a debate that rages to this day. At one end was the science and modernity of the West. At the other was the ‘spiritual mumbo jumbo’ (as European imperialists saw it) of the East.Both extremes are absurd. So the task before modern Indians has been to find a happy place on the continuum between the two extreme positions. Until recently, we seemed to have solved that dilemma and found our own place. We agreed that there was much to gain from adopting the methods of western scientific inquiry and of embracing the latest advances in physics, medicine and other sciences.At the same time, even though we could not always offer a scientific explanation, many (if not most) of us retained a (sometimes grudging) belief in astrology. Even if we didn’t want our horoscopes cast, we still planned our weddings and celebrated functions according to auspicious times revealed by the stars. We accepted (long before the West saw the point) that there was more to yoga than imperialists had considered. We relied on modern medicine but did not fully dismiss Ayurveda or ancient Indian medicinal traditions, arguing that western medicine did not have all the answers. Many of us also respected babas and godmen and godwomen even if some of us regarded them as charlatans.This was a characteristically Indian balancing act but somehow we made it work.It is now normal among semi-educated people to portray Jawaharlal Nehru as a man who rejected all things Indian and gleefully embraced the West. In fact, Nehru was a great advocate of yoga. He began practising it in 1931 and in 1952 he moved a resolution in Parliament stating that yoga would be a part of India’s health education.His daughter, Indira Gandhi, maintained her own kind of balance though she moved even closer to eastern beliefs. Not only did she believe in yoga, she included a (rather dodgy) yogi called Dhirendra Brahmachari in her entourage. She consulted astrologers and, it is rumoured, tantriks. And she visited godmen and godwomen.In a sense, this balancing act exemplified the ethos of modern India. There was much we could learn from the West. But it was not necessary to turn our backs on all our ancient beliefs, even if we could not fully reconcile them with a western approach.This balance began to slip when the BJP came to power in 1998 and Murli Manohar Joshi became HRD Minister. I said of Dr Joshi then (in his presence) that while most politicians wanted to make history, he was content to simply rewrite it.When he was not rewriting history, Dr Joshi chipped away at other parts of the curriculum, striving to roll back the frontiers of logic and rational thought. As Jaipal Reddy said memorably about him, Joshi confused “history with mythology, philosophy with theology and astronomy with astrology.”Dr Joshi was mostly re-asserting the sort of world view his party represented at its reactionary core. (Jaipal Reddy also complimented LK Advani for his skill at packaging ‘medieval ideology in a modern idiom’.) But there were enough sensible people in the government to ensure that he did not run riot.By the standards of today’s BJP, Dr Joshi comes across as a dangerous modernist. The party has travelled so far beyond the original Indian consensus that balanced modern science with our ancient traditions, that the lack of scientific thinking in the BJP and the government has hampered India’s ability to move forward in the modern world.At a time when India is being ravaged by the worst pandemic in a century, Pragya Thakur, the BJP MP from Madhya Pradesh declared, “I consume cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid infection. I don’t take any medicines against corona but I am safe.”When there was an uproar, she stuck to her view, “I have recommended these because they have scientific backing. Research has already established it”.You could argue that Thakur is a loose cannon, a wild card of limited intelligence. But the examples of this kind of thinking go far beyond her. The chief minister of Uttarakhand assured pilgrims who wanted to attend the Kumbh Mela that they would be safe because the Ganga would protect them. (It didn’t and the Mela became a super-spreader event.)Or consider Baba Ramdev, the regime’s favourite yogi. Baba Ramdev and his partner Balkrishna have a nice line in exaggerating their achievements. A few years ago, Balkrishna told a TV channel that Ramdev’s outfit had developed cures for AIDS and cancer.Last year, Ramdev’s drug Coronil was said to cure Covid in seven days. That claim had later to be withdrawn but Ramdev launched Coronil anyway, claiming that the drug now had certification from the WHO, though the WHO later clarified that it had not endorsed the drug.But there to launch Coronil was Dr Harsh Vardhan, the health minister and the man supposed to be leading India’s fight against the pandemic.Once this sort of thinking receives political backing, it spreads among the rank and file. Even when it is shown to be wrong, the faithful still find reasons to justify it. For instance, Ramdev’s defenders on social media will now mercilessly troll anyone who attacks Coronil and say that it was only meant to be an immunity-booster (which it wasn’t) and will offer personal endorsements. (“I have taken Coronil. And I am safe”.)Even absurd remarks are justified to the bitter end. Last year, the junior health minister said that all you had to do to avoid Covid was to spend some time in the sun. This was a palpably absurd prescription from a man in a position of responsibility for the country’s health. But it is still aggressively defended by the faithful on social media. The current argument used to justify this nonsense is that sunlight helps in the production of Vitamin D and Vitamin D protects against Covid. If only this were the case, then India’s rural poor who spend hours in the sun, would be entirely safe. But they are dying in the thousands.The danger with this kind of fanatical devotion to the absurd is that it provides an environment where, in the middle of a crisis, people with influence can get away with saying whatever they like about Covid, no matter how irresponsible their statements are.The actress Kangana Ranaut, heroine to the BJP faithful, told her followers that they should hold their breaths to fight Covid’s effect on their lungs. The actor Akshay Kumar endorsed an Ayurvedic product (chyawanprash) that he claimed would advance immunity against Covid. (The ad had to be withdrawn.)But why only blame the stars? Dr VK Paul, the government’s Covid czar (and a doctor himself) also recommended chyawanprash and a herbal brew called kadha for those who have Covid.I could go on. The science ministry has funded a trial to determine whether the chanting of the Gayatri Mantra can either protect against Covid or cure it. Various other ministers have made many more unscientific pronouncements.But here’s my point: We have lost the balance we had reached between traditional Indian beliefs and modern scientific thought. Too many of the BJP faithful believe it is patriotic or atmanirbhar to reject modern science and to return to what they see as glorious Indian cures. To accept modern medicine would - in their eyes- amount to embracing Nehru and the habits of an English-speaking elite. Better to trust a yogi than a doctor.The notion of rational thinking and of proving the efficacy of any cure by rigorous testing has been abandoned. We embrace quacks instead and pass superstition off as wisdom.For a while this was alarming, but not necessarily dangerous.But now, it has gone beyond that. As thousands of Indians die, the government’s health ministers and health officials (the chyawanprash mafia, for want of a better term) make mistake after mistake, the most serious of which was the failure to understand India’s vaccine needs and to order enough doses.All of us respect ancient Indian wisdom. But we balance that respect with logic and rationality. Independent India was founded on a belief in science and modern thinking. Abandon that approach, fall back entirely on the outdated ways of an earlier era and, in the long-run, you risk the progress of this country and the future of our children.And in the short-run, people continue to die entirely avoidable deaths, victims of politicians and officials who, when they should have chosen science, fell back on superstition.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-from-zero-to-gau-mutra-101621426648690.html
19-05-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Welcoming a golden era of RNA vaccines||If someone had told me, when I was working in a lab, that I would one day be injecting RNA into my body in the middle of a raging pandemic, I would certainly have been surprised. But as I received a dose of an RNA vaccine, I thought of the advances prior to the pandemic that made these vaccines possible.RNA is not an alien macromolecule. Our bodies naturally contain RNA. Inside our body, RNA performs various functions. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is made corresponding to segments of DNA in the genome. It carries instructions to make proteins, which do the bulk of jobs in the body.Viruses such as SARS-CoV-2 bring their own RNA and use it to make copies of their genomes, but they hijack our cellular machinery to make their own proteins.An mRNA vaccine works by providing instructions for human cells to make a viral protein like the coronavirus spike. Then the body raises an immune response against the virus prior to encountering it.RNA vaccines fuel the need for speed. Once you have a target genetic sequence, you can put together a vaccine candidate in a matter of days. Conventional vaccines typically take more time and are harder to make.Also Read | When to take Covid vaccine after recovery? After 3 months, says CentreBut while mRNA vaccines for Covid-19 were created and received emergency approval in under a year, the enabling technology took decades. The pandemic provided the impetus to accelerate the process of developing and rolling them out on a large scale.Every single discovery in science has a through-line to earlier discoveries. Major advances in the past three decades led to the mRNA vaccines in use today. In turn, these vaccines will lead to next-generation vaccines for other diseases. In my opinion, there are four turning points that made these vaccines possible.For mRNA vaccines, we can thank a landmark paper published in Science in 1990 which showed that RNA injected into the muscle tissue of mice resulted in corresponding protein being made. This discovery converted cells into factories for making protein targets, paving the way for the RNA vaccines that we have today. However, the amount of protein made was initially low and the RNA used was unstable. RNA vaccines would have to wait a few more years for their moment.A second milestone was the rapid and cheap sequencing of genomes. The first bacterial genomes were sequenced in the 1990s. The draft sequence of the human genome came a few years later. The genome of SARS-CoV-2 was available in early January 2020, a few days after the causative virus had been identified. We now have millions of SARS-CoV-2 sequences that we can use to track the emergence of variants. Next generation sequencing has sped up the time it takes to get genome-sequenced. This is important because once you have a target sequence, you can rationally design an mRNA vaccine candidate very quickly to a virus or its variants.The third milestone was the ability to get RNA inside cells and keep it from degrading. RNA is inherently fragile, but scientists were able to change some of the chemicals it is made of so it is less unstable. Encasing RNA in a kind of fat molecule known as a lipid nanoparticle helped to improve stability and increased access to the inside of cells. Additional chemical tweaks made artificial RNA more effective for the human protein-making machinery.Also Watch | ‘Expedite Covid vaccination drive’: IMA president Dr Jayalal’s advice to CentreThe fourth milestone was the ability to create a version of the SARS-CoV-2 spike that is more susceptible, but accessible only before infection. The coronavirus spike comes in two shapes — one that looks like a squash flower that antibodies neutralise, and another that is like a spear that antibodies are less effective against. From the known shape of the spike protein, scientists made RNA that instructed cells to make viral spike locked in the squash-flower shape. Changing some of the building blocks locked the spike into a more vulnerable shape. This trick was used not just in mRNA vaccines, but also in some of the other effective vaccines.The incredible success of RNA vaccines is paving the way for the next generation which will require less stringent low temperature requirements and actual RNA component. We can expect RNA technology to be used more widely for other vaccines. RNA vaccine manufacturing is rapid, scalable, and cost-effective. RNA is non-infectious and doesn’t get integrated into the genome. There is no vector so immunity develops against the target.Once you can make one RNA vaccine, you can use the same infrastructure to make a different RNA vaccine against a different target. This simplicity is not available for all other vaccine types.Apart for Covid-19, mRNA vaccines are also being created for rabies, Zika, respiratory syncytial virus, cytomegalovirus infection, parainfluenza, HIV, and Ebola. RNA vaccines are not only being developed to prevent disease but in the case of cancerto treat it. We are entering a golden era of RNA vaccines.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-welcoming-a-golden-era-of-rna-vaccines-101621424072098.html
19-05-2021||Today's||From the cities to the wild, the world of bees and human-nature interface||As a child, my dreaded moment walking back home from school was passing under the giant water tower that loomed over the emerging residential buildings around. Why? Simply because that structure was home to some big and menacing honeybee colonies. No effort was spared to get rid of them for the safety of the human residents of the colony.Honey collectors were invited but were only able to destroy a few hives. Come to think of it, they never did wish to get rid of all honeybees – honey was their livelihood. Whenever we saw the honey collectors in their loin-dhoti, jute ropes, leaf-baskets, and smouldering torches, we would run home from the fear of the bees and hail the honey collectors for their bravery from our balconies. For the city kid, the bees did not belong to the urban environment.Decades later, a thousand kilometers from the water tank, I accompanied honey collectors deep into the forest to study their harvesting techniques. They carried battery lights, mountaineering ropes, and bee suits. Rappelling up the trees, protected by the bee suit, the collectors set to task — they extracted the honey chamber leaving the hive intact. A few days before the extraction, they had inspected the hives to select those that looked full or healthy – full of bees and large enough in size – ensuring that honey extraction does not irreparably damage the colonies. This sustainable harvest ensured that the bees were not destroyed, and the honey collectors retained their livelihood. For the biologist, the bees belonged to the wilderness.Also Read | Let’s make the change to green cremationsIn between these two lie our gardens, agricultural fields, and fruit orchards. Here both humans and bees meet more intimately. Here, our relationship with bees goes beyond extraction, it is give-and-take — the nature’s way. In well-wooded gardens, now a relic in most metropolises, bees pollinate ornamental flowers amid inhospitable surroundings. In backyard gardens, it is bees that pollinate flowers. Bees such as the blue-banded bee, leaf-cutter bee, and carpenter bees pollinate eggplant, tomato, as well as chilly by what is called “buzz pollination”. The wingbeats of a bee help the flowers set pollen loose which the bees pocket.In the countryside, the winter mustard fields are abuzz in the mornings – farmers attest to the fact that bees increase their mustard yields. While most of our cereal crops are wind-pollinated, our vegetables, pulses, and legumes are insect-pollinated. It is not farfetched to say that we owe our diverse palate to bees. There are over 650 species of bees, most lead a solitary life and but are equally important pollinators.Also Read | Uran mangroves being buried during lockdown, allege activistsIt has been nearly 25 years between that city kid and the biologist. The “urban” bees are now gone, washed away by insecticidal sprays as buildings around rose higher than the water tower. The collectors have probably changed their vocation to suit the city needs. The “wild” bees, paradoxically, have found saviours in humans — who have shifted from an aggressive method of extracting honey using fire and removing the entire hive to only leaving a small hole in the hive, which a healthy bee colony restores within a week.In this world of rapid urbanisation compounded by intensive farming and habitat degradation, bees are silent victims. Their vanishing underlines a bigger problem that is popularly termed “insect apocalypse”. A study of the effects of pollution from Bengaluru shows reduced lifespan and vitality among bees that live in city centres. Furthermore, rampant pesticide use has resulted in alarming drops in bee populations, leading to what is termed as “colony collapse disorder” — a problem now exacerbated by parasitic infestations, climate crisis, and a plethora of man-induced changes.Our world is incomplete without insects. Just as tigers, elephants, and hornbills represent unique ecosystems, honeybees represent entire communities of other pollinator insects. They represent whole ecosystems down to that fruit on our table, and that makes May 20, World Bee Day, much more than about bees – it is about belonging together with nature.Aniruddha Dhamorikar is Coordinator -Species Conservation, Central India Landscape, WWF IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-cities-to-the-wild-the-world-of-bees-and-human-nature-interface-101621421972612.html
19-05-2021||Today's||The NDA’s seven-year report card||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will complete seven years in office next week. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has gone from strength to strength under Modi’s leadership, India’s polity, since 2014, has also entered an epoch of unprecedented polarisation.The BJP and its supporters celebrate the last seven years as a period of revolutionary transformation in governance and welfare. The BJP’s opponents accuse the government of failing to deliver on critical challenges, the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic only being the latest example. Reality, as is often the case, is complicated.Let us first look at what is good about this government. Being an astute politician, Modi has been extremely proactive in focusing on certain utilitarian, but critical aspects of governance to boost his government’s welfare credentials. Numerous welfare schemes such provision of LPG cylinders, toilets, houses and now piped water connections have definitely helped raise the living standards of the poor. To be sure, a few of these schemes may be rechristened versions of earlier schemes, but even here, the government has been good at expediting progress, enhancing effectiveness and building a political constituency around it.There have also been reforms on the policy front such as a bankruptcy law and the roll-out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). These policies have broadly had bipartisan consensus, and were not implemented earlier because of either a lack of political consensus, often a result of opportunistic politics by parties (including the BJP), or sheer inertia to make India’s governance systems up to date with its rapidly transformed domestic capitalism. The centralisation of political power, thanks to the widespread (and correct) perception that the BJP’s phenomenal political success is largely contingent on Modi himself, has definitely helped here.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae: PM Modi conducts aerial survey of damage in Gujarat, DiuThen there are features of the government’s record that are not so good. A gradual weakening of institutions is of most concern here. A recent study by PRS legislative research has shown that the current government has pushed more ordinances in its seven years than the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) did in its 10 years in power. Many important laws, such as the three bills unleashing radical agricultural reforms, have been pushed through Parliament without sending them to the relevant parliamentary committees. Such acts amount to a direct undermining of democracy, for legislative scrutiny of the executive agenda is an essential pre-requisite of our constitutional design. Independent institutions have also witnessed an erosion in their credibility, largely because they are seen as pliant to the executive.There is also the issue of the BJP and senior functionaries in the government promoting communal weaponisation of policy and polity. The biggest example on this front is the politics around the Supreme Court mandated National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam and the subsequent Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA. The communal tension such politics has created can erupt into ugly forms at any point of time, such as the Delhi riots of 2020.To be sure, India is not experiencing a squeeze on institutions or pervasive communalism for the first time. What has changed is the magnitude of these problems. For the BJP, this has had mixed results electorally, but society has paid a price.These traits of the Modi government flow from the basic philosophy of the current regime — where ends justify means, with the end in question being retaining the BJP’s political dominance. To be sure, acquiring and retaining political power is (and should be) the ambition of each serious political force. But every political victory of the BJP — and today’s BJP takes every election from panchayat to Parliament very seriously — is inferred as a vindication of the means deployed to secure the end in question. A loss is often interpreted as the need to double down on such policies, while victories are seen as a public endorsement of all of the government’s policies and decisions.Also Watch | Modi govt Vs Kejriwal govt over ‘Singapore strain’ of Covid: Who said what Such a philosophy creates a problem because even objective criticism of the government’s policies is dismissed as either incorrect or politically motivated. While politicians might have their own reasons for unleashing a policy and might or might not succeed in achieving the desired political objectives, this does not guarantee that there will not be any collateral damage from such moves. Policy decisions such as demonetisation, the hasty roll-out of GST or lack of necessary surveillance and preparation against a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic (or even the flawed vaccine drive) fall in this category of actions by the Modi government. While an overwhelming majority of independent and credible subject-experts have described such policies as incorrect, the BJP, by deploying its massive political capital, has ridden roughshod over such expert criticism.There appears to be, thus, little room for dissent at the high table of policymaking once the political executive has floated or embraced an idea. No political leader, especially in today’s age, where policymaking is complex and multi-disciplinary, can claim infallibility. The probability of going wrong on policymaking increases manifold once the primary motivation is the associated political dividend. This is perhaps the most troubling aspect of the current dispensation.The regime might be going from strength to strength, but this is neither accompanied by the strengthening of State capacity nor social harmony. As is obvious, any challenge to this tendency will have to be political.roshan.k@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-nda-s-seven-year-report-card-101621420938120.html
19-05-2021||Today's||The story of Indian diplomacy in Africa||With the devastation wreaked by the second wave of Covid-19 being felt in India, there has been much criticism of the government’s so-called vaccine diplomacy. The Narendra Modi-led government aimed to become one of the major global suppliers of Covid-19 vaccines, pledging deliveries to many countries. While this pledge directly targeted India’s neighbours in South Asia as well as Seychelles, Myanmar and Mauritius, it also encompassed providing 10 million vaccine doses to the African continent.There is no question, India should have first supplied its own population before exporting doses. But, in principle, the idea of India deepening its footprint in Africa through a vaccine strategy was forward-thinking, and were India not struggling domestically today to vaccinate its own population, could have paid dividends. Although India has immense social capital among African nations, it has not matched this in material ties, and China’s economic and investment presence in Africa has been outstripping India’s for many years.India’s modern ties to Africa go back decades. From Indian trade with and immigration to Africa during the British colonial years to India’s anti-colonial national movement, and its subsequent pioneering of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), India established many links to African nations.On the one hand, Indian traders travelled regularly to the East African coast, forming relationships with local inhabitants in ports such as Mombasa and Dar es Salaam as well as with other foreign traders, leading to the establishment of Africa-based family businesses, some of which exist even today.On the other, India’s foreign policy ideas after Independence impacted African decolonisation movements. India’s role in organising the 1955 Bandung conference hosted by Indonesia, for example, was a seminal event. The conference marked the first time that Asian and African countries came together to denounce imperialism and colonialism, and affirm their independence from meddling superpowers. It was also the event at which the seeds of non-alignment were sown.Ancient though these histories may sound today, the fact remains that African countries remember their shared commitment with India to resisting colonialism, and shaping an international order that they hoped would be markedly different from the previous era. This combined with the presence of an influential Indian diaspora has meant that India has meaningful, and positive, relationships with many African countries, and a reputation that China is currently aspiring to acquire.In some ways, this positive relationship has paid off. The India-Africa Framework for Strategic Cooperation signed in 2015 provided impetus to India-Africa trade. In 2018, India was second only to China in its trade volume with sub-Saharan Africa. India exported agricultural commodities, pharmaceuticals, iron and steel, and automobile parts, among other goods, to Africa. Moreover, there was significant collaboration set up around food security — for example, the Nigerian company Tropical General Investments (TGI) has been buying machinery for its factories from Indian manufacturers while exporting its food products, sourced from raw materials in Africa, to Indian markets. At the same time, India’s diplomatic presence increased in Africa as it opened 18 new embassies in the past three years.Yet, despite these achievements, India’s presence in Africa has also lagged significantly behind China. Not only does China’s economic footprint in Africa dwarf that of India, with over 10,000 Chinese firms operating on the continent and China becoming Africa’s largest trading partner, but with the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects, China is offering more than simply large infrastructure projects and investments. China is essentially trying to offer an alternative authoritarian model of development to African countries. Its message is that no longer is the liberal international path the only road for African countries to take and prosper.But the truth is, had India’s investments in Africa kept any kind of comparable pace with that of China, it could have made deeper inroads today. Because of the social capital India has in Africa, acquired through the historical, political, economic and people-to-people ties mentioned here, its presence is welcomed by African countries in a way that China’s is not. There is not a whiff, for example, of the accusations of neo-imperialism aimed at Chinese companies. Companies such as Tata Motors in South Africa, Bharti Airtel one of the largest telecom operators on the continent, and the Aditya Birla Group are seen as beneficial for Africa.Thus, India’s vaccine diplomacy could have paid off. Although China has also been offering its vaccines to African nations, there are serious doubts about their efficacy. A thought-fully planned vaccine strategy that prioritised Indians at home, and then turned its attention to other countries would have reaped immense results and delivered a hugely successful foreign policy outcome. Unfortunately, that’s not how it unfolded. But as China is still struggling to ramp up the efficacy of its vaccines, perhaps there may still be a shot for the government to reboot its strategy once the pandemic is under control at home.Manjari Chatterjee Miller is associate professor, Pardee School, Boston University, director, BU Rising Powers Initiative, and research associate, University of Oxford. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-story-of-indian-diplomacy-in-africa-101621342934174.html
19-05-2021||Today's||Covid-19: The politics of patents||Shortages of vaccines and medicines to cope with Covid-19 are the most perturbing features of the second wave of the pandemic. As if in anticipation of these shortages, India and South Africa tabled a proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) in October 2020, for temporarily waiving enforcement of four forms of intellectual property rights (IPRs), copyrights, patents, industrial designs, and trade secrets, in respect of medical products, including vaccines and medicines, for the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19.The two countries argued that products necessary for dealing with Covid-19 must be freed from the encumbrances of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for ensuring “unimpeded and timely access to affordable medical products”.The waiver proposal was co-sponsored by 62 WTO members and supported by almost two-thirds of the members. But, an influential set of countries, including Australia, Brazil, the European Union (EU), Japan, Switzerland, the United Kingdom (UK), and the United States (US) opposed it. Recently, the US extended support to the proposal, agreeing to waive IPRs only on Covid-19 vaccines.However, even after the truncated support of the US, text-based negotiations on the waiver proposal may not commence soon, for this requires a consensus among WTO members. This implies that shortages of vaccines and medicines will continue until WTO members take a decision on waiving IPRs, allowing the production of these products to increase.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine protocol for children should already be in place: Rahul GandhiIndia, which is facing shortages of vaccines and medicines, can do better if the government decides to invoke two provisions of the country’s Patents Act, which Parliament included to address public health emergencies. While amending India’s Patents Act after the country joined WTO, lawmakers had included important instruments such as special compulsory licences (Section 92) and government use of inventions (Section 100). These amendments were introduced by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2001, after the Patent Amendment Bill was deliberated on by a joint committee of the two Houses of the Parliament.Almost coinciding with the discussions in the Indian Parliament, WTO members agreed in the Doha Ministerial Conference that compulsory licences can be used in “national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency”.Section 92 allows the Centre to issue compulsory licences any time after the grant of a patent “in circumstances of national emergency or in circumstances of extreme urgency”. The Controller of Patents is authorised to grant a licence to any person interested in producing the patented product and on such terms and conditions as the Controller deems fit. The provision of Section 92 can be applied in case of “public health crises…or other epidemics”. No one, including India’s lawmakers, could anticipate a pandemic such as Covid-19; the worst case scenario for invoking this Section, according to them, was, therefore, “epidemics”.Section 100 enables the Centre, or any person authorised by it, to use the invention “at any time after an application for a patent has been filed at the patent office or a patent has been granted”. In other words, if a vaccine or medicine has been granted a patent in India, or an application for the grant of a patent in India has been made, the government can authorise anyone to produce such a product in the country. While introducing the Patent Amendment Bill in the Parliament, the then commerce and industry minister, Murasoli Maran, had explained that the government can use this provision “only in the interest of public health system. They can procure [patented medicines] and sell [them] to hospitals or they can give it to third parties” for producing in the country.Also Read | Covaxin receives nod for trials on childrenRecently, the Supreme Court (SC) of India “outlined the legal framework within which the Central Government can possibly consider compulsory licensing and government acquisition of patents (Sections 92 and 100), and observed that the government was free to choose any other course of action it deemed fit to tackle the issue of vaccine requirements in an equitable and expedient manner, which may involve negotiations with domestic and foreign producers of vaccines”.However, in its subsequent affidavit before SC, the government had expressed its reluctance to “exercise of statutory powers either under the Patents Act 1970 read with TRIPS Agreement and Doha Declaration … can only prove to be counter-productive at this stage” since the “central government is very actively engaging itself with global organisations at a diplomatic level to find out a solution in the best possible interest of India”.The government’s apprehension may be ill-founded as the US has recently stated in its annual review of IPR policies that it “respects its trading partners’ rights to grant compulsory licenses in a manner consistent with the provisions of the TRIPS Agreement and the Doha Declaration”.We would, therefore, argue that the government must invoke the public health provisions of the Patents Act immediately. By doing so, vaccine production in the country can be ramped up significantly more than offering licences to scale up production of Covaxin to select public sector units, as was done last week. If the Patent Act provisions are not invoked during the Covid-19-pandemic, when will they be invoked?Biswajit Dhar is professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru UniversityKM Gopakumar is legal adviser, Third World Network The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-politics-of-patents-101621338133750.html
19-05-2021||Today's||A ‘Mumbai model’ for climate action: Lessons from the pandemic||Mumbai is one of 43 Indian cities amongst the world’s 100 most imperiled by climate-related threats, according to a recent global risk assessment. Cyclone Tauktae’s impact on the city could have been much worse. These extreme weather events indicate that the climate crisis has arrived. The monsoon, each year more mercurial and menacing, will likely once again involve widespread flooding and damage. To address these challenges, instead of episodic and piecemeal steps, Mumbai needs a range of proactive measures.For climate action, the city can emulate principles informing its Covid-19 response, termed the “Mumbai model” by stakeholders including the Supreme Court’s Justice DY Chandrachud. Over the last year, political leaders and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have directed resources towards averting a public health disaster. Here are three practices used to tackle the pandemic that can inform Mumbai’s climate change readiness.First, like how Mumbai has deferred to data and doctors about Covid-19, science and experts should guide the city’s climate plans. The BMC must evaluate indicators over varied time horizons: urgently assessing flood prone areas for the coming monsoon; analysing Mumbai’s vulnerability to weather-related disasters and disparities in air pollution and heat between neighbourhoods; and adapting to longer trends like sea level rises and urbanisation due to rural distress. This evidence can help Mumbai create measurable targets about improving infrastructure’s absorptive capacity, enhancing air quality, reducing emissions, increasing public transport ridership, and building affordable and energy efficient homes. This will signal the BMC’s seriousness about improving citizens’ quality of life and safeguarding the economy.Also Read | Coast guard rescues 47 crew members from barge Gal Constructor off Palghar coastSecond, Mumbai minimised some of the devastating impacts of Covid-19’s second wave by investing in testing facilities and building additional capacity of beds and oxygen storage. Similarly, the BMC needs to rapidly ramp up infrastructure to deal with climate-related challenges. For disaster preparedness, Mumbai should secure its electricity supply and build reserve systems for water and power. Guided by data and research, the BMC should upgrade drainage systems and reevaluate ill-conceived projects that only accentuate risk. Building guidelines should emphasise low-rise high density development, mixed use planning and pedestrian access. This will reduce energy consumption from cooling and transportation. Low-rise buildings are also less vulnerable to high intensity winds during cyclones, which are expected more frequently because of a warming Arabian Sea.Crucially, in addition to minimising grey infrastructure’s ecological footprint and emissions, Mumbai must conserve blue and green infrastructure. The Maharashtra government’s declaration of Aarey as a reserve forest and expansion of the eco-sensitive zone around the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary are welcome steps. Studies show that mangroves, wetlands and intact ecosystems are more effective and less expensive than artificial barriers in mitigating climate disasters. The underlying logic of protecting and bolstering nature should be extended urgently and uniformly.Third, Covid-19 has demonstrated how an informed and empowered administration is essential to crisis response. Mumbai must develop institutional capacity so that its officials can govern the complexities of the climate crisis. The decentralisation of power during the pandemic from the chief minister to the municipal commissioner and, in turn, to ward officials will also be critical to climate action. Participatory planning about issues like managing waste and increasing green cover can diminish damage from climate disasters. With incentives for civic participation, Mumbai can create more livable microclimates through community gardens and rooftop farms serving as twenty-first century sacred groves.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae: Bandra-Worli sea link now open for commute, tweets BMCInstitutional capacity will also be required to facilitate interdepartmental coordination for issues that don’t fall within the BMC’s sole jurisdiction and require navigating layered bureaucracies across multiple agencies and ministries. For instance, the BMC’s collaboration with the Indian Railways and BEST to upgrade and maintain its suburban rail and bus systems will be key to ensuring affordable and green public transportation.With its culture, commerce, capital and capabilities, Mumbai’s considerations to tackle the pandemic and climate crisis are unique. These assets should be leveraged towards addressing the coastal city’s concentration of risk in a warming world. India’s financial capital will only be a viable home for its millions of residents and an engine of economic growth if the BMC uses all its resources towards building climate resilience. For its pandemic response, the local administration has eschewed magical thinking and instead opted for consultative, competent governance. Similarly, the city should not count on miracles to deal with the climate crisis; instead, it must build back better through principles of the Mumbai model.Aaran Patel is an MPP Candidate at the Harvard Kennedy School of GovernmentThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-mumbai-model-for-climate-action-lessons-from-the-pandemic-101621336934506.html
