20-05-2021||Today's||Cyber attacks on critical infrastructure: Is India ready?||Last week, a major cyber attack crippled one of the largest pipelines in the United States (US), Colonial Pipeline, which carries about 45% of all fuel consumed on the country’s East Coast. The attack disrupted fuel supplies and caused a surge in gas prices in some parts of the country.This was a case of ransomware attack, where hackers usually threaten to block the system or publish the targeted company or victim’s confidential data, unless a ransom is paid. US authorities have blamed Darkside, a Russia-based criminal group, for the attack, but so far have ruled out the Russian government’s involvement. Reportedly, the company has paid the hackers nearly $5 million in ransom.The attack on Colonial Pipeline fits the broader trend witnessed in recent years of cyberattacks on critical infrastructure which require to be operational at all times such as traffic systems, banks, power grids, oil pipelines and nuclear reactors. For years, security researchers have speculated about the possibility of the sabotaging of these operations. Now, States, keen to settle their geopolitical scores, have shown that such disruptions are no longer a piece of fiction.In recent years, attacks targeting critical infrastructure and businesses have surged. These include the 2017 WannaCry and NotPetya ransomware attacks, the 2015 attack on Ukrainian power grids and 2010 Stuxnet attack on Iranian nuclear reactor. The NotPetya ransomware attack impacted operations of multiple companies and reportedly cost $10 billion worldwide in damages. Moreover, to escape responsibility for such debilitating attacks, many States use hacking syndicates as proxies.Also Read | Irish ransomware attack to cost health service millions of eurosIndia too has not escaped the impact of such debilitating cyberattacks. The NotPetya attack had infected computer network of Maersk, the world’s largest shipping company. That infection led to further disruption of terminal operations, most prominently of APM Terminals Mumbai, at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, India’s biggest container port. This disruption further delayed cargo deliveries and interrupted global supply chains. Most recently, in 2020, a China-linked hacker group RedEcho targeted India’s power sector, ports and parts of the railway infrastructure, affecting Mumbai.India’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) and National Critical Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) have noted several such attacks on India’s critical infrastructure. Last year, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval mentioned that attacks targeting defence and critical infrastructure had surged during the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.This has made critical infrastructure protection a major cybersecurity priority for India.The government established the NCIIPC in 2014 as the nodal agency to work with the public and private sectors for plugging gaps in their critical infrastructure systems. NCIIPC’s main contribution is detailed operational and technical guidelines for critical infrastructure operators to secure their systems. It also brings out the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures reports, which alert operators on incoming threats. Further, dedicated CERTs (CERT-Thermal, CERT-Hydro, CERT-Transmission) disseminate information about cyber incidents in the power sector.Yet, multiple issues complicate India’s comprehensive response. A significant challenge is the inhibition in the private (and public) sector to sharing information about the vulnerability of their systems. By revealing their vulnerabilities and, therefore, their proprietary information, businesses fear exposing themselves and losing a competitive edge over rivals. Critical infrastructure operators have resorted to plugging the security gaps in their systems whenever faced with a cyberattack or data breach. Indian regulators have often complained that this reticent approach of operators and businesses is tactical and short-term, overlooking the possibility of concerted cyber warfare by adversarial States against India.Also Read | UK to help vulnerable countries against Russia, China cyber threatGiven the mutual distrust and vulnerability of public and private sector, any solution involves sharing responsibility through a public-private partnership for critical infrastructure protection. These should focus on building an institutional framework, expanding and deepening capacity, creating security standards and strict audits and evolving a cybersecurity incident reporting framework.India may not have witnessed the kind of cyberattack depicted in the 2007 Hollywood film Die Hard 4.0, which cripples transportation, financial and other critical sectors across the US. But our threat canvas and vulnerabilities are expanding. Hence, only an integrated, whole-of-the-ecosystem approach for securing critical infrastructure will be successful.Sameer Patil is Fellow, International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, Mumbai. Previously, he has served in the National Security Council Secretariat.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/cyber-attacks-on-critical-infrastructure-is-india-ready-101621514744151.html
20-05-2021||Today's||Mirwaiz Maulana Farooq—A champion of Kashmiriyat||May 21 has been a black day in recent Indian political history. On May 21, 1990, Maulana Farooq, the Mirwaiz of Kashmir, was murdered in cold blood by three Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) terrorists. The very next year, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was killed by a female suicide bomber of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam on the same date. And a little over a decade later, another Kashmiri political stalwart, Abdul Ghani Lone, was gunned down by pro-Pakistan terrorists, when he had just finished paying tributes to Maulana Farooq at the Idgah ground in Srinagar on May 21, 2002.Mirwaiz Maulana Farooq was the spiritual leader of the Muslims of the Kashmir Valley. He was a great preacher and religious scholar, whose services in the educational and social upliftment of Kashmiris are recalled with respect. Control over the pulpit of the Jama Masjid Srinagar gave him a large following, which listened to his views with respect and supported him. He was consistent in his propagation of the values of Kashmiriyat, Kashmir’s syncretic culture and communal harmony.Also Watch | 2 Al-Badr terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J&K’s SrinagarThe Mirwaiz first rose to prominence as a young 19-year-old who led the popular agitation when the Moe-e-Muqqadas disappeared from the Haztarbal shrine in the early hours of December 27, 1963. The Moe-e-Muqqadas is a hair from the beard of the Prophet, which is kept attached to a silver pendulum in a glass tube one inch in diameter with a silver top. This tube is kept in a silver casket which is normally locked securely in the Hazratbal shrine and taken out only on special occasions for viewing by the faithful. There were massive protests when it was found to be missing, leading to violence not only in Srinagar but also in some cities of East and West Pakistan and West Bengal.Mirwaiz Maulana Farooq formed the Awami Action Committee (AAC) and made the protests a multi-faith affair, with Hindus and Sikhs also joining the demand for its recovery. The AAC gathered funds and set up arrangements to feed the thousands of protesters. It played a constructive role, urging the public to remain peaceful and also meeting officials to resolve the issue. The relic was finally recovered on January 4, 1964 and even though attempts were made by Pakistan to raise doubts of whether the recovered relic was genuine, the issue was satisfactorily resolved when senior religious leaders examined it and certified it to be genuine.Maulana Farooq played, mainly, a social and educational role though he had political influence in downtown Srinagar. In 1983, the then Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) chief minister (CM), Farooq Abdullah, was facing elections and made overtures to Maulana Farooq to form a political alliance. This was very difficult for Maulana Farooq as his family and the family of Sheikh Abdullah had been having a running feud since 1938.Also Read | 30 years later, the life and legacy of Rajiv GandhiTo end this 45-year-old enmity, statesmanship of a high order was required and Maulana Farooq joined hands with Farooq Abdullah to end this feud. More than attaining political power, Maulana Farooq was more interested to strength Kashmiriyat, and keeping fundamentalist forces such as the Jamaat-e-lslami (JeI), J&K at bay. This “double Farooq” accord paid rich dividends and Farooq Abdullah was re-elected as the CM.The Mirwaiz was steadfast in his opposition to fundamentalist Islam in general, and JeI (J&K) in particular, as its ideology was directly in conflict with Kashmiriyat and human values. When militancy started in J&K in 1988, Maulana Farooq was quick to condemn the killing of innocents, whether by militants or by security forces. He showed the strength of his moral courage in December 1989 when Rubiya Sayeed, daughter of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, was kidnapped by a group of Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front militants.The Mirwaiz appeared on Srinagar TV and unequivocally condemned this act as un-Islamic, and urged the kidnappers to release her unharmed if they were true Muslims. This appeal had such an impact that the father of one of the militants contacted a prominent journalist to convey that his son and the other militants had made a mistake and gave an assurance that no harm would befall Rubiya Sayeed and that she would be released safe and sound at the earliest. Unfortunately, her father, the Mufti, lost his nerve and agreed to release five militants in exchange for her, which led to a serious setback to anti-militancy operations in the valley.The pro-Kashmiriyat and anti Jel (J&K) attitude of Maulana Farooq was not to the liking of Islamic fundamentalists and their mentors in Pakistan. This made him a target, even though he was not pro-India but wanted peace in Jammu and Kashmir. On May 21, 1990, three HM terrorists entered his house in Nageen, Srinagar pretending to be his disciples. They were led into his study by his 67 years old gardener, Gulam Qadir. A few minutes later, Qadir heard gunshots and saw the terrorists running away. The mortally injured Maulana Farooq was rushed to the Shoura Medical Institute where he was declared dead.The HM is the militant arm of the JeI (J&K), and it was later learnt that his assassination was carried out at the behest of the Pakistan Inter-Services Intelligence. His tragic death clearly brings out that Pakistan is not a friend of the Kashmiris and cannot tolerate Kashmiriyat as it is not in consonance with making J&K a part of Pakistan.Unfortunately, India, on this day, lost a stalwart who was committed to the cause of “Insaniyat, Kashmiriyat and Jamooriyhat”.Kulbir Krishan is a former IPS officer and member of National Security Advisory Board.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/mirwaiz-maulana-farooq-a-champion-of-kashmiriyat-101621513123808.html
20-05-2021||Today's||A broken polity, a ghost State||The devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has caused an unfortunate and avoidable catastrophe. It is a crisis like no other in the living memory. As desperate scenes started beaming on television, and social media platforms were flooded with cries for help, India was forced to face the reality of its broken polity and a ghost State. And let there be no doubt — we, as a polity, have been found wanting when faced with the greatest challenge of our times.India lacks State capacity to ensure basic law and order and provide public services even in normal times. There are only 139 government employees for every 100,000 people, excluding railways and postal departments. In contrast, the United States (US), with its “minimum government”, has 668 government employees per 100,000 residents. Most government employees in India work in the railways, postal department, home ministry, and defence, while areas such as health and urban development have only a skeleton of the staffing they need. No one should be surprised that the State melted away when faced with the ferocity of the second wave.Also Watch | Now, rapid Covid-19 testing at home with CoviSelf: All you need to knowWhen did we ever invest in health care? The first five-year plan pointed out the lack of medical staff (doctors, radiologists, nurses etc) as the most critical challenge facing health care. Did we fix it? Despite the massive increase in seats in medical colleges in the last six years, we are still far from it. The apathy to the expansion of quality educational capacity in the realm of health in India is perplexing.India got its first National Health Policy only in 1983. The abysmal condition of public hospitals and primary health care centres is well-documented, and experienced by citizens on an every day basis. Government doctors are poorly paid, burdened with implementing random government policies under acute shortage of resources and infrastructure, forced to double up as administrative staff due to undeclared freeze on hiring in government departments, and treated humiliatingly by the administration. Even political parties that rose to power on the plank of social justice have mostly fared poorly on health and education.Despite the certainty of the second wave, state governments did little to ensure basic facilities such as oxygen supply or ramp up the creaking health care infrastructure in smaller towns and villages. In its zeal to show that normalcy has returned, the Uttarakhand government irresponsibly allowed Kumbh. Universities and educational institutes were asking professors to conduct online classes from the university premises rather than work from home. The judiciary in Uttar Pradesh pushed for panchayat elections in April. The government failed to oppose it vigorously, and the opposition, too, decried delay in elections as the “murder of democracy”. In fact, Opposition parties have been rejecting the push for a virtual election campaign since Bihar 2020.Even till the end of March, it was not uncommon to hear conspiracy theories and the dismissal of the threat of the virus — variously labelled as government-created hype or a grand capitalist conspiracy to restructure wealth distribution and benefit large corporations. In small towns and villages, hardly anyone was wearing masks. Political parties rampantly promoted anti-vaccine sentiments, and many in the 45-plus age group refused to get vaccinated. Marriages were still happening in mid-April in Delhi-NCR, despite the unfolding situation.Also Read | ‘Strategy to deal with Covid should be dynamic, innovative’: PM ModiProtests led by rich landlords and arhatiyas against the beneficial farm laws continued to block main roads to Delhi, forcing critical oxygen tankers to be re-routed. Farm protests and large meetings in the villages were one of the factors behind the spread of new variants in and around Delhi.The crisis has shown us the reality of what we are — a third world country with delusions of being a Vishwaguru and becoming a great power when we do not have oxygen plants even in large hospitals, as oxygen supplier lobbies subvert the decision-making process. Several hospital staff colluded in the black-marketing of medicines, and manufacturers did not hesitate to flood the market with fake life-saving drugs.And so here we are today: Where open post-poll violence in Bengal amid a pandemic is called victory of democracy. Where a chief minister is more interested in spending on advertisements and theatrics instead of placing the vaccine order. Where the Opposition is busy in creating toolkits of propaganda instead of interrogating the government on legitimate issues, of which there is no dearth. Where vaccine manufacturers are hounded and demonised. Where an eight-month pregnant schoolteacher is denied leave from panchayat election duty and dies.Where middle-class incomes are severely damaged because of repeated shocks — a wealth shock due to the collapse of real estate after demonetisation; the lockdown-induced job losses and salary cuts in the first wave; and catastrophic health expenditure and loss of lives in the second wave. Where small and medium enterprises and businesses will find it hard to recover for years to come. And where the rich and the powerful, including politicians and bureaucrats, have learnt, for the first time, that they are as safe as the last person on the street.It is a moment of reckoning for India. We need to start the painstaking task of building a high-end State with a genuine capacity to govern, protect and serve its people.Abhinav Prakash Singh is an assistant professor, economics, Sri Ram College of CommerceThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-broken-polity-a-ghost-state-101621512223792.html
