21-05-2021||Today's||India’s worst offshore disaster was avoidable||Cyclone Tauktae has taken a heavy toll on lives and property along India’s west coast, and while every life lost is to be grieved, the sinking of accommodation barge P-305 on May 17 about 35 miles off Mumbai in the Arabian Sea was a deeply unfortunate, and avoidable, tragedy.A total of 261 workers, who were on an assignment with Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), were reported to have been on board the barge (also referred to as Papa-305), and 49 victims are feared killed. While 186 of those on the ill-fated barge have been rescued by the Navy in very adverse weather conditions (torrential rain, 25 foot waves and 40 mph gales), many workers are yet to be accounted for and a massive rescue operation is underway. Other barges and a tugboat have also been damaged, and the numbers of those drowned/lost could increase.The loss of precious lives could have been avoided if all the involved agencies had followed standard safety regulations and protocols, both before and during the build-up of the cyclone. When the final death toll is confirmed, P-305 will rank as the worst offshore disaster for India.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae: Barge toll now 49, hope fades for 37 still missingOne hopes that the appropriate policy lapses will be objectively reviewed by the political apex and institutional accountability sought. To put it bluntly — heads must roll, and the lives of contract workers who have little or no voice as a collective must not be taken for granted.The ministry of petroleum and natural gas has announced that a high-level inquiry would be constituted to identify the “lapses and gaps” in the system. While this is welcome, past experience has demonstrated that when it comes to matters of safety at sea and the efficient regulation of the maritime domain, the existing institutional status quo — inadequate, inefficient and low on integrity — is the preferred default mode. This is despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal advocacy of security and growth for all in the region (Sagar), in relation to the Indian Ocean, which he had outlined in 2015.Accommodation work barges (AWB) are the equivalent of rudimentary dormitories at sea for contract workers and their living conditions are spartan. Given the high operational costs in maintaining a work force on an oil rig or platform at sea, cost-cutting and penny-pinching is endemic to the off-shore hydrocarbon sector and Bombay High is no exception. In the pecking order, the contract worker is at the lower end of the ladder and it appears that very few safety norms and regulations have been put in place. ONGC and its major contractors are more than aware of the grim, ground reality.Barges are large, flat-bottom floating structures with cramped built-up accommodation, and when they have no self-propulsion, they are deemed to be “dumb”. P-305 belonged to this category, and, with 261 people on board, it would have been very vulnerable to the cyclone.Safety of human lives at sea is a complex responsibility, one that is difficult to regulate and enforce given the nature of the maritime domain and the vast number of seafarers. From the traditional fisherman to the more skilled seaman on a merchant vessel or oil-rig worker — the number of individuals who are out at sea is vast.In the Indian context, there is no single nodal national maritime authority and many verticals exist by way of ministries or departments with watertight silos that are zealously guarded. Turf sensitivities and personality clashes are intense. In the current tragedy, the ministries of petroleum, shipping and defence are involved, and both the ONGC and the Director General (DG), Shipping have direct operational responsibilities. Concurrently, the DG, Coast Guard, who is also the Chairman of the National Search and Rescue Board (NSRB), has a direct locus in such cases.Also Read | Firm that ran cyclone-hit barges says people on board had life jackets, raftsAn objective review of the Tauktae debris should identify the institutional lapses, from the most glaring (unserviceable life rafts on P-305 is criminal negligence) to the most obvious — why was a dumb barge, with 261 people on board, allowed to remain at sea even though the cyclone warning was received a week prior to its sinking? Between DG Shipping, ONGC and the Coast Guard, did the obvious danger to the human lives on the barges not lead to the flashing of amber lights?India has an anomalous maritime sector management pattern, wherein domain competence is ignored and generalist civil servants are preferred for the top job. Consequently, DG Shipping is a position often tenanted by a civil servant with little or no maritime experience or knowledge. Learning on the job is the norm and regrettably, the global standard of safety (of human lives and ships) is often compromised.If PM Modi’s vision of Sagar is to be meaningfully realised, the safety of every seafarer must be valued and the contract workers on P-305 should not be forgotten as the current focus on cyclone Tauktae dissipates. Institutional distortions and procedural dissonances must be set right and placing the entire onus on a “dumb” scapegoat avoided. An independent panel of domain experts must investigate this avoidable tragedy.C Uday Bhaskar is the director of Society for Policy Studies The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-worst-offshore-disaster-was-avoidable-101621592629141.html
21-05-2021||Today's||The adoption process is distinct. Frame leave policies accordingly||Karnataka recently notified an order, allowing mothers who have adopted a child to take 180 days of maternity leave, while granting 15 days of paternity leave for fathers. However, the leave is only applicable while adopting children below one year of age. Earlier, the Centre, too, pushed the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill, 2016, which provided for maternity leave of 12 weeks to mothers adopting a child below three months of age.The sporadic, isolated and ill-advised legislations around adoption confirm once again that our lawmakers neither understand adoption nor the needs of families in adoption. Here is why.Adoptions in India are governed by two laws — the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956 (HAMA), and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 (JJ Act). As per the JJ Act, no child can be given for adoption for two months after being placed in an institution as this period is provided under the law to search for the family of the child; add to this, the referral cycle, foster care formalities and the time to get an adoption order from the court. So even if a newborn child were admitted into a child care institution, it is virtually impossible for any parent to avail of adoption leave for a child below three months of age and very few parents would meet the criterion even for a one-year-old child. Several parents who adopt under HAMA do so to escape scrutiny and regulations. When they don’t even report adoptions at their workplace, how can they avail such benefits?Further, it is fundamentally erroneous to tag the leave to the age of the child being adopted. An older child will need more bonding effort and time. Incidentally, 90% of children legally available for adoption in Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) pool are above two years of age and such provisions virtually turn a blind eye to their needs in adoption.Also Read | On Covid, why the Centre needs a communication strategyJuxtaposing adoption leave with maternity itself is an aberration. Adoption and maternity are entirely different life events.Most births today take place in a hospital and each stage is closely monitored. A father’s involvement is limited to providing emotional care, over and above the plethora of resources available for supporting pregnancy and childbirth. Many of these resources are easily available such as doctors, books and guidance from experienced family members.In contrast, the adoption journey starts for a majority of parents at the end of a journey marked with failed pregnancies, miscarriages or painful IVF cycles. The first time when an aspiring parent needs time off in adoption is when deciding to adopt. Once registered for adoption, parents need to visit the adoption agency a couple of times between receiving the referral of a child and the final court order. This period is often filled with nervousness, anxiety and even heartbreak if the process fails. They are not parenting at this time. Hence, it is unfair to expect them to take a casual leave or earned leave to attend to adoption matters. It is also not a usual court hearing either. A biological parent does not plead their case before they can take home their babies from hospital. They do not travel along with their infant child across cities, to make it happen. Parents need guidance. A part of adoption leave is required at this stage.Then, parents need time to bond with the child. However, the entire leave may not be required at the time of adoption. Most families have reported extremely challenging times when adopted children are in their teens. Adopted children need help with their cognitive skills, root search, resolving their identities. All this is over and above the usual adolescence challenges. Parents need time with their children and counsellors to empower them at this stage.Also Read | How high courts intervened in Covid management in IndiaDoling out two weeks of paternity leave in adoption is cruel. Fathers not only birth the child in their heart, like mothers, but also need to hold the front within their family. Several fathers quietly resent or face their own parents and relatives while engaging them in their decision to adopt. It is not easy. It is not supported. It is not expected.Compared to pregnancy, curating resources in adoption is hard. It takes time and effort to locate adoption counsellors, books, legal aide and seek assistance if the process goes wary. Fathers share equal responsibility, and sometimes more, in gathering paperwork, internet search, adoption counselling, court proceedings and bonding with the child. If at all there is an argument that calls for a standalone adoption leave for any parent, it is this. Father need it as much as mothers.Adoption leave is therefore not maternity leave that is required to be extended to adoption. Instead, it is a leave required by any parent, single or married, male or female, adopting a child of any age, to (in many cases) resolve the trauma of infertility, understand adoption, seek counselling, follow safe legal process, bond with the child, engage the family members to ensure that none of the family members falls through the cracks.Let’s stop patronising adoption leave. Rather, let us be gracious in offering an adoption leave of around a minimum six months of leave credit, irrespective of the age of the child, to be availed whenever the parent needs to attend to the beautiful experience called adoption.Avinash Kumar is a parent in adoption, former CARA Steering Committee member, founder of Families of Joy FoundationPayal S Kapoor is a parent in adoption, associate professor, FORE School of Management, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-adoption-process-is-distinct-frame-leave-policies-accordingly-101621592028985.html
21-05-2021||Today's||Rajiv Gandhi’s simplicity was his strength — and his failing||Rajiv Gandhi was born three years before India attained Independence. If alive, he would have been 77 today and arguably, much better equipped with the age and experience that he lacked when providence foisted on him the highest political executive office of the land, where he was an uneasy occupant.As the country’s sixth Prime Minister at the age of 40, he was a product and a prisoner of destiny. His gruesome assassination on May 21, 1991 — exactly 30 years ago — cut short the story of his life.On display at a memorial to his mother Indira Gandhi in Delhi, the bloodstained tatters of the clothes Rajiv Gandhi had worn could wrench the hearts of those who saw him in flesh and blood — tall, fair and handsome, with a dimpled smile that set hearts aflutter. He exuded warmth sans the guile akin to politics.The simplicity that set him apart proved fatal. The hit squad that took him out was sent by a guerrilla leader, Vellupillai Prabhakaran, who Gandhi had gifted his own bullet proof vest at a secret meeting to broker a path to peace in Sri Lanka.A story of a tragedy, elevation, and riots The communal violence that engulfed Delhi after her security guards gunned Indira Gandhi down on October 31, 1984, was a scary spectacle of the State dissipating. Rajiv Gandhi arrived with Amitabh Bachchan at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences where his mother lay with loads of iron in her lifeless belly. Union minister Buta Singh collapsed. Outside, the cavalcade of President Giani Zail Singh, who swore Gandhi as PM the same day, was stoned by mobs on the rampage.The chaos and the carnage that ruled Delhi during that week in 1984 is part of well-documented history. As home minister, Narasimha Rao was supposed to be in control but wasn’t. Policemen either went missing or turned a blind eye, barring honourable exceptions, to violent mobs attacking Sikhs. In fact, Inder Kumar Gujral, who served as PM after the 1996 polls, found Rao impassive rather than proactive to his counsel that the army be deployed to stop the carnage. The complicity or the incompetence of the government in those initial days of Rajiv Gandhi’s premiership would remains a dark chapter in the party’s history.Also Read | Cyber attacks on critical infrastructure: Is India ready?Mani Shankar Aiyar, the diplomat-turned-politician who worked closely with Rajiv Gandhi in his prime minister’s office (PMO) and then as a party colleague, is currently working on his autobiography, nearly 200 pages of which are on the former PM. He has a different perspective on Gandhi and the riots. The Opposition and the media, Aiyar insisted, tore out of context Gandhi’s much-criticised statement at a public rally held 19 days after his mother’s assassination: “When a big tree falls, the earth shakes”. “I say that because he made the remark after lengthy exhortations of peace, very much in the manner he pleaded for an end to violence in the preceding days,” argues Aiyar.True or not, the Opposition’s reading of the remark, and the violence in the national capital, haunted Gandhi through his tenure in office and the party until much later.The Shah Bano controversy Arif Mohammad Khan was in Rajiv Gandhi’s council of minister till they parted ways on the Shah Bano issue. The case concerning the Muslim women’s right to alimony was upheld by the Supreme Court and came to involve the broader question of Muslim personal law.Now the Governor of Kerala, Arif Khan backed the verdict in a speech rated among the finest in Parliament. He felt let down when Gandhi gave in to the Muslim clergy—his government negating the judgement with the passage of the Muslim Women (Protection on Divorce Act), 1986. The decision gave a lease of life to Hindutva forces, which accused the government of “appeasement”. It led to a downward spiral of identity politics when Rajiv Gandhi got the Ram temple locks opened to win over the Hindu vote. The move instead helped the religious right rather than widening the secular middle of the Congress’s choice. The triple talaq legislation brought by the Narendra Modi government is a sequel, in fact, to the Shah Bano case.Also Read | A broken polity, a ghost StateLooking back, Khan attributed Gandhi’s volte-face to the advice he received from senior cabinet colleagues, especially PV Narasimha Rao, ND Tiwari, Arjun Singh and SB Chavan. Rao, who became Congress president and Prime Minister after Gandhi’s murder, met Khan to dissuade him from pressing the issue. He asked him not to be a samaj sudharak (social reformer) against political expediency.“Rajiv had his heart in the right place. Left to himself, he wouldn’t have had the SC verdict reversed...he wasn’t interested in politics and had a thin understanding of it,” said Khan. His recollections of Gandhi were of a man courteous to the core. After he resigned on the Shah Bano issue, Gandhi sent him funds for a car as he had had to return the official vehicle he used as a minister. Khan didn’t accept the money but the gesture touched him deeply.The party and government On the organisational side and in the government, Gandhi was receptive to contrarian views, often letting others have their way. What proved to be problematic was his reliance on a set of advisors who themselves needed advice but tended to blindside experienced party seniors.As a junior industry minister, Khan got him to scrap, with planning commission vice chairperson Manmohan Singh’s oblique support, a proposal to let foreign brands into India. On an earlier occasion, he bypassed Rajiv Gandhi, then a party general secretary, to directly approach his mother, Indira Gandhi, who was the party chief and prime minister. Khan wanted a non-Muslim as the president of the district congress committee of Kanpur, the constituency he represented in parliament. Besides Khan, a minister at the Centre, Kanpur had a Muslim minister in the state government. Indira Gandhi recognised the incongruity of people from the same community occupying all three key positions. Instead of taking umbrage, Rajiv Gandhi laughed it off on learning that Khan went over his head to get the job done.Also Read | How high courts intervened in Covid management in IndiaBut his willingness to trust people at times saw him pay huge political costs. Even in renegade mode, VP Singh often said that rather than leave the party, he’d sit under a tree holding the Congress flag. The former finance and defence minister walked out after being painted a fifth columnist, a latter day Jai Chand, by apparatchiks perceived to have the PM’s attention. The hiatus widened and led to a break up amid words of caution by the likes of veterans such as Kamalapati Tripathi, who himself took to writing open letters to the PM on matters concerning government policy and the party.When out of power, Gandhi admitted to being misled into distrusting certain senior colleagues, specially Pranab Mukherjee, who left the party when excluded from the ministry formed after the 1984 polls. In his 2016 biography, Mukherjee wrote: “He made mistakes and so did I. He let others influence him and listened to their calumnies against me. I let my frustration overtake my patience...”If the West Bengal veteran blamed Gandhi’s distant cousin Arun Nehru for his predicament, at an election rally in Rae Bareli, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra openly accused her uncle of backstabbing her father.The rift with the President A close aide of Zail Singh when he was president, former Rajya Sabha member Tarlochan Singh has mixed recollections of Gandhi. He remembered him fondly as the ‘de facto” chairman of the 1982 Asian Games organising committee headed by sports minister Buta Singh. “To Rajiv Gandhi goes the credit for the praise India received for the successful conduct of games,” he said.Singh was director of information and publicity for the Asian games. He saw from the Rashtrapati Bhawan later the active role Gandhi played, in tandem with foreign service officers Natwar Singh (later the external affairs minister) and Hamid Ansari (who rose to be vice president), in India hosting the Non-Aligned Summit.Also Read | On Covid, why the Centre needs a communication strategyThe good part ended and politics began when Gandhi — whom Zail Singh administered oath before his election as the leader of the Congress parliamentary party in place of Indira Gandhi — dissolved the house for fresh elections without a formal call to inform the President. “He merely sent across the cabinet resolution for the dissolution,” recalled Tarlochan Singh. He too saw Arun Nehru’s hand in the deterioration of ties between the two.The trust levels between the President and the PM touched the nadir during the Bofors scandal. Amid the rising Opposition chorus for accountability, there was a near-total breakdown of communication between the head of state and the head of government. Matters got uglier by the day with the government stalling Zail Singh’s foreign tours; the cabinet deciding against sending him the gun-purchase file he summoned.The President countered the affronts by raising uncomfortable questions on a range of subjects. He withheld consent to the postal bill that gave the government powers to censor personal mail. The widened gulf stoked speculation of the presidency contemplating withdrawal of its pleasure to the government’s continuation — a denouement that remained in the realm of conjecture.The decline in the working ties of the top constitutional functionaries was hard to decipher. Zail Singh was a staunch Indira Gandhi loyalist who, on being made President, had famously offered to wield a broom to sweep the floor if she so desired. On being sworn in as PM, Gandhi’s attention was divided between arrangements for his mother’s funeral and restoring calm in the city. That apparently did not go down well with the Sikh President, who a section in the government held responsible for the Punjab crisis in his earlier role as Home Minister.The flip side of it was provided by Mani Shankar Aiyar who believes that their relations nosedived when Gandhi found the President encouraging elements opposed to the 1985 Punjab accord he signed with Akali leaders HS Longowal, SS Barnala and Balwant Singh. The pact was among the three major ententes Gandhi oversaw for domestic peace. The other two related to Assam and Mizoram. Gandhi’s response to Zail Singh was human, maybe not politically adroit if the measure of it is to overlook ethics, reasoned Aiyar.Forward looking policiesOnce mocked by the Opposition as a young man at a hi-tech store with no money in his pocket, Gandhi was committed to moving technology from the laboratories to the field to make it beneficial for the people in the hinterlands. In that pursuit he laid three decades ago the kernel of computerisation and the telecom revolution, notably rural telephony, that’s booming now with the spread of mobile phones and internet.Thinking ahead of his times, he lobbied with the United States for a super computer for rainfall predictions in different agro-climatic zones towards “drought proofing” and securing potable water for the village folks.On the foreign policy front, he left a noteworthy legacy on nuclear disarmament and repairing ties with neighbours. His 1988 ice-breaking visit to China was the first in 34 years by any Indian Premier. It breached the great wall of hostility, laying the foundations on which his successors built for peace and tranquillity on the line of actual control. The recent setback in India-China relations is a different story being told in a different era.His engagement with Benazir Bhutto did not quieten Kashmir but helped pull Punjab — over which Pakistan had no historical territorial claim — out of the separatist quagmire. The incremental success in the border state was on account of the Punjab accord followed by assembly elections, together with robust diplomacy and strong internal security measures.In Sri Lanka, Gandhi was betrayed by Prabhakaran, the Liberation Tiger of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) chief whom he secretly met before committing the Indian Peace Keeping Force to the Island nation to effect peace between the Tigers and the Sri Lanka troops. The IPKF’s eventual goal was to disarm the LTTE.That was in 1987. He was slain in 1991 by the very guerrilla outfit he had ventured to help. Another betrayal, another instance it was of trusting without verifying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/rajiv-gandhi-s-simplicity-was-his-strength-and-his-failing-101621590708891.html
