29-05-2021||Today's||It is time to revive MPLADS. It will help citizens||In April 2020, the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds were suspended for two years, i.e., 2020-21 and 2021-22. Under MPLADS, every MP is entitled to an amount of ₹5 crore annually. The scheme aims to address local development demands and the needs of an area through priority developmental, infrastructural, and asset-building works.The pandemic has hit India’s hinterland in the past few weeks, and the share of rural districts in Covid-19 cases and deaths is increasing every day. The “test-trace-treat” mantra is observed largely in the breach — with not enough testing, non-existent contact tracing, and the absence of medical infrastructure to offer treatment, thus leading to countless avoidable deaths. While appeals for help on social media platforms may have gone down, those suffering in rural India do not have the luxury to voice their distress and despair on online platforms. This makes it difficult to gauge the spread and damage of Covid-19 on rural lives and livelihoods. But there are now credible accounts of severe undercounting of both cases and deaths.At a time when the second wave is still devastating lives, and experts predict a third wave, it is even more critical for the government to restore MPLADS besides adopting a model of genuine decentralised decision-making, needed for local and rural Covid-19 relief measures.Suspending MPLADS has left parliamentarians bereft of an instrument in exercising their autonomy and foresight needed in alleviating the impact of the current pandemic. There is often a popular misconception about the funds — and it almost appears to some that this is akin to a personal fund that MPs only use for political patronage or personal benefit. But the truth is that the allocation and expenditure of MPLADS funds is only through a well-defined procedure, which involves close collaboration with local authorities.Anticipating the second wave, MPs could have engaged in a consultative and participatory process with district administrations last year. As we know, district authorities, civil society organisations, local communities, political volunteers, and elected leaders, including Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) and MPs of the areas concerned understand the concerns at the grassroots best, factoring in the local contexts and the social milieu of an area.Through timely MPLADS disbursement, elected representatives can recommend priority areas of work and local concerns to the district authorities, according to their understanding and feedback. In order to boost preparations for Covid-19, measures such as setting up makeshift hospitals, mobile medical vans, adequate testing mechanisms, critical infrastructure for storage and power needed for vaccination programmes at the panchayat levels, and timely awareness of Covid-19 symptoms could have been undertaken right from the time the first wave hit us, over and above the interventions in these areas by the district administrations.While experts have said that there is no scientific basis to believe that any future wave will disproportionately affect children, the second wave has offered a clear lesson — don’t become complacent, and be prepared. This may require setting up more paediatric ICU wards at government hospitals; boosting necessary oxygen infrastructure; provision of essential medicines and holistic protective kits for ANMs, ASHAs, anganwadis workers, teachers; plugging the infrastructural deficit plaguing anganwadi bhawans, primary health centres, nutrition rehabilitation centres; creating Covid-19 care facilities for pregnant mothers, specially-abled children and adults and other marginalised segments; and spreading awareness on Covid-19 symptoms and appropriate behaviour in regional languages.Restoring and utilising MPLADS funds for priority areas will help in addressing, partly, the resource crunch of the districts. It will also help pave the way for the much-needed collaborative synergies between the political representative and the administration on the ground to augment basic health care facilities in rural areas.The present dispensation — as much as it may want to avoid this inconvenient truth — is facing an enormous trust deficit due to the gross mismanagement of the pandemic. Restoring MPLADS will not only address the human capital needs of rural societies at large — but also restore the faith and confidence of citizens in their elected leaders.Manoj Kumar Jha is Member of Parliament, Rajya SabhaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/it-is-time-to-revive-mplads-it-will-help-citizens-101622297618501.html
29-05-2021||Today's||Elderly women need better care and support||The pandemic has exposed, among other things, how the voices of women are rarely heard in the formulation and execution of policies that have a direct bearing on them. Among the most invisible cohort of women are the elderly.As a vicious second wave of the virus rips through the country, older women and their needs have been largely overlooked as the government and other institutions scramble to utilise the scarce resources available to tackle the pandemic.Elderly women in India are largely dependent on their families for economic and social well-being. They have limited autonomy and limited mobility, especially now with the onslaught of the virus. With their families preoccupied with the stress of lack of jobs and loss of loved ones, older women face increasing isolation and loneliness, leading to severe psychological problems. The small proportion of elderly women in care homes are often cut off from their families.With professional caregivers either unavailable or unable to reach homes, the task of care-giving for an elderly spouse largely falls on women who may themselves be in precarious health. Many of them are not conversant with digital devices, cutting them off further from an increasingly digitally connected world. This also means that tele-health care is out of their reach.The idyllic Indian traditional family hardly exists anymore, and in several families, the geriatric person could well be considered a burden on resources. This could lead to abuse of the elderly, particularly women, both emotionally and physically.Inclusive strategies for the well-being of geriatric women, and men, should be part of our public health policies going forward. Research-driven policies need to be tailored based on their voices as well.Irrespective of the virus, elderly women tend to suffer from a host of medical problems ranging from diabetes, hypertension, pulmonary disorders, heart disease, most of which require lifelong medication. The decline in sensory functions also limits their ability to live independent lives. Since women are more likely to be dependent on the spouse for an income, the death of an elderly spouse leads to them facing greater adversity. Many do not have pensions or other economic cushions, leaving them unable to fulfill even basic needs on their own.Though there was a realisation, well before the advent of the virus, that we have to plan for a geriatric population, this is not fully understood by either doctors or caregivers, few of whom have specialised in this field. To be sure, there are various government schemes for the elderly, though none targeted specifically at women.There is the National Policy on Older Persons launched in 1999 with the specific aim of catering to the elderly. There is also the National Programme for Health Care of Elderly which speaks, among other things, about capacity-building for medical and paramedical professionals and caregivers. This needs to be reviewed and strengthened at a time when the government and private institutions are looking at plugging the gaps in the creaky health care system.Elderly women need easy access to home health care, access to essentials preferably through home delivery, and above all compassion and care from their families and State systems. This would be a good time to engage stakeholders, including elderly women themselves, to frame more equitable policies for a more active, empowered and productive old age.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/elderly-women-need-better-care-and-support-101622297617061.html
29-05-2021||Today's||India’s vaccine policy requires transparency||A recent study by Public Health England (PHE) which assesses the effectiveness of the Pfizer and the AstraZeneca vaccine, known in India as Covishield, against the B.1.617.2 variant of the coronavirus, which is the dominant strain in our country, has serious, if not disturbing, implications for India’s vaccine policy. We need our leading virologists and vaccine scientists to discuss and debate this matter. Even more, we need the government to explain and, if need be, defend its position. Sadly, and inexplicably, neither has happened.Let me explain why this is a matter of concern. The PHE study shows a single dose of either vaccine only provides 33% protection against B.1.617.2. There’s no doubt this is insufficient. Consequently, the study concludes: “Our findings would support maximising vaccine uptake with two doses among vulnerable groups in the context of circulation of B.1.617.2.”Now, on May 13, the government extended the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12-16 weeks. If the PHE study is correct, recipients of one dose will only have 33% protection. So do we need to rethink the 12-16 week gap and reduce it, at least as Britain has done, for people over 50 and the vulnerable?This is the first issue that needs to be addressed. In the absence of Indian voices, let me quote what Professor John Moore, a top virologist at Cornell, said to this paper. “The Indian policy needs reconsidering. The protection conferred by a single dose is not going to be enough to stop the spread of B.1.617.2, particularly as the vaccines in use in India are not the strongest known.” Now Moore has also hinted at the second issue raised by the PHE study. Although it’s arguably more disturbing, it hasn’t got the attention it deserves.The PHE study shows that in the case of B.1.617.2, whilst two doses of the Pfizer vaccine are 88% effective, two doses of AstraZeneca — that’s our Covishield — are only 60% effective. That’s a huge difference of 28%. Does this suggest AstraZeneca/Covishield is an inferior vaccine compared to Pfizer, at least in terms of battling B.1.617.2?This question leads to two more, which further underline why the PHE study deserves to be discussed. First, do we need to expedite the entry of Pfizer to India? Newspaper reports suggest the sticking point is Pfizer’s demand for immunity. Apparently, every country where Pfizer is available has granted this. India is said to be reluctant. But now, if Pfizer is 28% more effective against B.1.617.2, are there grounds for rethinking? And, perhaps, urgently?The other question is different but no less important. We’ve given around 200 million first jabs, including close to 50 million repeat jabs and 90% are Covishield. Second, B.1.617.2 emerged in India and, undoubtedly, we have more cases than any other country. Why then are we relying on data from Britain on the efficacy of Covishield against B.1.617.2? Surely, after giving so many jabs of Covishield, we should have better data? In fact, shouldn’t India be telling the world about the efficacy of the AstraZeneca/Covishield vaccine against B.1.617.2 rather than depending on Britain to find out?Now, before I end, let me mention something I’ve been reliably but confidentially told. When the CoWIN app was being designed, members of the Covid Working Group suggested it should track the relationship between vaccination and infection. If that had been done, we would have had the world’s best data on the efficacy of AstraZeneca/Covishield against B.1.617.2. Unfortunately, the government did not heed that advice. Why? Worse, members of this group were required to guarantee they would not reveal their discussions for 10 years. Given that America’s Center for Disease Control holds its discussions in public and in Britain the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation reveals full details of its confabulations, why are our experts forced into a 10-year silence? They’re not discussing State secrets. But they are deliberating on matters of critical national concern which we have a right to know about. Why is it being kept from us?Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-vaccine-policy-requires-transparency-101622297613150.html
29-05-2021||Today's||The battle of our times: State versus Big Tech||The battle between governments and Big Tech around the world is not surprising — both want to control information (not just the message, but also the medium), and thereby, power (and in the case of the latter, also money).Romantics see Big Tech as a unifying, liberating and free (in all meanings of the word) force. It may have been that at one time, but the truth is that Big Tech is mostly a commercial force, trading in user information and influence. By a quirk of how laws have evolved, it also enjoys considerable licence — for instance, many large technology firms make much of their revenue from the traditional media model, but without any of the responsibilities that being a media company entails. It’s called intermediary immunity, but many such firms behave like anything but intermediaries. To have companies that make money by tracking users and their behaviour (and then selling this data to others) speak of privacy and rights is worrying — almost as much as it is to allow Big Tech to be the arbiter of what people see (and what they don’t), and what is true (and what is not), or even who gets to be on a purportedly public media platform (and who doesn’t). States, even democratic ones with progressive views, are rarely the benign force for good they see themselves as. And if there is a legal provision that can help them control information, they will use it every time — even if they claim that they will do so only in rare circumstances. No State, however well-meaning, can be expected to use powers such as this responsibly. National security, sovereignty, communal harmony, and public safety are all real issues, but experience has shown that no State is immune from the temptation to use these bogies to choke dissent and stifle criticism. Laws and frameworks that depend on goodness or virtue or morality (of people, governments, or companies) are destined to fail. It was only a matter of time before the two clashed. Information is at the core of any power structure and what governments everywhere and Big Tech are fighting about is control — as in, who gets to control information and, therefore, the narrative. Political power has always meant (among other things) being at the right place in the information hierarchy. At one time, those who knew ruled, and those who didn’t, were ruled. Now, in an era of alternative facts (they are actually very real to some people), it has become clear that it is actually possible to manipulate information and shape the narrative, and decide what is shared, with whom, and when. Companies were among the first to realise how to do this by side-stepping established media channels and messaging techniques, and using Big Tech to go, as they say, DTC or direct-to-consumer. It was only a matter of time before political parties and governments caught on and caught up.It is important to understand the interests of the two warring sides. Companies want to be able to continue growing their user base, get their users to engage more (and create more content), enjoy intermediary immunity, and be in control of user data (for this is central to their revenue). The ideological framework they use to push these ends revolves around the idea of freedom. Governments want to control information — which means their efforts to regulate Big Tech are also, in many ways, an attempt to control all of us, by determining the sources and nature of information, and also the timing and volume of delivery. The ideological framework they use to push their objectives revolves around the idea of accountability. Users are caught between the State and Big Tech, and neither is particularly interested in their rights.Expectedly, regulating Big Tech is a tricky issue — and one that, in many countries in the world, has ended up before the courts, which too, aren’t always up to the task.Approached from the perspective of first principles, though, it’s easy (some might say simplistic) to define the objectives of such regulation.One, regulations have to ensure that Big Tech follows all other laws of the land, pertaining to individuals as well as companies. They will also have to protect the right of citizens to free speech, with restrictions, as stipulated in the fundamental rights chapter of the Constitution. Two, the regulatory framework has to protect the privacy of users, not discriminate against them in any way, and not unfairly affect their lives and livelihoods. In most countries, including India, these are all fundamental rights.Three, especially where content is concerned, Big Tech has to be responsible for what is on their platform. This may mean an end to intermediary immunity (and there has been a lot of research on how this is related to things such as freedom of expression and innovation), but companies whose primary business can be defined as media must be treated as media companies.Four (and this is covered in one, but merits repetition), the regulations should prevent the formation of monopolies (and Big Tech thrives on monopolies).Five, the regulatory regime will need to have enough safeguards to insulate it from partisan political pressure. The legitimacy of the regime rests on the State acting for the larger good, and not achieving narrow political objectives.These five principles could serve as a touchstone for any regulatory regime — and also for any challenges on the same. This will enhance the credibility of the policy as something that makes sure Big Tech conforms to the laws of the land while assuring citizens that it will not (and actually cannot) be used to stifle dissent.At the heart of this debate is an old question that has always confronted democratic societies — the balance between freedom and accountability. Big Tech is primarily focused on the former; the State is primarily focused on the latter; but for citizens, only the right balance works. Finding this balance has become more complex because of the nature of technology, the existence of multiple jurisdictions, the fact that each controversy gets linked to existing political positions rather than being treated on merit, and because neither complete control (like in China) nor complete, almost anarchy-like freedom (like in the early days of Big Tech where a policy regime was absent) is possible or desirable in India.Would traceability of messages, the main point of contention between WhatsApp and the Indian government pass the test? That’s for the Delhi High Court to decide. But both the WhatsApp case and the recent controversy with Twitter point to one fundamental truth. India needs a balanced regulatory regime, with the objective of protecting and empowering citizens, soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-battle-of-our-times-state-versus-big-tech-101622297612025.html
