31-05-2021||Today's||Sustaining and scaling up the response to Covid is key to saving lives||The World Health Organization (WHO) South-East Asia Region has, in recent months, witnessed a sharp and sustained surge of SARS-CoV2 infection. For consecutive weeks in April and May, the region reported more than two million new cases, with some areas reporting test positivity rates of upwards of 40%. Variants of concern and their sub-lineages have been detected and may be associated with increased rates of transmission. Both the region and world are at a critical moment in the battle against Covid-19. No country is safe. We are all at risk.Populations are exhausted. For almost 18 months, they have done everything they can to protect themselves and their loved ones. And, yet, we are still very much in the acute phase of this pandemic. Vaccine euphoria and the complacency it can bring are real dangers, especially as some countries globally return to normal. In all countries, we must continue to sustain and scale up the response, and see this challenge through.How must the region forge ahead?First, aggressively apply public health and social measures that are proven to be effective, and which are our best defence against new variants. Physical distancing works. Mask use works. Hand hygiene works. Ventilation, testing, contact tracing, and isolation – they all work to control spread, save lives and minimise impact. We must continue to act on the 3Ws – wear a mask, wash hands and watch distance. And we must continue to avoid the 3Cs – crowded places, close-contact settings, and confined and enclosed spaces.Also Read | Covid-19: Should India start opening up?Second, monitor and expand health system capacity to ensure it can meet population needs, whatever the caseload. In the event of a surge in cases, step-wise plans must be activated to enhance space, staff and supplies – including oxygen and beds – and to heighten coordination between and among facilities. Essential health services must continue to be maintained to ensure that all people can access the services they require to stay healthy and well.Third, vaccinate priority groups, as defined in national deployment and vaccination plans. Amid ongoing supply challenges, countries should optimise the use of available doses to expand protection among priority groups and maximise public health benefits. Political and public support for vaccination must continue to be promoted, while acknowledging that vaccination alone will not end the pandemic. It is imperative that countries with a surplus of doses share them with the COVAX Facility, which aims to deliver two billion doses to participating low- and middle-income countries globally by the end of 2021.False rumours and misinformation can increase risk-taking behaviours, facilitate disease transmission, and intensify or lengthen an outbreak. They can cause confusion and erode social trust. Before sharing information, consider its source, and whether the information is verified and reliable. Be an ambassador of high-quality information, which can be accessed online via WHO’s website and social media accounts, and those of national and local authorities.No person or community can be left behind. Across the world, Covid-19 has disproportionately impacted key demographics, who, for a range of social and economic reasons, may be more susceptible to transmission, or may struggle to access health care. This is not only inequitable, but also inefficient. Equity must continue to be a core feature of Covid-19 decision-making, whether on access to testing and treatment, or the provision of social and economic protection.Also Read | Vaccine lessons for India from Black AmericaWe must go hard and go all out. Since the beginning of the pandemic, WHO has provided member-States in the region critical guidance and support, which has in recent months included thousands of oxygen concentrators, millions of respirator masks, and a series of auxiliary health facilities. Thousands of staff have been repurposed in support of national response efforts. Countries continue to reap life-saving benefits from the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator, which is the fastest, most coordinated, and successful global collaboration in history to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to Covid-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines.It is only through solidarity, and by sustaining this resolve, that we can drive infection down, prepare for and prevent new waves, and bring evidence-based treatments and technologies to all who need them. Lives and livelihoods are at stake. We must all stay the course.Poonam Khetrapal Singh is regional director, WHO South-East Asia RegionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/sustaining-and-scaling-up-the-response-to-covid-is-key-to-saving-lives-101622461849642.html
31-05-2021||Today's||Pakistan’s balancing act between the US and the Taliban will affect India||The United States (US) has now expedited its military withdrawal from Afghanistan, with the US Central Command officials saying that 4-6% of the process has already been accomplished with the full withdrawal deadline set for September 11, 2021 by US President Joe Biden. However, as the US leaves after two decades of war, questions continue to linger as to what kind of military capacity, if any, would Washington want to, and be able to, maintain in the future.Over the past few weeks, more than the composition of the US military presence, its geographic location outside the borders of Afghanistan has become a focal point of debate.Pakistan, home to almost all the Taliban shuras, is having to now balance its relations and strategic play between the Taliban and the US. While Rawalpindi remains the key driver of both Taliban strength and US–Taliban negotiations, the challenge of giving the US military space post-2021 is not going to be an easy one for Pakistan.Also Read | Seven years on, Modi faces three challengesIn a recent interview, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, hinted that Pakistan could examine American requests for bases in exchange for large economic packages and commitments towards investment. With the challenge of access to a land-locked Afghanistan going to only intensify for the US, Pakistan is clearly hoping to use its location — once again — to enhance US dependence on it. With Iran on the one side, and Central Asian States such as Uzbekistan and Tajikistan under heavy pressure from Russia to disallow a US military presence, options today seem to be limited, and Pakistan may well benefit once again.However, the Taliban, as it stamps its authority within the increasingly fractured Afghan political landscape and continues to use violence as a strong and effective leverage parallel to its “diplomacy”, has taken a strong position against US presence not just in Afghanistan, but anywhere in the region around it. The Taliban, in a statement published online, hinted towards military action against such bases, and the host countries of such bases, which may be used to launch counterterror and counter-insurgency operations.This raises questions about the Taliban’s capacity to conduct such attacks, its traditional stance of having little interest on what happens beyond the Afghan borders, and finally its relations with Al Qaeda, which has the capacity and experience of such attacks.Interestingly, the language used in the statement suggests that even Pakistan and its military could be fair game from a Taliban perspective, if they do indeed decide to host the US military for operations in Afghanistan. This, arguably, highlights a level of confidence and autonomy that the Taliban have achieved over the past few years as part of negotiations and diplomacy, and further, over the past 20 years of kinetically countering Western forces.At the moment, the situation remains fluid. While the US-Pakistan relations are driven more by a military to military equation, the Biden administration has been comparatively cold towards Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan. This may complicate US attempts to leave the Afghan theatre with options in place for future use of force, if needed, in the Afghan theatre.But an eventual nod by Pakistan to allow US military bases, despite the Taliban threat, would raise concerns in South Asia, specifically New Delhi, which has been pivotal in building the Quad security infrastructure in Asia along with the US. As analyst Ayesha Siddiqa has said, Pakistan even gaining a standing space in the Quad room, instead of a seat on the table, would be a desirable outcome from its perspective. Calling out the Taliban’s threat and allowing US to use its bases may accomplish this.On the other hand, a failure for US to gain access to Pakistani bases, clandestinely or otherwise, may put more pressure on India to help the US with Afghanistan, something New Delhi has remained non-committal towards for a long time.The recent shift by the US of its only deployed aircraft carrier from the Asia Pacific to the Arabian Sea to assist in its withdrawal from Afghanistan is a case in point of capacity constraints the US may highlight as it balances its military interests between West Asia and the rest of the region, and push others such as India to step up. Meanwhile, India has looked to integrate at least some of its strategic play in the Gulf with its broader Indo-Pacific outlook, with New Delhi singing up for access to strategic ports such as Duqm in Oman, not far from Bahrain, home to the US Fifth Fleet and Qatar, home to significant US military capacity operating in the larger West Asian region.The Afghan theatre, despite a US withdrawal, will push strategic and tactical rethink far beyond Washington D.C. Countries such as India, managing multiple active and challenging foreign policy fronts, will be required to divert significant strategic thought and capacity towards the Afghan theatre in the coming months.Kabir Taneja is fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, and the author of The ISIS Peril: The World’s Most Feared Terror Group and its Shadow on South AsiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/pakistans-balancing-act-between-the-us-and-the-taliban-will-affect-india-101622454889245.html
