17-08-2021||New Delhi||Govt announces rates for RoDTEP scheme for exporters; to cover 8,555 items||To boost exports, the government on Tuesday announced rates of tax refunds under the export promotion scheme RoDTEP for 8,555 products, such as marine goods, yarn, dairy items. The government has set aside Rs 12,454 crore for refunds under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme for the current fiscal, a top official said.  Under the RoDTEP, various central and state duties, taxes, and levies imposed on input products, among others, would be refunded to exporters.  Commerce Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam said that Rs 19,400 crore would be available for 2021-22 for both the RoDTEP and the Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL). The RoSCTL scheme was announced for the export of garments and apparels. For the RoDTEP scheme, the amount is Rs 12,454 crore and the remaining Rs 6,946 crore for RoSCTL. As the RoDTEP scheme came into effect from January 1 this year, additional funds will be provided at pro-rata basis for the period January to March. "Today we have notified the rates. RoDTEP is going to be a long-lasting scheme and it is going to be a flagship scheme of the commerce ministry. It is also compliant to the World Trade Organisation," the secretary told reporters here. He added that both the schemes together would cover 95 per cent of the tariff lines or goods and exports. However three sectors of steel, chemicals and pharmaceuticals would not get the benefit of RoDTEP as they have "done well without" incentives.  The reimbursement of taxes such as duty on power charges, VAT on fuel in transportation, farm sector, captive power generation, mandi tax, stamp duty and central excise duty on fuel used in transportation would make Indian products competitive in global markets, he said. The tax refund rates range from 0.5 per cent to 4.3 per cent for various sectors. The rebate under the scheme would not be available in respect of duties and taxes already exempted or remitted or credited. RoDTEP support will be available to eligible exporters at a notified rate as a percentage of Freight On Board (FOB) value. Rebates on certain export products will also be subject to value cap per unit of the exported product. It will be implemented by Customs through a simplified IT System. Rebates will be issued in the form of a transferable duty credit/ electronic scrip (e-scrip) which will be maintained in an electronic ledger by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). Employment-oriented sectors like marine, agriculture, leather, gems and jewellery are covered under the scheme. Other segments like automobile, plastics, electrical / electronics, machinery are also getting the support.  The ministry also notified scheme guidelines for RoDTEP. According to the guidelines, certain categories which would not avail the benefits include export goods which are subject to minimum export price, restricted and prohibited items, deemed exports, supplies of goods manufactured by domestic tariff area units to SEZs, and products manufactured or exported by units situated in special economic zones. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/govt-announces-rates-for-rodtep-scheme-for-exporters-to-cover-8-555-items-298532
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Sensex jumps 210 points to end at new peak; Nifty tops 16,600||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 210 points to end at a fresh peak on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS, HUL and Tech Mahindra.After scaling a fresh lifetime high of 55,854.88 during the day, the 30-share index settled 209.69 points or 0.38 per cent higher at 55,792.27, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 51.55 points or 0.31 per cent to 16,614.60.Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Nestle India, Titan, Infosys and HUL.On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel and L&T were among the laggards.“Domestic equities remained volatile amid weak global cues. Midcap and smallcap stocks remain under pressure today, while volatility index softened marginally,” said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.Visibility of sustained earnings recovery in IT stocks in the backdrop of strong deal wins and encouraging guidance shared by managements in 1QFY22 made investors to lap-up IT stocks, he stated.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant losses.Equities in Europe were also largely trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.24 per cent to USD 69.34 per barrel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-jumps-210-points-to-end-at-new-peak-nifty-tops-16-600-298466
17-08-2021||PowerGrid Corporation of India (Powergrid) has reported a net profit of Rs 5||Powergrid posts profit after tax of Rs 5,998 cr in Q1||SCOPE webinar on will, nomination, inheritanceStanding Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) recently held a webinar on ‘Guide to legal succession in uncertain times — will, nomination and inheritance’ . Atul Sobti, DG, SCOPE, and Adika Ratna Sekhar, CMD, Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd., also addressed the participants.IndusInd Bank opens currency chest in ChdIndusInd Bank has launched its mega currency chest in Chandigarh. It will service 218 branches of the bank across Punjab and Haryana along with other bank branches.Aykai Hospital holds nursing education programmeThe Nursing Department and the Transplant Institute of Aykai Hospital, Ludhiana, recently held a nursing education programme on ‘Kidney Care-Must Know!’. As many as 50 nurses participated in the programme.Dr Prasanta Das Gupta joins Aryans GroupPharma expert Dr Prasanta Das Gupta has joined as Principal of Aryans College of Pharmacy, Rajpura. The institute offers B Pharmacy and D Pharmacy courses approved by the Pharmacy Council of India, New Delhi.CRPF, Langjing, celebrates 75th Independence DayThe Group Centre, CRPF, Langjing, Imphal, celebrated 75th Independence Day. Various programmes were organised on the occasion.JICA celebrates 75th Independence Day of IndiaJapan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) celebrated 75th Independence Day of India on August 15. It congratulated all Indian athletes for emerging victorious against all odds due to the Covid pandemic.British Council to hold ‘Study UK Virtual Fair’British Council will host ‘Study UK Virtual Fair’on August 21. A semi-annual event, it is the one-stop source of information for prospective students.CRPF receives 154 gallantry medalsThe CRPF has received 154 gallantry medals. It received three Shaurya Chakras, one President Police Medal and 150 Police Medals.Chandigarh hotel opens ‘Masalchi’ restaurantHotel Icon, Chandigarh, has opened an Indian specialty restaurant ‘Masalchi’. The hotel adopted this name as the essence of India lies in its spices.Bonn Group unveils new bread FocacciaBonn Group has launched Focaccia bread under its ‘La Americana Gourmet’ product line. It comes without preservatives and the goodness of olives and herbs.PFC records 34% hike in profit after tax of Rs2,274 crPower Finance Corporation (PFC) has registered a 34% hike in profit of Rs 2,274 crore in Q1’22 as compared to Rs 1,700 crore in Q1’21. The company's net worth rose by 17% to Rs 54,739 crore from Rs 46,940 crore in the period under review.SBI Mutual Fund launches Balanced Advantage FundSBI Mutual Fund has launched Balanced Advantage Fund. It will be open for subscription till August 25.Healing Hospital gets NABH accreditationHealing Hospital, Chandigarh, has been accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH). NABH operates accreditation and allied programmes on patient safety and healthcare quality.Bajaj Electricals lights up Sidhwan Canal FlyoverBajaj Electricals has completed the illumination of the Sidhwan Canal Flyover, Ludhiana. The project, a part of Ludhiana Smart City Mission, was completed in record time.M&M drives in XUV700 in various variantsMahindra and Mahindra has unveiled XUV700. It comes in various variants, including diesel and gasoline, manual and automatic options with five and seven-seater capacity.HDFC Bank #Parivartan impacts over 30.94 lakhHDFC Bank #Parivartan has impacted lives of over 30.94 lakh people in Punjab in FY21. The bank reached out to 53 villages across eight districts.HMD Global launches ‘Nokia C20 Plus’HMD Global has launched ‘Nokia C20 Plus’ in India in an exclusive partnership with Reliance Jio. It comes with the unique offer for customers to enroll for the JioExclusive Programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/powergrid-posts-profit-after-tax-of-rs-5-998-cr-in-q1-298452
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Sensex, Nifty end at new closing high||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty raced to new peaks on Monday on account of healthy buying in heavyweights Reliance and HDFC twins, IT and pharma shares.At the closing bell, the BSE Sensex was quoted higher by 145.29 points at a new closing high of 55,582.58. It also hit a record intra-day high of 55,680.75.Similarly, the Nifty advanced 33.95 points to mark a fresh closing high of 16,563.05. During the day, it rose to new intra-day peak of 16,589.40.Tata Steel gains 4%Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 4%, followed by Bajaj Finance, M&M, Bajaj Finserv and Reliance.On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, Powergrid and UltraTech Cement were among the major laggards.Sectorally, BSE metal, energy, oil and gas, FMCG and finance indices rose up to 1.79%, while telecom, auto, capital goods and power indices fell up to 0.99%.Broader midcap and smallcap indices underperformed the benchmark, shedding up to 0.57%. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-nifty-end-at-new-closing-high-298393
17-08-2021||New Delhi||Wholesale inflation eases to 11.16%||The wholesale price-based inflation softened for the second straight month to 11.16% in July, on cheaper food items, even though prices of manufactured goods and crude oil hardened.However, WPI inflation remained in double digit for the fourth consecutive month in July, mainly due to a low base of last year. WPI inflation was (-) 0.25% in July last year. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/wholesale-inflation-eases-to-11-16-298394
17-08-2021||New Delhi||Tariff hike key to revival: Voda  CEO||Amid an existential struggle, Vodafone Idea on Monday said while its recent tariff tweaks are steps in the right direction, such changes are not enough to solve the industry’s structural issues, and tariff hikes and floor pricing remain critical for the sector revival. This was disclosed by Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar while speaking during the Q1 earnings call. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tariff-hike-key-to-revival-voda-ceo-298395
17-08-2021||---||Nirmala Sitharaman rules out excise duty cut on fuel||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 16Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today ruled out any cut in the excise duty on petrol and diesel for now, saying the government still had to pay for the oil bonds raised by the UPA government.“The UPA government reduced fuel prices by issuing oil bonds worth Rs 1.44 lakh crore. I can’t go by the trickery played by them. Due to oil bonds, the burden has come on our government, that’s why we are unable to reduce prices of petrol and diesel,” the minister told mediapersons during an informal interaction.Regretting that the Modi government did not issue a White Paper on the subject when it came to power in 2014, Sitharaman said, “The exchequer is burdened by interest payment on oil bonds floated by the UPA government. The present government has paid over Rs 70,000 crore in interest on oil bonds over the last five years.”The UPA government issued bonds to state-owned oil companies to make up for the difference in the artificially depressed retail prices of fuel and the actual imported cost. At that time, the oil price was over $100 per barrel in the international market.“If I didn’t have the burden to service those oil bonds, I would have been in a position to reduce excise duty on fuel,” she maintained.The minister said while the income tax portal was still not perfect, it was better than what it was. She was hopeful that the bugs in the new income tax portal would be sorted out over the next few days.“I have been reminding Infosys constantly… and Nandan Nilekani has been messaging me with assurances that it will be sorted out,” she said.Minister’s claim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/nirmala-sitharaman-rules-out-excise-duty-cut-on-fuel-298156
