01-01-2021||Calcutta||Colours of Anniversary||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta molest victim ‘tried to break car glass to seek help’||The 21-year-old woman who was allegedly molested inside a moving car late on Tuesday had tried breaking open some of the windows in a desperate bid to raise the alarm and force the driver to stop, police said. The woman was returning home to Maheshtala, in South 24-Parganas, with two men and another woman after attending a birthday party in Jadavpur when she was allegedly molested. The accused could not be arrested till late on Thursday. The police had on Wednesday traced the car to a spot in the Lake police station area. The left side glasses of the car — black Jeep Compass — had marks of damage. “We have sought details of the owner of the car from the public vehicles department,” said an officer. The woman is said to have told the police that she didn’t know the two men, one of whom was at the wheel. They were friends of the other woman in the car, the police said. The complainant has told the police that the two youths had molested her and refused to stop the car while doing rounds across south Calcutta. She tried breaking open the glass so she could alert passers-by. She said she texted some of her friends and even sent the GPS location to a few so that they could help her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Winter’s first fair||Your prayers have been answered and fairs are back despite the looming threat of Covid. Saras Mela is on at New Town fairgrounds till January 3, from noon to 7.30pm. The fair sells all from clothes to carpets, pithes to perfume. An attractive selfie zone and games corner have come up too, although only women and children are eligible for the games. Get your names enrolled at around 1pm daily and have a go at hit-the-wicket, basket-the-ball etc. All children are getting consolation prizes but the first and second woman winner is getting gift vouchers of Rs 1,000 and 500 respectively, to be redeemed at the fair itself. Here’s a glimpse of what’s on offer at the ground: Where: On the ground opposite Stall K-12 What: Khuku Rani Chitrakar has taken aluminium vessels and transformed them into art. “Customers would complain of terracotta vases being too fragile so this is the way out,” she said. Price: Rs 1,300 Where: Stall 199 What: A wall clock shaped like a wrist-watch, a wooden piggy bank, shaped like a gas  cylinder.... Amina Dewan of the Sundarbans has brought innovative items. “Twenty five of the clocks have already got sold,” she said. Price: Rs 1,400 for the clock, Rs 450 for the gas cylinder. Where: Stall 16 What: These little round chillies look more like candies but Ramila Rai of Kalimpong warns: “One of these chillies is equivalent to 10 of the long ones you get in Calcutta. Many are buying them but we are asking them to be careful eating them.” Price: Rs 150 for a 150g bottle Where: Stall 153 What: Saheli Putatunda Mukherjee has brought uncommon jewellery, be it earrings made of cloth, pendants made of coconut shells or square-shaped fibre bracelets wrapped in cloth and embellished with shells and pompoms. Price: Rs 100 for the bangles Where: On the ground opposite stall K 95 What: A hissing, coiled up dragon has been created out of jute. “Most of the body is made of jute ropes while the scales are from sharpened, raw jute,” says Shefali Naskar. Price: Rs 5,000 Where: Opposite C 75 What: Kamala Baishya has carved out an imposing blue mask out of a taal trunk and a Shiva face out of bamboo root. “When I saw the uprooted bamboo root growing wild it reminded me of Shiva’s matted hair. I decided to bring the idea to life,” says the artisan from South Dinajpur. Price: Rs 7,000 for the blue mask and Rs 3,500 for the Shiva face. Where: Stall 146 What: Papiya Ganguly has given terracotta lanterns and lampshades a wooden finish and painted them in bright, cheerful colours. “They are all fitted with bulbs and will light up too,” she says. Price: Rs 300 to 400 Where: Stall 110 What: Suchitra Neto has brought ties that can be worn as well as hung on the wall as showpieces. “My uncle wore these ties for 40 years,” said the lady who is creating them out of bamboo, mahogany and sonajhuri wood. The ties are a set of several small panels which curve to give it effect. They can be fastned behind one’s collar with velcro. Price: Rs 1,200 Where: Opposite stall 83 What: The fair has its share of masks in kalamkari, kantha and warli designs, depending on the store you visit. Madhumita Chitrakar is selling masks with patachitra designs on them. Price: Rs 70 Where: Stall 42 What: Kamal Sharma has come from Rajasthan with handmade paper and diaries. “We have them in various sizes as well shapes such as hearts. We have top quality art paper and even leather finish paper,” she says. Price: Rs 100||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Music video to spread awareness about cyber bullying||The state commission for child rights and Unicef have made a music video to spread awareness about cyber bullying amongst children and parents at a time when the use of the Internet has become almost indispensable for students. The video, in Bengali, features actors Prosenjit Chatterjee, Mimi Chakraborty and Aryann Bhowmik and has been written by writer-lyricist Chandril Bhattacharya with “net e thakbo nishchoi kintu jaal e porbo na (we will be on the Net but we won’t get trapped)” as its tagline. The video will be launched on social media platforms on January 4. The idea is to tell children about the dangers of the Internet and how to stay safe by being “informed” users. “Many are not Internet savvy, they know how to use it but not the pitfalls of it. We feel they should be made aware and there should be informed usage of the Internet,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Internet usage has increased during the Covid pandemic because of online classes. Children of all ages now have to be on the net. The video has been done in rap style to make it appealing to children, said special consultant of the commission Sudeshna Roy. “Children do not like sermonising and so, we decided to make it child-friendly,” said Roy. The actors tell them that they will be on the Internet — play and study but not get trapped in it. “Internet e khelbo, porbo tobu faad e porbo na (We will play, study online but not be trapped)” goes one of the lines. “We want to tell them not to give out personal details. They should interact with a limited number of known friends on the Internet,” said Roy. Around 26 children from theatre group Nandikar and an NGO in South 24-Parganas feature in the video. The music has been composed by Upal Sengupta and on the vocals are Anindya Chatterjee, Somlata Acharyya Chowdhury, Arka Ashish, Aruna and Upal. One of the versions also has actor Ditipriya Roy. The video tells children to talk to their parents if they sense any danger. Helpline numbers, 9836513000 (Calcutta police), 1098 and 9836300300 (state commission), have also been provided in it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Mask up, Covid is still out there ||2020 is gone, Covid-19 is not.Vaccine or no vaccine, the mask is imperative. A group comprising doctors, public health experts and people from various other walks of life came together on the last day of the year to warn Calcuttans against any complacency in the fight against the pandemic. The group undertook tram rides and organised street play to convey their message. The first meeting point was the Esplanade tram depot. The programme was flagged off with a street play. The participants then boarded a tram, decked out with posters and images of masked faces and sanitisers. A similar drive will be organised on Friday as well. “We are going to end this year with Covid, and probably we are going to start the new year with clouds of Covid again. We need to keep hammering the message that wearing a mask is the most important and effective tool against the virus,” said Parthasarathi Mukherjee, a public health researcher and part of the Covid Care Network that organised the programme. The network comprises health department officials, doctors and Covid survivors. On Thursday, the tram stopped at Shyambazar before coming back to Esplanade and heading to Gariahat. The street play emphasised the need to maintain Covid-19 protocols and stand by those affected by the virus and their family members. Metro had earlier this month reported how Covid patients and their families across the city are still pariahs to a section of neighbours. “The buzz around Covid-19 vaccines has made many people complacent. With new Covid cases going down and 2020 coming to an end, many people are thinking the virus has been defeated. Many have stopped wearing masks and following other Covid-19 protocols,” said Sayantan Chakraborty, a doctor and part of the Covid Care Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Notification for five universities formal launch||The state higher education department has issued a notification mentioning the appointed day, which marks the formal launch, of five universities — Biswa Bangla University, Birbhum; Kanyashree University, Nadia; Mahatma Gandhi University, East Midnapore; Hindi University, Howrah; and Rani Rashmoni Green University, Hooghly. “In the absence of the appointed day, a university cannot seek recognition from the UGC. So the notification was issued,” said an official of the higher education department. An official of Kanyashree University, an all-women institution, said the UGC had told the institution that the recognition could not be granted in the absence of an appointed day. The university had sought recognition following the appointment of its first vice-chancellor, Mita Banerjee, in September. The appointed day of Biswa Bangla University, coming up in Shibpur, around 4km from Santiniketan, is December 10, 2020. The university received online applications for postgraduate courses in Bengali, history and English till December 30 and classes would soon start on digital platforms. The appointed day of Kanyashree University, operating from Krishnagar Women’s College, is November 10. VC Banerjee said they had started postgraduate courses on digital platforms in Bengali, English, history and education on December 16. The appointed day for Mahatma Gandhi University is December 10 and that of Hindi University is January 1, 2021. The land for setting up Mahatma Gandhi University has been designated — a plot of 20 acres on national highway 41 in Kapaseria mouza, in Mahishadal. “At a time the new universities have started offering or are about to launch courses, it is crucial that the recognition comes from the UGC,” the education department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||What we are looking forward to in 2021||A Covid-19 vaccine is the best thing that can happen in 2021. Until that shot is jabbed in, there are some other things that Calcuttans can look forward to in the year ahead New Garia-Dakshineswar Metro Metro trains should start running up to Dakshineswar by the end of February, officials have said. A trial run has already taken place on the Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch of the north-south Metro line. Once operational, the new Metro link will benefit thousands from the north of the city, places like Baranagar, Bonhooghly, Dunlop, Belghoria and further north. Ever since the Tallah bridge was closed to traffic in the second half of 2019 (it has since been demolished to make way for a new one), a large section of these commuters have had a harrowing time commuting. Sealdah Metro station The Sealdah Metro station, midpoint of the upcoming East-West Metro corridor that connects Howrah and Salt Lake, should be ready for use in 2021. A service of little use now, with trains running between Sector V and Phoolbagan, should suddenly be a real commute option when the local train hub of Sealdah is connected with the office district in Salt Lake. Cricket 402 days (on January 1) since the last international match was played at Eden Gardens — the Day-Night Test Match between India and Bangladesh, won by the hosts by an innings and 46 runs. Breaking the lull, 2021 should have plenty of limited-over action at the stadium. Eden is set to be the venue of multiple matches as India hosts the T20 World Cup in October and November. Before that, IPL beckons in summer. Hospitality Taj will add one more property to its name in Calcutta in 2021 when a hotel, next to City Centre II in New Town, becomes operational in a new avatar. The hotel had so far been operated by French hotel group Accor under Swisstotel brand. In the hills, a boutique resort called Chia Kutir by Taj, will be fully operational at Makaibari tea estate in Darjeeling. Information technology IT giant Infosys Technology may start work on the long awaited New Town campus, raising hope of resurgence in the Bengal IT sector and brightening job prospects for educated professionals of the state. Tallah bridge Construction of five piers on the Shyambazar-end and two on the Dunlop-end will be over by March 2021, the state government has decided after a recent review of the pace of work of one Calcutta’s biggest infrastructure projects in the north. The foundation for construction of two of the six piers that will come up between railway tracks will also be over by March-end, officials said. By August, roughly 40 per cent of the construction of the bridge should be complete. If things are on track, the new bridge should be ready by early 2022, said engineers. Tale of two other bridges The Kalighat and Baghajatin bridges will be thoroughly strengthened by 2021. These two bridges, in south Calcutta and on EM Bypass, respectively, remain vital links for the city. Both these structures have been damaged and have been crying for repairs for a long time now. The urban development department has decided that the two structures would be strengthened first by injecting concrete in the hairline cracks and then using props to hold the underbelly. Victoria at 100 Victoria Memorial will turn 100 on December 28, 2021. The authorities have lined up a series of programmes to celebrate the centenary. “The museum is a microcosm of what we want the Indian democracy to be,” said Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator of the Victoria Memorial. Eye on the sky 2021 will be notable because of the number of supermoons, a full moon that is a shade brighter and bigger than the average full moon. The supermoons on April 27, May 26 and June 24 will be visible from the city, said Debiprosad Duari, director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium. Iron-free water Most areas under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation can expect to get iron-free water by the end of 2021. The New Town water treatment plant supplies treated Hooghly water to many wards but some — including several areas in Sector III and Rajarhat — are still dependant on groundwater through handpumps. The pipe laying work in these areas, delayed by the pandemic, has picked up again and should be completed by 2021, said officials. And not to forget The battle lines are drawn. In many ways, Bengal is for the BJP what India was for a marauding Australian cricket team in 2001 — the final frontier. The party is eying the state with all its organisational might. But the BJP is up against a formidable opponent in Mamata Banerjee, who has shown she is ready to take the saffron bull by its horns. A state election should not be the litmus test for a sitting Prime Minister. But that is what the Bengal polls have become. If Mamata manages to halt the chariot and retain Bengal like Sourav’s India did against the Aussies, it is expected to be a shot in the arm for the Opposition across the country. A warm-up round of civic polls will be held ahead of the Assembly elections. Modi or Didi, 2021 will tell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta celebrates a relatively quiet and cautious Eve||Calcutta celebrated a relatively quiet and cautious New Year Eve and most public places that traditionally attract large crowds on year-ends and festivals reported fewer footfall. New Year Eve may have been easier to manage, but January 1 could bring with it a greater challenge when families come out to celebrate and the overall mood is of picnic, driven by the desire to spend time outdoors. “The 31st night celebrations are limited to small pockets and duration. The January 1 festivity is a day-long affair and involves more people coming out in public places,” a senior police officer said. Although the number of revellers increased on Park Street close to midnight, police said the number was way less than other years. At least 1,500 police personnel had been posted in Park Street alone to keep the crowd moving. As the clock struck 12, parts of south Calcutta were rocked by incessant sound of crackers, the kind even Diwali had not seen. Many families traditionally visit the zoo, Maidan, Victoria Memorial, Eco Park and Nicco Park, among other places, and eat together in the open on the first day of the year. Thousands of people spill on the roads causing traffic congestions across the city and the fringes. These are the places Calcutta High Court has advised police to keep a watch on. The order asked the state chief secretary to ensure that “effective protocols are maintained in the year-end festivities. The protocol should include measures taken by the police authorities to control congestion in public places particularly in the popular spots of the city where such crowding has been frequently noticed in recent times.” A police officer posted on Park Street on New Year's Eve said: “We have arrangements for crowd management on January 1, too.” Park Street — the 1.5km stretch that attracts a large number of people who go there to see the festive lights — was unlike any other year in recent memory on Thursday night. The police said they had taken lessons from what happened on Christmas evening, when a sudden crowd surge forced the police to close the road to traffic. The police set up check-points on Park Street and used loudhailers to make announcements from the morning to encourage people to wear masks and frequently sanitise their hands. Officers said the majority of the revellers who turned up in the evening were abiding by the Covid-19 protocol. “We had made arrangements to distribute masks and hand sanitisers in large quantities, if required. But the majority of the people who came to enjoy the festivities were wearing masks. We gave masks to those who were not wearing them,” an officer said. The high court had said there should be “sufficient number of check-points for providing masks, sanitisers and medical aid to the revellers”. The Alipore zoo, which recorded a footfall of 18,000 on Wednesday, had around 11,000 visitors on the last day of the year. The footfall goes as high as 45,000 or even more on winter holidays or festivals. The Victoria Memorial, too, had 9,500 visitors on Thursday, far less than the usual year-end crowd. Nicco Park had 16,000 visitors on New Year’s Eve 2019. In 2020, the number was around 9,000. Besides the court’s intervention, uncertainties swirling around a mutated new strain of the coronavirus, which is believed to be much more transmissible than the other variants, may have played a part in keeping many indoors, restricting festivities to gatherings among family members and close friends. “The condition of Park Street on Christmas evening was scary. We would rather celebrate New Year at home this time,” said Sampriti Kundu, who went to Park Street on Christmas evening. Senior officers at Lalbazar said they were apprehending a larger turnout at the public places on Thursday, especially after the high turnout on Park Street on Christmas. An officer said there were special arrangements to handle crowds if revellers from the zoo or Victoria Memorial turned up on Park Street after the two places closed for the day, as it happened on Christmas. But the turnout at all these places was relatively less and that helped. The police will have extra deployment of force at public places, which are traditional crowd pullers, on January 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Tanter Haat on at Central Park||The annual handloom fair — Banglar Tanter Haat — is back at the Central Park Fairgrounds till January 5, 1pm to 9pm. The fair was inaugurated on Christmas by Swapan Debnath, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises and textiles department along with other dignitaries. “Singers, elocutionists, painters are called artistes but sadly, those employed with creating the clothes we wear have always been denied this respect. Handloom is a massive cottage industry in our state, employing about 7 lakh people and our government is providing them recognition and support.” The minister cited various scheme they have undertaken to help artisans. “The pandemic hit them hard but the government kept purchasing lungis, dhotis and saris from them as disaster relief material. It kept them afloat,” said Rajesh Pandey, principal secretary, micro, small and medium enterprises and textiles department. The fair has brought together stalls selling Baluchari, Dhonekhali, Tangail, jamdani, muslin, Santipuri and garod saris. There are also men’s wear like kurtas and Modi jackets. In 2019 there were 298 stalls comprising primary weavers co-operative societies, self help groups, custers, khadi sectors and individuals with cumulative sales of more than Rs 6 crore. Banglar Tanter Haat is in its 14th year now but due to Covid-19, got postponed from its usual pre-Puja dates to winter. This year in an attempt to maintain Covid protocols the number of stalls has been capped at 200. Government units like Tantuja and Manjusha have set shop, there theme pavilions besides a handful of jewellery and food stalls. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||No Bidhannagar Mela this season||One of the most popular fairs in Salt Lake, the Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) will not be held this winter. The fair is organised every year at Central Park but an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, that organises the fair, said they had postponed it indefinitely due to the Covid-19 situation. The decision was taken at a meeting on Tuesday. Krishna Chakraborty, the head of the fair-organising committee, said they took the decision to safeguard the health of the visitors who come from Salt Lake as well as places afar. “Covid-19 is still around and the vaccines too have not been administered. We don’t want to take any risk,” said Chakraborty. Whether the stall-owners would get adequate response was another consideration. The corporation had originally booked the Central Park fairgrounds from January 7 to February 8 but has cancelled the booking. Rajesh Chirimar, who was the secretary of the fair organising committee this year, said they had taken several factors into consideration before deciding to pull out. According to Chirimar, enquiries for setting up stalls had come from as far as Kashmir and Bangladesh but given the fact that the fair would attract many senior citizens, it was a gathering best avoided. “A fair is where people let their hair down and have fun. This year it would have been risky and we did not want Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) to turn out to be a super spreader,” said Chirimar. On the other hand, he said they were also apprehensive about the possibility of low footfall, due to which the stall owners would have suffered. “It has been a difficult year and we did not want to risk stall owners facing further losses,” said Chirimar. The fair used to attract stalls from several countries like Turkey, Bangladesh, Nigeria and Pakistan. Another official said that since most fairs were recording low footfall anyway, it would be better to give the fair a miss this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Poor sales at fair follow pandemic for artisans||The two fairs in our vicinity have breathed fresh life into the fates of artisans, many of whom have been out of work since the lockdown. Saras Mela at New Town and Banglar Tanter Haat at Central Park are a chance for artisans to earn a decent income after months of living on government doles. “We are completely dependent on fairs and used to attend seven or eight big ones round the year across the country. Delhi and Mumbai used to be our biggest markets,” says Jaggaram Pannu who has come to Saras Mela from Rajasthan with bed linen in ajrakh, applique, patchwork, embroidery. “We’d never come to Calcutta before but pounced on the offer  this time as this was the only fair happening.” Biswajit Basak of Burdwan says they have some 300 artisans working for them but with their workshops shut many have turned to selling vegetables, tea or become farm labourers. “The workshops have still not reopened as we have to clear old stock first,” says the seller at the taant fair. Tapan Kumar Palit used to take part in over 100 fairs across the state selling hair clips and the like. “Everything from rath-er mela to the fair outside Sreebhumi during the pujas. Fairs would make me a good living and I even managed to fund my son’s education with it. He shall graduate from medical college next year,” says the proud father who this year was making ends meet selling vegetables. “But it pays peanuts. If I earned Rs 10 from a fair, I earn Rs 2 selling vegetables.” Shefali Begum and her husband, both artisans, have eaten out of their savings and were living on doles till Saras Mela was announced. “We didn’t know if customers would come to shop in the midst of the pandemic but then we figured it couldn’t have been worse than the situation we were already in,” sighed the lady who had made marginal sales over WhatsApp during the lockdown. Mantu Pal of Chinsurah was somewhat better off than weavers as her self-help group (SHG) deals with spices, a commodity people needed even if locked down. “But then transport was a problem. Lorries were not available and we had to change several buses to reach Burrabazar and carry items back ourselves,” she says. Some were not spared even by Amphan. “The cyclone broke my asbestos roof and all the cotton we had stored got drenched,” says Suparna Pramanik of Serampore. “Artisans couldn’t come to work, we couldn’t deliver the saris on time and our payment got stuck.” Ila Basak usually sells her tussar, matka and khadi saris at Park Street and Gariahat but this year the shops are taking very few as demand as plummeted, says the Phulia resident. Partha Pratim Das explains that no matter how many times a year they sell saris to stores in the city, they are paid 80 per cent upfront. “The balance is cleared after the pujas. This year stores haven’t even been able to pay half that amount so how do we pay artisans? Those who toiled to weave the saris others wore for the pujas couldn’t afford to buy their own children anything this year,” says the owner of Das Sari Centre of Santipur. Das also blames the rise of WhatsApp sari sales during the pandemic for diluting quality. “Firstly, laymen cannot differentiate between handloom and machine-made saris and more so when seeing their pictures over WhatsApp. Many fraudulent traders have sold machine-made saris as handloom at cheap rates and now customers are not believing us when we quote the real prices of handloom saris. If this goes on artisans will quit the business and the art will be lost,” he says. Response, especially at the tant fair, is no great shakes. In the first five days of business, Basak only made sales on two days. “Customers are coming, asking prices and walking off. Else they are seeking discounts but we are in no position to make allowances this year,” she says. Others feel the winter is a terrible time for a tant fair. “Saris sell before the pujas. Who will buy them now,” asks Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Karate class in CC Block||CC Block in New Town has announced a karate coaching centre for children and classes should commence this weekend. “The idea germinated when during the lockdown we would go door-to -door to raise funds for charity,” said secretary of Newtown CC Block Residents’ Welfare Association Atanu Mahapatra. “Their parents would mention how fatigued and irritable kids were getting from round-the-clock online classes. They asked us for a solution.” Meanwhile, Mahapatra’s son Arhan and his friend Barnak Samaddar had been learning karate on the ground floor of their co-operative building for years. “Other parents passing by would notice them and ask us to arrange classes for all,” said Barnak’s father Biman Samaddar, who is also vice-president of the association. So now an arrangement has been set up with World Modern Shotokan Karate Association of West Bengal, and its president and chief instructor Anil Kumar Ram will be teaching the kids. “During the pandemic, most children have only been watching TV, fiddling with their phones and eating junk food. They need physical exercise and this will be good for them,” said the sixth dan black belt. There was a karate demonstration by students at the inauguration too. Details of the classes are yet to be finalised but they should begin this weekend at CC Block puja ground. “We don’t have a playground and have written to the authorities to build us one. Once that happens, we can start cricket and football coaching too,” said Mahapatra. “For now, karate is a sport that will require limited space but provide the kids high intensity workout.” The fees should be around Rs 500 and the classes are open to those living outside the block too. The minimum age of enrolment is three years. Ten boys and girls have already signed up. “I have been learning for six years and have already got a black belt,” said 10-year-old Barnak excitedly. “The shihan (instructor) has said that I shall be an assistant teacher now and help him teach the juniors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||New Town highrise opens public library ||Despite all the smart and digital libraries coming up, a traditional brick-and-mortar library was inaugurated recently at Utsa Condoville and it already has about 100 people waiting to enrol. Also, membership, for now, is free. “New Town has many senior citizens who are not comfortable with technology. They prefer hard copies of books and it’s for them that we took this initiative,” said Basudev Mosel, co-founder New Town Utsa Bandhob Pathaghar, that has come up near the Reliance Fresh outlet. The event had several eminent guests such as minister of mass education extension and library services Siddiqullah Chowdhury. “It is commendable to have started this library but now go door to door and inform people about it. Get them to join, donate books and be involved. Even we are now introducing measures to make government libraries user-friendly. Global members can, for instance, visit any of our libraries and avail services,” he said. Also present were former political science professor of Surendranath College, Kumaresh Chakraborty, and Nitish Biswas, former joint registrar of Calcutta University. “The Bengali language, culture and heritage are in danger but the knowledge of books can protect it,” said Biswas, a resident of Salt Lake’s DL Block. Aveek Majumder, professor of comparative literature at Jadavpur University and chairman, expert committee of the state school education (syllabus committee) felt libraries were once the greatest inventions of human civilisation. “It gives readers a world view, sitting within four walls. It teaches us to be open-minded and about the depth of human relationships. Books help develop a critical outlook in readers and make them question others instead of blindly following them,” he said. Hidco chief Debashis Sen mentioned how over 300 members had enrolled at their smart library since it opened in Nazrul Tirtha in November 2019. “We also have a library at the senior citizens’ park Swapno Bhor, although newspaper and magazines are more popular than books there,” said Sen, recounting however, how Mosel had, for years, been trying to start a traditional library. Mosel explained that neither are senior citizens savvy enough to read books digitally nor can they afford the Rs 1,000 membership at Nazrul Tirtha. “We have made membership free for the first six months and already have 100 people lined up for enrolment,” said the resident of Eastern Grove who is also a researcher in the Bengali language. Co-founder of the library is Saikat Ali Molla, the secretary of the Utsa Condoville residents’ body. He has been instrumental in getting the space for the library free of cost. “This room, attached to our auditorium, used to be a storehouse of electrical supplies. We cleared it out and will be very happy to host readers. So many have donated their own books to the library and some, like Shibaprasad Bhattacharya, have donated funds to buy titles,” he said. The library will have novels as well as books on religion, research, for children etc. While the mainstay will be books in Bengali, there will be English and Hindi books too. “There are several non-Bengalis who have lived in the city for long and can speak but not read the language. We shall hold Bengali classes for them,” said Mosel, who released his own book Boier Pathak o Pathaghar on the day. The library will be open from 5pm to 8pm six days a week. The off day will be finalised soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Green bench seeks wetland damage report||The National Green Tribunal has asked an expert committee being set up by it to complete the assessment of environment damage within the East Calcutta Wetlands due to the “unauthorised and indiscriminate disposal of solid waste” by Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, within another two months. The direction, passed by the bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Saibal Dasgupta on December 22, was given in response to a public interest litigation filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta in May 2019. The petition claimed that the municipal corporation had been dumping solid waste illegally in Mollar Bheri, polluting the water bodies of the internationally acclaimed East Calcutta Wetlands, violating the order of the Calcutta high court. State PCB lawyer Dipanjan Ghosh submitted during the hearing that the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) had asked for four months to complete the environmental damage assessment for illegal dumping. The bench reminded that there is a CPCB guideline to make such assessment and directed to complete the assessment jointly by the agencies “within a period of two months” from the date of hearing. The tribunal had set up an expert committee, including NEERI, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB), to assess the environment damage due to waste dumping within the Ramsar-listed wetland area during a hearing on September 19, 2020. The state PCB was nominated as the nodal agency in the expert committee. During the last hearing, whose order has been recently uploaded, the bench pointed out that neither the fencing around the waste dumping zone had yet been completed, nor had the damage been ascertained so far. The bench referred to the civic body’s submission that “fencing work around Mollar Bheri had actually not been carried out” and asked its lawyer to submit a comprehensive ‘action taken’ report by the next hearing scheduled on February 3. In 2019 itself, the bench had directed the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to fence the entire waste dumping area to stop contamination of the wetland area; and also fined the civic body Rs 10 lakh for non-compliance of its order. Municipal commissioner of Bidhannagar Debasish Ghosh had earlier pointed out to The Telegraph Salt Lake that the municipal corporation was not using Mollar Bheri any more and was instead dumping waste in Dhapa, as per the urban development department’s clearance. Earlier, Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, board of administrators of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, had told The Telegraph Salt Lake that they should not be blamed alone as New Town and Sector V also used to dump their waste in Mollar Bheri. “It’s like moving from the fire to the frying pan. How come Salt Lake and other civic bodies have been allowed to dump waste in Dhapa when it is quickly running out of space even for Calcutta Municipal Corporation,” asked Datta. “We have already submitted the affidavit. However, as per the tribunal’s latest order we will re-submit it including recent updates within the scheduled time,” said Paushali Banerjee, one of the lawyers representing Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||On all fours, decked as they like||A fancy dress competition for pets. That’s where animal lovers spent their Christmas Eve this year. Pet Pleasure, a pet shop in DL Block, had hosted the event and pet owners paraded their loved ones in frocks, hoodies, jackets and even a PPE! There were Scooby and Dooby, the handsome Golden Retriever brothers who came in colourful sweaters, tomboy Cleo, the Beagle, who came in a jacket and dainty Zoe, the Spitz, who came in a floral dress. Honey, the youngest participant, was a three-month old Pomeranian. So tiny was she that she kept sliding out of her dress and cap! “We were very lucky to have found a pet boutique, where we took Honey for measurements. We asked them for an outfit in Christmas colours and she’s looking very bright in her red dress today,” smiled Seema Agarwal of FD Block. There were several outstation dogs too, like Bella, a two-year-old “Indie” who was adopted from a shelter by Bangalore-based Siddharth Mitra six months ago. “I got her to Calcutta by train and she adjusted quite well,” said Siddharth, who’s put up at Kankurgachhi. Bella had come dressed as a “cool girl” in a florescent orange hoodie. But she spent most of the evening sitting on the cashier’s chair, watching the show unravel. In a year when Covid dominated every conversation, there even came a dog dressed as a Covid doctor. Chicaboo, the BE Block Rottweiler, came strapped in a makeshift PPE suit, face shield and stethoscope. He walked around sniffing the other dogs, as if doing rounds at a hospital. Perhaps no one enjoyed the event as much as 10-year-old Teerna Dutta of Karunamoyee. Not only did she pet and click snaps with every participant, but when Chicaboo came in, she excitedly took his stethoscope and placed it on her own Pomeranian Gingloo’s chest. The two dogs complied curiously. “I have always wanted a dog but was finally allowed to get Gingloo a few months back. I chose a Pom as she would fit my flat and chose a brown colour Pom as that’s the colour of the walls in my house! Now Gingloo gets camouflaged half the time,” laughed Teerna. A Christmas party had to have cake but in this case, it was a dog cake made of  carrot, egg, flour and a dash of olive oil. “My food tester was my Beagle Cleo,” said Sulagna Das, who had baked the cake for everyone. She and her mom Jhuma Bagchi run the pet store. “Cleo loves food and will eat anything that stays put long enough. Why, he even ate up my dad’s dentures once!” Cleo’s tastebuds lived up to their reputation and the dogs enjoyed their treat. The first prize for the fancy dress went to Dr Chicaboo and his owner Souvik Chakravarti had a good laugh over it. “We created his PPE out of tarpaulin material from a hardware store. But four tailors refused to stitch it as they had neither made a PPE nor a dog’s outfit before. Finally, a friend’s mom who used to run a tailoring boutique — Snigdha Mitra of AE Block — did the needful,” he said. Bagchi, who runs Pet Pleasure, was delighted with the turnout. “Having opened up during the pandemic, there hasn’t been  much chance of socialising with our clients but this occasion proved to be a good excuse,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||New plex for New Town||A five-screen multiplex is waiting to throw open its doors in New Town this year. In fact, one can already see the name “Miraj Cinemas” glowing atop Terminus Building, half of which is occupied by Pride Hotel. “We are nearly ready with the interiors but are holding back because of the government order to fill no more than 50 per cent seats during the pandemic. That will be loss-making. We shall start even if the limit is raised to 75 per cent,” says Priyanka Biswas Singh, cinema manager. Miraj Cinemas is a Rajasthan-based chain that has nearly 50 cinema halls across the country. In Bengal, it has a two-screen hall at Aurobindo Mall in Howrah but this New Town one shall be the big draw. “This will be Miraj Cinemas’ 140th hall and will house its 135th to 140th screens,” says Biswas Singh. The 36,000sq ft interiors, on the third floor of Terminus Building, is already looking swanky. It has a 100ft long lobby with seating area, huge screens and LCD displays to screen trailers, promotions, information as well as the food counter. “We’ll have a live kitchen to prepare sandwiches, burgers, pizzas, kathi rolls etc,” Biswas Singh says. The kitchen will be vegetarian. The smallest hall will have 156 seats and the largest 290. There will be a total of 1,078 seats and all the screens will be 3D-enabled. The state-of-the-art sound system is by Pulz and projectors are by Barco. Tickets will be priced between Rs 130 and 300, although recliner seats will be priced between Rs 200 and 400. The first and last shows should begin at 9am and 10pm respectively. The USP of the hall is a large play area for kids. “Parents with young kids always face a problem at the movies. If the child gets cranky, either parent has to take him out to pacify him and in the process misses chunks of the film,” says Biswas Singh. To address the issue is the play room, where parents can leave their wards for the duration of the film. The colourful room will have climbing and rolling equipment, soft toys and balls. The walls will be plastered with posters of characters from superhero films like Spiderman and Thor, and nannies will be around to watch over the kids. “This play house will be chargeable  and, in fact, someone not watching a film is also welcome to bring their kids over for a good time,” she says. “We are eager to open up and are expecting great response, especially from residents of New Town and Salt Lake.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Gifts from 2021||Solar dome A dome-shaped exhibition hall-cum-auditorium that has been under construction since February 2017 over 3.3acres near gate 6, next to the herbal garden, in Eco Park has “about 10 per cent work left”, according to sources. Fitted with solar panels on the outside, the dome is expected to generate 180 KW of electricity for itself. It was supposed to have been complete last year itself, but got delayed by the lockdown. Space was allocated here after the Renewable Energy Park opposite Science City on the Bypass had to make way for the Airport-New Garia Metro. There will be provisions for a laser show, an overhead aquarium and a food court in the upper levels. A viewing gallery will be there at a height of about 16m from the ground, offering visitors a panoramic view of the park and the lake. A spiral ramp would connect the three levels besides two lifts with 15-person capacity each. The project is helmed by the power department and work is expected to complete by the end of 2021. Community centres For long, New Town residents have sensed the lack of a public space to hold community programmes in. That lack will be redressed in 2021. Two community centres are being built by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). These would be three-storeyed structures with the first and second floors to be let out as utility banquet halls for social functions like wedding and annaprasan. These floors will be equipped with toilet, pantry, and a small room for the baby or the bride to take rest in. The ground floor, about 20ft high, is spread across 7,000sq ft. It opens out to a 10,000sq ft garden in front. It is ideally suited for big gatherings like Durga puja or for organising cultural programmes where the audience can be seated in the lawn. Even the roof can be used for banquets. The elevator goes up directly to the roof. The first of the two community centres is coming up between Unbox Park and Fairfield by Marriott, on the Major Arterial Road, in Action Area 1. Designed by the Salt Lake-based Ayan Sen Architects Urban Designers and Planners, it is expected to be ready by June. The second community centre, which started being built about three months after the first, is coming up in Action Area IIB on Street 651, near Hiland Woods and Akankha. Both will be owned and operated by NKDA. Smart street A 400m long road in front of the New Town Mela Ground, parallel to the Major Arterial Road, will boast a host of smart features as a showcase for a convergence of various interventions being done under the Smart City project in the township. Two solar trees, styled after palm trees but with solar panels as leaves, have come up. LED lights have been installed, a plastic road has been laid using waste plastic fibre with bituminous mixture and a barrier-free cycle track has been paved along the sidewalk. A ramp helps wheelchairs slide down to the carriageway and reach the Mela Ground pavement. Three smart benches have been installed with solar panel on their roofs and sensors on the bench. The solar lights get turned on and off automatically depending on when people sit on the benches or get up. The solar panel provides shade to the bench and power to the light. One can even charge one’s phone using the USB ports in each bench. A mosquito magnet has been placed to protect people resting on the benches from the bite of the winged pests. The device releases a mix of propane and carbon dioxide at fixed intervals to attract female mosquitoes and trap them. Female mosquitoes get drawn by the smell of carbon dioxide and head towards the device, which has a concealed net attachment. Once they fall inside the net attachment, they die. An electric vehicle charger is also supposed to come up on the road. It will be lined with aesthetically pleasing balustrade. Smart Street signage Over the past few months, street signs have been coming up in blocks across Action Area 1B and C. They are backlit and hence easy to spot at night as well. But these street signs, about 6.5ft high, will eventually do much more than indicate the block and street number. Each post will have a closed-circuit TV camera to keep a watch on the surroundings. There will also be a pinhole camera and a help button placed above child height. These will be connected to the control room, which one can call and talk to in emergency. The control room will take another three months or so to start functioning. About 600 will be installed in densely inhabited areas, with half already in place. The authorities will monitor usage for a couple of years before setting up more in the rest of New Town. Urban work cocoon Remote working spaces are coming up in three places in New Town where people can take a break from the monotony of being within the four walls at home both during and after office hours. Charges will be according to the time spent. Separated seats will be provided with laptop charging ports and wi-fi connection. There will be toilets and a coffee vending machine as well, with provision to buy light snacks. Some light reading material will be there too for those wanting to bide time. Seating arrangements will be there on the terrace too. Designed by Abin Design Studio, the first of three cocoons is nearing completion next to NKDA Bhavan. The authorities hope to get it ready by March. It will take some more time to get it operational as it will be run by a franchisee. Two more will follow on the same side of the road, one next to Sankalpa 4 and another across the MAR from the statue of Christ the Redeemer in Eco Park. Smart water meter To detect water loss, meters will be installed by mid-2021 across New Town’s distribution pipeline from the water treatment plant to the overhead tanks and booster stations. The water quality, flow and pressure of the water supply will be monitored at intervals. While it is normal to expect a gradual dip in pressure with increasing distance from the source, if there is a sudden dip it can be attributed to leakage in the section. A dip in chlorine content can also similarly indicate inflow of pollutants. The smart meters will collect data from the meter output and submit in the central computer, which will analyse and check for deviations in readings. This will lead to faster rectification measures. Sector V to Sealdah Metro services Commercial operations of Metro at the Sealdah station are expected to start by the later half of 2021 and trains will run from Sector V to Sealdah. Now commuters are able to travel till only Phoolbagan from Salt Lake and Sector V and the line is largely used for joy rides. Most trains that travel from Sector V to Phoolbagan have a handful of passengers. App-controlled battery-operated bike With app cycles launched in 2020 becoming popular, residents of and visitors to New Town will now get to experience the comfort of battery-operated cycles. Chartered Bike, the company that runs the current app-based cycle service, is preparing to roll out 400 e-cycles in the coming months. These are cycle that run on batteries that can be recharged like mobile phones. In case the charge runs out midway through a ride, the rider can pedal the remaining distance. Their top speed is 25km per hour and riders do not need a licence to ride it. The e-cycles can be parked and picked up from docking stations around New Town. Six such stations are already up and 15 more will come up in 2021, including one at the Coffee House. E-vehicle charging station A fast charging station should come up early this year next to the convention centre. Called Powerbunk, the station would charge 25 electric four-wheelers simultaneously. This is being touted as the largest public station of its kind in the country. The project is being undertaken by a group called Shuchi, that received the letter of intent from Hidco in September 2020. Pedestrian subway complex at Biswa Bangla Gate A network of underpasses equipped with escalators is being constructed in New Town at the Rabindra Tirtha crossing, below the Biswa Bangla Gate, to enable pedestrians to cross the six-lane Major Arterial Road safely that cuts through the township. All of them will be functional in 2021. All four underpasses will have escalators moving in both directions. Gouranga nagar small vehicle- enabled bridge A long-standing demand of residents of Gauranga Nagar for a direct connection to New Town is set to be fulfiled this year with the construction of a bridge over Bagjola Canal near Sunrise Greens. This would come up at a distance of 1.5km across the MAR from the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. It will be 45m long and will be modelled on the existing bridge on the canal next to the convention centre. It can support small vehicles but not goods vehicles. Currently people use a hanging bamboo bridge to cross the canal. Smart garden The open-air space under the Biswa Bangla Gate ahead of New Town Mela Ground will have free wi-fi and laptop charging points. With manicured lawns all around and vertical gardens on the Airport-New Garia Metro pillars, the idea is to marry technology with nature. Bridge for service road across canal A two-lane bridge is being constructed over Bagjola Canal to allow the service road along the MAR to continue uninterrupted. While the side adjacent to the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre is almost ready, the other side will also be built. Parking plaza in Sector V The parking plaza in AQ Block in Sector V is almost ready. The lot is set on a one-acre plot and the G+7 plaza has come up behind Technopolis opposite the Positional Astronomy Centre in Sector V. The plaza can accommodate 648 cars and will have pre-booking facility. The ground floor will also house a food court where stalls will be let out to hawkers who now operate from the pavements of Sector V. Subhas Bose Park A park will be opened on January 23 in front of New Town Business Club. This will be in commemoration of the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The park will present a panorama of Bose’s life through his political struggle, during his Azad Hind Fauj days and through the films that have saluted him. Container toilets Abandoned containers at docks which had carried shipments but have no further use have been picked up and are being refashioned as toilets across New Town. They will be thrown open to public in course of the year. Filtered surface water in all Salt Lake blocks All blocks of Salt Lake will start getting water from the New Town water treatment plant. Now 4MGD of water is being flown in from the New Town water treatment plant and is being supplied to wards 29 to 34 and 37 in Salt Lake. Apart from these the water is also being supplied to wards 22, 25, 26 that comprise areas falling under the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality. Two new reservoirs have been built next to Tank 13. The second one has a capacity of four million gallons. Two other overhead reservoirs are there in Rajarhat’s ward 26. A fourth underground reservoir, capable of storing three million gallons, has come up beside Tank 5. Treated water from New Town can be stored in the new reservoirs, which can pipe 11 million gallons to Salt Lake for now. The pipe laying work has been delayed due to the pandemic and once all the pipes are laid all 41 wards will receive the treated water from the New Town plant. Sector V Town Hall A community hall cum game centre is coming up in Sector V beside Godrej Waterside. The facility will overlook the Sector V waterbodies and will have a banquet hall, seminar room and games room for recreation. The idea is to provide a place to host meetings and community programmes in the tech township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
