02-01-2021||Calcutta||Sikh langar feeds hundreds who did not have a New Year||A Sikh langar fed hundreds of people who did not have a New Year brunch to look forward to on Friday. A team of volunteers of Langar on Wheels, which was instrumental in feeding tens of thousands of people during the lockdown, went to government hospitals, railway stations and shelter homes around the city on New Year Day. Children were given milk and bananas and adults were given khichdi, blankets and other warm clothes. At the hospitals, the recipients comprised relatives and friends of patients. Many of them had come from outside Calcutta. They had camped on the outdoor premises of the hospitals. Rickshaw-pullers, mutiyas (people who ferry load on vans or on their backs), porters, rag-pickers, beggars and many out-of-work labourers were among the recipients at most other stops. “We have initiated a special New Year drive keeping in mind that while some are staying back in the warmth of their homes, many may not be able to keep themselves warm this New Year,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman of the IHA foundation that organised the drive. Pictures by Gautam Bose and Sanat Kr Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Sister held in Salt Lake skeleton case||Police have arrested 20-year-old Vaidehi Mahensariya in connection with a suspected murder in Salt Lake’s AJ block, where partially burnt skeletal remains of a man was found on the roof of a two-storey house in December. The body is suspected to be of 25-year-old Arjun Mahensariya, Vaidehi’s brother and the eldest son of the family. The police had earlier arrested his mother Geeta and younger brother Vidur, 22. The preliminary post-mortem report of the remains has listed ante-mortem burns and a traumatic head injury as the cause of death. Vaidehi, who is pursuing an undergraduate course in management from Bangalore, was picked up from a relative's house in Ranchi, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. She had come back to the city after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced and was staying in the Salt Lake house with her two brothers and mother, another officer said. The cops had been trying to establish contact with Vaidehi for nearly a month but they could not as her phone was switched off, said another officer. The skeletal remains were found by a team of policemen from Bidhannagar East police station, who went to the house following a complaint by the siblings’ father, Anil Mahensariya, who lives separately. Geeta and Vidur have allegedly told investigating officers that they killed Arjun by hitting him on the head using a grinding stone used to pound spices. “They burnt his body using a combination of ghee and camphor so that the smell did not alert neighbours,” an officer said. Vaidehi, brought here on transit remand from Ranchi, was produced in a Salt Lake court on Friday. She has been remanded in police custody till January 7. “Vaidehi went to Ranchi with her mother and her brother from their house in Salt Lake but their relatives there have said Arjun did not visit them. When Geeta and Vidur returned, they did not enter the Salt Lake house. Instead, they checked into a hotel. Vaidehi did not return. She needs to be questioned and taken to the house for reconstruction of the crime,” special public prosecutor Bivas Chatterjee told the court. Defence lawyer Zakir Hussain, who prayed for her bail, told the court that Vaidehi was in Ranchi because she had no relatives she could live within the city after the cops arrested her mother and brother.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||New Year's day: 1,200 booked for disorderly conduct ||More than 1,500 motorists were prosecuted for traffic rule violations and over 1,200 more for disorderly conduct across the city on New Year Eve. The prosecution of motorists went down on the last day of 2020 compared with to the December 31 night in 2019, when the figure had crossed 2,000. Police said one reason for the fewer number of prosecutions on Thursday night could be that there were fewer people on the roads compared with other years because of the Covid pandemic. “At one point of time last night, there were more policemen on Park Street than revellers,” said an officer, who was posted on Park Street on New Year Eve. More than 170 people were prosecuted for drink driving on Thursday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans step out to celebrate New Year’s Day||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Students click for school calendar||A city school’s digital calendar this year is a collection of photographs taken by its students. Indus Valley World School asked students of Classes VIII and IX to click pictures on the theme books/reading. And each photograph has captured the theme image, whether a man reading a newspaper on the Maidan or a collection of books by Ruskin Bond. Most of the photographs have been shot at home. The idea behind choosing books as a theme was to encourage students to pick up something to read or at least get them involved with some reading material. The director of the school said the school calendar was to give them a platform to express their creativity, but the “underlying motive” was to push them to handle books that many of them have at home and yet do not read. “There are so many distractions and reading has become a casualty. There are some who read but a large majority of them do not and as educators we have to constantly devise programmes and projects to encourage reading,” said Amita Prasad, the director of the school. “For clicking they would have to pick up books and newspapers and that would get at least some of them interested in those books.” Distractions have gone up with the easy availability of smartphones and now more so because such devices have become indispensable during online classes, said a teacher. Prasad introduced the idea of a school calendar by photographs clicked by students last year. And the calendar was distributed to all students once the school reopened. “This year, I did not want to stop it and so changed it to a digital version,” said Prasad. The school has made the calendar available to all parents by uploading it on the school app. The project was open to all students of Classes VIII and IX. “Being human has many blessings. And the ability to derive pleasure from a good book, or a fine piece of writing, is definitely one of them. When we read, we perhaps experience multiple creative expressions of art between the covers of a book, as we see, hear, enact and ‘live’ the words,” reads the cover page of the calendar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Firecrackers shatter prudence on New Year||Calcutta rang in 2021 with incessant bursting of firecrackers. The noise pollution data of the Central Pollution Control Board confirms the noise spike post-midnight in most parts of the city. According to the data, accessed by The Telegraph, the noise levels had shot up in eight out of the 10 monitoring stations between midnight and 1am, compared with the average noise level measured from 11am to midnight. The spike reflects the extent of bursting of firecrackers post-midnight, after the city rang in the New Year. The opposite happens under normal circumstances — the ambient noise level plummets as the night progresses. Post-midnight, the sound spike was the highest in the RG Kar hospital area, where the ambient noise level jumped from 52.4 decibel (dB) to 64.4. Birati, in the northern fringe of the city, saw an increase of 9.7dB (from 60 to 69.7), Bagbazar 4.1dB (73 to 77.1) and SSKM Hospital 3.7dB (47.5 to 51.2). According to experts, an increase of 10 dB leads to doubling of pressure on eardrums. The maximum national permissible limit of ambient noise after 10pm is 55dB in commercial areas, 45dB in residential areas and 40dB in areas with hospitals. A senior pollution control board official admitted to The Telegraph that there were violations for some time post-midnight but said the responsibility of enforcing noise rules lay with police. “We wrote to all senior police officers about the norms and judicial pronouncements. What else can we do?” the official said. The noise act and a Supreme Court order ban bursting of all fireworks after 10pm. Calcutta High Court, before Diwali, had ordered a blanket ban on bursting of fireworks during the festive season. The order followed repeated warnings from doctors that pollution caused by fireworks would impact Covid patients and those who had recovered from the disease. “We have received a number of complaints about bursting of fireworks and playing of high-pitch DJ music till late at night. As a matter of fact we had to lodge a complaint with Lalbazar as DJ music continued till late at night just behind the BC Roy hospital for children in Phoolbagan,” said Naba Dutta, the secretary of the environment platform Sabuj Mancha. He alleged that both police and the state pollution control board officials were at fault. “While the main onus of controlling noise pollution is on the police, the board is required to play a much active role in controlling fireworks, microphones and the DJ menace. We had written to the PCB some time back urging them to take action to prevent such violations, but nothing happened on the ground,” Dutta said. Biswajit Mukherjee, a former chief law officer of the PCB, said the board could have hit the roads on December 31 night along with the police. Mukherjee pointed out that the state government’s decision to not impose night curfew on New Year’s Eve and chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s recent observation that the situation was not conducive to imposing night curfew, might have emboldened the violators. Dutta and Mukherjee both pointed out that the PCB should take up the issue with the police, especially because they have provided costly noise measuring machines to the police to enable them to catch noise violators. A PCB official had earlier stated that the agency had given more than 1,000 such machines to various police stations, including in the Calcutta police area. “I am looking into the allegations”, said Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint commissioner of police (headquarters).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Fewer people step out on New Year’s Day||Covid-19 made New Year’s Day celebrations a muted affair across the city's hotspots as many preferred not to step out. The crowd was thin at the main entrance of Nicco Park on Friday afternoon, nothing like the usual New Year's Day. However, those who had turned up at the Salt Lake amusement park were in colourful outfits. Inside, too, there were no queues to board the rides. While revellers at the park were happy that boarding the rides was a breeze, park officials said they could not recall a year when the park had been this empty on a New Year's Day. Nicco Park recorded a footfall of 5,000 on January 1, 2021, down from 12,000 on January 1, 2020. “We had expected bigger crowds here. It was a nice surprise to see that the park was not that crowded,” said Amiya Pal, a Salt Lake resident who had gone to the park with her six-year-old daughter and husband. On the Maidan, far fewer people turned up compared with previous years for picnic and other activities. People were out on the greens but the rush to find empty spots to lay down bed sheets was not there. Similar scenes played out on the grounds of the Victoria Memorial with small groups of people streaming in all day. Queues had formed in front of the South gate, but unlike previous years they were not quite long. The effect of muted New Year’s Day celebrations was felt by phaeton drivers in front of the Victoria Memorial, too. “Although there were people on the streets, the number of people opting for joy rides has come down. Many asked us to wipe the seats with sanitisers before boarding,” said Mohammed Shamim, who barely managed to complete 10 trips on Friday till evening, compared with around 25 on January 1 in previous years. Fewer people visited the Alipore zoo, although maintaining social distancing was impossible on the pedestrian overbridge in front of the zoo. Around 51,000 people visited the zoo on Friday, compared with 80,000 on January 1 last year. There were small crowds of people in front of the tiger enclosure and Babu the chimpanzee stole the show with his antics. “We drew a decent number of people,” said zoo director Ashish Samanta. “We had installed hand sanitiser dispensers at strategic locations.” The only exception in terms of footfall was the 480-acre Eco Park in New Town, which was visited by around 90,000 people. Last year’s turnout was 1,13,000. The New Town park, which has large open spaces with a 112-acre water body in the middle, seemed its usual self on New Year’s Day, with crowds savouring the afternoon sun, eating at the restaurants and enjoying boat rides. Debashis Sen, the chairman of Hidco, which runs the park, said they tried to implement the social distancing protocol, made repeated announcements and even distributed masks to visitors. “We also constructed additional toilets and made provisions for washing hands,” he said.  Victoria Memorial Footfall on Jan 1, 2021:  15,451 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020: 38,000 Nicco Park Footfall on Jan 1, 2021: 5,000 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020: 12,000 Alipore Zoo Footfall on Jan 1, 2021: 51,000 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020:  80,000 Eco Park Footfall on Jan 1, 2021: 89,834 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020: 1,13,000||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Two deaths at New Year parties||Two men who were partying on New Year Eve died in separate incidents early on Friday. Apu Mullick, 35, who was at a rooftop gathering at a relative’s home on Parui Das Para Road in Parnasree, slumped over the parapet of the single-storey building around 2.30 am on Friday. Mullick’s friends said he was feeling unwell and had leaned over the parapet to throw up when he fell down. Mullick was declared dead at Vidyasagar State General Hospital. Some of his friends alleged negligence against the hospital staff in attending to the patient. However, there they did not lodge any complaint. The police have started an unnatural death case. The body has been sent for post-mortem. Mullick, originally from Siliguri, was staying with his sister and brother-in-law at their Parnasree home. The other death was reported from Haltu, in the Garfa police station area. Subrata Biswas, 34, from Nadia and a Sanskrit teacher at a Murshidabad school, had gone to a friend’s flat on Sarat Para Road in Haltu, along with two other friends, to party. Around 4.15am, his friends found him lying unconscious on one of the beds. When they failed to wake him up, they took Biswas to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. Officers of Garfa police station said they did not find any injury marks on the body. The friend in whose flat the party was held is a researcher in the metallurgy department of Jadavpur University, the police said. “The exact cause of death could be ascertained only after we get the post-mortem report,” a senior officer said. An unnatural death case has been started. No complaint was lodged till Friday evening. A preliminary inquiry did not suggest any foul play, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Ward clinics to host Covid-19 vaccination sites||The ward health clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will be used as sites to administer Covid vaccines in Calcutta, officials of the civic body have said. The CMC’s experience in administering vaccines under the universal immunisation programme is the reason why it has been chosen to distribute and administer Covid vaccines in the Calcutta municipal area, the officials said. Vaccines against diseases like tetanus, measles, diphtheria and diarrhoea — which are available under the universal immunisation programme - are administered in each of the 144 ward health clinics of the CMC. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will act as the nodal agency to distribute and administer Covid vaccines in Calcutta. They have a ready cold chain storage network, which will be of help,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services of the state government. Sources in the CMC said that the majority of the health clinics have cold chain storage for vaccines. “All the vaccines available under the universal immunisation programme are kept in our cold chain storage, which is available in most ward clinics. We have deep freezers and ice lined refrigerators (ILR), where the vaccines and ice packs, which are required to keep vaccines in proper condition when they are taken out of refrigerators, are both stored,” said an official. According to the official, ILRs are used to keep the vaccines and deep freezers are used to prepare ice packs. An official of the CMC said the temperature range in ILRs is 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius. The temperature in deep freezers can be as low as zero degrees. Cold storage temperature for routine immunisation vaccines is typically 2 to 8 degrees Celsius. “The two vaccines that have the greatest possibility to get approval from the Drugs Controller General of India can be stored in the existing cold storage facility. If any other vaccine, which may require very low temperatures for storage, is approved later, new storage facilities have to be created,” said a CMC official. “Each ward has three or four vaccinators who administer vaccines to children. The health department is training them in administering Covid vaccines. We are also trying to increase the number of vaccinators in each ward so there is no shortage of vaccinators,” said an official of the CMC. Chakraborty said there would not be any need to increase cold storage points in the city immediately. “We are going to vaccinate doctors and other health-care workers in the first phase. Then we will vaccinate other frontline workers. There is enough cold chain storage capacity in the city to store vaccines for health-care and frontline workers. The central medical store in Bagbazar, the cold storage points in hospitals and those of the CMC will be adequate for the initial phase,” he said. “We will need larger cold storage facilities only if the entire population of the city has to be vaccinated within a very short time. That seems un-likely.” However, the state health department has also asked the CMC to keep additional cold storage points in each of the 16 boroughs. “Each borough has identified one or two additional points that can be used as cold store points. We need to have a space where deep freezers and ice lined refrigerators (ILR) that are used to store vaccines can be kept,” said an official of the CMC’s health department. “We have had several webinars with health department officials in the past one month where details about administering the vaccines were discussed.” The Covid-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines, issued by the Union ministry of health that was last updated on December 28, mentioned that frontline workers, health-care workers and those above 50 years on January 1, 2021, will get the vaccine in the first phase. “The priority group of above 50 years may be further subdivided into those above 60 years of age and those between 50 and 60 years of age for the phasing of roll-out based on pandemic situation and vaccine availability,” the guidelines state. The guidelines mentioned that those below 50 years but with comorbid conditions will also get the vaccine in phase I. Only 100 people will be vaccinated at each centre in each session, said the guidelines. While vaccines under the universal immunisation programme are given to anyone who walks into a clinic, Covid vaccines will be given to only pre-registered beneficiaries. “Names of people who are scheduled to receive vaccines on a day will be available in an app called Co-Win. We will administer vaccines to only those whose names are with us,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Food, blankets on New Year at Jesuit-run centre||On Friday morning, when many party-fatigued Calcuttans were yet to leave their beds, over 150 people in a South 24-Parganas pocket had queued up for warm blankets. Two Jesuit priests, one of them an octogenarian, were busy managing the queue first and supervising a distribution drive later. As many as 164 people received wheat, soyabean, dal, sugar, blankets, saris and lungis. The drive took place at Kalahrdaya, a Jesuit-run centre for art and culture in Nepalgunj on the southern fringes of Calcutta, around 40km from the heart of the city and a 15-minute drive from Thakurpukur Cancer Hospital. Many of the recipients were old and infirm, some of them widows abandoned by their families. Calcuttans welcomed the New Year in a more muted fashion compared to other years but with the hope that 2021 will bring happier tidings. For the poor families of Nepalgunj and a cluster of nearby villages, a near year does not make much of a difference. “Many of them work on others’ farmlands. Many are daily labourers who are still out of work because of the Covid pandemic,” said Father Saju George, the founder-director of the 20-year-old centre. A sizeable number of the recipients were women who sell fish and vegetables in markets in the city. The suspension of suburban train services had crippled their livelihood. On paper, hawkers are still not allowed on suburban trains, which resumed on November 11. An 85-year-old priest, also a member of Kalahrdaya, played an active role in the relief distribution on Friday. Father K. Thottam has three decades of teaching experience in Christian institutions, including a 21-year stint at St Lawrence High School. “All that we continue to do through Kalahrdaya is very important because Jesus teaches, ‘I was hungry and you fed me, thirsty and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger and you received me in your homes, naked and you clothed me; I was sick and you took care of me, in prison and you visited me. ‘And I tell you, whenever you did this for one of the least important of these brothers (and sisters) of mine, you did it for me,’” said Father Thottam. On Friday, the recipients were also provided with sweets and snacks after the distribution drive, which started around 10am and wrapped up by noon. “Since the lockdown and the Cyclone Amphan disaster, we have reached out to around 3,000 poor families in South and North 24-Parganas, including those in the Sunderbans and tribal hamlets in Bankura. Our relief work includes giving packed dry food materials, cooking oil, clothes, blankets, medicines, and building materials like asbestos, bamboo, cement, red sand, iron rods, plastic sheets. We were able to do it from our Kalahrdaya fund and donations from friends,” said Father George, a Bharatnatyam dancer who has trained many young boys and girls from poor families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
