03-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine dry run ‘successful’ ||An identity check at the gate, a placebo injection in the vaccination room and a 30-minute wait in the observation room to note any adverse effect — these were three crucial steps of the dry run for Covid-19 vaccines conducted in three places of Bengal on Saturday. Seventy-five front line workers volunteered as recipients of the placebo during the dry run conducted at an urban primary health centre of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation at Salt Lake’s Duttabad, at the Amdanga Rural Hospital in North 24-Parganas and another urban primary health centre of Madhyamgram municipality. There were 25 volunteers at each of the sites. State health department officials said the dry run was a dress rehearsal for actual vaccination. Its objective was to identify any loopholes in the system — whether the vaccinators were able to inject the placebos properly, whether the identity was checked or whether the Co-Win app, where details of a beneficiary would be uploaded after the vaccine was administered, worked properly. The dry run also helped to see if the cold chain was maintained well. “The dry run was completed without any glitch. It was successful,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services of the state government. The dry run is a mock vaccination without giving the actual vaccine, said another senior health department official. The official explained the steps the volunteers, acting as potential Covid-19 vaccine recipients, underwent on Saturday. “The volunteers had to bring identity cards that were also their address proof. They were allowed into the centre only if they were among the ones that were asked to come on Saturday,” said the official. This was necessary because Covid-19 vaccine will be given only to those people who are pre-registered with the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win) app that has been created for the vaccination. It is also mentioned in the Covid-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines, issued by the Union ministry of health that was last updated on December 28. There will not be any on-the-spot registration. Sources in the health department said vaccination teams would have the list of 100 people who would be given the vaccine in that session. A volunteer first entered the waiting room where a basic health check was done and his/her identity was matched with the list available with the vaccination team. The person was then sent to the vaccination room where the vaccinator administered the placebo. An assistant entered the details of the person in the Co-Win app once the placebo was administered. The volunteer was next taken to the observation room where the person had to spend 30 minutes. “The observation time of 30 minutes is kept to see if there is any adverse reaction after taking the vaccine. In actual vaccination, the person would be told the date when the second dose has to be taken and where to contact if there is any adverse reaction,” said the official. There will be control rooms in each district where the recipients can call, he added. The 25 volunteers did not come together, but in gaps to ensure that they did not crowd the centre. This was done to ensure physical distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||JU summer vacation for engineering cut to 7 days||The 2021 summer vacation for first-year engineering students at Jadavpur University has been reduced to seven days to make up for the lost time in the session that was supposed to begin in August but will begin digitally on January 11. At JU, the summer vacation is usually for one-and-a-half months, from the third week of May and till the first week of July, when second-year classes start. The university has curtailed the summer break so that the syllabus can be completed and classes for the second-year can start from August, in keeping with an advisory from the UGC, a JU official said. The decision to curtail the vacation was taken at an engineering and technology faculty council meeting on December 20 “in consideration with the current situation of Covid-19 pandemic”. According to the academic calendar approved at the meeting, once the second semester exams — from July 14 to July 24 — are over, the students will have a seven-day break before second-year classes begin in August. “We will not be able to complete the courses if we did not cut down on summer vacation. UGC has recommended the academic calendar, factoring in this concern,” said an official of the faculty. The first-semester exams, usually held in December, will be held in April because the start of the academic session was delayed. Classes at IIEST, Shibpur and NIT Durgapur, that admit students on the basis of ranks at the JEE-main, started on December 1. JU could not start classes even though the three-phased centralised counselling conducted by the state JEE board had ended in October. What prevented JU? “Since 487 out of 1,253 BTech seats remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the state JEE board, JU had to conduct counselling on its own to fill up the vacancies. Now that the process is over, following a week-long induction programme, classes will start on January 11,” said an official. AICTE, from last year, has made it mandatory for all engineering institutions to conduct an induction session before classes start. Engineering students are put through the induction to reinforce the fundamental concepts and strengthen language skills required for technical education. Over one in three BTech seats remained vacant this year before JU conducted decentralised counselling — an unprecedented situation at JU, considered the premiere engineering institution in Bengal. Classes will be held on digital platforms because the state government has not given permission for on-campus classes. “As engineering education involves a regular visit to the workshops and labs, we are worried about the quality of online classes and looking forward to getting a green signal from the government for in-person classes,” said a member of the university’s executive council. The notice says: “The academic calendar for the 20020-21 academic session has been designed based on the prevalent academic situation. Further changes in this calendar, if required, may be incorporated due to any unavoidable circumstances,”. The summer vacation for third-year students will be of one-and-a-half months, because the students have to do an internship, the council member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Interfaith couples talk about lived experiences||They left the religion column blank while admitting their kids to school. Their daughter uses both their surnames. Another couple did not give any surname to their daughter. Two Hindu-Muslim couples spoke about their lived experiences at an online discussion on December 23. They said they did not want their children to grow up as people belonging to any particular religion and that their marriage and living together bore testimonies that love was bigger than the boundaries set by dogmatic religionists. Sharmila Ghosh, 44, and Rafiuddin Ahmed, 45, both school teachers, have named their daughter Pratham Pratishruti after Ashapurna Debi’s Bengali novel of the same name. “We did not want our daughter to have a name or a surname that would tell her religion. We did not want to give people a chance to know what her religion is, so we named her Pratham Pratishruti,” said Ghosh. “It was also like my husband and I fulfiling the promise we made to each other, of marrying despite all difficulties,” she said. Ghosh and Ahmed were teachers in a school in South 24-Parganas’ Kakdwip. They got married in 2004 and had to face a groundswell of opposition from colleagues and family. “My parents were opposed to our relationship. Both Rafi and I were ostracised by many of our colleagues in school. I was suspended citing indiscipline. But there were some colleagues who stood by us. We lived in the house of one of our colleagues because it was impossible to get a house on rent,” Ghosh. “My parents neither opposed nor came forward and showed their support. They were indifferent,” said Ahmed. Ahmed was even thrashed by people in the area who were opposed to the marriage. “The local journalists helped us a lot. One of them informed Mahashweta Debi, who spoke to the local administration,” said Ghosh. Police had to escort the couple out of Kakdwip. Things turned for the better after some years. The couple now lives with Ghosh’s parents in Calcutta. Both teach at a city school. “My parents sort of accepted the relationship after our daughter was born. Now Rafi and I look after them,” said Ghosh. The journey from college buddies to married couple for freelance writer Masuma Parveen, 38, and journalist Amitava Gupta, 40, stood in stark contrast to Ghosh and Ahmed’s experience. Parveen and Gupta did not face any opposition from family and friends. They, too, did not write any religion while filling their 10-year-old daughter’s school admission form. “Our daughter writes Parveen Gupta as her surname,” said Parveen. She ascribed a combination of a patriarchal mindset and insecurity of the majority community to them not facing any trouble in getting married. “Patriarchy sees wives as properties of their husbands. A Muslim woman coming into the Hindu fold is accepted because it satisfies the majority community’s patriarchal mindset. But it is not accepted when a Hindu woman marries a Muslim man,” she said. “Besides, we were lucky to have friends and families who were not bothered about religion,” she said. The discussion was organised by Ebong Alap, a voluntary organisation working on issues like gender and social harmony. These stories need to be told and retold to counter the narrative of divisive politics. These are stories that broke barriers of religion, said one of the moderators. To the kids, their parents’ dual religion has given them reason to celebrate more occasions. The children wear new clothes and feast during Durga Puja as well as Id with the same fervour, the couples said. Did the couples ever bring up religion during the nasty fights that all married couples go through, did one tell the other ‘All Hindus are like this or all Muslims are like this?’ asked a listener. “Neither of us ever brought religion into our fights. I think doing that would be foolish because we agreed to live with each other knowing well that we belonged to different religions,” said Parveen. Sharmila and Rafiuddin nodded with smiles on their faces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Parents don multiple hats for school events||The changed circumstances have put the entire onus on parents if their child has to participate in school activities. They now have to ensure that they find time to get their child do the rehearsals, arrange the costumes and the props. And also have be adept at video recording with “just the right amount of light”. Earlier, parents would be happy to give their consent for their child to participate and all that they had to do was take half a day off to be present to see their child on stage or on field. But now, it means finding time every day to get their child ready for the final show and then shoot it after many takes to get that one “perfect recording”, which has met all parameters set by the school. Teachers send out detailed instructions and for parents the challenge is to find a bare wall as background to record the child in action or a 10ft floor length that can be used as a track for a sporting event. And the teacher does not miss the details. The parents of a child in Class V girl made a video of her dancing. The costume was right, so was the dance and the background but the teacher noticed that the girl’s feet were brushing against the carpet, which was impacting her movement. “Since it was a competitive event for an inter-school fest the teacher felt the girl would lose points and the parents had to reshoot,” said the head of the school. A father who works in a private firm had to take off so that his daughter in Class II could participate in a school sporting event. “She had to blow a paper tea cup placed 4ft from the start point. She had to run to the cup and blow it while the teacher was recording the time since it was a competitive event,” he said. “It was over in 30 seconds or more but I had to set up the laptop at the right angle and we had to wait for an hour for her turn because there were other participants also. But I was happy to do it because she was so excited,” said Y. Goel, who took a couple of hours off from work while his wife was busy at work. Schools too agree that events have become “parent dependent”. “So many schools are organising online fests but for the school to participate we have to depend on parents’ cooperation. Parents have to invest a lot of time. Some of them are in a difficult circumstance if someone is ailing at home or they have other pressing commitments,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Several school heads agreed that parental consent has become very significance under the circumstances. “We cannot involve all children even if we want to because the parents have to agree to video record and send it to us. Earlier, we would do an audition for an event but now it is more dependent on parents’ involvement,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Ghosh said teachers send out detailed instructions and sometimes retakes are needed to get the perfect shot. “For a jumping event, the camera has to show the legs and has to be at a certain angle and from a certain range,” said Ghosh. A mother, whose six-year-old daughter played the role of a fairy in a school concert, said she shot the video seven-eight times or “maybe more” and sent it to the teacher. “Sometimes, the prop is not placed properly or the light is not right. The teacher told me to do the rehearsal at a time when she was free so that she could guide me,” said the mother. In some cases, the classroom competition has taken a different dimension. More than the children the parents have become competitive, agreed some parents. “When you see other mothers being able to do it, you feel why can’t I do it,” said R. Singh, a mother whose daughter is in Class II. While parents are sweating it out in between work from home and work at home, schools have also become less demanding than before. “Earlier, we would have specific requirements but now we understand that it is not easy for parents to arrange for costumes. So, we tell them to make do with what they have at home,” said a head. Rashmi Dixit had dressed her son, who is in upper nursery, as a sheep for an event, said it made her more “involved”. “Parents would prepare the children for fancy dress and not really see how they were doing. Now, they are part of the entire thing,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Red flags to watch out for while working out at home||Timely medical intervention helped bring Sourav Ganguly out of danger on Saturday but his condition prompted doctors and fitness experts to stress the warning signs not to be ignored while working out or running on a treadmill. Having been a sportsperson for decades, Sourav knows the pros and cons of working out better than most people, doctors said. But a bulk of Calcuttans eager to gain muscle or lose weight work out without the supervision of a qualified trainer, they pointed out. In 2017, a techie collapsed and died while running on the treadmill at his New Town office’s gym. Breathlessness, fatigue, heaviness in the chest, pain stretching from the chest to the arm are some of the red flags that should not be ignored while working out, said doctors. “Even if there is a slight discomfort while working out, you should not push yourself and continue. You should stop and seek medical help,” said interventional cardiologist Rabin Chakraborty.People with a family history of cardiac ailments should be extra cautious before starting a work-out regimen, he said. A detailed assessment of health parameters, lifestyle habits and family medical history is imperative for everyone before going ahead with a workout regimen, said fitness experts. But only a handful of the gyms that have mushroomed in and around Calcutta have qualified trainers who prepare exercise regimens for clients after observing their health parameters. People working out at their home gyms, something that had seen a surge during the lockdown, should also ideally be under a qualified trainer, said doctors. “A thorough screening to assess blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol and all other parameters should be done before joining a gym. Another detailed assessment of the client should be done at the gym by a qualified trainer before preparing a work-out regimen,” said Arthur Cardozo, CEO of Karma Fitness Studio and a fitness consultant. The client’s age and whether he or she is a smoker or drinks alcohol must also be considered while preparing an exercise regimen, he added. A section of social media memes pointed out “heart attacks suffered in a short succession” by choreographer Remo D’Souza (in December 2020) and Sourav. Their contention — both D’Souza and Sourav are much fitter than an ordinary person and if they are vulnerable to a heart attack, what is the use of staying fit. Surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay said the incidents with D’Souza and Sourav should not be considered anecdotal. “They form a miniscule percentage and should be considered isolated cases against the run of play. A person should exercise, or just walk briskly, for around 30 minutes every day at least five days a week,” he said. Gagan Gagan Sachdev, the owner of Bodyline chain of stores and multiple gyms in the city, said over the past couple of years, many gyms in Calcutta have opted for qualified trainers. It is a happy change, he said, but there are many who still do not care for caution. “A little further from the heart of Calcutta and most gyms do not have qualified trainers. They have bodybuilders who are mostly self-taught,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Virtual flag-off plan for Kolkata International Film Festival||The inauguration of the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) will be held virtually though screenings will take place on site. Only government venues — Nandan, Rabindra Sadan, Calcutta Information Centre, Sisir Mancha, Chalachchitra Satabarsha Bhavan in Tollygunge and Rabindra Okakura Bhavan in Salt Lake — have been chosen this year to screen 81 feature films and 50 short and documentary films from 45 countries. Bookings, though free of cost, will have to be done on the portal bookmyshow.com for the 50 per cent seats that will be made available at each venue. Delegate registration too will happen online at kiff.in, with the delegate fee waived this year. The QR codes on delegate cards and mobile tickets will be scanned for contactless entry. Seat booking will start at 10am two days before the screening date of each film. A person can book one seat of every show. There will be a helpdesk at every venue for people without smartphones. The festival, which was pushed back from the original schedule of November 8 to 15 due to the post-Puja pandemic situation, will now be held on the same dates in January. There will be no star-studded inauguration ceremony. The honours will be done by the chief minister from Nabanna at 4pm on January 8, in presence of festival committee members. The inaugural film to be screened at Rabindra Sadan will be Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar, which was Soumitra Chatterjee’s debut film. Tribute will be paid to the legend who passed away recently through nine of his films. Works of actors Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor, Tapas Pal, Santu Mukherjee, danseuse Amala Shankar and directors Fernando Solanas, Kim Ki-Duk and Basu Chatterjee, who passed away in course of 2020, will also be screened. Centenary tributes will be paid to Federico Fellini with six films, Bhanu Banerjee with two films and to Hemanta Mukherjee, Pt Ravi Shankar and French New Wave director Eric Rohmer with a film each. Ra.One and Gulaab Gang director Anubhav Sinha will deliver the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on January 9 at Sisir Mancha on the topic “Social responsibility in mainstream Indian cinema”. The Best Film and the Best Director will get Rs 51 lakh and Rs 21 lakh in cash respectively along with the Royal Bengal Golden Tiger trophy.  In the Indian Languages Competition Section, the Best Film will get the Hiralal Sen Memorial Trophy and Rs 7 lakh. The Best Short Film and the Best Documentary Film will each get the Royal Bengal Golden Tiger Trophy and Rs 5 lakh. Filipino director Brillante Mendoza will be the international jury board chairman. Exhibitions will showcase the life and works of Soumitra at the Nandan foyer and of Fellini and Rohmer on the first floor of Gaganendra Pradarshashala, the ground floor of which will host exhibitions on Shankar, Hemanta and Bhanu Banerjee. All of them will be inaugurated on January 9. Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary on January 12 will be marked by screening of four movies and documentaries. Contemporary films to be screened will include prize-winning entries at Berlin, Venice and Busan film festivals. Discussions on films will be held at Ektara Mancha in the Rabindra Sadan complex daily from January 9 to 15 with participation from film personalities. The inaugural “cine adda” will be on Soumitra. A press conference was held on Saturday at Sisir Mancha, attended by ministers Aroop Biswas and Indranil Sen, festival committee office-bearers Raj Chakrabarty and Param-brata Chatterjee and actress Paoli Dam among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Bus at high speed injures pedestrian||A private bus, allegedly being driven dangerously, grievously injured a pedestrian who was trying to cross the road in front of Bhowanipore police station on Saturday afternoon. The incident happened on the Exide-bound flank of SP Mukherjee Road around 3pm. Witnesses said the bus was moving at a high speed and did not stop to avert the collision with the pedestrian. “The man, who appears in his 40s, had just crossed the road and was trying to board the bus when the incident happened,” said an officer of Bhowanipore police station. The injured person has been admitted at SSKM Hospital. The stretch that remains busy with vehicles and pedestrians alike, has traffic signals at close intervals and there is often a tendency to rush through them among buses, several motorists complained. “As the gap between two signals is comparatively less, I have seen buses trying to speed past as many signals as they can whenever the signal is green,” said a resident of Tollygunge, who has to travel through the stretch everyday to reach his Girish Park office. Police said on Saturday, the injured person — whose identity was yet to be ascertained — had been trying to cross the road from one direction or another, several times. However, preliminary inquiry by the cops suggested that the bus hit the pedestrian when he was trying to board the bus through the front gate. “One of the biggest problems with buses is their tendency to pick up and drop passengers even without bringing stopping the vehicle,” said an officer of the traffic department. The offending bus of route 3C/1 had fled from the spot after hitting the man but was forced to stop at the next traffic signal that turned red before it could cross over. The driver abandoned the bus and fled from the spot. A search has been launched for the driver. According to the records available in Lalbazar, of the 267 people who had lost lives in road accidents in Calcutta in 2019, as many as 85 deaths were caused because of buses. Of the 85 people who died in accidents, 47 were pedestrians and 19 are bus passengers. Officers of Bhowanipore police station have started a case of rash and negligent driving against the bus driver. Senior official, however added that pedestrians should also follow traffic rules to avoid any accident. “Pedestrians should avail zebra crossings and wait for the signal to turn red before stepping on the thoroughfare. This is basic,” said an officer of the traffic department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||NIT seeks alumni help to bridge digital gap||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, has appealed to its alumni for aid as “it is very important to bridge the digital divide that is threatening the future of many students in the present pandemic situation due to lack of resources and facilities at the institutional level”. Online education has posed a great challenge to the current batch of students, many of whom come from poor economic backgrounds, and cannot afford to buy laptops/smartphones or access to high-speed Internet connection. NIT Durgapur started online classes from September 7. While live classes are being held on platforms such as Microsoft Teams or Google Meet, the institute is also uploading recorded lectures on Facebook and YouTube. But a large section of students do not have laptops, smartphones or broadband connectivity, and this is coming in the way of the online classes, said an official of the institute. “This is an unprecedented situation. We are aware of the kind of constraints our students are encountering amid the pandemic. So we have decided to appeal to our alumni for help,” Anupam Basu, the director of the institute, told Metro on December 30. Tapping the alumni resource in the hope that their donation could help students in distress amid the pandemic is not unique to NIT Durgapur. The director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur, had appealed to the institution’s former students on the occasion of a virtual global alumni meet on Sunday for a “generous contribution” to help students who are in no position to pay tuition fees because of the Covid pandemic. The digital divide has been a point of concern at the NIT Durgapur for a while and a survey among students in April had pointed out that 45-50 per cent of its BTech students won’t be able to attend online classes because they either don’t have a computer or live in places with poor Internet connectivity. Although the institute is trying its best to provide all kinds of assistance to these students to get the required IT hardware and broadband/Internet connectivity, but it may not be possible to reach out to all, an official of the institute said. Considering this inadequacy the institution has decided to engage the alumni to help the students, he said. The notice urges the alumni to contribute by clicking on the link — NITDAlumni4edu — uploaded on the institute’s website. “We request our generous alumni to come forward and donate to a cause that will ensure that every student continues to learn, and his/her economic condition doesn’t become a barrier in fulfilling his/her dreams” says the notice. The institute has also requested its alumni members who are in the telecom service sectors to help out students who are struggling with poor connectivity at home. This aid will matter a lot, it will help students join the online classes, said an official. “It is also high time that we set up a Centre for Digital Learning in order to facilitate the new normal online/ digital mode of education more effectively,” says the notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
