04-01-2021||Calcutta||Vehicle hits minister’s car in Kasba||A goods vehicle allegedly hit a car in which state forest minister Rajib Banerjee was travelling at the EM Bypass-Rashbehari Avenue connector crossing in Kasba on Sunday afternoon. Banerjee escaped unhurt but the car, the minister’s official vehicle, got dented. Police said Banerjee’s vehicle was plying along the Rashbehari Avenue connector around 2.20pm when a Tata 407, loaded with stone chips, hit the vehicle on the right side while trying to overtake it. As the goods vehicle tried to flee, the minister’s aides alerted the police about the accident. The police intercepted the vehicle not far from the spot and arrested the driver, Vinod Mishra, 35. The police have started a suo motu case and the driver has been charged with rash and negligent driving and mischief. According to police records, a considerable number of fatal road accidents in Calcutta in 2019 involved goods vehicles. Of the 267 people who lost their lives in road accidents, at least 64 died because of rash and negligent driving of goods vehicles. “After buses, goods vehicles cause the maximum number of accidents in the city. We have been carrying out awareness campaigns to teach goods vehicle drivers the road rules,” said a senior officer of the traffic department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Wired to the mysteries of old buildings||Buildings are like people. They have distinct personalities; some even have faces. Some of them age well, some of them do not. In any case, they need care. Especially their wiring. If the analogy is stretched further, the wiring can be said to run through the buildings like veins through a human body. Wires weaken, rupture, cause blackouts. In an old building, they are more prone to damage. Then Sunil Kumar Jana is called in. Jana, 54, is the go-to electrician for some residents of Ballygunge Place, the elite south Calcutta neighbourhood, still full of old buildings, though they are disappearing fast. A quiet, dignified man who does not like to waste his words, Jana has been working in Ballygunge Place for 28 years. As a family doctor knows the pulse of his patient, Jana knows where exactly to tap the wiring of a building for something that has gone wrong. A joint may need to be seen. A wire may have come loose. The bodies of old buildings need constant attention. “Wires have a certain life span,” reminds Jana. “In this area much of the wiring is 60 or even 70 years old.” He looks trained in an ancient craft as from the height of a ladder in an old building he unfastens an old glass lampshade hanging from an iron stem, an activity that often requires a knowledge of complex fittings, the mysteries of which a new-age electrician may not want to get into. Jana also offers to clean the lampshades and the fans. He knows the power of the bulb required for a particular lampshade at a particular house or which fan just needs a gentle nudge with a jhuljhara to start rotating again. He also warns against keeping the AC main switch turned on; it keeps the electricity operating. He does not have a helper, because he is not certain how he will behave when allowed entry into the most private parts of a house. He starts working from 9am and works till he is required to. House-owners wonder what will happen once he retires. Jana himself lives at the back of a well-known Ballygunge Place sweet shop, adjacent to his own shop in the ground floor of a building. But Jana’s shop is actually a narrow glass case with wooden doors attached to the wall next to the sweet shop. His tools rest on the shelves. A signboard saying Rakhesh Electronics hangs over the glasscase. Rakhesh is his son’s name. Jana did not arrive at this affluent locality because he wanted to. Neither did he want to become an electrician. Life has just delivered him here. He was born in Ekabbarpur village under Jagatballavpur police station area in Howrah. He studied till Class IV. He had seven siblings. His father was a farmer who did not earn enough for his large family. When Jana was about 12, in the late 70s, he came over to Calcutta to work at Sutripti, another well-known sweet shop, located in Rashbehari Avenue, near Cornfield Road. There he worked as a table boy. A few years later the shop closed down because of differences between the owner and the employees’ union. Jana found work at a small shop in Behala near a masjid for the next eight to 10 years, selling tea, ghughni and small snacks. But he had to leave the place. The next year he was jobless. Back home in Howrah, where his wife, son and daughter still live, he then had to often survive on bulgar. In that desperate state he came over to Calcutta again and trained as an electrician at a store in Amherst Street. He was a “helper” at first. This was in the late 80s. But he was earning very little — Rs 10 every week. He left for a tea garden in Assam’s Dibrugarh, where he worked at the tea factory for 18 months, which paid more. Then on the recommendation of a relative, he came over to Ballygunge Place, and stayed on. Through these years, he has been witness to many changes. Homes have transitioned from the trembling glow of “light bulbs” to the white haze of “tube lights” (fluorescent lights) to the steady glares of CFLs and LEDs. Jana’s work has changed with each shift. “Previously I would be called in a lot to fix the bulbs and ‘tube lights’. ‘Tubes’ would have chokes, starters, holders. These would cause trouble. LEDs last much longer, consume less electricity,” he said. He is called in less. But newer fans make up for this. “Old fans are heavier and have 700/800 grams of coils inside them. New fans are lighter and contain about 250 grams of coils. They heat up.” The problems created by new fans keep Jana busy a lot during summer. The bigger change has been the buildings themselves. Jana has watched from close the demolition of the old buildings and the advent of the new ones, mostly apartment blocks. New houses altogether require an electrician less. Their dimensions keep everything within reach. Or there are gadgets. “Even chandeliers are remote-controlled,” Jana said. The people have changed. “Earlier, I would even be asked to have a meal at some homes after my work. I was treated with more respect, more kindness,” Jana said. His knowledge, too, does not extend to the new age. He only knows how to fix the electrical problems of a household. “I cannot repair a microwave, washing machine or fridge. I can only repair a mixie,” he said. He will keep working till he can, Jana said. But he cannot stop the houses around him from retiring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Student evaluation evolves with pandemic||The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way some schools used to prepare report cards. Digital literacy and how well a student is responding to online classes have gained prominence in report cards, especially in junior sections. Schools are now pointing out in report cards whether a student can mute or unmute the device being used for online classes, their level of ability to edit video, whether they are keeping their videos switched off or sending their questions through the chat box. In some schools teachers have redesigned report cards to match with the current times. Teachers have realised that the usual parameters are no longer as relevant as they used to be during the pre-Covid times. “Certain parameters in the report cards have been changed. We are commenting about the digital literacy of the child which includes remarks like how well the child has been able to record and edit videos or whether he/she can make short videos. These were things we never thought of in the pre-pandemic times,” said Nupur Ghosh, vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Social skills of children was an important parameter in the pre-Covid times, which now has to be left blank. “In schools, teachers observe children during free sessions, assembly and even during lunch break to gauge their social skills. Now, there’s nothing much to do about it, Ghosh said. Some sections that have not been changed include how helpful a student is towards others, but the mode of assessment had to be changed to match the present scenario. “Some children are helping their peers understand the technology of an online class. Recently the digital platform that we were using was updated, some of the students even guided the teachers to get hold of the software,” said a teacher. Sri Sri Academy has included a section on observations during online teaching. It includes parameters like whether a student is able to sit still in front of the camera, whether a child is participating in discussions and putting forth questions through the chat box. “It took us three weeks to design the new report cards, which are suitable for this period and also age appropriate,” said principal Suvina Shunglu. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy has put emphasis on the codes of online class, which includes what a child is wearing and how he or she is sitting and behaving, all of which are being taken into account by the teacher while preparing report cards. “The digital class is a paradigm shift and slowly we are finding ways to assess the child,” said Meena Kak, the director at Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. How well the children are conducting programmes online is also being observed. “It is also true that not all children might be good in academics but most of them are digitally strong and that is coming to the foreground now,” she added. The school has also asked students of Classes IX and X to prepare a portfolio, which includes things like how they have coped in online classes. They are being given grades on it. That is now extended to Classes VI, VII and VIII. In some schools, teachers are also mentioning irregular network, which is meant more for parents than students. The response of the child in the online class is taken into account. It shows how sincerely a student is attending a class. “The rubrics have changed and things that were given importance in a physical classroom have changed to respond to the children in an online classroom,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. “When it came to teachers writing their general remarks about a student or on his/her personality development, the sense of responsibility is taken into account,” said Prasad. The sense of responsibility at pre-Covid times was about discharging one’s duties that included the duty of a library monitor, minding queues, switching off lights in corridors that would develop a sense of responsibility and awareness, she said. “Now all of those have been ruled out. It has come to things like submission of assignments,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||First Sunday of the New Year||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||IIEST end-semester exams on digital platform||IIEST will conduct its end-semester exams, scheduled for January, on digital platforms, an official of the Shibpur institute said. The decision follows an assessment by the institute that most students managed to write last month’s mid-semester exams in the digital mode overcoming all constraints, the official said. The institute had feared that around 15 per cent of the 3,000-odd examinees would not be able to write the mid-semester exams because of lack of access to devices like smartphones and laptops or because of poor connectivity. But an assessment revealed that close to 95 per cent of the students wrote the test. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), said the participation was more than what the institute had witnessed when tests were held on the campus. “Participation by the maximum number of students in the mid-semester exams overcoming the digital constraints has encouraged us to decide to conduct end-semester exams on digital platforms,” Chakrabarti told Metro. The concerns over lack of access to devices among a section of students and lack of invigilation during tests on digital platforms had at one point made the institute contemplate whether the exams could be held on the campus. But as students opposed the proposal for on-campus tests amid the pandemic, the mid-semester exams had to be held on digital platforms. According to a notice issued on December 31, the end-semester examinations for undergraduate students (BTech and BArch 3rd, 5th and 7th semester) will be held from January 11 till 16. The exams will be held in online mode in accordance with the protocol followed at the time of mid-semester tests, says the notice. A slew of conditions to ensure invigilation during semester exams on digital platforms will be in place. “During the entire period of examination, the camera of your (students’) device (webcam or mobile camera) has to be kept on and audio to be kept off and you shall be proctored by the faculty members. Adoption of any unfair means shall be dealt with as per institute rules and practices,’’ read a notice issued by IIEST on Thursday. What made the institute worry about digital constraints among students? According to an IIEST official, a feedback from 1,830 students in August had revealed that as many as 15.5 per cent of them could not attend online classes in the last semester and 18.3 per cent faced problems because of ’’poor’’ Internet connectivity at home. The responses from a group of 1,200 students had shown that 13.2 per cent of them could not download lectures from the institute’s website. Another official said that to address the problems of digital constraints, the institute had bought students tabs and smartphones and waived some fees so students could spend the money to  buy high-speed Net connections. “The measures seem to have paid off in overcoming the digital divide. Students also took steps on their own to deal with the constraints,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Civic team elusive, Salt Lake residents spray larvicide||Residents of a Salt Lake block took upon themselves the task to spray larvicide in the lanes, gully pits and manholes on Sunday. There has been a spurt in the number of mosquitoes across Salt Lake and several residents of AE Block, who undertook the larvicide drive during the day, said they were forced to keep their windows and doors shut at all times to keep the winged menace at bay. The residents alleged that desperate calls for help to the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation did not yield results. Vector control teams of the corporation are supposed to go around each block in Salt Lake and spray larvicide every alternate week. “The teams’ visits started getting erratic after the Covid-induced lockdown was announced. We don’t remember the last time we saw a vector control team in our block,” a resident said. A group of dozen men and women from the block started spraying larvicide from in front of the AE Block community centre and covered the entire block on foot. The drive was organised by the AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha — the residents’ association of the block. Tapas Sengupta, one of the organisers of the drive, said the number of mosquitoes had gone up exponentially over the past several months. “They are invading our homes. Clouds of mosquitoes are following us wherever we go,” said Sengupta. “We bought larvicide and a spraying machine from the block association’s funds. We sprayed larvicide ourselves.” Other than AE Block, the mosquito population has gone up several times in the BL, AJ, BJ, ED, IB, HA and HC blocks. Many blocks off the Kestopur canal in sectors I and II and off the Eastern Drainage Channel in sector III have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes over the past weeks. “The canals have become breeding grounds of mosquitoes. The water in them has turned stagnant and people dump garbage along the banks,” said Saptadipa Mukherjee, a homemaker from AD Block, whose house overlooks the canal. A resident of BC Block said they had not seen civic workers spray larvicide before or after Durga Puja. “They are not spraying larvicide in the block. The number of mosquitoes has gone up manifold in our block. This has created a scare as several residents are already down with Covid-19,” said Nirmal Dasgupta, a resident of the block. A civic official said many contractual labourers who were members of vector control teams went home when the lockdown was imposed. A large number of them are yet to return. “Many have not come back as they are still afraid. We are managing with a smaller workforce,” the official said, when asked about residents’ complaint that larvicide was not being sprayed. On Sunday, Metro saw garbage dumped near City Centre, CGO Complex and on empty plots. Piles of garbage were seen along the banks of the Kestopur canal and mosquitoes were buzzing over the water in the Eastern Drainage Channel. Public health experts say objects where water can accumulate should not be carelessly thrown around because they serve as mosquito breeding grounds. The Aedes aegypti mosquito, which spreads the dengue virus, can breed in a coin-sized pool of water. An official of the Salt Lake civic body said they had been spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door dengue surveys. “We are facing the twin challenges of Covid and dengue. We are trying our best to ensure that it does not spiral out of control,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Crooner killed in Baguiati apartment||A 22-year-old woman was found murdered on Saturday inside a Baguiati apartment she had rented with a male friend three months ago. Police said a businessman from Rahara in North 24-Parganas told them that his driver Sourav Chakraborty, alias Joy, had texted him and purportedly admitted to killing a woman at a Baguiati apartment they had rented together. Chakraborty apparently mentioned the address of the apartment in Pushpak Nagar in the message. The businessman had alerted the local police, following which the Baguiati police rushed to the apartment. “On reaching the address we found the ground-floor apartment, which had been rented out to Sarbjeet Kaur and Sourav Chakraborty three months ago, locked from outside,” said an officer of Baguiati police station. The woman was a crooner in a bar, the police said. The police broke open the padlock and found Sarbjeet, alias Sweety, lying on a mattress with a pillow on her face. Sources said there were signs of froth and blood in her mouth. She was taken to a private hospital where she was declared dead. The body has been sent for post-mortem. According to landlord Mrinal Kanti Mondal, Sarbjeet was last seen outside their home on the night of December 31. A search has been launched for Chakraborty, who is missing. A murder case has been started against him. The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained, the police said. “We have activated our sources. Once we get the prime suspect, we will be able to comment on the motive of the crime,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar city police. Chakraborty could not be traced till late on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Twin systems drive up Celsius||The minimum temperature, which remained in the 11-degree zone for a few days on the trot, has risen a few notches over the first few days of 2021. Sunday’s minimum was 13.4 degrees and it is tipped to touch 14 over the next couple of days. The Met office attributed the rise to a high-pressure zone over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and parts of Madhya Pradesh. “The system denied cold winds from Kashmir passage to Calcutta,” a Met official said. A strong Western Disturbance over Afghanistan and Kashmir, which has triggered a cyclonic circulation over northwest India, Delhi and adjoining regions, is set to keep the weather in Calcutta reasonably warm, the Met office has said. “Under the influence of the circulation, the flow of cold winds has been stalled across northwestern India. If anything, easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are flowing into the system. That is why the chill is missing in Calcutta,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The system is expected to take around four to five days to pass, during which the temperature is expected to remain on the higher side.” Once the system dissipates, the cold winds from north will again make inroads into Calcutta and trigger a plunge in the Celsius, said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Cache of 90 bullets found on a man in Garden Reach||A cache of 90 bullets was allegedly found on a man in Garden Reach on Sunday afternoon. Police said this was one of the biggest seizures of ammunition from the heart of Calcutta in the recent past. Sheikh Mohammad Istique, 52, from whom the bullets were seized, has been arrested. “The ammunition was manufactured in Bihar. The person who has been arrested for illegal possession of the ammunition has no criminal records with the Calcutta police,” said a police officer. Based on a specific tip-off, a team from the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department intercepted Istique, a resident of Phears Lane in central Calcutta, near Paharpur Road in Garden Reach on Sunday afternoon. He was allegedly carrying a bag containing 90 live bullets. “Such a big seizure has not been made in the recent past,” a senior officer at Lalbazar said. “These are good quality bullets. We are trying to find out who was the intended recipient of the consignment,” the officer added. Istique, who has been charged under the arms act, will be produced in a city court on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||ATM card taken, PIN forced out in app cab||An app cab driver and three other men were arrested late on Saturday for allegedly robbing a man who had boarded the cab thinking it was a shuttle taxi in front of a bar on EM Bypass early on Christmas morning. Anjan Biswas, 51, was allegedly blindfolded and robbed of his ATM card and forced to share the PIN, police said. The men allegedly withdrew Rs 40,000 using the card and the PIN from an ATM kiosk on the Bypass. According to the complaint lodged by Biswas, the men pinned him down on the floor of the car and snatched his gold chain and wallet containing Rs 25,000 before letting him go on Dhalai bridge near Patuli. The accused have been identified as Raju Majhi, 32, Santosh Poddar, 24, Sheikh Biki, 25, and Arpan Sen, 32. All are residents of Picnic Garden Lane in Tiljala. Biswas, originally from Tripura, owns two guest houses in Anandapur and Kasba and jointly runs a band that plays at a bar on the Bypass, the police said. He was returning home to Kasba early on Christmas when he was robbed. Officers said Biswas had boarded the “shuttle cab” in front of the bar where his band plays around 2am. He sat on the backseat of the car. “There were three other men in the car, apart from the driver. When the car reached Lashkarhat (on the Bypass), the man sitting next to Biswas asked the driver to stop. He stepped out on the pretext of relieving himself. While getting in, he requested Biswas to shift inside and make room for him. Once Biswas shifted, he was easily overpowered by the others and blindfolded inside the moving car,” said an officer of Tiljala police station. Biswas, after being abandoned on the road, reported the matter to the police, based on which Tiljala police station started a case. Senior officers involved in the probe said they had drawn up the probable route the car took. “Tower dumps (data collected from a mobile phone tower closest to a particular spot) of those places were obtained. CCTV footage was scanned and a vehicle with damage mark over its left front wheel was identified. The vehicle was suspected to be a Nissan Go,” said a senior police officer. The company’s dealer in Calcutta and the app cab companies were contacted with details of the car obtained from CCTV footage. A list of vehicles of similar make and plying commercially as app cabs was prepared and each was scrutinised, the police said. The driver was tracked down and arrested, following which the other team members were rounded up. The accused were produced in court on Sunday and remanded in police custody. A senior officer said they were questioning the accused to find out whether they had robbed more people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors mull two more stents for Sourav||Sourav Ganguly can have two more stents implanted for removing as many blockages in vessels of his heart, officials of Woodlands Hospital where the former Indian cricket captain is admitted said on Sunday. Sourav, 48, who had suffered a “minor heart attack” on Saturday, was stable and spoke to family members on Sunday, said doctors and officials of the hospital. The BCCI president had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery on Saturday afternoon. Sources said the cardiac event had taken place at 11am while he was working out on a treadmill at home. He reached Woodlands at 1pm and walked from his car to the hospital. “Blockages were detected in three vessels. In such cases, there are usually two options for doctors, a cardiac bypass surgery or angioplasty to implant stents. In case of Sourav, since he is young and does not have any other complications, doctors are considering another round of stent implantation, instead of a surgery,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands. A nine-member medical board will decide on Monday whether to do an angioplasty and implant stents to remove the blocks in the other two vessels, said Basu. Sources said opinions about Sourav’s treatment were taken from at least five doctors from India and abroad, including  Devi Shetty, a cardiac surgeon and the chairman of Narayana Health. Videos of the angiogram and implantation of the stent have been sent to these experts. Doctors said the blockage and blood clot in the right coronary artery were more severe than in the other vessels and it caused the heart attack. “Usually, a second round of implantation of stents is done within four to five days of the first round. But it’s up to Sourav and his family members to decide on this,” said a doctor. Doctors said Sourav was stable and had an almost normal diet on Sunday. However, he is still in the ICU and under observation. “There were many visitors but only family members were allowed to meet him because he is still in the ICU,” said an official of the hospital. Sourav had slept well at night and had tea and breakfast on Sunday. “He mostly ate vegetables. His condition is improving and he spoke to his wife, daughter and other family members,” said Saroj Mandal, an interventional cardiologist who is treating Sourav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine outreach for private doctors||The state health department is trying to reach out to the doctors who are not attached to any hospital or other healthcare institute so they are not left out of the Covid-19 vaccination, senior officials said. Earlier, the department sent messages to doctors attached to private and government hospitals and other healthcare facilities to enrol for the Covid-19 vaccination. But there are many doctors who practice in private clinics in their localities and are not attached to any hospital or nursing home. A senior official of the department said they wanted all these doctors to be vaccinated, too. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has been asked to send copies of a form to all private doctors in the city. The doctors have to fill in the form and send a scanned copy of it to the email ID mentioned in the document. Other municipal corporations and municipalities have been asked to do the same in their areas. The chief medical officers of health (CMOH) of all districts have been told to identify private practitioners and ensure they get registered for the vaccination. “The vaccination programme will cover all doctors, irrespective of whether they are associated with a hospital/nursing home or not. We are also reaching out to all private practitioners to see to it that their names are registered for the vaccination. The CMOHs in the districts are working towards ensuring that all private practitioners are registered for the vaccination. The CMC, too, has been asked to do the needful,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the Bengal health department. The CMC is delivering a printed sheet with 24 columns at chambers of private practitioners in Calcutta. “The practitioners have to fill in the columns and send a scanned copy to kolpmu.nuhm@gmail.com,” said a CMC official. All the names will be sent to the Centre so they get registered with the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win) application, which has been built for the vaccination drive across the country. “Practitioners of homoeopathy and other AYUSH streams can also apply for the vaccination,” Nigam said. “We all know that there are general practitioners who have never been associated with any hospital but who treat a large number of patients. These doctors, too, are at risk of contracting the coronavirus while treating patients. They must be vaccinated along with other doctors,” the official said. Pinaki Mitra, a private practitioner in Garia, told Metro that he had been informed about the registration by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and had sent all relevant details. “I had to fill in a form and submit it. I had to mention my name, address, registration number and other details in the form,” said Mitra, who is a member of the IMA’s Tollygunge branch. But there could be many doctors who are not members of any doctors’ association, which is why the health department has launched the drive to reach out to all private practitioners. Registering for Covid-19 vaccines is necessary as only those who have their names registered will get a vaccine. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, published by the Union ministry of health and updated on December 28, mentioned that “only pre-registered beneficiaries will be vaccinated as per the prioritisation, and there will be no provision for the on-the-spot registrations”. According to the guidelines, nearly 1 crore health-care workers, 2 crore frontline workers and about 26 crore people aged above 50 years on January1, 2021, will be vaccinated in the first phase across India. Anirban Dalui, the assistant treasurer of IMA’s Bengal chapter, said the association was using all possible means to disseminate information about vaccination among private practitioners. “We are sending messages on all doctors’ groups, disseminating the information through associations of specialist doctors like the Association of Physicians of India or the Indian Pediatrics Association,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Showcase of young talents||Asian International School Asian International School recently organised a global fest, Regalia 2020, in association with The Telegraph Young Metro, on a digital platform. There were various competitions for different age categories such as English and Hindi recitation for the age group of three to six years, Mom/Dad and Me for seven to 10 years and painting competition for 11 to 14-year-olds. Students and their parents together made an awareness video on coronavirus in the Mom/Dad and Me event. Thousands of participants from around 100 schools all across the world took part in the fest. Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood was the chief guest. “It’s been truly amazing to watch young minds displaying their creativity and unfolding the hidden talents through the global fest. The enormous participation from all over the globe amid the pandemic reassures our faith in humanity. I congratulate all the participants, especially the winners of the various categories. I also congratulate Asian International School for infusing positivity and optimism among the students through this well-organised virtual inter-school fest,” the actor said. The winners in the English and Hindi recitation competition were Prisha Pandit of Bhavan’s Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Vidyaniketan, Haldia, and Shaily Omar of Delhi Public School, Kanpur, respectively. Anjali Kumar of Sunbeam School, Mughalsarai won the painting competition, while Harnoor Kaur of Mahadevi Birla World Academy, Calcutta, clinched the first position in Mom/Dad and Me. “With Regalia 2020 and its manifestation through global fest for children, it is established that when a team joins hands together, the dark hues of pandemic can be transformed into the brightness of happydemic. The brightness of the children has connected as many as 2,000 families with a soaring support of almost 100 schools from across the globe, coming together to set in the sense of normality. We have been conducting various engaging and enriching activities for the students through virtual seminars and commemoration in the past 10 months. The outcomes of these efforts have been displayed through huge participation by children at the inter-school fests, even at the national level,” said principal Vijay Lakshmi Kumar. Students of Birla High School junior section learnt the importance of peace in one’s life as they celebrated the International Peace Day amid the pandemic. Shaping peace together was the theme of the event with an aim to promote unity, equality, harmony and compassion among students. The tiny tots of nursery did activities such as paper chipping and palm printing, while the kindergarten children drew the outline of the dove, the symbol of peace with palm impressions. The little scholars of Class I wrote a recipe for peace using ingredients such as care, share, respect and love, followed by a paper chipping activity. Students of Class II expressed their thoughts through meaningful drawings and sketches. Class III students performed yoga to inculcate mindfulness. The students of classes IV and V expressed their wish and desire to live in a world where peace resides everywhere through colourful posters. “Every class in their way celebrated the day. Half of the problems in this world occur because people are not being able to live in harmony with one another. And I feel that children should be sensitised to be tolerant, so that they can face any situation,” said headmistress Farida Singh. Junior section of The Akshar School — classes III to VI — recently organised an online fest Avsar 2020. It focused on India and encouraged students to travel virtually and discover their country afresh. The organising committee got three weeks to put together the fest that had events focusing on the country’s heritage and rich culture. Students of classes III and IV staged folk dances while classes V and VI competed in a classical dance competition. Other events included storytelling, cookery and talking about heritage sites. Ten schools took part in the event. “Even a pandemic could not slow down the positive energy of Team Akshar,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Birla High School, Mukundapur, has started online karate classes for its students, so that the children can remain fit and healthy by getting involved in a physical activity. “We started with academic classes and proceeded with conducting extra-curricular activities online, and now the whole idea of bringing karate into the ambit of online classes is that children get a chance to involve themselves in some kind of physical activity which is crucial. Initially, I was worried that how the children would respond to it, but they are taking part actively and that is satisfying for us,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Headmistress Hira Prasad said: “Children were hardly getting a chance to involve themselves in physical activity since online classes became the new normal. Some sort of physical activity is required for a child to stay fit. If the body is fit, the mind is sound too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
