05-01-2021||Calcutta||Gift of fresh stocks for blind vendors||Three blind persons who used to sell sundry items on trains and their localities but were put out of work by the pandemic got a fillip in the form of fresh stocks on Monday. They got incense sticks, phenyl, flattened rice, sanitisers — to be sold over the coming days. Among them was Putu Bera, 30, from Hooghly, who got a fresh stock of incense sticks. Before the lockdown, Bera used to sell incense sticks on the platform of Bandel railway station with her husband, who is visually impaired, too. They used to make the sticks at home. The pandemic and long suspension of suburban trains had robbed them of their livelihood. “There was no money to buy raw materials to make new sticks. We survived on donations and relief materials from various groups,” she said. Bera plans to sell the new sticks near the station. Local trains have resumed but hawkers are not being allowed on them. The station platforms are also out of bounds for hawkers, according to railway norms. Abdul Rashid Molla, who came from Budge Budge in South 24-Parganas, got around a dozen bottles of phenyl. The recipients were brought by The Society For The Welfare Of The Blind, an NGO that had provided financial aid and dry ration to around 500 families, whose earning members are visually impaired, during the lockdown. “It is really a tough time for these people. The fresh stocks will be of great use to them. They plan to sell the items on the platform and in localities near their home till hawkers are formally allowed to sell their fare on trains,” said Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of the NGO. Niranjan Ram, the third recipient on Monday, had come from Narendrapur. “We don’t want to live on alms. Selling these products will be the first step to reclaim the life of respect,” he said. The stocks given to the hawkers on Monday were procured by Disha Eye Hospitals to mark World Braille Day, which is celebrated on January 4. The programme was held at the Gariahat unit of the chain. “The idea is to provide the principal for business to the blind hawkers, so that they can sell the products, and start rolling the profit in a sustainable manner,” said Debasish Bhattacharya, chairman and managing director, Disha Eye Hospitals. Similar help will be extended to 97 other blind hawkers, said an official of Disha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Trans-Himalayan joy at Santragachhi  jheel||Santragachhi Jheel is currently home to nearly 5,000 birds, including a “near threatened” trans-Himalayan migrant, birdwatchers who have visited the water body in Howrah said. “About 10 Gadwalls and one Ferruginous Pochard are at the jheel nowadays. Both of them are trans-Himalayan migrants,” said birdwatcher Prosenjit Dawn. The birds breed in central Asia, China and Mongolia and travel thousands of miles to reach the subcontinent to escape the harsh winter there. The Ferruginous Pochard, also called Ferruginous Duck, is listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The website of IUCN said: “The species is currently listed as Near Threatened as it is suspected to be undergoing a moderately rapid overall decline.” Veteran birdwatcher Shubhankar Patra said any sighting of Ferruginous Pochard is greeted with lots of cheers among birdwatchers because “their numbers are declining”. A Black Winged Stilt, another trans-Himalayan migrant that had never been known to have been sighted at Santragachhi, was seen at the water body in the first week of December, said Dawn. “Because of a timely clearing of water hyacinths, birds started to arrive early this year, at least a fortnight earlier than previous years,” he said. Dawn and Patra both said close to 5,000 birds were at the jheel now. Birdwatchers are hoping to see a few more trans-Himalayan migrants in January. The overwhelming majority of birds are Lesser Whistling Ducks, which are found around water bodies in Bengal through the year but in far smaller numbers. “It is a delight to be around Santragachhi Jheel nowadays,” said Dawn. To any visitor training their eyes at the water hyacinth islands at the jheel, the brown chestnut bodied ducks would be hard to miss. Their calls, sounding like whistles, will ring in the ears. Among the other local birds sighted at the jheel are Purple Heron and Common Moorhen. Patra said the uniqueness of Santragachhi Jheel was that despite being surrounded by houses, railway tracks and small manufacturing units, so many birds wintered there every year. “This place is so close to Calcutta. Santragachhi is a densely populated and busy area. Around the jheel, there are houses. Hundreds of trains pass through Santragachhi station. There is so much noise pollution. Yet the birds choose to come here every year,” he said. “We do not know why they prefer Santragachhi Jheel. But we must ensure that the water body is conserved properly.” Lesser Whistling Ducks and other birds at the jheel use the water hyacinth islands as their roosting place during the day. A bird count at the jheel is scheduled for January 16. But Patra said it would show the count of that day. There were occasions in previous years when the count of birds was found to be lower on the day of the count.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Operators with grounded buses cannot avail the tax-waiver scheme ||Bus operators who have kept their vehicles grounded will not enjoy the benefits of the tax-waiver scheme of the state government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. “We have waived the penalty till June. Those who have still kept the buses grounded will not come within the ambit of the waiver scheme,” Mamata said at Nabanna. The government had in August last year announced waiver of all taxes and fines on lapsed fitness certificates for bus and minibus owners. The waiver, with retrospective effect from April 1, came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses had been reeling from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a sharp drop in the passenger count because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Private bus operators who have still kept their vehicles grounded suffered huge losses during the lockdown. “My earnings and expenditures have to be on a par. It has to be ensured that the subsidy is being fully utilised. It should not be wasted. Every penny has a value. The income has gone down. We are yet to receive around Rs 85,000 crore (from the Centre). We haven’t yet received GST dues,” she said. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the state transport department was having to grapple with a temporary financial crunch. “After a detailed meeting between the transport secretary and finance secretary a few days ago, a special provision has been made... After getting this special subsidy, the transport department hopes to tide over the crisis,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Last-rites candle burns kill woman||A 64-year-old woman died of burn injuries on Sunday, days after her apparel had caught fire from a candle while performing the last rites of her husband. This was the fourth reported case in Calcutta in three months of an elderly woman dying of burns suffered while performing puja or cooking. Sipra Mitra, 64, a resident of P Naskar Lane, had suffered burns on December 23 while performing the last rites of her husband, Jyotirmoy Mitra, at Adi Shanti Sangha Club on Dr GS Bose Road. Police said Mitra did not realise that her sari had caught fire from a candle. In no time did the flames engulf the lower part of her torso as she was sitting on the ground. She was taken to a hospital on BB Chatterjee Road, where she died on Sunday. The woman’s body was sent for post-mortem and later handed over to her brother, Samarjit Roy. No complaint has been lodged. Senior officers described the trend of elderly women suffering fatal burns as alarming. “It appears that people have stopped taking basic precautions while lighting a match or handling a source of fire. Loose clothes, silk or synthetic apparels should be strictly avoided when someone works near fire. They easily catch fire,” said a senior fire department official. “Elderly people, who may take a little more time to react, should be extra cautious,” the officer added. In October, Dola Mitra, 63, had died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at her home. Another elderly woman — Chaya Nag, 74 — who had gone to her daughter’s place, had suffered from fatal burn injuries while cooking at their Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane home in Beleghata in December 2020. An LPG cylinder leak was suspected to have triggered the fire. Four days after the death of Nag, 60-year-old Manjula Dutta, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, died of burn injuries after her apparel caught fire while lighting the lamp during the morning puja rituals at her home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Set time limit for meetings: JU teachers||The teachers of Jadavpur University have written to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das and urged him “to ensure and limit the duration of meetings to a reasonable span of time”, considering that in the recent past many teachers who attended academic bodies’ meetings were confined till late in the night. In this “backdrop” of such confinement, the teachers have written: “We urge the administration to ensure and limit the duration of meetings.” The letter was sent a week after the dean of engineering, Amitava Datta, resigned following what sources close to him said was pressure from students and at least four instances of being gheraoed till late night. A teacher said in the past one month whenever they had received any memorandum from students’ bodies, it was found that the representation went on for an inordinate length of time. “And then the students resort to gherao following a difference of opinion, leading to confinement through the night. It is better to tell the students beforehand that it is a time-bound meeting....” Dean Datta and the two pro-vice-chancellors had been confined for several hours on December 9, the day the students’ union in the engineering faculty launched a protest against alleged errors in results and delay in their publication. On December 11, during a meeting on the issue, some students prevented other members from leaving the venue even after the discussions had ended. Datta and others were detained till 1.30am. The teachers have written: “We always appreciate the spirit of dissent in democracy but we strongly feel that the democratic right of a section cannot curb the democratic rights of others.” On the alleged delay in publication of results, the letter says: “The examination section needs immediate strengthening by proper augmentation of skilled manpower and filling up of vacancies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||City app-cab gang targeted bar patrons||The gang that had robbed a trader in a car he had boarded after stepping out of a bar on EM Bypass early on Christmas is suspected to have robbed more people coming out of bars along the stretch, police said. The four accused — Raju Majhi, Santosh Poddar, Sheikh Biki and Arpan Sen -- are said to have told the police that they only targeted people stepping out of these bars. “They would target people coming out of bars mostly for two reasons - such victims are usually intoxicated and find it difficult to remember details about the incident, and they are often embarrassed to report the crime because of the stigma attached to going to bars in certain sections of society,” said an officer of Tiljala police station. The police said they had learned from the accused that they had recently robbed another man  in a similar fashion after he had stepped out of a bar. However, in the absence of any complaint, the police are yet to get any details about the incident. Sources said the cops had started analysing CCTV footage of that particular bar. “If the person can be spotted and if he is ready to report the offence, a second case can be started against the gang,” said a senior police officer. Investigators have learned that the gang had been active on the Bypass since the bars and nightclubs reopened after months of lockdown. The car in which businessman Anjan Biswas was robbed early on Christmas morning is registered as an app cab. One of the accused - Raju Majhi – is the driver of the cab. The police said Majhi, 32, would drive the cab during the day and pick up friends at night. Biswas owns two guesthouses in Anandapur and Kasba and jointly runs a band that performs at a bar on the Bypass. Around 2am on Christmas, he stepped out of the bar and boarded Majhi’s app cab thinking it was a shuttle taxi. There were three other men in the car, other than the driver. Biswas has told the police that initially he was sitting by a window on the backseat. One of the men asked the driver to stop and stepped out on the pretext of relieving himself. While getting in, he requested Biswas to shift inside. Once Biswas did so, he was allegedly blindfolded, pinned on the floor of the vehicle and robbed of his wallet containing Rs 25,000, gold chain and ATM card. He was also allegedly forced to share the ATM card PIN. The men allegedly withdrew Rs 40,000 from an ATM on the Bypass using the card. Biswas was allowed to go on Dhalai Bridge near Garia. The police said though the complainant had not been able to share details about the car or its occupants as he was blindfolded, they identified the car from the footage of a CCTV camera installed near the ATM kiosk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||UK-return Covid positive actress seeks better facility, declines Beleghata ID hospital||Actress Banita Sandhu, who arrived in Calcutta from the UK via Dubai on Sunday and tested positive for Covid-19, declined to get admitted to the Beleghata Infectious Diseases Hospital and sought a better facility, police sources said. The 23-year-old actress, the sources said, remained seated inside an ambulance outside the hospital for an hour on Monday, with her production team seeking a cabin with an attached toilet for her. Banita was later admitted to Medica Superspecialty Hospital. It is not clear why this option was not offered to her earlier. In the initial stages when the coronavirus was detected in Bengal, all patients had to go to a handful of hospitals, including the Beleghata hospital. However, as the numbers climbed and the initial panic subsided, the patients were given multiple choices, including hotels. The Bengal administration is now on high alert over the mutated strain of the virus found in the UK and, hence, designated Beleghata as the sole hospital for passengers arriving from Europe and testing positive for Covid-19. The Beleghata hospital ward earmarked for such patients does not have bath-attached rooms for single patients. An official at Medica said Banita, who has booked a cabin, would remain isolated from all other patients, including those suffering from Covid. Banita had travelled to Dubai from the UK on December 27. She came to Calcutta from Dubai on Sunday.  Banita holds a UK passport, an official said. “She was taken to Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in New Town, a facility for Covid patients, for a Covid test from the airport as she had travel history from the UK. She tested positive for Covid-19 and was put up at CNCI on Sunday,” a health department official said. Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services, said anyone arriving from a European country is being taken to CNCI for an RT-PCR test for Covid. “If the person tests positive, then he or she is being taken to Beleghata ID Hospital,” he said. Sources at the Beleghata hospital said 50 beds for men and as many for women have been set aside for those testing positive for Covid-19 after arriving from Europe. “Fifty of the 100 beds are general beds. The rest are high dependency unit (HDU) beds. Anyone who tests positive will first be kept on a general bed. If a further test reveals the person is carrying the mutated strain, then he or she will be shifted to an HDU bed,” said a doctor at the hospital. Swab samples of people testing positive for Covid-19 after arriving from Europe, directly or via other countries, are being sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for a genetic analysis to detect the presence of the mutated strain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Madhyamik exam centres to be tripled: Board||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education will triple the number of centres for Madhyamik 2021, to be held in June, so the examinees can write the test adhering to physical distancing norms, an official of the board said. Last year, there were 2,839 centres. This year, the number of centres could be around 7,000. Close to 14 lakh candidates are expected to write the test and the board does not want to accommodate more than 200 examinees in one centre. The figure of 200 has been fixed in keeping with the guidelines issued by the  Union ministry of home affairs in October last year, the official said. The guidelines say: “Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations, in closed spaces with a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons will continue”. Last year, on average 700 candidates wrote the exam in each centre. “This year we cannot ask the candidates to sit in close proximity to each other because of the pandemic. We have to abide by the health protocols. So we have to almost triple the number of exam centres compared with last year,” the board official said. Since the number of centres is being increased, the board is planning to requisition primary schools to set up exam venues, an official of the school education department said. Till last year, only secondary schools were used as exam centres. “We will decide how many exam centres are needed once the board gets to know the number of examinees,” the official said. Camp offices were held on December 16 and 17 to distribute enrolment forms among regular and continuing candidates. “We are in the process of gathering data on the number of examinees,” said a board official. The National Testing Agency, which had conducted the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in September for admission to the MBBS course, had increased the number of exam centres from 2,546, which was originally planned, to 3,843. The number of candidates in each room was halved — from earlier 24 to 12. An official of the secondary education board said the exam centers would ensure staggered entry of students. The candidates will be given a set of instructions on social distancing. All candidates will be required to wear masks and carry sanitisers. “Hand sanitisers will be made available at the entrance to the exam centres and inside exam halls at all times and the body temperature of the examinees will be checked with thermal scanners,” an official of the school education department said. “We have yet to decide on the steps. We will ensure that all safety protocols are followed,” said Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors consider discharging Sourav Ganguly||Sourav Ganguly is likely to be discharged from hospital on Wednesday, officials of Woodlands Hospital, where the former Indian cricket captain is being treated for a heart attack, said on Monday. The implantation of stents to remove blockages in two vessels of the heart has been deferred, the officials said. Sourav, 48, had suffered a heart attack at home and was rushed to Woodlands on Saturday. The same day a “major blockage” in the right coronary artery was removed through primary angioplasty and a stent was implanted. “The nine-member medical board (which is supervising Sourav’s treatment) met today and we took opinions from doctors across India and abroad through Zoom and phone. The consensus was that the implantation of stents in two other arteries will be deferred. We are planning to discharge him on Wednesday,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands. “The doctors are of the opinion that the risk factor has reduced following the removal of the major blockage.” Doctors treating the BCCI president said it was better to do the second round of angioplasty after a few days. “Sourav’s heart is still under stress because of the cardiac event. Since the major blockage has been removed, it is better to wait for a few days and allow the blood vessels of the heart to function without stress. There are chances of minor complications if the stent implantation is done immediately,” said cardiologist Saroj Mandal, who is treating Sourav. Once home, a doctor from Woodlands will visit Sourav every day and check his health parameters, said officials. “A team of nurses will be there at Sourav’s home to monitor his health,” said Basu. The nine-member medical board discussed Sourav’s condition with several doctors on Monday, including cardiac surgeons Devi Shetty and Ramakanta Panda and cardiologist Samuel Mathew. Opinions were also sought from Aswin Mehta of Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, Mumbai, and Shamin K. Sharma of Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. “The family members were present during the board meeting and were explained about the disease process and further therapeutic plan,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors lay stress on need to detect underlying conditions and assess risk after a certain age||Sourav Ganguly's three undetected blockages in coronary arteries underlined once again the importance of a proper and regular health check-up after a certain age, said doctors. The former Indian cricket captain had suffered a heart attack on Saturday morning. Doctors and officials of Woodlands Hospital, where Sourav is being treated, said the cardiac event happened when Sourav was working out on a treadmill. Several doctors, including cardiologists and general physicians, said they had come across patients who were not elderly, had no apparent health condition and were non-smokers, but still suddenly developed cardiac symptoms. They are often diagnosed with cardiac ailments, diabetes and cancer in advanced stages. Doctors said regular health screening and risk assessment based on the reports of routine check-ups should be done to detect underlying conditions. “Anyone beyond a certain age, ideally 40 for men and 50 for women, should undergo a routine health check-up once a year. But as important as detecting underlying health conditions is risk assessment of a person based on tests and other factors,” said interventional cardiologist Rabin Chakraborty. “Hospitals and diagnostic centres should have a protocol for clinical triaging.” Clinical triaging is the process of determining the priority of a patient’s treatment by the severity of his or her condition. It will assess the likelihood of recovery with and without treatment. “Risk stratification for detecting lifestyle diseases is crucial. The doctor should sit down with a patient with the results of a routine health check-up. Along with the reports of blood tests, which should include lipid profile and blood sugar, the doctor should take into account other factors like family history of lifestyle diseases, including cardiac ailment, hypertension, stressful professional life and whether the person is a smoker,” said Chakraborty. Based on these analyses, a patient should be placed in one of the three groups — low risk, moderate risk and high risk. “In case of cardiac ailments, a person in the moderate risk group should undergo at least a treadmill test to find out whether there are any underlying heart conditions,” said Chakraborty. He said people in the high risk group should ideally undergo a CT coronary angiogram, a non-invasive test that reveals the condition of the arteries that supply blood to the heart. “If the report is normal, it should not be repeated for at least five years,” he said. Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya said assessment of regular health check-up reports are crucial. “The reports of regular health check-ups are usually seen by a doctor (before they are handed over to patients). If there is any irregularity, like if a person is found to have high levels of cholesterol in blood, then the patient is advised to consult a specialist. But often people tend to ignore such written advice. So it’s extremely important to consult a doctor after getting check-up reports,” Bhattacharya said. “Also, physical examination of a patient is extremely important. I can find out (during a physical examination) whether any gland is swollen or there is any unusual sound in the chest,” he said. Bhattacharya said often unnecessary tests are recommended for a routine health check-up. “It should be a complete haemogram, blood sugar, lipid profile, chest X-ray and renal function tests. Further investigations can be done if any irregularity is detected,” Bhattacharya said. Endocrinologist Subhankar Chowdhury feels that in India, where the prevalence of diabetes and cardiac ailments is high, one should start going for health check-ups from as early as 30. “If a person is detected with diabetes, then his or her other organs can be affected and accordingly, regular check-ups be done,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
