06-01-2021||Calcutta||Arrest in techie murder case||The CBI on Monday night arrested Priyanka Chowdhury, former daughter-in-law of ex-Mohun Bahan club official Balaram Chowdhury, in connection with the murder of a 27-year-old IT professional in 2011. Junior Mirdha was found dead with a bullet lodged inside his head along the Belgharia Expressway in July 2011. Priyanka was produced in a court in Barrackpore on Tuesday and remanded in CBI custody for seven days. The CBI had taken over the probe into the incident in 2019 following Calcutta High Court’s order. Mirdha’s father Samaresh Mirdha had moved the high court expressing dissatisfaction over the state CID probe and sought an investigation by the CBI, which the court accepted. Mirdha, who was allegedly into a relationship with Priyanka, was found dead along the Belgharia Expressway. Initially, police believed he was a victim of a road accident. It was only after the post-mortem revealed the presence of a bullet in the head that a murder case was registered. The state CID had started the investigation but failed to make any headway. In 2019, the CBI was handed over the case. Sources said the CBI found during the investigation that the victim and Priyanka had exchanged multiple phone calls on the night of the incident. “There were CCTV images that showed Junior riding his bike with a woman on the pillion,” said a CBI officer. It was rumoured that Mirdha was eliminated by professional killers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Fake IAS officer arrested||The CID arrested a 47-year-old man in Thakurpukur late on Monday for allegedly posing as an IAS officer. Sleuths said Arup Nandi, who was rounded up from his flat on Diamond Harbour Road, had cheated a number of people by taking money from them after making false promises. “He had collected several crores of rupees by promising people government flats, licences and government jobs,” a CID officer said. “He used an identity card that had his passport-sized photograph. The card claimed he was ‘joint secretary, Home and Home Political’ wing of the state government and that he was posted at Nabanna.” It was mentioned on the card that it was issued on January 8, 2014, and Nandi’s blood group was O-positive. He allegedly had another identity card, in the name of Raja Nandi. CID officers said at several places Nandi had introduced himself as Santo Mitra. “On September 23, a complaint of cheating and criminal intimidation was lodged with Durgapur police station. The amount involved was around Rs 60 lakh. While probing the case, we stumbled upon this man,” said a senior CID officer. “It appears this man had cheated several persons in Durgapur and adjoining areas posing as an IAS officer.” The police have learnt that Nandi used to move around in a car fitted with a blue beacon. If any cop ever stopped him on the way, he would allegedly flash his identity card. To most of his victims, the police said, Nandi would claim that he was very close to several influential personalities in the state. The police said he had been cheating people since 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||School bus owners appeal to CM for tax waiver||Owners of school buses have appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to waive road tax and penalties for delayed payment of the tax for six months to help them tide over the pandemic-induced crisis. There are around 4,000 school bus operators in Calcutta and its adjoining areas. The buses have been idling since the schools were closed in March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. On Tuesday, the bus owners submitted a letter to Mamata’s office at her residence in Kalighat requesting the state government to offer a six-month waiver on road tax and the penalties for late payment of the tax. A similar relief has been offered to operators of private buses and minibuses. The plea from the school bus operators came a day after Mamata had said that the owners of the buses and minibuses that are still grounded would not be eligible for the waiver. “We want to run our buses, but there is no way we can since all the schools are closed. So it would be unfair to treat us the same way as the owners of grounded private buses and minibuses,” said Himadri Ganguly, of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association. “We are ready to increase our fleet strength to carry fewer students in each bus if the state government decides to reopen schools. We have no other sources of income. How do we pay the road tax?” School bus operators said that while private bus operators had to pay around Rs 1,500 every three months as road tax, they had to pay around Rs 4,000. School buses come under the category of contract carriage — not stage carriage, like private buses and minibuses — and so the owners have to pay a higher road tax. “If one fails to pay the tax after a grace period of a fortnight, the tax amount gets doubled. After paying salaries to our staff, there is hardly anything left to pay the road tax,” said a school bus operator from south Calcutta. Last August, the state government had declared a waiver of all taxes and fines on lapsed fitness certificates for bus and minibus owners. The waiver came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses had been reeling from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a drop in the passenger count because of the pandemic. On Tuesday, several school bus owners and operators walked to the chief minister's Kalighat residence from Hazra Park to hand over a letter containing their appeal to her. They were stopped by police on the way. Later, some of the owners visited the chief minister's office at her residence and submitted their letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Three mourners die as pick-up truck overturns||Three men died and at least seven people were injured after a pick-up truck they were travelling in toppled on the Barasat-bound flank of Jessore Road, near Michael Nagar, early on Tuesday, police said. The truck was carrying more than a dozen men and women, who were returning home to Barasat after performing the last rites of a man, said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. The truck was travelling at a high speed around 1am when one of it’s tyres burst, causing the vehicle to topple over, the officer said. The accident spot is around 4km from the airport. “The driver lost control of the truck as soon as the tyre burst. After the truck overturned, it slid on the road for around 20 feet before coming to a halt. Most people were flung on the road,” the officer said. The driver fled the scene soon after the accident. Some shopkeepers on the stretch and a few passing motorists shifted the injured passengers to the side of the road and alerted a patrol team of the airport police station. Once the patrol team reached the spot, the cops called ambulances and took the injured to Barasat District Hospital. Three of the passengers —Raju Shaw, 22, his relative Rampadarath Shaw, 50, and Arun Shaw, 32 — were declared dead on arrival. At least 10 other men and women suffered injuries and five of them have been admitted to the hospital. Vehicles often tend to pick up speed on VIP Road and Jessore Road at night as both the thoroughfares are smooth and wide. Sawan Shaw, 21, one of the injured, said the pick-up truck was being driven recklessly.  “We had banged our head on the driver's cabin several times and asked him to slow down but he did not listen. At Michael Nagar, we heard a loud sound like a firecracker going off. Then I passed out. When I came to and opened my eyes, I saw that I was being helped by a police officer to a vehicle” said Sawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||IIT scholars seek extension of fee deadline||A section of research scholars at IIT Kharagpur has written to the dean of students’ affairs appealing for an extension of the deadline for paying the fee for the spring semester by at least a month because of the pandemic-induced economic distress. Tuesday was the last day for paying the fee of Rs 18,400. The scholars have stated in the letter that “economic depression unleashed by the pandemic has intensified the hardship... many parents have lost their business, jobs or have (had) to bear salary cuts”. The dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, did not take calls or respond to text messages from The Telegraph. The mail that was sent on behalf of the Science Education Group, IIT Kharagpur, a forum of research scholars, says: “The payment link was activated on 28/12/2020 and the last date for payment is 05/01/2021, which leaves the students with less than 10 days to arrange the required amount. Many scholars do not belong to affluent families and their families depend on their fellowship to meet the family expenses…. Therefore, if the last date for payment could be extended by at least a month’s time, the scholars would have enough time to arrange the money.” The scholars have also pleaded for withdrawal of charges for laboratories, and gymkhana and other amenities since most students were not using them. In September, the students who were still on the campus were asked to leave following a Covid outbreak in the area and the institute is yet to recall most of them. The fee structure is - establishment charge: Rs 12,500; tuition fee: Rs 2,500; student amenities: Rs 600; gymkhana: Rs 600; Internet connectivity: Rs 400; examination: Rs 300; medical registration: Rs 50; laboratory contingency: Rs 600; registration: Rs 300; hostel seat rent: Rs 550. Of the 3,000-odd scholars enrolled with the institute, close to 60 are on the campus. A research scholar said since the fee structure did not include the mess charge of Rs 12,000, they were assuming that the authorities were not planning to call back all researchers to the campus. “They are calling back students phase-wise…. A large number of students are not going to use gymkhana and other amenities, but they are still being charged for those facilities. We feel this is completely unfair and the charges must be waived,” said a research scholar who did not want to be named. Another research scholar said that since the institute was recalling students in batches of 10 to 20 each month from December, it was clear that such a huge number of researchers could not be recalled in this semester. The scholars have also called for waiver of the tuition fees for those who are not attending any coursework. In July, the students’ senate of the IIT had passed a resolution, demanding that the mess fee of Rs 10,000 and the hostel overhead charge of Rs 600 per semester be “completely waived”. The institute waived the mess fee and the hostel overhead charge, along with some other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Cold winds blocked, Celsius on the rise||The day temperature on Tuesday clocked 28.2 degrees in its latest upward swing, making a January day difficult to tell from a mid-November day. If the maximum temperature was three notches above normal, the minimum at 15.5 degrees was two notches above normal. Wednesday is set to be warmer, according to the Met forecast. After a cold spell that characterised the end of December, the rise in mercury started from late last week. The Met office has attributed the rise to a strong Western Disturbance in northwest India, the same system that is triggering a wet spell in Delhi and other parts of northern and central India. The Western Disturbance, a low-pressure system, has stalled the flow of northwesterly winds. If anything, moisture-laden southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are headed towards the system via Calcutta, said a Met official. “The chill has gone missing because of the absence of the cold northwesterly winds,” said the official. The Celsius is tipped to touch 29 degrees on Wednesday, the Met office has said. The average maximum temperature for January is 25.8 degrees, according to the India Meteorological Department records. The Celsius had slid to 11.2 degrees on December 27, the lowest this season. The new year was tipped to see the Celsius plunging further below. A high-pressure area over eastern Uttar Pradesh had initially blocked the flow of cold winds into south Bengal. The system has since weakened but the emergence of the Western Disturbance has made things worse. The warm spell is likely to stay at least till the weekend, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav can run marathon: Devi Shetty||Sourav Ganguly can run a marathon or fly a plane and his heart will not be a hindrance to normal life, cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty said on Tuesday after meeting the former India cricket captain at Woodlands Hospital. “Will this event (heart attack) have an impact on his life? Certainly not. Sourav has  received the right care. He is going to lead a normal life like anybody else. This event should not affect his lifestyle or lifespan,” said Shetty, the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, who flew down from Bangalore on Tuesday to examine Sourav. He also pointed out the importance of regular health check-ups, even for young and healthy individuals, to prevent such events. Sourav, 48, had suffered the heart attack while working out on a treadmill at home and underwent angioplasty to get a stent implanted in his right coronary artery. There are blockages in two other coronary arteries, which will be dealt with after 15 days, said doctors and officials at Woodlands. Sourav is set to be discharged on Wednesday. “After this procedure, Sourav can participate in a marathon race. He can fly a plane,” said Shetty. He said that even if someone underwent a bypass surgery, which is a lot more intensive than an angioplasty, one could get a licence to fly a civilian plane. “Sourav can chase any of his dreams and aspirations…. He can get back to cricket if he wants to and he can exercise like a normal person,” said Shetty. The nine-member medical board at Woodlands had taken opinions of several doctors in India and abroad, including Shetty, on Monday about the course of Sourav’s treatment. “The consensus opinion among doctors is that he can get back home and start working…. At some point of time he may require angioplasty, which is like a routine procedure done in most hospitals of the country. It is nothing very complicated or life threatening,” said Shetty. Asked why the second round of stent implantation cannot be done immediately, Shetty said it might lead to formation of small blood clots in the artery. “When someone develops a blood clot in the coronary artery, the entire body chemistry changes. He is more likely to develop a fresh clot if we insert a foreign body. That is why we want to defer it,” he said. Shetty pointed out the importance of regular health check-ups to reduce chances of a heart attack. “People think how can a 48-year-old athletic man like Sourav, who doesn’t drink or smoke and is a fit man, have a heart attack? This is the true reality of India. The kind of lifestyle we lead, irrespective of how athletic you are, you can still have a heart attack if you don’t go for a preventive check-up at regular intervals,” Shetty said. “If Sourav had undergone a simple test like CT angiogram, this incident could have been predicted.” The Telegraph report on Tuesday, which quoted a number of doctors, highlighted the need for regular health check-ups. “It doesn’t matter how fit you are, you should go for a regular health check-up once a year or once in two years…. This is the message Sourav wanted to give to all,” said Shetty. Explaining the importance of exercise and leading a healthy lifestyle, the cardiac surgeon said apparently it would seem there was no use of such things. “One may ask what is the point of leading a life like Sourav. He exercised all his life, didn’t drink or smoke but still had a heart attack. Sourav had blockages in tiny isolated portions of the coronary arteries,” he said. Coronary arteries are long pipes and most people who lead an unhealthy lifestyle can develop a blockage along the entire length of such an artery. “Sourav had tiny areas of critical blockage and once it’s dealt with, his heart is going to be as healthy as anybody else’s,” he said. According to Shetty, no one can predict such an incident. “Even in the life of a monk… something changes in the body and then one can form a blood clot anywhere in the body. It stays for a short period of time and disappears,” he said. “My advice is, it doesn’t matter how strong or fit you are or how fast you run, get a preventive health check-up done at least once in two years. You can predict your heart attack 20 years ahead,” said Shetty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Cycle docking stations planned for Sector V||Multiple bicycle docking stations will be set up all over Salt Lake Sector V as there has been a spurt in the number of people cycling to their workplaces. Many office-goers have taken to cycling to ensure distancing rules are followed. Most of them are keeping the cycles on roads or pavements. An official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), which looks after civic amenities in Sector V, said the places where the cycle docking stations would be set up had been identified and the space would be carved out of the existing parking spaces in the township. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said they would issue an advisory to all offices asking them to demarcate areas for parking. The stands, each of which will have two guards, will be built close to large office complexes. Sen said they were trying to encourage people to take up cycling and consider it as “a serious means of transport”. “The lockdown has shown people how cycles can be used easily for commuting. We have cycle tracks in New Town and we want to encourage this non-polluting form of transport,” said Sen, who is also chairman of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), which provides civic services in New Town. The docking stations in Sector V are likely to have CCTV cameras and mobile phone chargers. One such stand in New Town has two large LCD screens that display the distances between that point and various landmarks of the township such as the Unitech crossing, Eco Park and Sector V. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they would not allow bicycles on flyovers and thoroughfares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Preschools give up premises, go online ||Preschools in the city are letting go of their premises that are mostly on rent and focussing more on online classes in a bid to survive the Covid pandemic. A preschool chain in Bengal has retained only 23 of the 80-odd school properties it had before the pandemic. Another preschool chain has left one and is planning to leave another soon. A preschool with four branches in the city has already released one. Another in Salt Lake has shut down its premises and said it would start “afresh”. Most of the preschools are on rented premises. With no in-person classes taking place and the number of new admissions going down drastically, these schools are finding it difficult to retain the spaces. The schools are concentrating on online classes but a proprietor said it was not easy to get students for “online classes”. “Before the pandemic, we had 800 students across four branches, 500 left after getting admitted to high schools. Of the 300, not everyone was willing to attend online classes. Now, after the fresh session in high schools start, more than 200 would go and we would have to get a fresh batch of students,” said Neelakshi Shukla, the proprietor and principal of Beginners Montessori House, which is in its 25th year. Beginners had to release one of its premises. Young Learners had to let go of its Salt Lake premises. “We are concentrating largely on online classes and once we get the go ahead we can start afresh from a new campus,” said principal Sangeeta Sureka. Rent is not the only expense. There are other overhead costs incured on electricity, maintenance and infrastructure. Rent, however, takes the lion’s share, said one school head. Most preschools are located in areas where real estate is expensive. “We were spending more than Rs 25 lakh on rent. After letting go of several premises we have been able to save. We have to survive,” said Tamal Mukherjee, the founder-director, Little Laureates. The chain of preschool has developed a digital platform for children in the age group of 2.6 to 6 years.The platform has separate log in for parents, teachers and students. “It has a facility where all live classes will be recorded for parents to access at their convenience,” Mukherjee said. Most of the preschools are trying to convince parents how the children can achieve milestones, all through online classes. “Online education is here to stay and we are trying to convince parents that we are not teaching them only language or numbers, we are also trying to connect with their children socially and at an emotional level,” said Nabonita Bose Mukherjee, the principal and owner of Bubble Blue Montessori. Pooja Dugar, the director of Leap Years Preschool, said that though they had retained their space, they had shifted the focus from “physical class to online class”. But they are also trying to figure out how to generate revenue from the space. Many parents are unwilling to admit their children even to high school because of the uncertainty as to when they can attend in-person classes. “In a preschool, the class size is much smaller even in the online mode,” said Bose Mukherjee. Under the changed circumstances, the preschools have also become more flexible. They have kept multiple class timings, so that parents can choose according to their convenience. For example Little Laureates will have four batches — 9am, 11am, 5 pm and 7pm. At Bubble Blue also there are four class timings, including one in the evening. Shukla said that they are also giving demo classes to parents. “Children are enjoying the classes. They look forward to it. The task of teaching is much more difficult in online mode because there are that many eyes looking at you which also includes the mothers,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||CM gets her Swastha Sathi card||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee stood in a queue with some of her neighbours to collect her Swasthya Sathi card on Tuesday morning. The card was given to her at a camp organised at Jai Hind Bhavan, a community hall at the crossing of Kalighat Road and Harish Mukherjee Road. “Here is my Swastha Sathi card,” Mamata said while flashing the card after stepping out of the hall. Swastha Sathi is a cashless health insurance scheme offered by the state government. It provides secondary and tertiary health-care coverage of up to Rs 5 lakh a year to each family and the premium is paid by the government. The chief minister had said in November that all residents of the state would be eligible for inclusion under the scheme. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) is the nodal agency to distribute Swasthya Sathi forms and cards in the city. It has conducted two rounds of Duare Sarkar camps in each of the 144 wards, where the Swasthya Sathi forms and cards were distributed “A third round is under way and a final round will be held later. The last date for submission of the form is January 25,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
