07-01-2021||Calcutta||Cheap, fast & true, the Feluda kit||A scientist with family in New Town’s AD Block is one of the two leaders of a team that has gifted the country a paper strip test for Covid-19 that gives out an accurate result in under an hour but is as precise as qRT-PCR. Debojyoti Chakraborty of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s laboratory in Delhi, has invented the diagnostic kit which has been named Feluda, along with his colleague Souvik Maiti. It is an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor Limited Uniform Detection Assay. The kit uses the CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology which earned Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer A. Doudna the 2020 Nobel Prize in chemistry. By this technology, a protein found in bacteria, on being given a specific instruction, can target and bind with a sequence in DNA. Earlier, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of California Berkeley had developed different Covid-19 diagnostic kit using other variants of CRISPR. “They were named Sherlock and Detectr respectively. Since both the inventors of this kit are Bengalis, we thought of naming our invention after a Bengali detective.” The toss-up was between Byomkesh and Feluda. “My wife Isha suggested the full name to fit the Feluda acronym,” he said. Three musketeers Like Satyajit Ray’s sleuth, the Covid-catching Feluda too comes with two assistants. “We created a smartphone app which can automatically detect the result from a picture of the test strip. We named it Topse or True Outcome Predicted via Strip Evaluation. Also a web server through which a Feluda assay can be designed for diagnosing pathogenic sequences has been created, called Jatayu or Junction for Analysis and Target Design for Your Feluda Assay.” The paper in which they wrote about their invention is in a top journal and is getting peer reviewed. As it awaits publication, it is available in an open source journal depository called Med RXIV. Chakraborty and his team had been working on the technology for the past couple of years. “We had been trying to invent a diagnostic kit to detect sickle cell anaemia, a blood disorder. When Covid-19 came up, we realised it would be more effective in detecting it.” The Covid-19 work commenced in January 2020. The name Feluda was given in March. The technology was licenced in May to Tata Sons which formed a company called Tata Medical and Diagnostics. The invention received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India for commercial launch in September. It was launched in November and has started use in Delhi and elsewhere. It is now available for purchase on the Government E-marketplace (GeM), hosted by the Directorate General of Supplies and Goods. The kit is available online for about Rs 580. “We have no idea how much the testing centre will charge as the costs are regulated and fixed by individual state guidelines,” he said. Endgame The new British variant of the coronavirus strain, he said, cannot be detected by RT-PCR alone. “They have to do it by sequencing. We are currently working so that the Feluda kit can specifically detect the other variant,” he said. The main difference with RT-PCR, which is considered to be the gold standard test in Covid-19 detection, is in the machine that is used for the test. “RT-PCR requires a quantitative real-time PCR machine which costs close to Rs 20 lakh. It is not available everywhere. With a single machine in, say, 100km radius area, the turnaround time to generate the report becomes long and the cost too escalates. Feluda requires a simple PCR machine, which costs about Rs 60-70,000. Thus testing can be scaled up 20 times. In fact, in the advanced version of Feluda no machine will be required and it will become equipment-free. The time taken is less as well. A standardised and simple workflow means testing will not need highly skilled manpower.” The next step of advancement will make it a game-changer in day-to-day life in a Covid-afflicted world. “We are trying to make it available at point-of-care, like in a doctor’s chamber, in schools and colleges when they re-open, in airports and malls…” Chakraborty is happy that a diagnostic kit developed by his team is making Covid-19 detection more accessible to his countrymen. “What we do normally happens inside a lab and the journey from the lab to the market is a long and tedious process. In this case, the transition was fast as there was a demand in the market,” he signed off. ⚫ Named Feluda in April ⚫ Technology licenced in May to Tata Sons ⚫ Drugs Controller General of India approval for commercial launch in September. ⚫ Launched in November ⚫ Available on the Government E-marketplace (GeM) portal ⚫ Price: Rs 580||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Chronicle of masked era||Few motorists driving by Akankha More spare a glance at the concrete pillars lying by the Major Arterial Road. These are waste material generated from the piling of the piers for the New Garia-Airport Metro track. Hidden from the public eye behind yellow plastic sheets, on the island adjacent to the one with the Mangaldeep installation, 20 such pillars are being hewn into unique works of recycled art. The person whose brainchild the project is stays a stone’s throw away from the site, at Anahita Housing Complex. He, Rupchand Kundu, is also behind the planning and designing of the Seven Wonders at Eco Park. “I was looking for something to do once the lockdown brought life to a standstill. These pillars, made of costly concrete but of no further use, caught my eye. One day, I sent a mail to the chairman (of Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation, Debashis Sen) seeking permission to create installations out of them. The response came within a few hours, greenlighting the project,” said Kundu. Kundu’s installations are somewhat reminiscent of the carved stone human figures of Easter Island in being a similar collection of heads placed on pedestals. Incidentally, Kundu had replicated the figures, called the moai, as part of the Seven Wonders. But the biggest difference is in the masks that the faces at the Akankha crossing wear. “I want to give the message that wearing a mask is necessary till there is effective vaccination. These statues will serve to create that awareness. And years down the line, they will remain as a chronicle of the Covid era,” said Kundu, applying layers of cement on a concrete pillar to bring yet another face to form. The pillars range in height from six feet to seven feet and are not identical. He has been at work on the project for close to five months. “In another 10 days, they should be ready. The island will have to be beautified with hedging, grass turf and lights,” he said. Sen has named the collection Twenty Pillars in a video he has posted on the installation. “I chose 20 to connect to the year 2020,” Kundu explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Mask that cools, breathes and lasts||Go out to the streets and you’ll see masks hanging from people’s chins, necks, ears... After a while people wear masks anywhere but over their nose and mouth. Students of SN Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences studied this phenomenon and have come up with an all-in-one solution that they have patented and which you can now avail of. “We realised that there are four main reasons why people resist wearing masks,” began Samir Kumar Pal, senior professor, chemical, biological and macromolecular sciences at the JD Block institute. “Keeping a mask on continuously means inhaling the carbon dioxide you exhale and denying the brain fresh oxygen. Over a long time, this makes people tired, dizzy and unable to perform regular work.” Next comes temperature. “Since our body temperature is higher than room temperature, the mask we exhale into becomes very hot. The moisture released fogs up spectacles the person may be wearing and finally, masks hinder communication as words spoken behind a mask seem unclear and the wearer feels like removing it for clarity.” As a solution, the students have come up with a mask with an active respirator attached. This is a small unit on the mask that comprises a tiny fan, valve and grill to control air flow. It is attached to a power bank that the wearer keeps in his pocket and when turned on, expels exhaled carbon dioxide out of the mask along with moisture and sweat. “This reduces the temperature in the mask by 7- 10ºC,” said Pal. Named BoseShield, this mask has an N95 filter but its safety mechanism is more advanced. It ensures that the exhaled air only escapes through a portion of the mask that is padded with anti-bacterial and anti-fungal cloth. “This will trap Covid-19 germs in case the wearer is infected and exhales any out.” In fact, the wearer’s voice will also flow out smoothly from the mask alongside the air stream, making his words clearer to listeners. “And the cavity in the mask has been designed in a way that allows the phonetic muscles of the face to move without restriction,” said Pal. The power bank would need to be recharged about once in two days and if the wearer sweats profusely the mask may be washed (after removing the respirator) once a month. The life of the mask, that costs Rs 800  including the power bank, would be about five years. Skin-friendly sanitiser While killing germs, regular sanitisers are also blamed for removing moisture from our hands. “This leads to cracks and leaves the door open to bacteria and fungi. We have used nano technology and developed a sanitiser that uses nano particles with omega 9. This means that besides retaining moisture in the skin, the sanitiser also addresses common skin problems of Indians like daad (ringworm) and eczema,” said Paul. The scientist recommends four puffs of Bosetizer to be rubbed from the palms all the way up to the elbows. “Even if an infected person coughs on your hand after this, the germs will be killed. You are ensured protection for up to 40 minutes,” said Pal, a resident of Purbachal Cluster X. His team comprised PhD students Animesh Halder, Soumendra Singh, Riya Ghosh, Neha Bhattacharya and Aniruddha Adhikari. A 100ml bottle of this sanitiser costs Rs 110. Once the products were ready and patented, National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) brokered a deal between the institute and a private company Paulmech Infrastructure. “A scientist’s job is not just to conduct experiments but also to work for people and with these products we have achieved that goal. But technology has no value unless marketed and in this aspect NRDC has been a huge help,” said Samit Kumar Ray, director of the institute, at the launch of the products on November 25 at the CII auditorium, City Centre. Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya launched the products as well as their websites Bosetizer.com and BoseShield.com through which they will be sold. “The world is going through a crisis now and there is no room for complacency. We shall support products like this and together overcome the challenges,” Bhattacharya said. “We have paid a licence fee for this technology and will now be selling these items across the world. Nigeria, the UK and Canada have already shown interest, besides different states of India. The institute will receive a royalty  percentage on the sales,” said Shanti Ranjan Paul, director of Paulmech Infrastructre and a resident of CL Block. The products will be available across the city soon and is now available on e-commerce websites. “The lockdown had initially posed some problems. The fan in the mask, for instance, had to be imported from Taiwan. Now we are looking for local manufacturers,” said Paul, whose company would thus far deal with rubber items. A host of other academicians attended the launch. “Our GE Block institute has been sending teams to slums of Salt Lake and New Town to conduct medical camps all through the lockdown and it would have been great had we known about and used these masks and sanitisers,” said Subhas Singh, director, National Institute of Homeopathy, who was one of the guests present. ⚫ Ensures moisture is retained in the skin upon application ⚫ Also addresses common skin problems of Indians like daad (ringworm) and eczema ⚫ Apply four puffs and rub from the palms all the way up to the elbows. ⚫ Even if an infected person coughs on your hand after this, the germs will be killed. You are ensured protection for up to 40 minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Duped: auto dealers and online buyers||A man has been arrested for allegedly posing as a “seller” on an online trading portal and cheating prospective buyers by pretending to sell them new four-wheelers displayed in showrooms at used-car rates. Police said Abhishek Das, 32, the accused, would book a car from a showroom in the name of a prospective buyer saying that it was a gift for his friend and pay the booking amount with a cheque. Then he would quote a lesser price to the prospective buyer for the same car. The buyer, thinking that he was getting a new car at a price lesser than the showroom rate, would agree and make the payment to the “seller”. Later, the showroom would find that the cheque had bounced and hence, the car would not be handed over to the buyer. Based on a complaint lodged by a resident of Behala, police had started an investigation and found prima facie evidence against Das. According to the complaint, Das had struck a deal to sell two cars – a Hyundai Venue and a Toyota Fortuner - to the complainant through an online portal. “Das had told the complainant that his office had gifted him two cars. He said he wanted to sell them at a lower price since he already had a car. On the other hand, he had booked the two cars at a showroom by handing over two cheques,” said an officer. Das had allegedly arranged a meeting between the dealer and the complainant at a place near the showroom, where the dealer had taken the two cars. “The customer was satisfied after seeing the cars and paid a token amount of Rs 9.11 lakh to Das for both cars. However, a few days later, when the dealer found that the cheques had bounced, the deal was called off. By then Das had stopped taking calls,” the officer said. Through the cheque leaves, the police located Das’s bank accounts and collected his details. Officers of Behala police station posed as customers and contacted Das through the same online portal and offered to buy a Volkswagen Polo. Das was arrested when he took the “buyer” to a spot near Garia to inspect the cars on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners starts health check of flyovers ||A health check of five flyovers — including Gariahat, Park Street and AJC Bose Road flyovers — is under way, officials of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC), the custodian of the structures, said. Railways consultancy firm RITES has been hired by the HRBC to do the health study and submit a report on the repairs that are required and how to go ahead with them. The Kidderpore flyover and the New Lockgate flyover in Cossipore are also undergoing health check-up that began in December. The five flyovers were built in the 2000s. An officer of Calcutta police said HRBC had sent them an application to allow RITES to conduct a radiography test, a non-destructive test and inspection of the expansion joints, among other procedures. “We have started a health check of five flyovers in Calcutta, of which we are the custodian. We will conduct necessary repairs if required,” said Ajoy Kumar Dutta, the chief project manager of HRBC. Dutta, however, did not say when RITES would submit its report. An engineer working with a private infrastructure company explained the tests that the HRBC has mentioned in its letter to the police. A radiography test is like an X-ray that will detect any crack or porosity in the steel components of the flyover. In the non-destructive test, the sound waves generated after hammering a point in the flyover are tracked to understand whether the waves are rebounding normally or there are any defects inside the structure. In the axle load survey, loaded vehicles are lined up along a flank to see whether the deflection occurring in the concrete and steel components are within safe limits. “The traffic-volume survey helps gauge if the flyover can take the volume of traffic that will use it after five or 10 years without any damage to the structure,” said the engineer. The website of the HRBC mentions that the 3-km AJC Bose Road flyover was inaugurated in August 2003 and the 571-metre Gariahat flyover was opened in April 2002. The website does not mention the length and opening date of the Park Street, New Lockgate and the Kidderpore flyovers. Sources in the Calcutta police’s traffic department said the Park Street flyover, which was inaugurated in 2005, would be approximately 500 metre long; the New Lockgate flyover, inaugurated in 2004, is about 700 metre long and Kidderpore flyover, inaugurated in 2007, about 500 metre in length. Amitabha Ghosal, a bridge engineer who has been involved with construction and health audits of several elevated corridors, said it was good that the health check of the flyovers were being conducted. “Some basic health checks should be conducted every two years. It is good that the HRBC is doing the health check of all these structures.” Though all these flyovers are less than 20 years old, it is still necessary to conduct health audits, said Ghosal. Comprehensive health audits of flyovers were rarely done in the city earlier, admitted engineers who built flyovers in Calcutta and government officials. The collapse of the Vivekananda Road flyover in 2016 and the Majerhat bridge in 2018 jolted the government out of its slumber. The state urban development department began a health check of several flyovers maintained by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) from 2019. The CMDA will start repairs of Baghajatin and the Ultadanga flyovers soon, based on reports of the health audits. The PWD, too, started health audits of some of its flyovers in Calcutta. The health audit of the Tallah bridge revealed its precarious condition and it was demolished. A new bridge is under construction now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Crooks on the prowl with a carload of tricks||Three men who had allegedly duped the driver of a private car and stolen a bag, containing cash and a diamond necklace worth Rs 4 lakh, from the front seat have been arrested. Police said the gang would stop a car and raise a false alarm that fuel was leaking from the vehicle. As the driver would step out to check, the gang members would swiftly steal the belongings from the dashboard or the front seat — whichever was accessible. On the afternoon of December 24, the driver of the complainant was allegedly tricked in a similar way on Jadunath Dey Road in central Calcutta. “The complainant told officers of Bowbazar police station that the driver, on being told about the purported fuel leak, stepped out of the car to check. By the time the driver had returned to his seat, the gang had stolen a leather bag that was lying on the front seat and fled,” said an officer of the detective department, which has taken over the case from Bowbazar police station. Once the theft was reported to Bowbazar police station, footage of CCTV cameras installed at the spot was analysed. The identity of the three accused was established based on the footage and source information. “A watch was mounted on the suspects for a few days before they were nabbed by the cops from a location in Kalighat. Following their interrogation, the cops recovered the bag containing the diamond necklace worth around Rs 4 lakh,” said the officer. The accused were identified as Akash, 24, and Sahil, 18, residents of Ambedkar Nagar in South Delhi and Mariappa, 35, from Indrapuri in North Delhi. They have been operating in various cities across the country, the police said. “The accused used to come to Calcutta on and off to dupe people. In Calcutta they stayed in Kalighat. We have learnt they have duped several people in the city over the past few months,” the officer said. The three have been charged under the Indian Penal Code sections related to cheating and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Unruly buses make VIP Road dangerous||Rash driving, jumping signals, picking up and dropping passengers in the middle of the road, bus drivers on VIP Road flout traffic rules at will. And these make one of the most important connectors to the airport one of the most dangerous roads in the city. Hawkers and jaywalkers near key intersections, including Kestopur, Baguiati and Joramandir, add to the chaos. A 38-year-old man died in November after a bus rammed into his motorcycle at high speed before bursting into flames near Kestopur flyover The driver even after hitting the two-wheeler rider stepped on the accelerator and dragged the bike for around 50 feet before both the vehicles caught fire. There are at least six designated bus stops along the both the airport-bound and the Ultadanga-bound flanks of VIP Road that include Lake Town, Kestopur, Baguiati, Joramandir and Haldirams before the airport on one end and Ultadanga on the other. However, bus drivers tend to pick up and drop off passengers in the middle of the road. The worst stretches are on the airport-bound flank of VIP Road near the Baguiati pedestrian subway complex and near the Kestopur crossing on the Ultadanga-bound flank of the road. Metro visited several stretches along VIP Road and saw buses flouting rules at will putting other road users at danger. A government bus on the Ultadanga-bound flank stopped in the middle of the road at Kestopur crossing to pick up passengers, forcing vehicles behind it to stop abruptly. The bus did not even enter the bus bay at the crossing. A minibus, also headed towards Ultadanga, moved to the extreme right of the road, overtook the other government buses and stopped right in front of them to pick up passengers. The designated bus stop in Kestopur is on a raised pavement in front of a government school but buses rarely stop there. “We have to run to catch buses every day. Often, other buses try to overtake from the left making it risky for us,” Samaresh Ghosh, a resident of Baguiati, said. The buses on both the flanks of VIP Road accelerate as soon as the traffic signal turns green. Despite regular accidents, the bus drivers seem indifferent. On the airport-bound flank of the VIP Road, a private bus raced to reach some passengers waiting near the Baguiati subway complex while another bus, headed in the same direction, overtook it and stopped diagonally in the middle of the road to pick them up. The bus bay in front of Baguiati subway had a deserted look. “None of the buses enter the bus bay so why should we walk upto there,” said Debabrata Shome, who was heading to Rashbehari Avenue. Metro did spot a single traffic policeman prosecuting any bus driver despite the violations. “If we prosecute every bus then it will lead to a traffic chaos,” said a traffic policemen of Baguiati traffic guard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Bird flu outbreak prompts watch on winged guests in Bengal||The outbreak of bird flu in Himachal Pradesh, which has led to the death of more than 2,500 migratory birds at Pong Dam, has promoted the Bengal forest department to start monitoring the health of migratory birds in the state. A senior forest department official said they had issued a directive to all ranges as well as beat offices asking personnel to visit the places where migratory birds have arrived and check if any has died. “Forest officers will visit the locations in their respective areas where migratory birds have arrived and check on their health. In case any is found dead, they have been asked to report to a nodal officer,” the officer said. According to the officer, the foresters will form teams and visit at regular intervals the water bodies and grasslands where migratory birds are roosting. “We will be keeping an eye on the birds on a daily basis,” the officer said. They will report bird death, if any, collect the viscera or carcass and send samples for analysis. The foresters will have to wear gloves and other protective gear to handle the carcasses. The department will also coordinate with local birdwatchers’ groups as well as NGOs to track the birds, the officer said. “If any dead bird is found, the forest department will send the carcass to the Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases to find out whether it died of bird flu,” the officer said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said they were being extra-vigilant and had alerted all teams stationed across the state to monitor the health of migratory birds very closely. “We have put all our offices and officers on alert and we will regularly monitor the health of the migratory birds,” said Yadav. Tapas Das, the field director of the Sundarbans Tiger Reserve, said they conducted a survey on Wednesday inside the mangroves, which are now home to thousands of migratory birds. “We went around various sandbanks near Sajnekhali and saw thousands of birds, including Red Crested Pochards, Eurasian Wigeons, Grey Herons and Lesser Whistling Teals. We did not spot any dead bird. The vigil will continue daily,” Das said. During winter, many wetlands in the city as well as on the fringes attract a large number of migratory birds, mainly from central Asia and Trans-Siberian region. According to foresters as well as birdwatchers, Rabindra Sarovar has attracted hundreds of birds. Many migratory birds are roosting at the East Calcutta Wetlands and at Mudiali Nature Park in Taratala. The grasslands of Rajarhat and New Town are also home to several species of migratory birds. Santragachhi Jheel in Howrah is currently home to nearly 5,000 birds, including a “near threatened” trans-Himalayan migrant, birdwatchers who have visited the water body have said. “About 10 Gadwalls and one Ferruginous Pochard are at the jheel nowadays. Both of them are trans-Himalayan migrants,” said birdwatcher Prosenjit Dawn. The birds breed in central Asia, China and Mongolia and travel thousands of miles to reach the subcontinent to escape the harsh winter there. The Ferruginous Pochard, also called Ferruginous Duck, is listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The website of IUCN said: “The species is currently listed as Near Threatened as it is suspected to be undergoing a moderately rapid overall decline.” Migratory birds are also roosting in the Sunderbans. In North 24-Parganas, many birds are nesting on the mudflats of Bortir Bill in Nilgunj. Some of the birds that have been spotted there include the Glossy Ibis, Eurasian Coot, Pacific Golden Plover and Wood Sandpiper. Migratory birds also flock to Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri distinct and several water bodies in Burdwan and Nadia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Hit by car, scooterist run over by bus near Park Circus ||A 50-year-old man died after the scooter he was riding was allegedly hit by a car and he came under the wheels of a bus near the Park Circus seven-point crossing on Wednesday afternoon. Police said Mohammad Shamim, 50, and wife Shakila Shamim, 45, who was on the pillion, were both wearing helmets. Officers of the traffic department said the couple, residents of Dr Suresh Sarkar Road, were plying down AJC Bose Road when they came between a car that had landed from the Parama flyover and a bus. “The scooter came between a car and a bus. People who saw the accident said the four-wheeler hit the scooter and the scooterist came under the rear wheels of the bus,” said an officer. The bus driver told the police that he had not initially realised that the bus had run over a person, an officer said. However, when the bus was at a signal near Don Bosco School, a motorcyclist alerted the driver about the accident, after which he returned to the spot and courted arrest, the officer said. The four-wheeler that allegedly hit the scooter could not be identified till Wednesday evening. Senior officers said such accidents involving buses were common in the city, especially because bus drivers failed to see the rear part of their vehicles that was part of the “blind spot”. “The driver cannot see the blind spot through the looking glass. Unless alerted by the conductor, the driver cannot know what is going on in the rear,” an officer said. However, as the scooterist died after coming under the wheels of the bus, the driver has been arrested and charged under sections related to rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence. A private car overturned on the Parama flyover on Tuesday, police said. Five occupants of the car were injured .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Sealdah-Sector V Metro by end-2021||Metro trains should run between Sealdah and Sector V in the East-West corridor by the end of 2021, general manager Manoj Joshi said on Wednesday. “Sealdah station should be ready and commercial trains would be extended to Sealdah by December this year,” Joshi, also the general manager of Eastern Railway, said at the Fairlie Place headquarters. After finishing one leg of the East-West Metro tunnelling between Esplanade and Sealdah on October 9, a tunnel boring machine took a U-turn and started boring the remaining 800m stretch of the west-bound tunnel on Monday. Two boring machines had started moving from Esplanade towards Sealdah in early 2019. But work was stopped for around six months after a number of buildings in Bowbazar developed cracks or subsided when one of the machines hit an aquifer in August 2019. The remaining 800m stretch should be completed in five months, if there are no further problems, said officials of East-West Metro. “A bulk of the work is complete in the upcoming Sealdah station...,” said Joshi. The East-West corridor will link Sector V and Howrah Maidan when fully operational. For now, only one stretch, connecting Sector V and Phoolbagan, is operational. In the North-South corridor, Metro trains should run up to Dakshineswar by the end of February, Joshi said. On December 23, a train undertook a trial run on the Noapara-Dakshineswar extension stretch of the North-South Metro network for the first time. The two new stations, Baranagar and Dakshineswar, are ready. “We will conduct some more trial runs from the middle of January and then have a CRS (commissioners of railway safety) inspection. A clearance from the CRS would allow us to start commercial services till Dakshineswar...,” Joshi said. Once operational, the new Metro link will be the hope for thousands of office-goers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and other areas on the northern fringes. Since the closure and subsequent dismantling of the Tallah bridge, a large section of these commuters has been using Noapara Metro station, which is not easily accessible via road. Construction of the upcoming Airport Metro station has also picked up pace, Joshi said. A pipeline to provide aviation fuel had to be shifted for construction work. “The issue has been sorted out. Indian Oil has agreed to temporarily shift the pipeline to facilitate the Metro work,” Joshi said. An underground Metro station connected to three lines — New Garia-Airport, Noapara-Airport and Airport-Barasat — is being built on the airport premises, around 150m from the new terminal. “Once ready, it will be India’s largest underground Metro station,” Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Himalayan Mountaineering Institute aims for record in yoga||The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) is looking at creating a world record by organising a 75-hour relay yoga event involving more than 200 participants to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence. Group Captain Jai Kishan, principal, HMI, said such a feat had never been attempted anywhere in the world before. “I conceived the idea to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence and also be part of the National Youth Festival which is being organised under the aegis of ministry of youth affairs and sports,” said Group Captain Kishan. The yoga event will be part of the ongoing youth festival. Around 200 participants from Darjeeling will perform surya namaskar— a set of 12 yogic postures — from 9am on January 9 till noon of January 12. Fitness instructors Shraddha Rai and Sikha Rai of Studio 360, Darjeeling, have been conducting selection and training sessions for the participants at the HMI here for the past three days. Two arenas, one at the auditorium and another outdoors, have been set up for the event. “Even tourists can join in the outdoor arena,” said Group Captain Kishan. “Besides, people can post pictures of them performing surya namaskar from anywhere in the country and we will provide them with digital certificates,” said Group Captain Kishan. At any given time, 15 to 20 individuals will be participating in the event through day and night. Participants will be between 6 to 65 years. “Taking into account the cold weather, we have made proper heating arrangements at the auditorium” the principal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||SRK to attend Kolkata International Film Festival inauguration virtually||Shah Rukh Khan will attend the inauguration of the Kolkata International Film Festival virtually, chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Wednesday. The inauguration of the 26th edition is scheduled to take place on Friday at Nabanna Sabhaghar in the presence of only the members of the festival committee. “Together we will overcome this pandemic. But the show must go on. We are going ahead with  #KIFF 2021 virtually, on a smaller scale. Glad that my brother @iamsrk will join us virtually at the inaugural event on Jan 8, 4pm. Watch Kolkata International Film Festival live,” the chief minister tweeted, referring to King Khan’s twitter handle. Shah Rukh, who was made Bengal’s brand ambassador after Mamata became chief minister, has been a constant presence at the inauguration ever since the 17th edition in 2011, when he had come with Sharmila Tagore. That was six months after the Trinamul government was sworn in. On Friday, LED screens will be installed in front of each venue to telecast the virtual inauguration live, festival officials said. The film festival, which was pushed back from the original November schedule, has been scaled down to maintain the Covid protocols but will have physical screenings at eight venues with 50 per cent seating. Tickets have to be booked online. Delegate registration is still under way at kiff.in. “Last year, we had about 2,500 applications. This year we have to bring the number down,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Fluffy mane and dark lines: Chance encounter on road with striped hyena||A chance encounter between a wily scavenger with an unsavoury image and members of an NGO in Purulia has resulted in one of the first documentary evidence in many years of the animal’s presence in the region. The animal in question was a striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena), spotted by the occupants of a car on the night of January 2 on a patch of grassland in Baghmundi, between Jhalda and Matha forests in Purulia, over 250km from Calcutta. The members of the Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL) in the car could not identify the animal at one go. “It is only after we got off the car and turned on a torchlight that the animal was identifiable,” said a member. The animal crossed the road and turned back at the group before disappearing in the dark. During the encounter that lasted around five minutes, one of the members took some pictures of the animal on a Nikon D500. The use of the torchlight has lent a monochromatic character to the pictures, which the members shared with this newspaper. The picture shows fluffy mane and dark lines along its light fur. Animal Diversity Web (ADW), an online database of animal natural history, distribution, classification and conservation biology at the University of Michigan, describes the geographical range of striped hyenas as “Northern and Eastern Africa, the Middle East, India and Asia extending north to the Caucasus and Siberia”. In India, they are said to be found in the semi-arid and dry fringe forests of Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram in Bengal, apart from the Deccan plateau, Rajasthan and Gujarat. “Carcasses of other animals are their main food. As scavengers, they play a crucial role in the food chain and help prevent the spread of diseases by eating every bit of an animal,” said a researcher with the Wildlife Institute of India. Hyenas have always been here in Bengal but have not been studied enough. “The extent of their distribution is largely anecdotal. Their population count is also unknown so far. There has been no scientific documentation of their presence,” said a forest official. A study to assess the habitat and distribution of hyenas, wolves and some other animals, started two years ago by the Zoological Survey of India, has picked up pace after being stalled by the pandemic. Striped hyenas are smaller and more solitary creatures than spotted hyenas of Africa. “Spotted hyenas are famed scavengers and often dine on the leftovers of other predators. But these hardy beasts are also skilled hunters that will take down a wildebeest or an antelope,” says nationalgeographic.com. In comparison, striped hyenas are much more docile, mostly spending the days in the burrows and coming out in the night, said the WII researcher. Literature, traditional folklore and popular culture have not been kind to the hyena. In Disney’s popular animation film, The Lion King, hyenas are sidekicks of the villain, Scar. “Several locals, especially people who steered cows and goats back to the villages from grazing in the evening, have seen hyenas. But many of them know hyenas as boro sheyal (large fox),” said Meghna Banerjee of HEAL, who was part of the group that chanced upon the animal and spoke to several residents of the area. The lack of knowledge leads to man-animal conflict, she pointed out. A hyena was allegedly killed, beheaded and chopped into pieces by some residents of a village in Purulia in July last year. Forest officials had suspected it to have been a retaliatory killing after the animal strayed into the village and lifted some livestock. The ZSI study, commissioned by the state forest department, aims to stop such conflicts. Camera traps laid in the forests of Purulia over the past couple of months have also captured pictures of multiple hyenas alongside other animals, said ZSI officials. “This is the first time that we have clicked pictures of hyenas in south Bengal,” said Kailash Chandra, the director of ZSI. “The ZSI report will be the first scientific documentation of the habitat and distribution of animals like hyenas, wolves, golden jackals and leopard cats. The first step towards any conservation effort is a scientific documentation,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav extends hospital stay by a day||Sourav Ganguly, who was set to be discharged from Woodlands Hospital on Wednesday, decided to stay on for one more day, officials and doctors at the hospital said. The former Indian cricket captain was hospitalised on Saturday after he suffered a heart attack while working out on a treadmill. He had a stent implanted in the right coronary artery on Saturday afternoon. Sourav, 48, was scheduled to be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday after the doctors treating him concluded that he was fit to go home. Doctors and officials said the formalities for discharge were complete in the morning and the car to take Sourav home had arrived at Woodlands. However, at the last moment, Sourav told doctors that he wanted to stay at the hospital for one more day, “Ganguly will be discharged tomorrow (Thursday) as he wanted to stay back one more day,” Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, said on Wednesday. “All his parameters are normal but since he wanted to stay back, we agreed. There are many patients who often defer discharge,” said an official of the hospital. Metro reported on Wednesday that cardiac surgeon and the chairman of Narayana Health, Devi Shetty, visited Sourav. He later said Sourav would be able to lead a normal life and take part even in a marathon. Sourav still has blockages in two more coronary arteries. Doctors, including Shetty, have said angioplasty to remove the blockages could be done at a later date. “He will be under medical observation at home. Doctors from Woodlands will visit him,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine dry run tomorrow||The second dry run for Covid vaccination will be held on Friday across 23 districts of Bengal. Each district will have three vaccination centres. The first dry run was restricted to three centres in North 24-Parganas. The second round will take place in 69 centres. Health department officials said over 10,000 personnel at different tiers of the healthcare system — from block primary health centres to medical colleges and hospitals — would be involved in the process, which will test the state government’s preparedness before the vaccination drive starts. The Centre has proposed to roll out Covid vaccines from next week. “The first dry run was restricted to Bidhannagar, Madhyamgram and Amdanga in Barasat. This time we have centres even in far-flung areas to see how the chain is functioning,” said Tapas Roy, the chief medical officer of health of North 24-Parganas, which has been hit hard by Covid. On Wednesday, senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan met the chief medical health officers of all districts and asked them to prepare 25 candidates for each vaccination centre where the dry run would be carried out. The district superintendents of police have been asked to provide personnel who will act as guards at each of the centres. A team of doctors is being readied to supervise the process. Over 150 such teams will be in place during Friday's dry run and each vaccination centre will have an ambulance ready to take care of any emergency. “Apart from the teams that will directly be involved in the dry run, a large number of health employees in the district will witness the proceedings at each of the three centres so they get conversant with the process,” said Prakash Mirdha, the chief medical officer of health of Jhargram. “Around half of the 500-odd vaccinators of the district will be involved directly or indirectly with the trial run.” In Jhargram district, the trial run will be held at a nurses’ training school in Jhargram town, a primary health centre in Silda's Binpur II and a block primary health centre in Gopiballavpur. The chief medical officers of health have been asked to choose centres across three categories — medical college and hospital, district hospital located in an urban pocket, and block primary health centre and rural hospital. Over the past few weeks, over 20,000 vaccinators have been trained in injecting Covid-19 jabs. Separate training sessions have been held for cold chain handlers and those who will handle data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University exam chief on ‘long leave’||Jadavpur University’s controller of examinations has gone on a “long leave” at a time his office has been pilloried by students over allegations of errors in results and delay in the publication of results. In the absence of Satyaki Bhattacharya, Subarna Das, a professor of library and information science department, has been told to function as the controller of examinations from Thursday. The letter by vice-chancellor Suranjan Das requesting Das to take over as officiating controller of examinations says: “The controller of examination is going on a long leave. It will be highly appreciated if during the absence of the CoE you can officiate as the controller of examinations. I make this request for the interest of the university and do hope that you will kindly accept the request.” Bhattacharya told Metro: “I had sought leave earlier on health grounds and the university has granted me leave.” JU officials said Bhattacharya had indeed sought leave but the leave was granted in the wake of the many allegations that have dogged the publication of results. Although the letter issued to Bhattacharya does not say what would be the period of leave, an official said he would be on leave till his retirement in September. “The delay in the publication of results and errors in them were at the heart of the latest students’ unrest on the campus. The university had to take moral responsibility for the lapses. So at a time like this, when his leave application was pending, the university immediately granted him a long leave,” said an official. On December 27, JU had decided to “accept moral responsibility” for the loss of scholarships that students might have suffered because of a delay in the publication of semester results and pledged to raise funds “to compensate for the loss of such scholarships/fellowships” at a meeting attended by senior officials and representatives of the students’ union of the engineering and technology faculty. Referring to the delayed publication of results, a BTech student said the results of the odd semester examinations, which ended on December 22, 2019, were published in November 2020. Results are supposed to be published within two months of the completion of an examination. Listing the flaws, he said two results with separate scores had been issued to one student and there were instances of one student having been issued another’s result. “Marks had been erroneously entered. Because of delayed publication of flawed results, many students could not upload their marks on designated portals to renew scholarships,” the student said. A JU official said underprivileged students get a slew of scholarships offered by the state government and the Centre. “A student has to upload marks of the two previous semesters and parents’ income certificates on a portal by the end of a year to renew a scholarship. Since the results of the odd semester exams, which were held on December 22, 2019, were published in November 2020 and the grade cards contained errors, students missed out on scholarships,” the official said. The matter came to such a pass that VC Das had to appeal to the state government to keep the scholarship portals active beyond December 31. When Metro sought to know from the VC whether lapses in the publication of the results prompted the university to send the controller of examinations on leave, he said: “He had sought leave.” Teachers’ organisations submitted a memorandum to the university on Monday saying: "We feel the delay in holding examinations and the publication of faulty results is largely due to the non-functional state of affairs in the examination section of the university.” Two posts of assistant controller of exams that have been lying vacant will be filled, said an official. The JU executive council had in April 2019 set up a three-member committee to look into allegations that Bhattacharya had been taking “unauthorised” result publication fees for various courses. The allegations could not be substantiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
