08-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav Ganguly fit and fine||Sourav Ganguly outside Woodlands Hospital on Thursday, moments before he left for home. The former Indian cricket captain was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after suffering a heart attack. “Now I am absolutely fine. Hopefully, I will be ready to fly soon,” Sourav, 48, said after walking out of the hospital. “I thank Woodlands Hospital, the doctors and nurses for taking care of me.” Woodlands officials said one of the doctors, who was in the team that treated Sourav, accompanied him to his house. The doctor will call on him every day. A cardiac monitor to check his heart has been kept at his home. On Saturday, a stent was implanted in Sourav’s right coronary artery. There are blockages in two more coronary arteries, for which angioplasty will be performed later. “There were two challenges, meeting the expectations of fans and well-wishers and the responsibility to provide clinical care,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||JEE-Advanced exam to be held on July 3||The JEE-Advanced exam for admission to the 23 IITs across the country will be held on July 3 (Saturday). The announcement came from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, that will conduct the examination this year. The date was fixed at a meeting of the IIT Joint Admission Board on December 31. The mode of the examination will be announced in a day or two, an official of IIT Kharagpur said. Debashish Chakravarty, the organising chairman, JEE-Advanced 2021, said: “On July 3, the first paper of JEE-Advanced will start at 9am and end at noon. The second paper will be held from 2.30pm to 5.30pm.” A statement issued by IIT Kharagpur says that in 2021, apart from India, JEE (Advanced) centres are likely to be set up in Dubai, Dhaka, Kathmandu and Singapore. “The admission board decided that the final decision on conduct of examination at foreign center(s), if at all, will depend on the prevailing conditions at the time of JEE-Advanced 2021,” the statement reads. V.K. Tewari, the director of IIT Kharagpur and chairman of the admission board, said: “While the candidates might have missed the usual preparation and probably been in a more disadvantageous situation compared to those who appeared for the examination in 2020, looking at the aspirant community as a whole, the competition would remain the same considering the crème de la crème who will be appearing in the examination.” The board will shortlist 2,50,000 students (from all categories) from JEE-Main, who will appear in the JEE-Advanced. In 2020, IIT Delhi was the organising institute for JEE-Advanced in which a total number of 1,60,838 candidates registered for the exam. About 43,204 candidates qualified JEE-Advanced. The total intake was approximately 16,061. The figure is likely to remain the same. IIT Kharagpur had last organised JEE Advanced in2014. The board has decided to shortlist two lakh fifty thousand (250,000) students (including all categories) from JEE-Main to appear for JEE- advanced).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police commissioner lauds saviour of EM Bypass molest victim||Police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Thursday met the couple who had helped a molest victim on the EM Bypass in September. Nilanjana Chatterjee and her husband Deep Satpati were assured of all cooperation from the police. Sharma met the couple at the headquarters of the Calcutta police in Lalbazar and praised Chatterjee’s bravery. Close to midnight on September 5, a 31-year-old woman was allegedly molested by an acquaintance inside his car on EM Bypass and then thrown out. Nilanjana, who was travelling in another car with her husband and their daughter, had responded to the cry for help from inside the car and got off to help the victim, a bank employee. She was left with a fractured leg and gash in the head when the alleged assailant’s Honda City hit her during his hasty bid to flee. Police submitted a chargesheet against Abhishek Pandey, the accused, in October. He has been charged with attempt to murder, outrage of modesty of a woman, voluntarily causing hurt, rash and negligent driving, causing grievous hurt by doing a rash and negligent act so as to endanger human life or personal safety of others as the charges. If convicted, Pandey can be sent to jail for up to 10 years. “The police commissioner met us and assured us of all help. He even called the joint police commissioner (crime) and instructed him to find out the status of the case,” Satpati said. Senior officers in Calcutta police said Sharma was down with Covid when the incident happened and couldn’t meet Chatterjee and her family. Sharma, though, had called her up and congratulated her for her act of bravery. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had saluted Nilanjana’s bravery. The state government had paid all her medical expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Unity cry marks Park Circus vigil anniversary||Cries of “Hindusthan Zindabad” and “Awaaz do, sab ek ho (lend your voice, all of you be one)” rang through the evening air in Park Circus on Thursday after many months. The slogans came from a rally led by women against the citizenship regime and farm laws, which started from Mullickbazar and culminated in Park Circus. On January 7 last year, a small group of women started a 24X7 vigil against the citizenship thrust at the Park Circus Maidan. Slogans of amity and communal harmony, rising from the makeshift stage, were audible at every nook and corner of Park Circus every day. The vigil, the longest after Shaheen Bagh, was halted by the pandemic after completing 83 days. On January 7 a year later, some women who were at the forefront of the demonstration organised a rally, this time against the NRC-NPR-CAA combine as well as the new farm laws. The rally was attended by over 100 people — men, women and members of the LGBTQ community. Though not huge in terms of size, the marchers were upbeat and vocal. “The Park Circus movement was a defining moment in our lives. So many other demonstrations started in Calcutta inspired by Park Circus. The pandemic could not have come at a worse time,” said Sabina Rizvi, a homemaker who walked in the rally on Thursday. “The divisive forces have not been idle during the Covid-19 pandemic. They have jailed dissenters and brought more black laws. It is high time we hit the streets.” Sukhnandan Singh Ahluwalia, 80, had a prostate surgery in October. But he walked the full stretch on Thursday. “Over 50 people have died at the Singhu border. The government is busy convening one fruitless meeting after another. The lack of empathy is stark,” said Ahluwalia, a Mominpore resident who used to visit the Park Circus Maidan regularly when the vigil was on. Many marchers were carrying posters demanding the release of political prisoners — from Varvara Rao to Umar Khalid. Dipti Lahiri, 70, was walking at the tail of the rally, holding on to a poster of Khalid. “Umar is a brave young man with unflinching love for his country. He is having to go through so much at this age but his spirit is unbroken,” said Lahiri, whose daughter is a friend of Khalid. Asmat Jamil, who had started the Park Circus vigil along with a handful of other women, spoke at the culmination of the rally. All along the rally, she was bound to a wheelchair. Jamil had taken ill and had to travel to Mumbai for treatment in mid-March last year. “We had started the rally with only a few people. But with time, our impact was felt across Bengal. Similarly, today’s rally is just a fresh start. We will scale up our movement in the coming days. We want Gandhi’s India, not Savarkar’s,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Interest-free loans to restart lives||Some of the small roadside traders left penniless during the lockdown have been able to restart their businesses months later with interest-free loans. Many of them — including a woman who sells paratha and sabzi and another woman who sells fritters — took interest-free loans between Rs 2,000 and Rs 10,000 to get their lives back on track. They are repaying the loans from their everyday earnings, which had been reduced to zero in the months after the lockdown was announced as a precaution against Covid-19. Most of them had exhausted their savings to survive during the lockdown and had nothing left to restart their business with, however small. The traders think the interest-free loans, from the NGO Calcutta Social Project, have restored their “self respect” but helping them start their journey towards self-reliance afresh. Anita Nath, who took a loan of Rs 6,000, re-started her roadside stall of paratha and sabzi two months back and has paid back Rs 1,000 so far. “Business is not what it used to be before March. But at least I am able to make some money. On good days the sale goes up to Rs 100,” said Nath, who has been running the stall for nine years. Nath dreads to think about the lockdown days when she had “no money”. She would get up at 5am to sell tea outside her house, but would hardly get any customer. “I am better off now because of the loan. I need to repay,” she said. Many of the traders were wary of taking loans, however small the amount or even if it was interest free. For Jhuma Sardar, in her 60s, taking a loan of even Rs 2,000 for her ghugni stall was not easy. When the head of Calcutta Social Project asked her if she needed more to invest, Sardar’s response was a vehement no. “I have never taken a loan in my life. Let me pay back,” she said. Sardar’s husband is ailing and has been paralysed since suffering a stroke. The NGO started giving interest-free loans in September, by handing over money to two people in economic distress about whom Metro had written. Till now, 62 people have been given loans. The “repayment ethics” among small traders, Calcutta Social Project president Arjun Dutta said, is “high”. “We were not into micro-lending. We found many of them needed small amounts to restart their businesses, which would help them survive. About 97 per cent of them have already started repaying,” Dutta said. Anyone whose business was affected directly by the lockdown and who had “lost turnover” is eligible for a loan from the NGO. “It should be an existing business, and not something new that they want to start,” said Dutta. The NGO rejected some applications because Dutta and his team realised that the money would not be used to fund business but to repay the loans the applicants had taken during the crisis. Shyamal Pal sold tea and snacks and used to make “good business” before March. Then came Covid and his life collapsed. All that Pal needed was Rs 5,000 and he is “back in business”. Meghnath Mondal, a vegetable seller, said: “I did not have enough money to buy a cycle or a van to carry vegetables to neighbourhoods. I was not in a position to take a loan with a high rate of interest,” said Mondal, who has paid back Rs 1,000 of the Rs 7,000 he took from the NGO. Calcutta Social Project has so far disbursed Rs 3.90 lakh. “Even with a few de-faulters, we will have a substantial sum to provide loans to more people,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University admission effect on tech colleges||Jadavpur University’s decision to fill 487 BTech seats through an independent admission process has left several other engineering colleges down the ladder worried. Once JU opened its door, many of them lost their students to it. Now, at least one of the colleges wants a separate window to fill up seats. Kalyani Government Engineering College has applied for a window to admit students independently (not through any centralised counselling). Many others have to follow suit if they want to fill their vacant seats. The Kalyani college has appealed to the state technology university to extend the deadline for registration so that it could fill 100 seats that fell vacant after JU held its own counselling to fill up 487 vacant seats in late December, an official of the college said. Sourav Das, the principal of the college, said if the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology extended the period of registration, which ended on January 4, they could fill up the seats from a panel of waitlisted candidates. The college has 315 seats. One in three is vacant. The vacant seats are in five disciplines — computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, information technology, electronics and communication engineering and mechanical engineering. “It seems many of our enrolled students have joined JU,” Das said. A number of seats at Jalpaiguri Government Engineering College, too, fell vacant after JU conducted decentralised counselling. “Around 60 seats are now vacant,” said Amitava Ray, the principal of the college, which has 360 seats. The college has yet to decide on approaching the university about the vacant seats. Sources in the university said vacancies had cropped up at the government engineering colleges in Purulia and Cooch Behar. Calcutta University, too, has conducted independent counselling, to fill 89 seats, but the exodus from the various colleges was mostly triggered by JU’s counselling, sources in the tech university said. The state government had on December 1 allowed engineering institutions to conduct independent counselling because on an average 60 per cent of the BTech seats remained vacant after a three-phased centralised counselling. Saikat Maitra, the vice-chancellor of the tech university, said: “We have so far received an application from Kalyani Government Engineering College for extending the deadline for registration. No decision has yet been taken.” The university is expecting other government colleges to come up with similar proposals. “Since the UGC… has said second-year classes would have to start in August, extension of the registration process could come in the way of meeting the deadline”, said an official of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||New Town pavements will have plastic||Broken plastic toys, used plastic buckets and plastic bags, among other things, will go into the making of paver blocks that will be used to construct walkways in New Town. The New Town authorities have decided to start using plastic waste collected from homes, offices and commercial establishments to make paver blocks in a bid to recycle plastic, which is otherwise extremely difficult to dispose of. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), which looks after civic amenities of the township, said they had given the go-ahead for a trial run, as part of which plastic items will be collected from the Patharghata landfill site, where the township's waste is dumped every day. The collected plastic pieces will be mixed with sand and stone chip dust. Plastic will comprise around 70 per cent of the mix, the official said. “Molten plastic will be added to the fine mix to make high-strength paver blocks,” the official said. According to the official, using plastic in paver blocks has another advantage - such blocks soak up less water when it rains compared with conventional blocks. As they absorb less water, they can last longer than the ones that don't have plastic in their mix. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they wanted to launch the project in a bid to upcycle plastic, which is considered to be one of the most challenging materials in solid waste management because they are extremely hard to disintegrate. “We will conduct strength testing of the blocks followed by a trial run,” said Sen. Once the blocks clear the strength test, another NKDA official said, they will be used to construct pavements as well as lay walkways in the parks of New Town. Metro had in November reported that the asphalt to be used in repair or construction of New Town roads would be mixed with plastic waste in an attempt to reduce the volume of such waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine venue should be nearest to address, health officials tell CMC||Recipients of Covid-19 vaccines should be able to get their shots at the site nearest to the address they will provide, health department officials told Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) representatives at a meeting to review vaccination preparedness on Thursday. The CMC has to hand over to the health department a complete list of all healthcare and frontline staff working with it by Saturday. The Centre has prepared a digital platform, Co-Win, where one has to register to get a Covid vaccine. There will be no on-the-spot registration. The Indian Medical Association will prepare a list of private practitioners in Calcutta and send it to the health department. The department will then register the private practitioners on the Co-Win platform, said a CMC official. The CMC is also sending copies of a form to private practitioners, which they need to fill in and mail scanned copies to an ID mentioned in the document to get registered for vaccination. An SMS will be sent to the registered mobile number of a recipient, mentioning the venue, date and time of the vaccination. “We have been asked to register the names of recipients so they are allotted a vaccination centre closest to the address mentioned,” said a CMC doctor who attended Thursday’s meeting. Sources said the CMC’s doctors and officials were told at the meeting that the health department as of now was planning to start the vaccination drive at teaching hospitals. “This is a new vaccine and we do not know what could be the adverse reactions, which is why this drive will begin from hospitals. Anyone developing adverse reactions can be admitted to the hospital immediately,” the CMC doctor said. The vaccination guidelines published by the Union health ministry say every recipient will have to wait for 30 minutes in an observation room after he or she is administered a vaccine. A vaccination officer will observe the recipient. If there are no reactions, the person will be allowed to go after 30 minutes. The CMC doctor said if a recipient is allotted the vaccination venue closest to the address mentioned, he or she can go back to the site and seek help at the earliest if some adverse reactions develop after the 30-minute window. Another CMC doctor asked officials at the meeting if healthcare workers will have the option of not taking the vaccine. “The health department officials said that anyone can refuse to take the vaccine,” said a CMC official. “We were also told that there would be a gap of 28 days between the two doses.” A dry run of vaccination will be conducted at three sites in Calcutta — NRS Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital and CMC’s health clinic in ward 31 — on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||April vaccine hope for people above 50||The process of Covid-19 vaccination for those above 50 and those younger but with comorbidities will possibly begin in end-March or early April, health department officials said, adding a crucial rider. The timeline can only be realised if Bengal continues to receive a steady flow of vaccines over the next few months and adequately increases the number of vaccination centres. To expedite the process of vaccination, the state health department is planning to involve private hospitals in the process. A senior official of the health department said they were ready to use some private hospitals as vaccination sites if they agreed to vaccinate healthcare workers in their areas who were not associated with the units. “We will allow private hospitals to be used as vaccination sites on some conditions. They cannot stop vaccination after vaccinating their own doctors and other healthcare workers. They must agree to vaccinate other healthcare workers not associated with their hospitals but live closeby,” the official said. The CEO of a private hospital in Calcutta said they were yet to receive any communication from the state government. “We have fully trained vaccinators. Once the government tells us, we can take part in the process,” he said. There are now over 10,000 vaccination centres across Bengal. Apart from that, arrangements are being made in 342 rural hospitals, 16 district hospitals, 42 sub-divisional hospitals and 18 government-run medical colleges and hospitals. Health department officials said the first batch of Covid vaccines being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India is expected to arrive in Calcutta on Saturday and the vaccination is likely to start on January 12, Swami Vivekananada’s birthday. The initial target is around six lakh healthcare workers. Senior officials overseeing the vaccine roll-out said the process of offering the first jab can be wrapped up within 10 days. Next in line are frontline workers. With its existing infrastructure and storage facilities, Bengal can accommodate around six crore dosages. “Between the first and the second jab, there will be a gap of 28 days for each candidate. Since the set-up will remain, we can utilise the time to inoculate those above 50 years of age or those below 50 but with underlying health conditions, provided there is a steady supply of vaccine doses,” said a senior health department official. “That can happen around end-March and early-April. That will be only possible if we have clear data about those who have registered with the Co-Win app and there is no time lag in between.” Senior officials said there are several medical colleges and hospitals at the tertiary level in Bengal, where over 6,000 healthcare workers have been listed for the first round of vaccination. If a vaccination centre can accommodate 100 candidates a day, around 60-70 sessions will have to be held at a particular institution. Since that would be preposterous all medical colleges and hospitals have been asked to create more space if required by converting some of their lecture halls into vaccination centres so that more candidates can be accommodated each session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Man from Kerala kidnapped, rescued in New Town||A man from Kerala who was abducted from City Centre II on Wednesday was rescued in a few hours, police said. The man, a Kozhikode resident in his late 30s, had come to the city with Abdul Salam, 39, also from Kozhikode, to retrieve a large sum of money. Salam had allegedly lent the amount to Mussamil Mottemal, from Kerala, for a purported business venture several months ago, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Mussamil and his brother Mudassir had called the Kozhikode duo to City Centre II promising to return the money, the officer said. When the Kozhikode residents, along with another man from Kerala, reached the shopping mall around 3pm on Wednesday, they found a large group of men waiting for them. The Mottemal brothers were nowhere to be seen. An argument broke out. “In the scuffle, the group forced one of the Kozhikode residents into a car and sped away,” the officer said. Minutes later, Salam received a call and a man asked him to transfer Rs 2 lakh, failing which his friend would be killed. Passersby and tea stall owners helped the two find the nearest police station. They reached Eco Park police station and lodged a complaint. “We tracked the number from where the ransom call had come. Once we could pinpoint the location, we sent a team and rescued the friend within a few hours,” said the officer. Cops arrested six men from Baguiati and Narayanpur for abducting the man. It is not yet clear why Salam had lent the money to the Mottemals, a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “We have started an investigation and are probing every angle. The nature of their business is also not very clear yet. We are trying to speak to them but are facing delays because of the language barrier,” said the officer. The police are trying to track down the Mottemals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Restored and renovated, Rawdon Square set to reopen after 30 years||The 94-cottah Rawdon Square will be a park again after remaining locked up for nearly three decades. During this period, there were attempts to build an entertainment hub and a parking lot in the complex. The newly-built park will be inaugurated on Saturday and then thrown open to people, Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said. The National Green Tribunal had asked the CMC to convert the place into a park in 2017, said activist Bonani Kakkar, who went to the tribunal opposing an attempt to build a parking lot there. “It is spread across 12,000sqm (94 cottahs). There is a water body inside that spans across 8,000sqm. We have cleaned the water body, built walkways, installed benches and also kept an open-air gym,” said an official of the CMC. “The park had been under lock and key for so many years. Its reopening is a significant development,” said the official. Rawdon Square, located near the intersection of Park Street and Rawdon Street, is a few metres from Parkomat, a multi-storey car park on Rawdon Street. Debashis Kumar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the parks and squares department, said the renovation and restoration cost around Rs 1 crore. “We have not used concrete or paver blocks to build the walkways, they are murram paths. We have installed diffused lights since bright lights are not good for the avian population,” said Kumar. The Park Street cemetery, next to Rawdon Square, invites a lot of nocturnal birds, said Kakkar. “The tribunal had ordered the use of low-voltage lights and murram paths,” she said. Rawdon Square was a park where people took a stroll or went for their morning and evening walks till the Left Front government planned to build an entertainment hub there. “In the 1990s, when Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was information and cultural affairs minister, there was a plan to create an entertainment centre in the place,” said Kumar. Kakkar said that the plan was shelved following protests and the place remained locked up for years. “About three years ago, I found a board outside the park saying that only cars ferrying students of the La Martiniere schools could park there. It was then that we approached the NGT to stop using the place as a parking lot,” said Kakkar, who is the founder of People United for Better Living in Calcutta (PUBLIC). The bank of the water body inside Rawdon Square has not been concretised. Only wooden planks have been used to fortify the banks. The civic body has also planted several trees like mango and debdaru inside the park. “The park will remain open between 6am and 6pm every day. All parks under CMC are remaining open for 12 hours every day because of the Covid pandemic,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||State Sabala mela starts in Kankurgachhi||If Saras Mela shifted from Salt Lake to New Town this year, Sabala Mela, another Central Park annual fixture, has found a new venue in Acharya Prafulla Chandra Park in Kankurgachhi. According to official sources, the fair had to be scaled down due to reduced budget and the pandemic situation. “In most years, we have about 250 stalls for which we need a bigger venue like Central Park. Here we have around 150. We also pushed back the dates from our usual Christmas-New Year period to avoid a big crowd,” said an official. There are two self-help groups each from 23 districts. “Besides this, district-level Sabala Mela is going on across the state,” pointed out minister Sadhan Pande.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Free sports camps for homebound children||Several football camps have started in neighbourhoods along VIP Road in recent months and the best part of them is they are free of coaching cost. Parents are making a beeline for these camps, seeking an outlet for children who are stuck at home for months. When Kestopur resident Tilottama Dutta heard of such a football coaching camp being organised for children in Bangur Avenue, Block A, she heaved a sigh of relief. Ever since her son Rayan’s school closed last March, owing to the lockdown, the child had barely gone out. “I decided that enrolling him in a football camp would do him a world of good. The classes are held four times a week and therefore he would get some good exercise while running around with the ball,” Dutta pointed out. Ever since the camp began in November, she travels from Kestopur to Bangur Avenue every week with her son. Asked about Covid-19 infection risk, she said: “Both physical and mental health are equally important for children. I know Covid is still a looming danger but we all need to take precautions while carrying on with our lives. We cannot stay cooped up at home 365 days a year.” The camp, which is free of cost, is a joint initiative of Bangur Avenue Child Welfare Organisation and Bangur Youth Forum Club. Joint secretary of the club Subhajit Dey said: “This is entirely free for children who have enrolled. We have also started cricket and karate classes from December. The entire venture is supported by the club. We pay the coaches from the money that we raise from the subscription fees paid by our members.” Another such camp is being organised by Kishore Mukherjee Football Academy since November in Baguiati. The camp is held on the ground just opposite the Lokenath Temple, en route to Chinar Park and Teghoria. Here too classes are held four days a week, mostly in the evenings. However these classes are not free of cost and each child is charged Rs 200 a month. As of now 80 students have enrolled for the camp. “Bengal has always had a football culture. But these days I have seen that children are so addicted to television, mobile phones and video games that the this culture is dying down. But we don’t want that to happen. Bangali chhele football khelbe na, eta ki kore hoy (How can it ever be that a Bengali boy would not play football)? That is the reason we have started this initiative,” said Anup Mukherjee, one of the organisers cum a trainer. For children who come from disadvantaged backgrounds, no fee is charged and football equipment is provided free. Asked how he was sourcing funds, Mukherjee said: “The academy doesn’t have a GST (Goods and Services Tax) number yet. Nor are we a legally registered body. We work with donations from guardians and neighbours.” Pointing fingers Club officials have denied any political funding being channelled into club finances to buy games equipment, but locals suspect otherwise.  “Football may need minimum investment but how can a game like cricket which requires expensive kit also be taught free?” said a local shop-owner, refusing to be quoted. “A lot of money has come to the clubs during Durga puja, when the chief minister sanctioned Rs 50,000 to each club. This is a good way to use those funds,” said Soumyadeep Banik, a resident of the neighbourhood. Others feel this might also be an election sop by local politicians to win over the middle class population living along the VIP Road stretch. Local MP Sujit Bose was tight-lipped about the issue. “There are several football clubs that are doing good work at the ground level. I am aware of them but I haven’t given them any funds. They must be gathering funds from other sources, which I am not aware of,” he said. Students and their parents, however, have no time for politics. “There are other football camps nearby but they are expensive and allow only elite students. The ones in Baguiati and Bangur Avenue are doing good work and so I am not bothered about where funds come from,” said Sneha Dasgupta, a resident of Lake Town. “I’m happy the kids can play and that too under good coaches. Otherwise they would have wasted their evenings watching television or on the internet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Of Marigolds and Salvias||Her house bears a prominent plaque with her address but frankly, one doesn’t need to look at it. As one veers into FC Block one cannot but turn to the lush green bed in the midst of a concrete jungle and one is sure this must be the home of green thumb Mita Roy. The lawn has a hedge of pink Rangans, red Salvias and humungous potted Marigolds. No wonder locals know the house as the “niche gamlawala tob bari”. I grew up in Baguiati where our plot had tall trees, colourful flowers and even ponds. I grew up loving plants and so when we moved into Salt Lake in 2000 I knew I would have a cozy corner for them in front of the house. In winter, I gauge the temperature not by a thermometer but by my Marigolds. If they look sad I know it isn’t cold enough. But this year, they are smiling and I couldn’t be happier! The flowers have been in bloom for 15 days already and if the temperature remains low, will remain so for another fortnight. Every year, I send my Marigolds to the flower show and they always fetch prizes. I hope to do the same this year too. But along with seasonals like Marigolds and Salvias, I have some potted Chillies in my front yard. They will eventually be planted in the soil behind the house but that patch doesn’t receive sunlight in winter. So I’m keeping them in the front yard to soak in the sun during their nascent stage. The adult Chilli plants in the backyard bear so many fruits that we never need any from the market. There is also a Mankochu plant that bears vegetables round the year. I prepare tasty dishes with them, using narkol baata. I used to do up the terrace too but with the lockdown my gardener had got irregular and I couldn’t do it alone. But whenever I can, I shall redo the terrace with Tomatos, Brinjals, Lemons and Guavas. Brinjals used to grow very well under my care and we would eat delicious Begun Bhaja out of it. The taste of one’s own vegetables is way superior to the ones we get in the market anyway. My husband and son do not have time to toil behind the plants but appreciate them. Our friends are always admiring them too and whenever they come over, they click selfies with the Marigolds outside. My only worry is pilferage. Not just flowers but entire pots have gone missing from the garden and it breaks my heart. It’s become such a fear now that even if I wake up in the middle of the night, I go and peep outside to check if my plants are safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Flower and pet show coming up||A flower show and pet carnival are all set to take place in the plaza around the New Town clock tower between January 15 and 17. The show — New Town Carnival — is being organised by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), and is open to residents of New Town and beyond. The flower exhibition will be open on all three days. One can send pots of flowers in the following categories — Aster, Dahlia, Calendula, Chrysanthemum, Daisy, Marigold, Pansy, Petunia (single and bi-colour), Phlox, Poppy, Rose, Orchid varieties,  exotic flowers and a miscellaneous category. However, a maximum of three pots may be enrolled. The pots may be at most 12 inches (30cm in diameter) and must be labelled with the name of the plant. They must be sent to the venue between 10am and 3pm on January 14 and can be taken back after 7pm on January 17. Plant owners may assign a gardener to water the plants or provide personal attention during the show. For details on the flower show, contact 8282821515 by January 10 Pet show The carnival will feature a pet show on the final day. This will be open to cats and dogs, who are eligible for an obedience test, grooming contest and a ramp walk along with their owners on January 17. The show is open to pets of all breeds as well as “Indies” but each pet can participate in at most two events. Forms cost Rs 150 and are available at the three branches of Animel Planet at City Centre 2, Swapno Bhor senior citizens park and Salt Lake’s BD Block, and New Town Business Club. Registration ends 48 hours before the show. There will also be a talk by vets, groomers and trainers, free grooming sessions, cake-cutting etc. Pets (on leash) are welcome throughout the days and prizes for both the flower and pet show will be distributed at 6pm on the final day. For details, contact 9830808707.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Mahabharata to Makaibari in food quiz||A food quiz kept women entertained at Saras Mela on Saturday. The contest was exclusively for ladies and again, most of them, turned out to be stall keepers. The quizmaster was Siddhartha Chatterjee, best remembered as Topse from the Feluda movies and who also runs the Bhojohori Manna chain of restaurants. Assisting him was Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the panchayats and rural development department and administrative secretary of the state comprehensive area development corporation (CADC), that was organising the fair. The preliminary round had 20 women on stage and eight among them qualified to the final round later. Given that the quiz was for laymen, questions were fairly straightforward. Someone or the other managed to answer posers like “what are Makaibari and first flush types of?” (tea) and “what are arabica and robusta types of?” (coffee beans). The “biriyani” round had the women naming Wajid Ali Shah as the nawab credited for bringing the delicacy to Calcutta and they also guessed correctly that the word biryani itself was derived from Parsi. “The dish is called briyani and birani in different parts of the world, though I doubt the waiter at the restaurant here will understand if you ask by those names,” added Chatterjee. The “sweet” round did a tour of the state and the women got busy naming sitabhog as the famous dessert from Burdwan, lyangcha from Shaktigarh, mecha sondesh from Bankura and jilipi from Cooch Behar. But since most participants were from the districts not many could perform in the round on heritage eateries of Calcutta. Few could tell a Basanta Cabin from Anadi Cabin or a Mitra Cafe from Allen Kitchen but the multiple choice format saw them through. They weren’t too familiar with the dishes mentioned in the international round either — Pad Thai of Thailand, Doner Kebabs of Turkey or tacos of Mexico. “But don’t worry about it,” assured the quiz master. “Tacos are simply neemki with some sauce.” Finishing top of the class was Ruma Bera, a fair volunteer from Howrah. “I am most pleased that I could answer the question on cod. It was about which fish is a great source of vitamin A and D,” she smiled. Debakripa Das Ray, a Rajarhat resident who found out about the contest while exploring the fair, got a question about Satyavati correct. “I’ve read her account in The Mahabharata and knew she was called Matsyagandha. I’m glad I could recall the name when I needed to today.” Those who lost out didn’t mind either. “It’s all right; we learnt so much today,” smiled Mithu Chakraborty, a fair volunteer who bowed out after the first round. The prizes for the contest were distributed by M.V Rao, additional chief secretary, panchayats and rural development department, and the winners received vouchers to shop at Saras Mela itself. Q1. What kind of painting is this cat with fish on the right? Kalighat painting Q2. Who in the Mahabharata was also known as Matsyagandha? Satyavati, great-grandmother of the Pandava and Kaurava princes Q3. Which country grows a third of the world’s coffee? Brazil Q4. Which dessert is said to have created by Nabin Moira? Rosogolla Q5. What language does the word biryani originate from (in picture below right)? Parsi Q6. Which tiny heritage food joint was a favourite adda haunt of Uttam Kumar? Basanta Cabin Q7. Which sage is the Vishnu avatar Matsya said to have rescued from deluge (picture right)? Manu Q8. What is the old name of Coffee House? Albert Hall Q9. What are Makaibari and “first flush” associated with? Tea Q10. Which is the largest fish in the world? Whale shark Q1. What kind of painting is this cat with fish on the right? Kalighat painting Q2. Who in the Mahabharata was also known as Matsyagandha? Satyavati, great-grandmother of the Pandava and Kaurava princes Q3. Which country grows a third of the world’s coffee? Brazil Q4. Which dessert is said to have created by Nabin Moira? Rosogolla Q5. What language does the word biryani originate from (in picture below right)? Parsi Q6. Which tiny heritage food joint was a favourite adda haunt of Uttam Kumar? Basanta Cabin Q7. Which sage is the Vishnu avatar Matsya said to have rescued from deluge (picture right)? Manu Q8. What is the old name of Coffee House? Albert Hall Q9. What are Makaibari and “first flush” associated with? Tea Q10. Which is the largest fish in the world? Whale shark||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Prawn finale to chicken cook-off||Cream Chingri, Pop Corn Chicken and lots of Chicken Kosha. Twenty women rustled up their best dishes in a cooking competition in the final weekend of Saras Mela at New Town. The first round required them to cook any chicken item in half an hour. The basic ingredients and induction cookers were provided by the organisers, but participants were welcome to get other ingredients too. Most of the contestants turned out to be stall keepers taking a break from work and the most popular dish, hands down, was Chicken Kosha. “Had I known about this contest beforehand I’d have got additional onions and bhaja masala,” said Anjala Bibi, a jute artisan from Murshidabad. “This was my first time using an induction cooker but they taught me and it was quite simple to use,” she said. Sulekha Bibi of Mursidabad said her dish would have been even tastier if she had a sil nora to grind the spices with, Hasnamano Bibi of Behrampore would have preferred chicken that wasn’t boneless and Farida Bibi wished the meat was freshly chopped instead of being brought out of the freezer. “But we are not complaining. After months of difficulty we have witnessed excellent footfall at this fair. We made good sales and now this contest is a fun break for us,” said Yasmin Begum, who had a kantha stitch stall and said she enjoys cooking. The only fatigued face was that of the judge — Siddhartha Chatterjee. “After tasting chicken 20 times today I have decided not to eat it ever again in 2021,” he joked, explaining that his affinity was rather, with fish. “I was born under the Pisces zodiac sign, have the nickname Topse, have featured in a film with a character called Machhlibaba (Joi Baba Felunath), have started a raw fish-selling unit called Machhlibaba, run a chain of restaurants called Bhojohori Manna where our mainstay is fish. So certainly my favourite food must be fish.” Luckily for Chatterjee, the next and final round was on prawn. Sikha Roy made Bhapa Chingri, Rinku Manna Malaicurry, Tapasi Hazra Sorshe Chingri and Aloka Mondal, who finally bagged the Rs 1,000 shopping voucher, dazzled with Cream Chingri. “I run a home delivery in Dum Dum called Little Kitchen and the Chicken Pop Corn and Cream Chingri I made today are both best-sellers on my menu,” smiled the 20-year-old who had found out about the cook-off while buying a kurti at the fair the previous day. “I got my own additional ingredients like cream and sauce.” First runner-up Sikha Roy, who works at the district rural development cell, said she was used to rustling up innovative dishes for her daughter’s tiffin. “The kitchen is the center of the home and this contest was a celebration of the women who run kitchens,” said Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the panchayats and rural development department and administrative secretary of the state comprehensive area development corporation. “The ingredients and spices provided for the contest are marketed by us. They comprised the consolation prizes given to all participants too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Playwright departs||Theatre personality Nirup Mitra passed away in a private nursing home in south Calcutta on Monday. A resident of Purbachal Cluster IX, he was 89 years old. He is survived by his wife Jayanti and daughter Meghna. He had been admitted to hospital on January 3 with Covid-19. His wife is still under treatment there. Born in Patna, Mitra completed post-graduation with modern history and political science from Patna University. He wrote plays for All India Radio since the 1970s, working with producers like Ajit Mukherjee, Jagannath Basu, Papia Chakraborty and Biswanath Das. In the 80s, he started writing audio plays. Asked by The Telegraph Salt Lake six months ago how many plays he had written in his life, he had responded “over 300-400”. A part of his prolific output has been preserved in print with several compilations of his plays being published. He was also a poet, a novelist a lyricist and an editor. He used to edit a biannual theatre journal called Natyalipika. Nihsongota, his first play for the radio, is counted as one of best radio plays in Bengali. It was performed on air by Kali Banerjee and Jagannath Guha. Many group theatres, including Bohurupee, had staged his work. After retiring from his teaching career, he became culturally active in the locality too. “We founded the group Shruta-Sanglap at the start of the millennium with the aim of training budding talent. He used to act and direct, other than write plays,” said friend and neighbour Prabir Roychowdhury, 84. One of Mitra’s biggest contributions to theatre was popularising full-length audio plays. “Actors do not dare to stage audio plays longer than 15-20 minutes. He took the challenge of writing and staging plays over an hour long,” Roychowdhury said, choosing Pratidwandi, on a widowed mother’s dilemma over remarriage, as his favourite Nirup Mitra play. No Durga puja in Cluster IX was complete without a Nirup Mitra play being staged. Even in 2018, neighbours had staged one of his plays. In 2013, he founded another group called Srutisroyon. “He had a rare talent for turning plays into audio plays,”  said Parthapratim Seal, a group member. “We performed his last play Louhabhuk in July. Ironically, it is on a virus that consumes iron and seals the fate of a space-exploring family,” Seal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Name change proposal for Metro stations||The New Garia-Airport Metro stations coming up in New Town are likely to get renamed. The previous names, assigned long back, were proving to be misleading and confusing and so a proposal has been made to rename them. A station coming up near City Centre 2 was to have been called Rabindra Tirtha, for instance. And the one near Nazrul Tirtha was previously called Bidhannagar. So in a letter dated December 23, the state transport department informed Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) about their intention. “Hidco had sent us the proposal of renaming the upcoming Metro stations in New Town, which has been approved  by us,” said a senior transport department official. The final go-ahead will come from the ministry of railways. Metro projects are developed by the railways and it is they who name the station after the site or the locality to help identify them. The state government however may choose to rename them. A proposed name requires to be vetted by the home ministry if it is named after a personality but none of the nine stations in New Town have been renamed after any personality. Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, said that the old names had been assigned long back, before the township got iconic landmarks like Biswa Bangla Convention Centre and Nazrul Tirtha. “I have received formal petitions claiming that this is quite misleading, for instance, for a station in New Town to be named Bidhannagar,” said Sen. A Metro spokesperson, however, said that they were yet to receive the notification about the name change. “We have not received any request for renaming the stations. We will look into it once we receive the request,” he said. All the stations are being built by the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) on behalf of the Metro Railways. The Metro will approach New Town from Wipro stretch, keep going till it takes a right turn at VIP Road after Chinar Park. It will culminate at the airport. Before entering Salt Lake Sector IV, the stations in the stretch along the EM Bypass are named after personalities like Satyajit Ray (SRFTI), Ritwik Ghatak (Kalikapur) and Hemanta Mukherjee (Ruby General Hospital). “Work on nearly all the stations on the New Garia-Airport line have started and the one near City Centre 2, Nazrul Tirtha and the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre are almost complete,” said a Metro official. “Only the interior and fitment work in these stations remain, such as escalators.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
