09-01-2021||Calcutta||JU on-campus entry test this month||Jadavpur University will hold a pen-and-paper admission test on January 17 at select centres across Calcutta, Burdwan, Durgapur and Siliguri for admission to the Masters’ of Computer Application (MCA) programme. The Bengal JEE board, which holds the admission test on behalf of JU and other institutions offering MCA in July, declined to do so this time because of the Covid pandemic. JU decided to hold the exam even as the board announced that it would conduct centralised online e-counselling and provisional admission on the basis of marks in qualifying exams (BE/BTech/BSc) for the candidates who had applied for the entrance test. The students’ union in the engineering faculty had appealed to the university to hold the admission test. According to a notice issued by the faculty council of engineering and technology, the admission test will be held in four cities — Calcutta, Burdwan, Durgapur and Siliguri - “subject to sufficient number of candidates”. An official of the university said each aspirant would be asked to mention a city as second preference. “If a centre in a city only has a handful of candidates, then we may request them to shift to a centre in the second preference city. We don’t want to waste resources,” he said. Admission will be solely based on performance in the admission test. Online application forms will be available on the www.jaduniv.edu.in from Saturday. Applications will have to be submitted by January 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Posters to fight child labour in Covid times ||The state commission for protection of child rights released three posters as part of a sensitisation programme against child labour on Thursday. The posters were released at Shramik Mela 2021 at Ramlila Maidan. The fair, a two-day affair, is being organised by the labour department of the state government. This comes at a time when chances of children dropping  out of schools and looking for work is high because of the hardships posed by the pandemic. The posters depict contrasting images of a child as a labourer and another as a student, with a line in Bengali to drive home the message against child labour. One of the three posters says: “School chhut? Shetai shishu shrom er route! (School dropout? That is the route to child labour!)”. Another says: “School e jabo ebar, hobona child labour (will go to school now, will not be a child labour)”. The third says: “Jekhane porashona kom/shekhane shishu shrom (where there is less of studies/there is child labour)”. Commission officials said that given the present conditions, the need for such awareness campaigns is more than ever. “Schools are closed for the pandemic for almost a year now and we do not know when they will reopen. We feel there is a strong possibility of dropouts. In poor families children will be sent to work and we want to discourage that,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, chairperson, West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Chatterjee Chakraborti called for intervention to stop children from being prevented from going to school. The posters have been sent to Calcutta police and the directorate of child rights and trafficking. The posters will also be put up at traffic signals and kiosks, said Yashabanti Sreemany, a member of the commission. She said that there were many families where children were first-generation learners and efforts should be made to enable the children to complete their studies. “After a child gets educated, the family realises that he/she is an asset and not a liability,” Sreemany said. Awareness among such families is not enough, society as a whole needs to realise the problem, she said. “It has to be a joint effort and if anyone sees a child labourer, they need to speak up,” Sreemany said. The posters also contain helpline numbers, which are 1098 and 9836300300 (the commission’s WhatsApp number).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||New deadline for FASTag, must for NH toll plazas||The deadline for procuring a FASTag has been extended till February 15 and most vehicles will need it to pass through national highway toll plazas, officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) told vehicle operators on Friday. The earlier deadline was January 1. Motorists will have to have the tag on their vehicles to pass through any of the 25 toll plazas on national highways in Bengal, the officials said. “There can be no two ways about it. Barring those vehicles that are on the ‘exemption list’, all vehicles using an NH toll plaza would have to have a FASTag,” R.P. Singh, the chief general manager of NHAI Bengal told the operators at a meeting with the transport department. “There will be no lanes for cash payment at the toll plazas. If you don't have a FASTag, you will have to pay double the toll fee.” The FASTag is a ready to use, re-loadable tag which will enable automatic deduction of toll charges and let one pass through a toll plaza without stopping for cash transactions. Once the tag fixed on a vehicle’s windscreen is active, a radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology will enable deduction of toll taxes from the user's account. The ministry of road transport and highways has recently extended the deadline for collecting FASTags till February 15 to address certain glitches that were cropping up during transactions. The Central Motor Rules 1989 have been amended and from the next financial year, FASTags will be required for third-party insurance. A section of truck and private bus operators has been complaining about snarls at toll plazas since the introduction of FASTags, with a majority of them claiming they have been told about a waiver if it took more than three minutes to cross a toll plaza. “No such specific exemption of user fee has been mentioned in the ministry’s notification in case time taken to cross a plaza is more than three minutes,” Singh told the operators. “All 25 toll plazas in Bengal have representatives from banks to help one get a FASTag so there shouldn't be any problem.” Apart from the FASTag-enabled toll plaza, one can also apply online at the website of a bank or at www.nhai.gov.in. There are 24 banks that are a part of this FASTag project. The documents that are required include the registration certificate of a vehicle, a passport size photograph of the owner and KYC documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Two injured in fight between two groups||Two groups allegedly fighting over the control of an alleged unauthorised construction near EM Bypass opened fire at each other, leaving two persons injured, police said. The incident happened at Gulshan Colony in Anandapur on Friday evening. An officer of Anandapur police station said the injured were taken to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. “Both suffered injuries on their arms and are out of danger,” the officer said. The police said they had received information about a fight at Gulshan Colony around 5.30pm and rushed to the spot. Around 50-60 men were engaged in a fight over the ownership of a plot, where one of the groups had started an alleged unauthorised construction, an officer said. By the time the police had reached the place, the groups had allegedly opened fire at each other. The police took the injured to the hospital. “One of the persons who opened fire has been identified,” said an officer. “He and his accomplices were not found at the spot. A search has been launched for him.” Based on complaints lodged by both groups, Anandapur police station has started two cases of rioting, causing grievous hurt with dangerous weapons and attempt to murder. No one was arrested till Friday evening. Police suspect the groups are being backed by local politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals reduce Covid bed count||Many private hospitals in Calcutta have reduced the number of beds designated for Covid-19 patients over the past week on the ground that the number of people suffering from the coronavirus disease has gone down sharply. Most hospitals said as soon as beds are being converted into the non-Covid category, those are getting filled up immediately as the number of people suffering from ailments other than Covid-19 is increasing steadily. The state government, however, has not reduced the number of beds in the designated Covid hospitals because, officials and public health experts said, the pandemic still continues. On January 4, Peerless Hospital reduced the number of Covid beds from 150 to 100. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has converted 60 beds into the non-Covid category since the middle of December. The last 15 were converted in the first week of January. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has reduced its Covid bed count by 100. The state health department had earlier allowed private hospitals to reduce the number of Covid beds on the condition that the count would again have to be increased if there was a renewed surge in cases. “Barely 50 per cent of our Covid beds are full even after reducing 50 beds. But most of the non-Covid beds are occupied as patients with chronic diseases who had not visited the hospital during the height of Covid pandemic are now coming,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “If there is a rise in the number of Covid patients coming to our hospital, the bed count can be increased in two days.” The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has reduced the number Covid beds from 130 to 90. On Friday, only 45 Covid patients were admitted. “Ninety per cent of the non-Covid beds are occupied. If we didn’t reduce Covid beds, we would have to refuse other patients,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern India, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. According to the state health department's data, 926 new Covid cases were detected across Bengal on January 8. There were 21 deaths. On the other hand, on November 8, there were 3,920 new Covid cases and 59 deaths. Doctors said as the number of Covid cases started dipping, more patients suffering from other ailments have started visiting hospitals. Along with the dip in the number of cases, availability of suburban trains is helping patients from districts to reach Calcutta. Kalipada Hudait, 64, who had undergone angioplasty a few months back, visited Medica Superspecialty Hospital on Friday for a check-up. The last time he had come was March last year. “There was the fear of Covid as well as lack of transport,” said Hudait, a resident of Tamluk in East Midnapore. He had to wait for more than two-and-a-half hours to meet the doctor, which was like pre-Covid times, said Hudait. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has 203 critical care beds, of which 40 are for Covid patients. An official of the hospital said on Friday 25 of the 40 critical care beds were occupied. However, not a single non-Covid critical care bed was vacant. Hospital sources said on Friday morning all 20 beds in the emergency ward were occupied by patients in need of ICU care and four such patients had to be kept on trolleys. “We have 100 Covid beds and are planning to reduce some because only 50 per cent are now occupied, while many non-Covid patients are coming for admission,” said an official. The government hospitals and private healthcare units designated as Covid hospitals have not reduced the number of beds despite low occupancies. On January 8, out of total 13,588 beds in those hospitals, 12,304 were vacant. On November 8, out of 13,508 beds, 8,778 were vacant. “The pandemic is not over yet and there are chances of a resurgence. So, it has been decided not to reduce the number of beds for the time being,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert who is in the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Film fest online booking off||The online booking system for the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival has been scrapped from January 11. In a late evening notification on Friday, the festival committee announced that people with delegate, press and guest cards will be allowed into the venues on a first-come-first-served basis. “We cannot let in everyone who queues up once the permissible number of seats fills up. We request people to help us maintain Covid protocol,” festival committee chairman Raj Chakrabarty told The Telegraph. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement of issuing a notification to resume 100 per cent occupancy in cinemas will not have any bearing on the festival. Seating at the festival venues will continue to be at 50 per cent occupancy, he clarified. The film festival was opened virtually at Nabanna Sabhaghar with about 65 people present. Other than Mamata, the attendees were key film fraternity and festival committee members like Goutam Ghose, Rituparna Sengupta, MPs Nusrat Jahan and Dev, and Ranjit Mullick. Anubhav Sinha, director of films like Article 15 and Ra.One, who would deliver the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on Saturday, flew in from Mumbai on his way to shoot in the Northeast. Shah Rukh Khan put in a virtual appearance at the inauguration from the sets of Pathan, the Yash Raj Films project he is shooting for in Mumbai. He regretted not being present in person at the event for the first time since 2011. “Main ne ekbar kaha, shayed main naa aa sakoon. Travel karna padega. Bahut log hote hai. Pandemic chal raha hai… (I mentioned once that perhaps I could not make it. It would entail travelling. There would be a lot of people. The pandemic is on.) For the first time, she listened to me,” he smiled. Mamata invited “my favourite brother” to come for rakshabandhan, which he accepted. Earlier, it had been announced that booking of seats, though free, will have to be done on the portal bookmyshow.com. On the first day after the system went live, 1,085 tickets were booked this way for the inaugural film Apur Sansar at Rabindra Sadan that was screened on Friday and for shows at various venues on January 9. Online booking was being allowed from two days ahead of a show. These bookings, it has been decided, would be honoured in accordance with the seat number that each person chose. The other seats for shows till January 10 that had not been booked online will be filled up on a first-come-first-served basis. The change had to be effected after the chief minister said at the inauguration that not everyone had access to a smart phone and could book online. Though Parambrata Chatterjee, the joint anchor of the inauguration programme and chairman of the short and documentary film selection committee of the festival, pointed out that helpdesks would be there at all the venues to assist those without smartphones, she was not convinced. But there is little chance of her second suggestion of exhibiting films on LED screens outside venues being implemented for all films. “It cannot be done for foreign films,” said Chakrabarty. The permission for screening, officials explained, came for a single screening at a specific venue. Mamata wants films to be exhibited at Ektara Mancha in the Nandan complex as an open-air setting could accommodate more people with less risk of infection. “She wants as many people as possible to enjoy the festival. We are in talks to see whether outside screening will be logistically possible for the local films,” the festival chairman added. Screening a film outdoor will pose technical challenges vis a vis light and sound. Ektara Mancha is where conversations on film-related topics will take place every afternoon. Saturday’s topic is a tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Cinema full-attendance test ||Cinema halls in Bengal can operate with 100 per cent attendance, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday. “Halls are operating with 50 per cent audience because of the pandemic. I will ask chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to issue a notification allowing halls to run with 100 per cent capacity,” Mamata said at the inauguration of the Kolkata International Film Festival, triggering a loud applause. “We will ask the hall owners to ensure the use of masks and hand sanitisers and sanitiser spray after each show.” Hall owners, bleeding financially first from the long shutdown and then the cap, said the decision has thrown a lifeline for them. They said they would start operating with full capacity as soon they got the government notification, which was not issued till Friday night. The Tamil Nadu government had on January 4 passed a similar order, increasing the cap on cinema halls from 50 to 100 per cent. The order came after an appeal from the theatre owners’ association there. But following an objection from the Union home ministry and legal challenges, the state government revoked its order on Friday. A letter from the home secretary to the Tamil Nadu chief secretary said the lifting of the cap violated the disaster management act. A couple of petitions challenging the Tamil Nadu government’s January 4 order are pending at Madras High Court. The Centre had greenlighted the reopening of cinemas from October 15, the seating capacity curtailed to 50 per cent of the total capacity. The Telegraph had reported in July how the Covid-19 pandemic had sounded a possible death knell for many single screen theatres across Bengal. Many of the theatres had already been bleeding with the arrival of multiplexes, a “high” GST slab for regional films and “fewer blockbusters”. The prolonged shutdown because of the Covid-19 curbs made their situation worse. The absence of new releases has continued to hurt the theatre owners. Hundreds of people who worked in the halls have lost their jobs, many more have been forced to take pay cuts. “Out of around 225 halls registered with us, some 75 are closed, some of them for good,” said a senior member of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA). Owners of single-screen theatres in Bengal wrote to the chief minister on Tuesday, urging her to allow full occupancy, while citing huge losses in business. They cited the Tamil Nadu government’s order a day ago. Ratan Saha, the chairperson of the exhibitors’ section of the EIMPA, said the chief minister’s decision was a “life-saver for the industry”. Saha, aware of the Centre’s objection to the Tamil Nadu government’s decision, said: “The Centre should consider the situation we are in. The lives of so many people are associated with this industry. We will take our concerns to Delhi, if needed”. Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya Cinema, the Bioscope chain of multiplexes and other standalone theatres in the state, described Mamata’s announcement as “an extremely important decision”. Many theatre owners said they did not expect many big-budget Hindi films which are in the pipeline to release in the immediate future. They cited the “threat of OTT platforms”, the avenue for some new releases in the recent past. “The makers might want to wait for similar moves by other state governments. But at least some Bengali films held back so far will be released in the coming days following the chief minister’s order,” said an owner. “From aeroplanes, to buses to political rallies, there is no curb anywhere. Why should we continue to suffer?” asked another theatre owner in Calcutta. Another exhibitor pointed out that in a November 25 notification, the home ministry curbs were extended till January 31. “We are hopeful that after that, the ministry would relax the curbs,” he said. “We are grateful to Mamata Banerjee for the announcement. We have also written to the Centre, seeking full occupancy in cinemas. We are hopeful of a positive outcome,” said Firdausul Hasan, a producer and member of the Film Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
09-01-2021||Calcutta||50 km of overhead wire cleared on 1km stretch||The distance between the Ruby crossing on EM Bypass and the Siemens office on the Ruby-Rashbehari Avenue connector is barely a kilometre. But the mass of defunct overhead cables on this stretch was about 50km-long — about the distance between Calcutta and Diamond Harbour. A team of cable operators has been snipping dead cables between Ruby and Gariahat since Tuesday, after being prodded by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The operators said 50 of the 100 overhead cables on the stretch were defunct. “We snipped the defunct cables and have kept them on the median divider. The CMC will remove them,” said Tapash Das, the joint convenor of the All Bengal Cable Television and Broadband Operators United Forum. “The distance we have covered is roughly 1km. The number of defunct cables on the whole stretch is 50. Taken together, the length of cables we brought down in the last four days would be 50km,” he said. Das said several cable operators met Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, on December 21. Hakim asked them to remove the dead cables on the stretch between Ruby and Gariahat as a pilot project. The CMC is providing logistical support to the cable operators who have deployed their staff to remove the wires. A senior engineer of the CMC’s electricity department said they had given two hydraulic ladders for the workers to reach the point where the cables are tied to a pole and snip the defunct ones. “Our solid waste management department will remove the defunct cables that are snipped and brought down,” the senior engineer said. The Telegraph has reported several times how the mesh of cables hanging overhead presents an ugly picture and highlighted the danger they pose to pedestrians and motorists travelling under them. In many places, the cables hang very close to the ground. Thousands of trees and electrical poles were uprooted in the city during Cyclone Amphan in May last year. The weight of the cables was blamed for the poles and trees toppling in the storm. The dead cables include Internet lines, lines of multi-system operators, cables of companies that have shut down and telephone lines, Das said. The cable operators forum could not give a deadline for removal of all defunct cables on the Ruby-Gariahat stretch. “It is taking a lot of time because the defunct ones are tied and twisted around the live lines,” one operator said. A similar pilot project had been taken up in Alipore and on Harish Mukherjee Road earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Government nurses to act as vaccinators||Government hospitals have been asked to draw up a list of nurses who can act as vaccinators in their respective institutions, the move triggered by the staggering number of people in need of a Covid-19 vaccine in the initial phases. The state health department has made the request to government-run hospitals, including medical colleges, to create additional personnel to facilitate the vaccine rollout. Health department officials realised after Friday’s dry run of Covid vaccination across the state that it would take between 45 and 55 minutes on an average for a recipient to complete the vaccination process, including the mandatory 30-minute waiting time. Roughly, that translates to close to three hours for one batch of 100 candidates to complete the vaccination process at each centre, officials said. Since the Union health ministry’s guidelines say there can’t be more than 100 candidates at each vaccination centre per day, covering a critical mass daily would mean setting up more centres. That will ensure that the 6 lakh-odd health-care workers in Bengal get the first dose of a Covid vaccine reasonably fast. More centres mean additional personnel. “Each vaccination centre will require at least three chambers — a room where recipients will wait before getting their shots, a vaccination room and a room where every recipient will wait for half an hour after being vaccinated,” said a health department official coordinating with the districts for the vaccine rollout. “Since medical colleges have more space, they can set up more centres. If nurses can function as vaccinators, it will be easier to cover more candidates every day,” said the official. Once the list of nurses is ready, the health department will train them in handling Covid-19 vaccines. After the training is over, the nurses will be tasked with vaccinating people at the centres to be set up at their respective hospitals. “It will be an intramuscular jab. Those who have undergone a course in general nursing and midwifery are trained in the technique. They will just have to be taught some specifics. That will serve our purpose,” said an official of the health department overseeing the rollout. “These trained personnel will increase the number of vaccinators.” The health department is readying a roster for around 20,000 vaccinators who will be engaged in the rollout process, right down to the level of block primary health centres and rural hospitals. Once the vaccination starts and nurses in medical colleges get their first jabs, a section of them will undergo the training as part of the preparations for the next round of inoculation involving frontline health workers. “The time span is 9am to 5pm every day. More vaccinators means each will get some relief while administering the jabs,” a health department official said. “It might not be easy for many vaccinators to continue working for eight hours at a stretch wearing personal protective equipment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
