10-01-2021||Calcutta||Fraud on lapsed insurance policies in Calcutta||Two directors of a call centre in New Town were arrested on Saturday for cheating, police said. They ran the call centre from the second floor of the Avant Garde building in New Town’s Action Area I, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Gopi Sharma, 29, and Amit Mondal, 31, were arrested based on a complaint lodged by Howrah resident Abhijit Ganguly, who was duped of over Rs 80,000, the officer said. Employees of the call centre would call up people promising high returns for reactivating lapsed insurance policies against payment. Ganguly had received a call and the caller introduced himself as the regional manager of a reputed insurance broking firm. The caller asked Ganguly if he had an insurance policy that had lapsed or was dormant. Ganguly did have one such policy and the caller said he would help secure a large sum by “reactivating” it. “Ganguly met Sharma and Mondal at the New Town call centre where they asked him to purchase a new policy for Rs 29,900. They promised to help him get more than a lakh for the dormant policy and Ganguly gave them the money,” the officer said. He met them again a few days later and paid them an additional Rs 50,000. “Both times, Ganguly had asked for cash receipts but wasn’t given any. When they called him a third time asking for more money, he grew suspicious,” the officer said. Ganguly then lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. An officer who was part of the team that raided the New Town office said that the men had more than 20 employees who would make calls to dupe people. Two persons were arrested and 15kg of explosives, four unregistered 7-mm pistols, eight magazines and over 100 rounds of bullets were seized in Howrah late on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Dry run bares connectivity glitches in several parts of Bengal||In several parts of Bengal, the vaccination process was delayed during Friday’s dry run because of poor connectivity that snapped links with an app used to register a recipient. Senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan who went through reports from 69 vaccination centres across the state said such snags were reported from parts of Sandeshkhali and Samserganj in North 24-Parganas, Gosaba and Basanti and parts of Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas and a few in Kalimpong and Dooars in north Bengal. In some centres, it took almost an hour for a candidate to complete the inoculation process, including the mandatory 30-minute waiting time, because poor connectivity led to link failure. In some others, candidates had to wait for almost 15 minutes before he could proceed to the room where he or she would receive the jab because of link failure. This held up the registration process. Every time there was a link failure on Friday, the process of filling up a form with candidate details on the CoWin app was delayed, several senior health department officials said. After the details have been uploaded on the app, a slip is generated. The candidate has to take this slip to the vaccination room to get the jab. “After scanning the slip, the vaccinator injects the candidate. After this, he or she has to use the portal again to register that the first shot has been delivered by clicking on ‘vaccine done’,” said a health department official of Sandeshkhali-I Block in North 24-Parganas. “So, there are at least two key stages where connectivity is required to use the app. Without it, the process can’t be registered as completed.” Friday’s dry run was done in three centres each in 23 districts of Bengal. Each centre had 25 dummy candidates. Health department officials said once vaccination begins, in over 10,000 existing centres — the number will go up once medical colleges and hospitals create facilities for more centres — such snags at block levels would pose a challenge. Pockets of Jungle Mahal, Purulia, Mirik, Kalimpong, West Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas already have connectivity issues, the health department officials said. Estimates from the dry run show that around 50 minutes to inoculate one candidate would mean around three hours for each centre with a maximum of 100 candidates. If more people have to be vaccinated everyday, this time has to come down, officials said. For the second jab, the candidate will receive a code on his or her mobile phone after the process is completed and details have been entered on the app. This code will help him or her get a certificate saying he/she has been successfully vaccinated. If the connectivity snaps, the code and certificate will take time, officials said. On Saturday, senior health department officials discussed this and decided no candidate would be made to wait because of a technical snag. “We have decided that a candidate will move ahead and complete all the processes for receiving the vaccine. The details would be noted down offline and uploaded when the connectivity resumes,” said a senior official. It has also been decided that 47 trucks will be readied to transport vaccines to the districts from Calcutta. These trucks will be insulated to ensure that temperature is maintained between two and eight degrees Celsius. In some areas, where insulated trucks are not available, the vaccine will be transported in special cold boxes which can store the vaccine for almost a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine on campus for private hospitals ||Private hospitals in the state can vaccinate their doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers on their campus using their own manpower, the Bengal government conveyed to the heads of private hospitals at a meeting on Saturday. The state health department will begin training vaccinators in private hospitals to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from next week. The department will also be choosing the private hospitals that can be made vaccination sites for their staff. The decisions were communicated to the private hospitals by the secretary of the state government’s health department at the meeting called to discuss the implementation of the Swasthya Sathi scheme, a cashless health insurance project of the state government. “The health secretary told us that private hospitals will be used as vaccination sites. The state government will soon reach out to us with the details,” said the chief executive officer of one hospital. Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of West Bengal government’s health department, told Metro: “The private hospitals will be selected as Covid-19 vaccination sites only to vaccinate their own healthcare workers. Our team is mapping the hospitals that can be used as vaccination sites. We will also start training vaccinators in the private hospitals from next week.” Another official said the health department had already decided to use the medical colleges in Calcutta as Covid-19 vaccination sites for the healthcare workers. At Saturday’s meeting, the private hospitals were assured that the government would look into their demands for revising the rates for  procedures under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay chaired the meeting. “The government asked us to nominate members from private hospitals who would be part of a committee that will discuss the rate revision. They acknowledged that our demand that only patients requiring tertiary care come to super speciality private hospitals is practical and logical,” said Rupak Barua, the president of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “The committee will meet health department officials regularly to discuss problems that crop up and look for solutions. It was a positive meeting,” added Barua, who is also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Another private hospital CEO said that the government assured them of prompt payment. The state government on Saturday iterated that no private hospital should refuse anyone with a Swasthya Sathi card.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
10-01-2021||Calcutta|| Kolkata International Film Festival : fest footfall low, spirits high||The first day first show of the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival did not see a long queue in front of Nandan like every other year. But the audience, lacking in numbers, did not lack in enthusiasm. “The queue usually reaches till the Nandan gate and then turns alongside Sisir Mancha building towards the Sisir Mancha gate. This year it did not reach anywhere close to even the Nandan gate,” said Parash Acharya, a festival regular, waiting for the Federico Fellini  classic 8½ to begin. Of the 984 seats in Nandan 1, 436 were free to be booked on the portal bookyshow.com under the reduced seating arrangement in keeping with Covid safety protocol. “There were 226 bookings for the 9am show but less than 200 turned up,” said an usher. Among them was a quartet of “Facebook friends”, three of whom were festival debutants. “It was easier to get delegate cards this year. The rush used to be so much that we never made the cut. Registration is also free which made things easier for us,” grinned Akash Mitra, a data science Masters student from Deshapriya Park.  Mainak Dutta, a Chandernagore boy who was a delegate last year too, pointed out the Rs 500 registration fee had been waived this year. All four of them had booked tickets for three films on Day 1. After the chief minister directed the scrapping of the online booking system and a switch to entry on the basis of the registered cards in her inaugural speech on Friday, holders of delegate or guests cards were allowed entry to the venues on a priority basis. Even for those who had booked their tickets online, no effort was made to make them occupy the exact seats that they had booked. Yet, some like Somnath Guha could not get in. The man in his late 50s had turned up with a photocopy of the emailed acceptance of his application for a delegate card. “It was so crowded yesterday at the counter that I could not collect it. I was scared about possible infection,” he pleaded at the gate to no avail. Though the elderly were too few for even finger count in the first show, they showed up in greater numbers in the evening. Most headed not for the films but for the exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee in the Nandan foyer. Subodh Ghosh, 84, had come alone by bus from Bagbazar. “I like spending time at the Rabindra Sadan complex. I heard the films would be shown free so tried to enter but was not allowed. But I am happy to visit the exhibition. It is not crowded,” said the octogenarian who had no clue about delegate cards. Binata Ray, a 68-year-old with a walking stick, too had turned up from Garia with her daughter hoping to catch “any film”. But without a delegate card they too had to be satisfied with visiting the exhibitions.  “My mother loves coming to the film festival. Last year, too, we had seen a film,” her daughter said. Kohinoor Chakraborty, a 67-year-old retired film director, was resting on a bench outside Nandan. “I have been attending this festival since its first edition. Online application is beyond me. Even till last year, they used to give out daily passes at the venue before the screening,” he said. He could get into a short film screening in the afternoon for which tickets were not checked but was stopped at the feature film venues. “I will get hold of a guest card from acquaintances and watch films from Monday when entry becomes totally card-based,” he said, welcoming the scrapping of the online booking. Filmmaker Anubhav Sinha, who delivered the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on Saturday, praised the authorities for the courage to hold a “physical festival”. “Amid this pandemic, it is a brave move,” he said. Filmmaker Goutam Ghose takes a look at an exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee at the Nandan foyer after the inauguration on Saturday afternoon. The exhibition has photographs of the iconic actor from his childhood down to his last journey, including a section with his mentor Satyajit Ray and another on his award-winning moments. It also has costumes from five of his theatrical productions -- Neelkantha, Kalmrigaya, Phera, Homapakhi and Raja Lear, with a note from his daughter and colleague Poulami Bose. About a dozen of his paintings also find space with notes on him as a painter by artistes Jogen Chowdhury and Shuvaprasanna. A screen shows a short film on his life. Picture by Pradip Sanyal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Two held for catching birds at Chandpara||Two men were arrested from a wetland in North 24-Parganas on Friday evening for allegedly catching birds with nylon nets. Two birds, a bronze-winged jacana and a sandpiper, were rescued from the two, said a forest official. The Telegraph has been reporting on how nylon nets spread over wetlands and marshlands in the city and nearby districts are maiming and killing migratory and resident population of birds. North 24-Parganas is home to several such wetlands. People have been setting up nets to trap fish-eating birds and then selling the bird meat, forest officials said. The Friday arrests took place at a wetland in Chandpara in North 24-Parganas, over 60km from Calcutta. “We had a tip off about nets being laidand some people sneaking into the wetland in the evening to take the birds,” said Tamal Das of Human and Environment Alliance League, the NGO that was part of the operation with foresters. The team members reached the wetland around 8pm on Friday. After a wait in the dark, flashes of torchlight led the team to the accused. The team members posed as prospectivebuyers for the birds. The two were arrested after they brought the birds out of their bags. “We also found nets spanning 100m from the wetlands,” said Das. The arrested persons were identified as Sujit Adhikari and Gautam Majumdar, both local residents. The two were produced in a court which has sent them to  judicial custody till January 11. “The rescued birds are listed under Schedule IV of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. If convicted, the maximum term the two face is three years in jail,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Road accident deaths in Calcutta in 2020 dip to 201 ||The number of road accident deaths in Calcutta in 2020 has gone down to 201 from 267 the year before, police said. Yet, the number of fatalities was on the higher side considering the fact that there was little traffic on the roads during the lockdown. According to the police records accessed by The Telegraph, 2020 saw a dip in the percentage of pedestrian deaths on the roads but an increase in the number of motorcyclist and pillion rider deaths in the city. Similarly, the year also reported a record increase in the number of accidents involving cars –— the highest in the last three years. A section of the police feels that the number of accidents should have been less as there was very little traffic on the roads during the lockdown. “Although that is the perception, but in reality, motorists and motorcyclists became more reckless when there was no traffic on the roads…,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. As many as 22 fatal accidents, mostly involving two-wheelers, were reported in March, April and May when the city was under complete lockdown. In 2019, as many as 65 road deaths were reported in Calcutta during the same time period . With the beginning of the unlock phase, inadequate public transport and the scare of pandemic forced thousands of Calcuttans to commute in private vehicles, including bicycles. The police said, 23 cyclists — who are most vulnerable to accidents — died in road accidents in 2020, compared to 14 in 2019. As number of private cars rose on the roads, accidents caused by them also increased. In 2020, cars caused as many as 29 road deaths compared to 19 in 2019. Along with private cars, the number of motorcycles and scooters had also increased during the lockdown months, which led to rise in the number of two-wheeler accidents as well. As many as 64 two-wheeler riders and pillion riders died in road accidents in 2020, compared to 58 in the year 2019 Despite the increase in the number of two-wheeler deaths and cases involving private cars, the police said, the positive part was the decline in the number of pedestrian deaths in the city. “Every year more than 50 per cent of the people who die in road accidents are pedestrians. But last year, the lockdown forced people to stay indoors and there was a sharp decline in the number of pedestrian deaths,” said a senior officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||WPCB to to provide incentive of Rs 1 lakh for 15 years or older commercial vehicle||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board has decided to provide an incentive of Rs 1 lakh for 15 years or older commercial vehicle that is scrapped and replaced by a new one. “From our side (for) first 1,000 vehicles, we are ready to give Rs 1 lakh each,” said PCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar during a virtual meeting organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce on Saturday. Kumar told Metro later that they have kept the money in the budget. PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra clarified to Metro that the proposal seeking support came to the board from the state transport department and the money was planned to be used to facilitate switching over to either new vehicles or conversion to environment-friendly gas-powered ones. “Though initially the money was earmarked for facilitating switch over of 15 years old taxis; but it may be used for other commercial vehicles as well,” added Rudra. The PCB proposal came in the wake of the recently finalised state-level action plan to combat air pollution, which has recommended scrapping of 15-year-old commercial vehicles in critically polluted cities in the state, including Calcutta. Recently, the state environment department has finalised an action plan to combat air pollution that recommends scrapping of 15-year-old commercial vehicles from all “non attainment cities” — cities which have failed to comply with the national air pollution norms — those include Calcutta, Howrah, Barrackpore, Asansol, Durgapur, Raniganj and Haldia. Subsequently, the plan has been vetted by the Central pollution control board ; and will be submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on January 18. Incidentally, 15-year-old commercial vehicles have been banned from the Calcutta metropolitan area (CMA)  in 2008 through a Calcutta High Court order that includes cities of Calcutta, Howrah and Barrackpore. “It’s like putting new wine in old bottle. This order was passed for the entire CMA more than 12 years back. But it has hardly been implemented beyond CMC (Calcutta Municipal Corporation). Even in CMC, the scrapping rate of 15-year-old commercial vehicles has gradually dwindled over the years; as the air pollution surged,” complained environmentalist Subhas Datta, on the basis of whose petition the high court passed the order. The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has recently found that close to one-fourth of most toxic PM 2.5 pollutants in Calcutta’s air, is caused by vehicles. Commercial vehicles have been found to be responsible for four-fifth of the total PM 2.5 pollution generated by vehicular sector, both in both Calcutta and Howrah. PM2.5 is considered the most toxic form of pollutant as it can penetrate deep into the recipient’s lungs and trigger several diseases, including cancer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Free vaccine for 30,000 Calcutta Police||Around 30,000 Calcutta police personnel got a text message from chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday afternoon announcing the arrival of the Covid vaccine that they would get free, being frontline workers. Around the same time, emails went out to all police stations congratulating the force for working for the people as “Covid warriors” and saying that the vaccine would reach them soon. The text message in Bengali said: “Covid-19 er mokabilaye ekjon Covid joddha hishebe aapni jebhabe manush-er paashe theke tader sheba korechhen, takey samman janiye, agradhikar bhittite, paschimbanga sarkar-er torof theke sampurno binamulle apnaar kachhe Covid-19 er vaccine jotha shomoy pouchhe jaabe (In the fight against Covid-10, the way you have stood by the common people and served them as a Covid warrior is commendable. As a mark of respect for your service, the Covid-19 vaccine will reach you in due course of time absolutely free of cost on behalf of the Bengal government).” The message concluded by wishing the well-being of the recipients’ families. “Aapni o apnaar paribar sab samay bhalo thakun, sustho thakun (We wish that you and your family stay happy and healthy).” From the police commissioner to the constables, sources said the message was sent to every personnel around 12.30pm on Saturday. Although the role of the police has been appreciated by the average Calcuttan several times in the past 10 months and some have been felicitated by the state government on Red Road, this was the first time the whole force received official recognition for its services, one officer said. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to could not help but express their excitement on getting recognition from the state through individual text messages. “We lost so many colleagues in this battle. Many, including myself, rejoined duty after getting infected and recovering. Many police officers have been felicitated and praised. But to get this official recognition as a frontline Covid warrior from the chief minister is very special,” said an inspector. Unlike the health department workers who wear PPEs because they are in direct contact with suspected Covid patients, cops are exposed to people they may be prosecuting or requesting to stay indoors without knowing who could be a carrier of the virus. During the lockdown months, when most Calcuttans were forced to stay indoors, the city police became a lifeline for many. They ensured people stranded in their homes could get emergency supplies. Mamata had felicitated frontline workers, including several police personnel, on Red Road last year. Based on the state health department’s instructions, all police personnel in the city police force have been asked to submit their details — name, age, address, family members — so that the data can be compiled and used during vaccination, senior officers said. “When the pandemic broke out, our families panicked too. I had spent months living inside the police station without meeting my family just to keep them safe. Receiving a text message like this felt like a great honour today. We all were pleasantly surprised when our phones buzzed almost at the same time at the police station,” said an officer posted in the south division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
