11-01-2021||Calcutta||Kids make the best of digital platform||Shri Shikshayatan School Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated its 68th Foundation Day on a virtual platform. The institute put up a good show despite all the limitations. The programme started with invoking Lord Ganesh through a dance recital, put up by the junior school students. This was followed by another cultural performance by the students of senior school where they presented the beauty of Lord Vishnu. “As we assemble on the virtual platform to celebrate the birthday of the institute, we would thank the forefathers of the school. This institute aims to educate girl children, so that they are empowered in every way possible,” said Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya. The school calendar of the year, titled Canvas Musicscape 2021, was launched on the occasion through which the students gave a pictorial ode to music and musicians by painting pictures of indigenous musical instruments. The highlight of the day was felicitation of the teaching staff members. “In the past year, the education system had gone through a drastic change, but we worked it out successfully with sheer dedication of our teachers,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. Teachers of both the junior and senior sections were given certificates of appreciation, silver medals and cash prizes. “Finding out the best class teacher is difficult, as every child thinks his or her class teacher is the best. This year, it was a bit different as the parents took part in an online pole and the contest was very close,” said headmistress Poushali Mukherjee. It was family time as the junior section of Birla High School, Moira Street, digitally celebrated Bonds that Bind with a Family Day event. The need to bond with the family was underlined with this celebration. Kids, parents and grandparents performed for each other and took part in a variety of activities on the occasion. The hour-long celebration commenced with a prayer service and was followed by recitations by students in vernacular languages and performances by their enthusiastic family members. Students from the kindergarten section to Class V took part in a variety of fun activities with their families, too. Nursery students created various craft items such as ice-cream stick, photo frame, Play Dough box and pencil holder from recycled items with the help of their families, while the kindergarten students teamed up with their family members to make sweets and savouries such as fruit salad, cheese corn sandwiches and biscuit cookies topped with vegetables. The students of Class I took part in a discussion on the importance of family and Class II kids designed crowns. Students of classes III and V turned chefs and whipped up dishes with their grandparents and relatives. The grandparents shared jokes, narrated stories and sang songs, making the occasion a successful one. “Celebrating Family Day brings into focus the importance of family solidarity wherein members of the family work together to sustain the unit through challenges, trials and tribulations. We believe that working together can do more to create a caring society,” said headmistress Farida Singh. St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, recently organised their annual sports carnival virtually for the primary students. Students as well as parents took part in several sports events such as sail and sink, run for fun, balance me and so on. There were displays of victory stand, trophies and certificates also to encourage the kids. “This year, owing to the pandemic, we had to do it online which requires a lot of planning. Parents were talking of indulging their wards in some physical activity. Hence, we did this as physical activity is important for a child’s well-being,” said principal Jhuma Biswas. St Augustine’s Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury said: “During this period the majority of people, including students, have grown accustomed to a lifestyle with less physical activity and rarely exercise. So, we decided to arrange an online version of sports which would help them to reduce stress, control anxiety and depression, make them feel less isolated. They all have a lot of feelings right now, such as being scared because a loved one is sick, sad as they cannot see their friends at school or on the playground or even confused because they do not know what is going on. Thus, online sports is one of our many innovative initiatives to help students and their parents cope with the new normal.” Birla High School, Mukundapur, recently organised the second edition of Spellympic — an inter-school spelling and word-building contest — on a virtual platform to commemorate its Founder’s Day. This contest for students from classes IV and V focused on enabling the students to enrich their vocabulary and spellings. A total of 15 schools took part in the preliminary rounds from which 10 made it to the final that was shown live on Facebook for guardians and other viewers. The event commenced with a video of students singing Saraswati Vandana with folded hands and a visual of Goddess Saraswati. Calcutta Debating Circle’s executive member Raju Raman conducted the competition. Spellympic consisted of six rounds — general spellings, unscrambling letters, collective nouns, homophones, proverbs and online scrabble. The host school emerged champions and the first and second runner-up positions were secured by South Point School and Garden High School, respectively. “We were slightly apprehensive about conducting it on the virtual platform this year, but got delighted that it was so successful. The idea behind conducting Spellympic is to motivate the young students to hone their language skills and judging from the performance of the students on that day, it seems we have been successful in doing so,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Delhi Public School Newtown started the new year by launching an e-magazine, Udaan, for the years 2019-2020 and 2020-21. Students from nursery to Class XII, alumni and even teachers contributed to it that also contained music videos. Its link has been shared on the school website for a wider reach. “The whole school has been very enthusiastic about the project. Every year, we bring out a printed version. But the e-magazine has got a new look. We could also upload music videos,” said principal Sonali Sen. Students have contributed in Hindi, Bengali English, French and German. Children of the Asian Association of Chesterfield and North Derbyshire, UK, and Fun-Learn Day Boarding School, Calcutta, bridged the East and the West through a cross-border nativity play and carols. Fun-Learn Day Boarding School turned the pandemic into an opportunity as they collaborated with the UK organisation for the carol evenings this time. The cross-border nativity play on a digital platform had children aged four to six from both the countries. Children from India aged between six and nine sung the carols, while an eight-year-old girl from the UK played the violin to lend soul to the carols. “Many years ago, John Lenon had imagined a world sans borders, religions and boundaries. This cross-border act has proved that it is not so difficult to create such a world. More such collaborations will help the children of both the worlds appreciate each other,” said founder Udita Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Unity march in support of protesting farmers||Hundreds of people joined a torchlight rally in south Calcutta on Sunday evening in solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting at the gates of the national capital against the new farm laws. The marchers came from different faiths and walks of life. Members of the Sikh community, many of them senior citizens, walked side by side with women in hijab. Cries of “Kisan ekta zindabad (long live farmers’ unity)” and “Kisan tum aage badho, hum tumhare saath hai (Farmer, march ahead, we are with you)” rang the evening air. The rally started from the intersection of Sarat Bose Road and Chakraberia Road and culminated at Netaji Bhavan on Elgin Road, where the marchers observed two minutes’ silence to respect people who have died during the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border of Delhi. The farmers, who faced batons, tear gas and water canons to reach the Delhi border, have been braving a harsh winter and rains but have not budged from their mission — demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Over 60 protesters have died so far. One of the marchers in Calcutta on Sunday evening was Manpreet Singh Sonu, a 35-year-old man who owns a car rental business. In the second week of December, Sonu visited the Singhu border with a group of around 30 people. He spent close to a week at the protest site to lend moral support to the demonstrators. “The spirit of unity and camaraderie at Singhu is remarkable. Help is pouring in from different quarters. If there are two cakes and five hungry people, they will divide the cake into five equal pieces,” said Sonu, who traces his roots to Punjab’s Gurdaspur. Sonu had spoken to some shopkeepers at the Singhu border. Some of them were “scared to learn about the arrival of protesters, fearing their stores would be looted”. “But the discipline and compassion of the protesters is something to learn. Now, the shopkeepers also admire their spirit,” said Sonu. Manjit Singh Jetta, 60, was at the forefront of Sunday’s rally. Jetta said a minimum support price was imperative for farmers. “The corporate houses will pay a good price for the produce in the first couple of years to wipe out the competition. Then, after establishing a monopoly, they will start calling the shots and slash the price at will,” said Jetta, whose parents had shifted from a village in Ludhiana to Calcutta when he was a boy. Both Jetta and Sonu are part of Netaji Bhagat Singh United Forum, one of the two organisations that had organised Sunday’s rally. Justice Unifying Social Transformation (JUST), a platform that comprises many women, was the other organiser. The platform came into being when the massive protests against the citizenship thrust were halted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Muslim women were at the forefront of the protests across Calcutta. “We had to take the protests to the digital space. For that, many women joined hands. That is how the forum was born,” said college teacher Nausheen Baba Khan, one of the founders of JUST and a lecturer of political science at a city college. “The farm laws are another extension of the autocratic strain of the government. The same strain that was visible when they came up with the citizenship matrix. If we don’t protest against the farm laws, we do not have the right to protest against the citizenship thrust,” said Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
11-01-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur 2020 convocation to be held on January 12||NIT Durgapur will hold the convocation scheduled to be held last year on January 12 on virtual mode because of the pandemic. A notification issued by the institute says graduating students will receive their degree certificates in an “animated mode” sitting at home. The animated mode will involve a process wherein a scanned copy of the certificate will fly across the screen of a computer, from the end of the department head or director (featured in a panel on the screen) to the recipient (featured in another panel). “The animated mode can be accessed on a computer or a smartphone,” said an NIT official. Only the director, deans, members of the institute’s board of governors and some senior officials will remain seated on the dais inside the auditorium on the campus. Once the link of the convocation proceedings is shared with the degree recipients, they can log in from a desktop, laptop or a smartphone. “As the name of a recipient is called, his or her name and picture will pop up in the designated panel on the screen and the degree will be awarded in an animated mode,” said an official of the institute. The medals and the prizes will be delivered in the same manner. “We don’t want any assembly on the campus amid the pandemic and so we decided to go virtual,” said Anupam Basu, the director of the institute. At IIT Bombay, graduating students had last year received their degrees through their animated avatars. At NIT, hard copies of the degree certificates will be mailed to the residential addresses of the recipients. The proceedings will also be livestreamed on YouTube and Facebook. Altogether, 663 people will receive their undergraduate degrees, 311 postgraduate degrees and 128 doctorate degrees. Distinguished Alumnus Awards will be conferred on Bikramjit Basu, Subir Kumar Saha and Jyotiprasad Bhattacharya. In 2019, the convocation was held on the campus in September. Classes are being held on the digital platforms at the institute as the campus is closed because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Mahadevi Birla World Academy alumni help students get CLAT-ready||A group of law college students and recent graduates is conducting classes for students of Classes XI and XII who aspire to study law. Four former students of Mahadevi Birla World Academy are taking online classes to help them crack the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). The school had decided to approach former students and “build a bridge” between them and the present students. “Many of our students are in law schools across the country and we wanted to establish a connection between them and our present students. The online classes twice a week are open not only to those who have taken up legal studies, but also students from other streams who want to study law,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Students can attend classes for free, Saha said. “Competitive exams are different from any school exams. Getting help from people who have gone through the process is reassuring,” said Sai Snigdha, a second-year student of the National University of Juridical Sciences. “We talk about the mistakes we had made and guide them how to avoid making the mistakes,” she said. For Class XI student Adrija Jana, the classes also mean a “balance between preparation for school exam and CLAT.” “They are only a few years’ senior and we relate to them as they had faced the same challenges that we are facing,” said Adrija. Prachi Chowdhary, a student of National Law Institute University, Bhopal, said one needed to keep gathering knowledge to crack CLAT. “They have to read a newspaper thoroughly and a sense of distinction comes when one keeps reading from various sources. Regular guidance is needed because there is a possibility that one gets distracted and tends to focus on things not needed for the exam,” Prachi said. Prachi was seconded by legal studies teacher Fatma Jabeen, a former NUJS student. “Students are in a lot of dilemma and we have found a way to guide them outside of their school exams. For CLAT one has to read constantly because the exam tests their reading speed. One needs to comprehend and answer,” said Jabeen. For the former students it was an opportunity to give back to their alma mater. The group includes a student who takes classes from Mumbai. Nehal Binani, 24, works in a law firm in Mumbai. When approached by the school, she agreed despite having a “12 to 14-hour work schedule.” “I keep the weekends for myself and I want to play my part in the community,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Cageful of bulbuls rescued from car on Durgapur Expressway||More than 60 red-vented bulbuls that were being allegedly smuggled to Allahabad were rescued by the forest department on Durgapur Expressway. The birds were crammed inside a cage that was covered with a piece of cloth and hidden inside the boot of a car, a forest department official said. The red-vented bulbul (Pycnonotus cafer) is a member of the bulbul family and is protected under Schedule IV of The Indian Wildlife Act, 1972. It is a resident bird that breeds across the country and is also found in Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Tibet. The wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB) had received information that the birds were being smuggled. The WCCB alerted the Durgapur forest range office and gave them details of the route as well as the vehicle in which the birds were being ferried. “We gathered the intelligence about the birds that were being smuggled and worked in close coordination with the Durgapur forest range office. A team of foresters intercepted the car on the highway,” said Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director of the wildlife crime control bureau. The three men in the car, who had started their journey from Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas on their way to Durgapur, have been arrested. The birds have been kept under observation and will be released back into the wild.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC mulls steep fee for illegal structures||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) is considering charging a steep percentage of the valuation of an unauthorised structure as the regularisation fee, sources in the civic body said on Sunday. The fee is paid to legalise construction that lacks the civic body’s approval. The CMC has a schedule of rates that determines the fee. But civic officials feel the fee is too low to act as a deterrent against building unauthorised structures. “A steep regularisation fee is likely to dissuade builders from raising an illegal structure because they will not be able to make much profit by selling it after paying the fee,” a CMC official said. The authorities hope builders and property owners would not want to construct any illegal structure if they end up paying an amount almost equivalent to the property’s valuation. The civic body’s board of administrators has formed a committee of four board members to review the proposal to charge a large part of a building’s valuation (according to the inspector general of registration’s records) as regularisation fee. The committee will meet on Monday to decide on the proposal, a member of the board said. Under the existing system, the regularisation fee rate is uniform across the city. The owner of a 1,000-sq ft illegal structure on Park Street has to pay the same fee as the owner of an illegal structure of the same size in Garia. But if the proposal to link the regularisation fee with the property’s valuation is approved, the rates will differ, said CMC officials. The valuation of the Park Street property will be much higher than the one in Garia. The CMC has decided to amend building rules to allow more construction in commercial properties in select zones. An official said an additional .25 floor area ratio (FAR) will be allowed to commercial properties in these zones, which are classified as C-zones or commercial zones. “We have a list of places and select roads that fall in the C-zone. Builders can approach us to check if a place falls within the C-zone,” said the official. The floor area ratio roughly decides the maximum permissible size of a structure coming up on a particular plot. The FAR value depends on the width of the road in front of the plot and the type of building (commercial or residential), among other factors. “If the FAR value is increased for a plot, more construction will be allowed on it,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Roses wilt under fungal or viral attack||A fungal or viral attack is ravaging rose plants across the state. Nurseries in the Kharagpur belt in West Midnapore are particularly affected with reported losses of crores of rupees. If Amphan had dealt a blow to nursery owners, the pathogen attack has only aggravated the impact. Pushpanjali Nursery, one of the biggest nurseries at Jakpur village in the Kharagpur belt, has been the hardest hit. The nursery has lost 1.5 lakh rose plants in the attack. Jakpur, with about 100 nurseries, is often called Rose Village. Close to Pushpanjali is Kamal Nursery, which has a sales outlet in Bagnan in Howrah. Kamal Nursery has lost 20,000 rose plants. Sk Muhammed Ali of Green Zone Nursery on EM Bypass reports a similar story. Much like the coronavirus, the pathogen attack on rose plants has spread across the state. The first attack was reported in December 2019, said Pranabir Maity of Pushpanjali Nursery, which is spread across 6 acres. “The leaves started turning black and then fell off. We treated the plants with fungicide. But nothing seemed to be working,” said Maity. A nursery owner from Thailand who visited Pushpanjali in early 2020 suggested some remedies that seemed to have worked for some time. “Then I used an expensive fungicide called Ranman, which costs Rs 1,000 for 40ml. It seemed to be working but now again the plants are dying,” said Maity, who has lost 1.5 lakh plants and pegged his losses at Rs 1.25 crore. Pushpanjali supplies roses to the Agri-Horticultural Society of India as well as the Indian Botanic Garden. Sk Muhammed Ali of Green Zone is trying out vitamin doses for his rose plants. He calls it a viral attack that has devastated his plants since Amphan. “A new virus is killing my plants,” he said, as did Kamal Chakrabarti of Kamal Nursery. Both reported loss of leaves and blackening of plants. “Unseasonal rain must have been responsible for the viral attack,” Chakrabarty said. He has lost 20,000 rose plants that sell for Rs 10 each. His loss stands at Rs 2 lakh. S.P. Panda, a scientist with the Indian Botanic Garden who is in charge of the newly laid out rosarium, said: “We have managed to keep our plants alive with fungicide. None of our plants has been affected. Many of the rose growers use mulching sheets to keep weeds at bay. These are synthetic sheets laid at the base of the plants so that weeds do not grow. We at the botanic garden don’t use mulching sheets. Instead we deweed the rosarium manually. Thankfully, we have been able to avert the attack.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Delhi holding back research funds, says JU||Jadavpur University has told the state government that it has not received the money the Centre promised under a scheme to fund research and scholarships. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had on November 26 stated at a virtual meeting with higher education department officials that the Union education ministry was holding back the Rs 35 crore the university was to get under the scheme. The meeting was held after a state government official had told educational institutions, including JU, following a prod from the Centre, that they needed to intensify their efforts towards completing the projects approved under the scheme in the current fiscal. The university has been forced to stop spending under Rashtriya Uchchatara Siksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0 as the Centre is yet to sanction the second and last instalment of the grant amounting to about Rs 35 crore, officials said. “The non-release of the second instalment of the grant has caused unimaginable distress to 450 young scholars – working as RUSA 2.0 Fellows – who have had to bear the double burden of having to find alternative sources of income in the unprecedented situation of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Das told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Most of them have been engaged in research and project-related work without receiving any remuneration since April 1, 2020. This has forced many of them to take up jobs they would not normally.” In May 2018, JU and nine other universities from across the country were selected for receiving Rs 100 crore each under of the scheme. JU had received the first instalment of Rs 41.67 crore (Rs 25 crore from the Centre and Rs 16.67 crore from the state) in November 2018 and utilised it by the end of March 2020. Under RUSA 2.0, the Centre is to release 60 per cent of the amount and the state government the rest. The state’s grant has to follow the Centre’s. Since the Centre is holding back its share, the RUSA 2.0 rules prevent the state from releasing its. The scheme was to end on March 31, 2020, but the Centre extended it till March 31, 2021, VC Das said. A state government official said JU was told at a meeting between the education ministry and VCs on July 7, 2020, that the second instalment was not being released because 70 per cent of the teaching posts were vacant. “The condition was not mentioned in the RUSA 2.0 guidelines. It was not mentioned when the grant was sanctioned. How can a grant be stopped halfway?” asked Das. A letter addressed to Bengal education secretary Manish Jain from the education ministry in September says: “However it has been noticed that there is shortfall in faculty by 3 %. 70% faculty is required in order to process the next instalment and the University has 67% faculty. The university is requested to do the recruitment and meet the criteria of 70% faculty as soon as possible to avail the next installment.” Repeated calls to Manish Jain went unanswered. VC Das had in a letter to Sunita Siwach, the national coordinator of RUSA, on September 9 written that 69 per cent of the teaching posts had been filled. The pandemic, Das mentioned, stood in the way of filling over 90 per cent of the posts. Das also wrote: “Under Rashtriya Uchchatara Siksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0 it was not stated that having 70 per cent of all the teaching posts filled up was an essential pre-condition for receiving the grant.” The state government had in early December written to the ministry, reiterating JU’s stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal health dept assures on time vaccine drive in Calcutta||The Centre has announced that Covid-19 vaccination will start on January 16 and health officials in Bengal said on Sunday that even if the doses arrive a day before, they can start the drive in the city on time. But as for districts far away from Calcutta, the officials said, the doses should ideally reach the city by January 14 so they can be transported to remote locations in time for the inoculation to start two days later. “Even if the does reach a day before, we will be able to serve Calcutta. But to transport some of the consignments to far-flung districts, including parts of north Bengal, we want them to reach us by January 14,” a health department official said. “A lot will depend on the volume that will be sent. We are prepared for the first round of vaccination, which will involve doctors and others associated with health care.” Health department officials said they were yet to hear formally from the Centre about when the first lot of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute, would be dispatched to Bengal. The state has informed the Union health ministry about the six lakh-odd health-care workers who will be given the Covid jab in the first phase. On Monday, health department officials will start talking to private hospitals seeking details about availability of space and personnel to run vaccination sites. The Telegraph reported on Sunday that the department’s secretary had told the heads of private hospitals at a meeting on Saturday that they would have to set up Covid-19 vaccination sites on their campuses to administer the jab to their staff. “We have to find out whether the hospitals have enough space to set up vaccination sites and adequate number of vaccination officers, vaccinators and other support staff,” a health department official said. Once the list of private hospitals with the required logistics is ready, health department officials will visit the hospitals and train the staff. “It will take a day or two to complete the training,” said the official. Ten Covid vaccination sites have been identified in Calcutta, and 4,000 across the state. The number of sites will increase once private hospitals are enrolled. “Whether all sites will be in use from the first day will depend on the number of doses we get. If there are fewer doses, a limited number of sites will be activated,” the official said. Health department officials have learnt that initially around 11 lakh doses would reach Calcutta. Ahead of the arrival of Covishield doses, senior health officials held a video conference on Sunday to discuss the various levels of preparedness and finalise the blueprint for vaccine transportation. “One vial will have 10 doses and a carton will have around 1,200 doses. From the airport, designated vans will transport the consignment to the Bagbazar unit of Central Medical Stores, where the doses will be transferred into walk-in-coolers,” said an official overseeing the logistics of transportation of the vaccine. “Officials from nearby districts will collect their quota from the Bagbazar store. The doses will be sent to far-flung districts in cold boxes, which will be carried in insulated trucks. We have had a round of talks with police to ensure these vans don’t get stuck on roads during their journey,” the official said. There are adequate cold storage points in the city to keep vaccines, officials said. As of now it has been decided that the medical colleges will house vaccination sites and all medical colleges have cold storage points. The two Covid vaccines approved in India for emergency use have to be stored at temperatures ranging between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. “If a particular site does not have cold storage, we will transport the vaccine on the morning of the vaccination day,” an official said. The Union health ministry has said the polio vaccination programme, which was supposed to start on January 17, has been put on hold to facilitate the Covid-19 inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
