12-01-2021||Calcutta||Shield yourself from bird flu: Advice to poultry handlers||The health department has instructed poultry farm workers and others who handle birds and animals to wear protective gowns, gloves and goggles to protect themselves from the avian influenza (HSN1) virus. There have been reports of outbreak of the disease in some states but so far the virus has not been detected in Bengal or the adjoining states - Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha. The Union health ministry has said the disease is zoonotic, which means it can spread between animals and people, but infection in humans has not yet been reported in India. Experts have said the virus doesn't spread from cooked or boiled poultry products. The health ministry has also advised states to tackle rumors that may influence poultry product consumers. In a two-page advisory to the chief medical health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and his counterparts in 23 districts of Bengal, the deputy director of health services (public health) has said those working in poultry farms and handling animals and birds should wear gowns, gloves, goggles and shoes. At the end of the day's work, the protective gear should be discarded or sanitised. No one should eat or smoke while working in poultry farms or handling animals and birds. “The idea is to spread awareness, stop rumors and prepare our officials to tackle a situation,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan, the health department headquarters. “The municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has been requested to step up surveillance in all 144 wards. The deputy CMOHs have been instructed to circulate the guideline among community-level workers, including health assistants and Asha workers.” Monday’s advisory refers to the recent death of migratory and other birds in Himachal Pradesh and an order issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change to states and Union Territories to take “steps for containing the spread of the disease”. Bengal is the third meat producing state in India after Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Bengal produces around 2.5 crore kg of chicken every week and consumes around 2 crore kg. The rest is exported to neighbouring states. Around 5 lakh farmers are directly involved in the poultry business and another 10 lakh are involved indirectly, according to officials of the West Bengal Poultry Federation. “There have been no reports of bird flu in Bengal or its adjoining states as of now. So don’t get alarmed,” said Madan Mohan Maity, the general secretary of the federation. “We urge people to eat more chicken and eggs because that is the cheapest way to build protein.” The advisory spells out that avian bird flu doesn't spread from cooked food and asks officials to keep all those who have been exposed to dead or sick birds under surveillance and provide them antiviral medicines for 10 days. “We have been asked to get in touch with public health officials and their counterparts in the animal resources development (ARD) department immediately if there are reports of unusual symptoms or death of common birds, wild birds and those in poultries," said an official of Birbhum district, which had witnessed over 61,000 poultry deaths during the last outbreak of bird flu in India in 2008. The advisory also instructs health officials to find ways to minimise bird-human interface and use masks, goggles and gloves while handling sick and dead birds. Officials in the district have been asked to keep adequate stock of masks, personal protective equipment, swab sticks and antiviral medicines as a preventive measure. Health workers have been instructed to spread awareness among farmers so they remain alert to certain symptoms among birds such as vigorous shaking and drooping heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Stalker on Calcutta Metro arrested||A 26-year-old woman who said a man had been stalking her and touching her inappropriately on Metro trains over the past two months got her alleged harasser arrested on Monday. The woman raised the alarm when the man, later identified as Amit Das, was allegedly trying to molest her while boarding a train at Kavi Nazrul station. She boards a Metro train daily at Kavi Nazrul on her way to office and gets off at Esplanade, Police said she told them that she had been noticing a man follow her in Metro over the past two months. “She alleged the man would intentionally stand next to her, especially when the train is crowded, and would try to touch her inappropriately. She said she had been noticing that the man would follow her into the compartment every day. Today she caught him red-handed when he tried to molest her while she was boarding the train,” said an officer of Patuli police station. The woman screamed when Das allegedly touched her inappropriately while she was boarding the train around 12.45pm, the police said. Instead of boarding, the woman pushed the man on the platform and got off the train herself before screaming for help. The Metro Railway Police rushed to her help and took custody of the man. He was handed over to Patuli police station. The woman accompanied the police to the police station and filed a complaint, based on which Das was arrested and a case under IPC sections related to stalking and outrage of modesty registered against him. Das, a resident of Sonarpur, will be produced in court on Tuesday. If convicted, he can be jailed for five years. Senior police officers lauded the woman for the courage she had shown in getting her alleged tormentor arrested and urged victims of similar circumstances to follow her example, instead of fearing social stigma. “Most such cases of sexual harassment go unreported because the victims are scared of the stigma or they do not want to get involved in a legal tangle by approaching the police. It is a welcome change that women are more confident these days and are coming out to report the cases to the police,” said a senior police officer of the south suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Biker shot at twice in Uluberia on way to cops||A man on his way to a police station on a motorbike was shot at twice on a deserted stretch in Uluberia — around 40km from the heart of the city — on Sunday night. Police said the man was attacked by two bike-borne snatchers who allegedly opened fire at him after he tried to resist them. Pinaki Das, 25, a resident of Ranihati in Panchla and an engineer by profession, was going to Uluberia police station to lodge a complaint after losing his wallet when he came under attack, the police said. Das had apparently lost his way while trying to reach Uluberia police station. “He said he had stopped his bike to take out his mobile phone and check the location when two men on a bike approached him from behind and demanded his belongings. The men had also asked him to leave his bike,” an officer of Howrah police said, quoting Das. “Two bullets hit him. One hit his bike. The victim told us that the two men fled after he started screaming,” a police officer said. Das had to undergo surgery for removal of the bullets. One of the bullets hit him below his neck, towards the left side of his shoulder, and the other got lodged in his right arm. Das mentioned in his statement that one of the two snatchers had pulled out a gun while asking him to hand over the bike. The man allegedly fired after Das tried to snatch the gun. Das said he alerted his family members over the phone and shared his location. He was initially taken to Uluberia State General Hospital and shifted to SSKM Hospital on Monday morning. A senior police officer said they were trying to find out whether there were any CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood where the alleged incident happened. “It is very important to either get an eyewitness or some circumstantial evidence to verify the statement of the victim,” the officer said. Das’s motorbike will be subjected to forensic tests to check the nature of the bullet mark, sources said. No one was arrested till late on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Warmest January in years, Celsius set to slide again||This January has so far been the warmest first month of the year in at least eight years. The average maximum and minimum temperatures in January are 25.8 degrees and 14.1 degrees, respectively, according to the Met statistics compiled over the past three decades. This year, the average maximum and minimum temperatures — from January 1 to 11 — have been 28.3 degrees and 16.3 degrees, respectively. The average maximum temperature for both January 2017 and 2019 was 26.3 degrees, the most after this year. The average minimum temperature of January 2016 was 15.8 degrees, the most after 2021. The Celsius is expected to slide again this week and drop below the 15-degree mark. A Western Disturbance over north and northwestern India has stalled the flow of cold north-westerly winds, triggering a rise in temperature across the northern and central parts of India. Since cold winds from Jammu and Kashmir reach south Bengal via these places — like Delhi and Uttar Pradesh — the temperature in Calcutta has been unusually high this January. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 20.9 degrees, a whopping seven degrees above normal. The maximum temperature was 28.4 degrees, three notches above normal. Woollens have already been kept back in cupboards. Even early mornings are warm. As the day progresses, fans are being switched on at many homes. Normally, January 1 to 15 is the coldest period of the year. Over the past few years, there have been fluctuations and cold days have been interrupted by a brief warm spell or a couple of days of rise in temperature. But many Calcuttans could not recall the last time the fan had to be switched on for so many days in the first fortnight of January. On four days this month, the Celsius has clocked 30 degrees. The Met office has a word of hope though. “The Western Disturbance is dissipating while moving towards China. The Celsius in Delhi has started going down. Bihar and Jharkhand are expected to follow suit from Tuesday, paving the way for the cold winds to reach Calcutta,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The Celsius in Calcutta is tipped to go below 15 degrees from January 14, he said. After a cold spell that characterised the end of December, the rise in mercury started from the first week of the new year. A high-pressure system, positioned over parts of Bengal and Bihar on Sunday, has made the weather sweaty, said a Met official. “The system is drawing moisture-laden winds from the Bay. But the system has weakened and will dissipate in a day,” said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Evidence of collective callousness in Calcutta||The number of Covid-19 cases has come down and two vaccines against the disease are ready to roll out, but public health experts are worried because people are dropping their guard in the fight against the coronavirus. At most public places across Calcutta, from the zoo and the Victoria Memorial to the airport, Metro saw on Monday evidence of people’s collective callousness. Hundreds of people were  without masks and at the airport, many passengers were queuing up just like old times, almost every one breathing on the neck of the person in front. “The number of cases may have gone down but we have to keep in mind that the pandemic is far from over. We have to look around and learn from experiences of countries like the UK and Thailand, where there is a resurgence of Covid after a lull,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert who is at the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid. “The state health department and voluntary organisations are continuously campaigning to make people adopt safety measures like wearing masks, but it seems people are not taking Covid as a threat anymore.” Chowdhury, who mentors Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and survivors of the disease, said that even two months back people were keen to know new things about Covid and preventive measures. “Two months back, at an awareness meeting in Hooghly’s Serampore, there were hundreds of people when I reached the venue at 10pm. They were asking several questions,” said Chowdhury. “Last week, at another meeting of Covid Care Network in Hooghly, there were barely 50 people. Most of them were members of the organ-isation.” It’s evident across the city that people are dropping their guard. The footfall has been on the rise at the zoo, Science City and the Victoria Memorial. The average week-day footfall at the zoo was 5,000 in the middle of November. Now, it has climbed up to around 15,000. On the last two Sundays, more than 50,000 people had turned up, an official of the zoo said. A mask is mandatory at the ticket counter and entry points, but many visitors were removing the mask once inside the zoo, said the official. “Cops posted inside the park have been pulling up people for not wearing masks but it is impossible to keep an eye on everyone,” he said. The zoo authorities, like the authorities of Science City and the Victoria Memorial, were making regular announcements on the public address system asking visitors to wear masks and sanitise hands. At the airport, officials said, passengers were wearing masks but most were seen violating the physical distancing rule. “At the queues to enter the terminal, for check-in at airline counters and security check, most passengers don’t maintain the (required) three-feet distance among each other,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. “There are passengers in groups and when airline or airport officials ask them to follow the distancing protocol, the passengers say they are in a group and have to stay close to each other.” At the gates, there are markings made for each passenger to stand but most are not following the protocol. At the boarding gates, airline officials call one passenger at a time to board aircraft. But, officials said, whenever the first passenger is called to board an aircraft, others get up and form a queue. Malls have been busy, too, but most visitors are masked. South City Mall has been witnessing around 70,000 visitors on weekends in January, said an official of the Prince Anwar Shah Road shopping address. “We are not allowing anybody inside without a mask. The stores are following the same protocol. There are enough CCTV cameras to spot a person without a mask,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Practical classes can be held:  Calcutta University VC ||Practical classes can be held on Calcutta University campuses, provided students attend them in small batches, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said on Monday. The VC made the comment when Metro asked her about a letter from the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association urging her “to allow holding practical classes in willing departments maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols” since those classes are essential for many courses. “It will be an injustice to the students to again go ahead with the teaching-learning process without holding any practical classes,” the letter reads. Chakravarti Banerjee told this newspaper: “Teachers can hold practical classes on the campus in small clusters if they want. We were not allowing the exercise on the campus because of their safety. If they want to hold practical classes following the safety protocols, they can do so. We will sanitise the facilities.” She, however, struck down the demand that the ongoing semester be extended by a month before the exams are held. The teachers made the demand so there is adequate time to complete the syllabus. “We are bound by the UGC’s deadline,” she said. Online classes at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels have been on since the middle of December. The association decided to approach the VC after the university authorities had on January 1 informed the colleges and the department heads at the postgraduate level that the exams of the first, third and fifth semesters at the undergraduate level and the first and third semesters at the postgraduate level be held between March 8 and 26. The university followed a UGC guideline on exams published in September in issuing the notification. The teachers are worried how students will appear in the practical exams since no practical classes are being held. “Practical classes cannot be held on digital platforms. Since the practical classes are not being held… the teaching-learning process is suffering immensely. The students will not be able to appear in the practical exams,” said Sankhayan Choudhury, the general secretary of the association. Another member of the association said the university should have realised the problems being faced by students of science subjects. “The UGC had also notified that for the 2020-21 academic session, the teaching-learning process may continue in offline, online and/or blended mode. So the university could take a decision on holding practical classes offline. But it chose not to act,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Post-vaccination help for recipients||Recipients of Covid-19 vaccines will be provided the contact number of a doctor or some other health-care worker who can be reached for post-vaccination support, an official of the state health department has said. The department has also decided to deploy an influencer at each vaccination site to boost the morale of the recipients. “The role of the influencers will gain in importance once people not associated with health care start getting doses,” an official of the department said. The department has identified 941 cold chain points across the state to store the doses and 47 vans to transport them, the official said. “The team at each vaccination site has to ensure that recipients are given the contact number of a doctor, an auxiliary nurse and midwifery (ANM) or an accredited social health activist (ASHA). Recipients can contact them if any post-vaccination support is required,” the official said. All recipients will have to wait for 30 minutes at the vaccination site after getting the jab. The vaccination team will check for adverse effects during the period. “If any recipient develops an unusual reaction after leaving the vaccination centre, he or she can contact the person whose number will be given,” the official said. Metro reported on Friday that health department officials had told Calcutta Municipal Corporation representatives that recipients of Covid-19 vaccines should get their shots at the site nearest to the address they would provide. This will ensure that a recipient can return to the vaccination site quickly if he or she develops some adverse effects after reaching home. Sources in the health department said the role of influencers would be crucial in vaccinating people not associated with health care. Influencers are honourary health workers or accredited social health activists who run public health campaigns and surveys, and work for prevention of vector-borne diseases. “The influencers motivated Covid-19 suspects to undergo tests during the early days of the pandemic. People know them. Their presence at vaccination sites will boost the morale of the recipients,” said an official. Those registered for the vaccination will get text messages almost at every stage of the process, the official said. A potential recipient will get the first message on confirmation of registration. The Centre has created a digital platform — CoWin — where all potential recipients have to register for vaccination. The second message will mention the date, time and venue of vaccination and the third, which will be sent after the first jab is administered, will mention the date and time of the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Students flag rights violations||“How can police use it (tear gas and water cannon) against citizens of our own country?” wrote one student about the farmers’ protest at the Delhi border. Calling Internet shutdowns in Kashmir an “affront to the right to free speech”, another student wrote: “When the Internet is off, people’s ability to express themselves freely is limited, the economy suffers, students are cut off from lessons and those needing health care cannot get consistent access.” Students of Modern High School for Girls did a project on human rights where the teenagers wrote about violations in India and the world. Class VIII girls raised the issues in letters that they wrote “to whom it may concern”, all of which have been posted on the school’s website. Some of the letters are accompanied by artwork by Class X students who have pictorially represented what their juniors have written. The Rohingya genocide in Myanmar, mob lynchings in India, disability rights, human trafficking, workplace discrimination, LGBTQ rights and ill-treatment of transgender prison inmates are some of the issues the Class VIII students researched and wrote about in their letters. The school said it wanted the students to “think, explore and look beyond the text and curriculum”. “It is important for children to think and reflect and not only work out answers to problems. Education should give them that tool,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High school. “They have to learn and find out for themselves and it is not right for the school or teachers to impose their ideas on the students,” she said. The girls were given a month to research issues that they thought were related to violations of human rights. “We have to sensitise students to what is happening around us. By the time they are in Classes IX and X, they are aware of rights issues and we can understand that from their tone,” said Sunita Biswas, who teaches history and guided the students in the project. “Some of them had read and researched thoroughly but it hadn’t come out in their writing. Then we asked them to explain in more detail. Though they had read from various sources, the written work had to be original,” said Biswas. “We are living in a world where violations are increasing every day and as the next generation, we have to step up and know and talk about it,” said Vaibhavi Gupta, who wrote about the Bru refugees. Some of the students chose issues that they said made them “angry and sad”, like Ishana Kandhari, who wrote about the farmers’ protest. “I was following the farmers’ protest and I was angry, sad and hurt at how the farmers’ lives are getting impacted. When this opportunity came up, I wanted to write about it,” she said. The gang rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Hathras unnerved 13-year-old Adrija Mukherjee. “I am a girl and it is scary that something like this can happen,” she said. “Human rights are basic rights that belong to all of us simply because we are human. Human rights are the articulation of the need for justice, tolerance, mutual respect and human dignity,” Adrija wrote. Vrinda Sarda wrote about Internet shutdowns in Kashmir. Krittika Mahipal raised the issue of human trafficking. “Not only does it (human trafficking) work on exploiting the vulnerable, but its foundations also lie in seeing humans as objects we can own and sell,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
