13-01-2021||Calcutta||Massive fire at Calcutta’s Baghbazar area||A massive fire broke out at a slum in Calcutta’s Bagbazar area on Wednesday evening, said the police. At least twenty five fire tenders were pressed into service to bring down the fire that engulfed several houses in the slum on Kshirode Vidyavinode Avenue beside the Bagbazar Women's College near Chitpore Lock Gate Bridge. According to officials blasts were heard in the slum, which the police suspect to be of gas cylinders that burst in houses that caught fire, officials said. There were no reports of any casualty yet, they maintained. “The reason for the fire is not known. The firemen are fighting it tooth and nail and hopefully, it will soon be under control,” a senior officer of the Calcutta Police said. “The blaze also spread to the adjacent Sarada Mayer Bari as the firefighters escorted the saints out,” an officer of the fire department said. “The reason for the fire is not yet known. The firemen are fighting it tooth and nail and hopefully, it will soon be under control. We have emptied the entire area. There were several blasts, which could be because of the gas cylinders,” a senior police officer said. Locals alleged that firefighters reached the spot at least an hour late, because of which the fire went out of control. A couple of police vehicles were vandalised, following which a team of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) was deployed to control the irate mob. The fire during the evening rush hours led to a massive traffic snarl in the area, informed the officials. “Traffic movement on the Kshirode Vidyavinode Avenue as well as the Chitpore Lock Gate Bridge, the lifeline of the people living in the northern fringes of the city, was totally stopped,”he said. “We have also snapped electricity supply in the entire area. There are at least 40 families whose houses have been gutted in the fire. A godown of books has also gutted,” the police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid museum on cards in Calcutta to commemorate pandemic fight||Doctors in Calcutta have decided to set up a museum to commemorate the frontline workers who died in the battle against coronavirus. They are planning t document how lives changed amid the pandemic and how the healthcare industry came to the rescue of the common man. “The museum will be showcasing items like PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers, besides several other materials that became essential in the fight against the lethal virus,” West Bengal Doctors’Forum (WBDF) office-bearer Dr Rajiv Pandey said on Wednesday. “A proposal has been sent to the state government and a final nod is awaited,” he added. “This pandemic has come after more than 100 years, even our grandparents have never seen something that we are witnessing,” he told PTI. According to him, West Bengal alone lost 90 doctors to the pandemic. He said, “We have already lost around 90 doctors in our state to the pandemic. Like so many other things, this time and these people will be forgotten. Future generations should not be allowed to forget the sacrifices made by the doctors. That’s the reason we have planned this museum,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Tintin set to step into your phones in February||The adventures of the world’s most-loved scribe can be read in Bengali on mobile phones from next month. Moulinsart, the exclusive owner of worldwide digital rights of Herge’s works, and Ananda Publishers have come together to launch all 24 albums in The Adventures of Tintin series as Bengali e-books. They will be available across Android and iOS 
devices. “During year 2021, Moulinsart will make available each book from the series in Bengali on The Adventures of Tintin app. Meanwhile, Ananda Publishers Pvt Ltd will make 23 eBooks on the Ananda Publishers App by 28th February 2021 and the Bengali translation of Tintin et l’Alph-Art (Tintin and Alph-Art) will be published in Bengali by the end of this year,” said a joint statement from the collaborators. Translated into more than 120 languages across the world, Tintin has enjoyed immense popularity among readers young and old. With over 250 million copies sold, the stories of the young investigative reporter and his various adventures have been adapted for radio, TV, theatre and film. Ananda Publishers has been publishing the series in Bengali since 1975. The first translations of Tintin appeared in Anandamela, a children’s magazine of the ABP group. Over the next few decades, 23 Tintin albums were serialised in Anandamela. They were then published as individual books by Ananda Publishers. “Herge had been personally involved in the rights process for Tintin to be published in Bengali and was in close contact with ABP Group throughout his lifetime. It is said that a large chunk of his fan mails at that time consisted of adoring missives from young Bengali readers,” the statement said. The stories will be available to read on a phone or a tablet by downloading the Ananda Publishers app and The Adventures of Tintin app from iOS App Store or Google Play Store.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Swamiji did not exhort us to arise, awake and stop not blaring music till eardrums of those in distress burst||The message of Swami Vivekananda is more relevant now than ever before. On Swamiji’s 158th birth anniversary on Tuesday, what used to be a solemn celebration was transformed into a show of competitive political power in many places in the city. At least 100 rallies were brought out in the city, according to police sources. Many of these eventually turned into a political slugfest. Not all tributes were reduced to vote-catching affairs. Three instances of how the annual milestone can be celebrated in an inspiring manner are featured on Page 8. Metro shares one account on how a  Ballygunge home suffered on Tuesday. I was woken up on Tuesday morning by two assaulting streams of sound converging in my mother’s room, where I had taken shelter the previous night as I had feared something like this. I had expected the noise to hit only my room, though. But now it was everywhere. Swami Vivekananda, on his birth anniversary, was being paid tributes to on two different spots in my para in Ballygunge Place. My 74-year-old mother is in very poor health. She suffered a cerebral stroke 11 years ago and did not recover. Now she is really ill. She shuddered while two mighty songs were delivered simultaneously and deafeningly into her ears: the Rabindrasangeet ‘Ami tomaro songe bendhechhi amaro pran’ from one direction and the folk song ‘Boli o nonodi’ from another. My brain felt damaged. In another room my niece was trying to study. She is visiting from Mumbai where Vivekananda is yet to be as popular as he is here. She had an online exam at noon. It was impossible to make even a phone call. At first, I thought that the events were being organised by the Trinamul Congress and the BJP: both parties have claimed Vivekananda for themselves. I found out that both events were being organised by the Trinamul. Actually one event, meeting diagonally through sound waves in our house. A stage had been set up next to the Vivekananda statue in front of our house. A street had been blocked. Rows of green plastic chairs faced the dais. A crowd had accumulated. Was the virus gone? Noise and power — and if I may add, the virus — transmit in the same ways, invisibly, inexorably. But noise is power, espec-ially when it’s being delivered by the authorities. Both demand unquestioning submission. I had felt a similar helplessness when my mother fell severely ill one month ago and I was frantically looking for an oxygen cylinder. The neighbourhood did not yield a single one. She was eventually hospitalised. I tried my bit to block the present noise. I messaged the councillor. I went out and spoke to other organisers. They listened to me and turned the volume down. The other loudspeaker had been muted by then. Two of the organisers came over to my house, apologised for the inconvenience caused, and promised that this would not happen again. But they also informed us that there would be a “cultural programme” of baul gaan in the evening, and on the same stage, right in front of my house, and would we kindly bear with it? The loudspeaker was also turned away from our house. In the afternoon, police sources had said sound limiters had not been used and the permission for the event had been obtained verbally. Late afternoon, however, the muted loudspeaker on the other side of the house began to sputter again, now in the form of eardrum-shattering Shyamasangeet. It went on for an hour almost. Meanwhile, the state pollution control board had been informed, and I was told that it had taken action. The cultural event started, not at 6pm, as informed earlier, but at 7.30. At that time, the decibel level in a room in my house, which had one door open but windows closed, measured 80.4 decibels.  The reading on the balcony was 90.6 decibels. The legally permitted limit of ambient noise in a residential area in India is 55 decibels. And with every increase of three decibels, sound intensity doubles. Which is why sound hurts so much. Vivekananda had borrowed the famous words from Katha Upanishada to ask us to arise, awake and not rest till our goals were achieved. Did he also say that loudspeakers should be used in his name to pulp our brains? I went up to his statue to ask. His gaze was averted. Additional reporting by Jayanta Basu and Debraj Mitra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta|| Part of Sealdah flyover to be closed ||A portion of the Sealdah flyover, between its crossings with MG Road and Beleghata Road, will be closed to traffic from Friday night till Tuesday morning to facilitate the construction of the Bowbazar-bound tunnel of East-West Metro, police said. The tunnel-boring work for the Metro corridor — which, once fully functional, will link Sector V in Salt Lake with Howrah Maidan — had resumed in June after remaining suspended for over three months because of Covid-19. “The part of the Sealdah flyover between the two crossings will be blocked from 11pm on January 15 till 6am on January 19,” an officer said. “Tram services will remain suspended on APC Road, MG Road, College Street, Bidhan Sarani, Nirmal Chunder Street, Lenin Sarani and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road during the period.” While Sealdah station-bound vehicles from Entally will face no restriction, those from Shyambazar in the north along APC Road will be diverted from the Rajabazar intersection to Narkeldanga Main Road. The vehicles will reach the Phoolbagan crossing through Narkeldanga Main Road and move down RL Mitra Road and Beleghata Main Road before reaching Sealdah. “A detailed diversion plan has been prepared and all bus and minibus operators are being informed through a series of meetings with their respective unions,” said an officer of Calcutta police. According to the blueprint, buses and minibuses of at least six routes plying along AJC Bose Road and headed for north Calcutta will be terminated at a stand on AJC Bose Road, near the NRS Medical College and Hospital. Buses and minibuses headed for Sealdah, Beleghata, Phoolbagan and other parts and moving along MG Road will be diverted via APC Road and Narkeldanga Main Road. These vehicles will have to return along Narkeldanga Main Road, APC Road and MG Road. Cars and other small vehicles moving towards Shyambazar along AJC Bose Road will be diverted from the Moulali crossing towards SN Banerjee Road. They will ply down Central Avenue, Colootola Street or Vivekananda Road. Some smaller vehicles bound for Sealdah from the Exide crossing and headed towards Rajabazar via Sealdah will ply through Central Avenue. Buses and minibuses moving along APC Road with their terminating points further south of Moulali will be diverted from the Maniktala crossing via Vivekananda Road, Amherst Street, BB Ganguly Street and Lenin Sarani. A part of the Sealdah flyover was earlier closed to traffic for three days from October 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Cool Siliguri is city’s envy but all flights hit||All 42 flights were cancelled at the Bagdogra airport on Tuesday because of dense fog at Siliguri and its surrounding areas on Tuesday. Residents of Siliguri experienced the season’s first chill as the mercury dipped to around 15 degrees Celsius during the daytime and the city remained under a dense fog cover throughout the day. Hundreds of passengers got stranded at the Bagdogra airport and many could not reach the airport because of the fog. “All flights scheduled to land at the Bagdogra airport today were cancelled because of bad weather and poor visibility. It was almost a zero visibility situation,” said Subramani P, the airport director. Like the situation in south Bengal, the chill feel had been missing for the past few days in Siliguri and neighbouring areas. The days were in fact warmer as the temperature hovered above 22 degrees and even the night temperatures didn’t fall according to January levels. “However, from yesterday (Monday) evening, there has been a major change in the weather and today, the day temperature dipped,” said a Met department official. Since Monday night, fog had started engulfing the city. In the morning, the city was covered in dense fog that lingered throughout the day. Some places received intermittent rain and there was snowfall in the upper reaches of Sikkim. “It was a contrasting experience. A few days ago I was in Calcutta, where I didn’t feel much cold. I had occasionally switched on the fan as it was quite warm. But when I reached New Jalpaiguri station this morning, it was pretty cold. There was also dense fog,” said Tarun Dutta, a salesperson based in Siliguri. Weather experts said similar weather conditions would prevail in the next two-three days. Darjeeling’s minimum temperature in the past 24 hours was five degrees, while it was 8.2 degrees in Gangtok and 12.8 degrees in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Vivekananda’s words echo across campuses||At NIT Durgapur, the institute’s director reminded students that Swami Vivekananda stood for humanism that “regards faith not as an amalgam of illogical beliefs but as an inherent quality of the soul; a reaffirmation of the concept of the unity of existence”. At Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, the vice-principal told the students: “It is immaterial that a person comes from which background, which family, which caste, creed or belonging to which religion. The essence is, by nature man is the son of immortal bliss and that is how Vivekananda defined religion.” Vivekananda’s vision against illogical faith and religious dogma formed a key ingredient in the message to the students on the two campuses, separated by about 170km. The NIT held its 16th convocation on Monday and director Anupam Basu in his address invoked Swami Vivekananda on his birth anniversary. Basu said in his virtual address: “Swami Vivekananda cleaned religion of superstitions and put forth humanism at the frontal pedestal…. Swami Vivekananda’s humanism has a spiritual praxis. It regards faith not as an amalgam of illogical beliefs but as an inherent quality of the soul.” The director, deans and members of the institute’s board of governors were seated on the dais inside an auditorium on the campus and the speech was live-streamed. At Vidyamandira, vice-principal Swami Mahaprajnananda stressed the need to realise how Swami Vivekananda defined religion. “What is religion? According to Swami Vivekananda, religion is the manifestation of the divinity already in man. We are becoming oblivious to this. What are we saying? We are saying this is my identity: I am a son of him or her, I have come from this background, I belong to this caste, creed or religion. But we have forgotten that man is the son of immortal bliss.” He said: “It is immaterial….To be good and to do good, that is whole of religion. The heart of this monk would weep for everybody. Swami Vivekananda was that monk who could say that he did not believe in a god... who could not ensure food for the hungry.” At NIT Durgapur, 663 people received their undergraduate degrees, 311 postgraduate degrees and 128 doctorate degrees in an animated mode. Director Basu said: “This day is also the day of martyrdom in 1934 of Mastarda Surya Sen of Chittagong Armory Raid fame…. As his pallbearer from posterity, especially the young graduates must vow to make India to be really free from hunger, corruption, exploitation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine doses fewer than required: Officials||The Covid-19 vaccination is set to start across Bengal at 9am on Saturday but senior government officials said the number of Covishield doses the state received on Tuesday was far fewer compared with the number of health-care workers. The state has registered the names of a little over 6 lakh health-care workers for vaccination and needs 12 lakh doses. On Tuesday, Bengal received 6.89 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, health department officials said. There was no clarity on when the remaining doses will arrive. “We will be able to vaccinate about 3 lakh health-care workers with the doses we have received. We have registered about 6 lakh health-care workers for the vaccination. Usually, about 10 per cent of the doses of any vaccine go to waste. Since this is a two-dose vaccine, only about 3 lakh people can be inoculated by the 6.89 lakh doses,” an official said. The first consignment that reached Calcutta from the Serum Institute of India in Pune, which is manufacturing Covishield, contained nearly 10 lakh doses. Of that, around 3 lakh are for the northeastern states. The official said the state government would talk to the Centre about the remaining doses. The health workers who will get the jab on the first day will get a text message by Friday. The message will mention the venue and the date of vaccination and when they have to reach the site. “The beneficiaries will be selected randomly. They will receive a text message once they are selected,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. “The vaccination will begin at 9am and is likely to continue till 4pm.” Health department sources said two text messages will be sent simultaneously, one to the potential recipient and the other to the in-charge of the site where he or she will get the jab. While the message for the beneficiary will mention the time, date and venue, the one for the in-charge will have the name and other details of the recipient. In Bengal, 353 venues have been identified for vaccination but all may not be in use on Day 1. The health department had till Tuesday fixed eight venues in Calcutta - Calcutta Medical College, Calcutta National Medical College, RG Kar Medical College, NRS Medical College, SSKM Hospital, Chittaranjan Seva Sadan, Beleghata ID Hospital and BC Roy Children Hospital. An official in the health department said they were trying to increase the number of venues. Each venue will have multiple vaccination sites. Indranil Biswas, the medical superintendent of Calcutta Medical College, said they were prepared to run five sites. According to the Centre’s guidelines, 100 people will be vaccinated at each site every day. No one whose name is not registered on Co-Win, a digital platform created for the Covid-19 vaccination, will get a jab. The recipients have to show their identity documents at the gate. In the first room, their credentials will be checked once more. From there they will enter the vaccination room one at a time. After the vaccine is administered, a recipient has to wait in the third room for 30 minutes. The vaccination team will check whether the recipients are having any adverse effect during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine distribution from today in Calcutta||A consignment of nearly 10 lakh doses of Covishield, a Covid-19 vaccine, reached Calcutta on Tuesday afternoon on a Spicejet flight, with 6.89 lakh doses earmarked for Bengal. The rest will be sent to the northeastern states. The doses arrived in 83 special boxes from the Serum Institute of India in Pune, which is manufacturing the vaccine. The doses meant to be distributed across Bengal have been stored in 57 boxes, kept in two walk-in coolers, at the Central Family Welfare Store in Bagbazar. Over 900 cold chain points have been readied across Bengal for storing the doses. In Calcutta, the cold chain points at five government-run medical colleges, Beleghata ID Hospital and MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge will be used for the purpose, officials said. The bulk of the doses for Calcutta will reach the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s (CMC) vaccine depot on Ballygunge Circular Road by Wednesday afternoon. From there they will be moved to other cold chain points. The health department installed two ice-lined refrigerators at the Ballygunge depot on Sunday afternoon for storing Covid vaccines. They have already been switched on. “The refrigerators have to run for at least 48 hours before vaccines can be kept in them,” a CMC official said. From the Ballygunge depot, vials containing the doses will be distributed to the boroughs in Calcutta and from there to the vaccination venues. “Each of the 16 boroughs of Calcutta has a cold chain point. Doses will be stored there as well,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC in charge of health. The health department started transporting vials to some of the neighbouring districts, including North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah, late on Tuesday, within hours of the arrival of the doses at the Bagbazar store. Senior officials of the department tracked the movement of the vials and supervised other logistics from Swasthya Bhavan. “A task force headed by the chief secretary, and including the health secretary and other senior officials, has been set up to coordinate with the district-level task forces over distribution of Covishield doses,” a health department official said. “The supply chain that is utilised for transporting other vaccines, including polio and tuberculosis vaccines, is being used for the Covid-19 vaccine.” Over 40 insulated trucks, which can maintain temperature at required levels, have been readied to transport doses from Calcutta to the various district headquarters and farther away to rural hospitals. To streamline distribution logistics, the districts far away from Calcutta have been split into three zones — North Bengal, Malda and Murshidabad, and Bankura and Purulia. The entire process of distributing the doses will be wrapped up in two days, senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said. The health department will start inoculation in over 350 centres on January 16, the day the Covid vaccine will be rolled out across the country. Senior officials said chief minister Mamata Banerjee could speak to some of recipients on the first day. “Separate sessions are being planned so that the first round of inoculation of health care-workers is over at the earliest,” a senior official at Swasthya Bhavan said. Arrangements for alternative vaccine carriers have been made so that transportation is not hampered if a vehicle develops a snag. Police officers from across the districts have been informed about the movement of doses from Calcutta and asked to prevent any delay on the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||BSF team rescues rare birds in Bengal||Three helmeted currasows, an endangered species of birds found in Columbia and Venezuela, and over a dozen pigeons of various varieties were rescued by a BSF team while they were being allegedly smuggled into the city from Bangladesh on Tuesday. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List of Threatened Species, the helmeted curassow population is on the decline because of habitat loss and hunting. It is estimated that less than 3,000 mature individuals can be found. The BSF had information that the birds would be smuggled from Bangladesh near the Dobila border outpost near Swarupnagar in North 24-Parganas. The team on duty spotted a man with a basket on his head, a BSF officer said. Asked to stop, he dropped the basket and fled. The team found the birds crammed inside the basket. The birds were later identified by forest department officers. They will be sent to the Alipore zoo soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Swamiji’s teachings highly relevant today: Fr Savio||The values of indiscrimination and universal brotherhood, propagated by Swami Vivekananda, are highly relevant in the present society, the principal of St Xavier’s College said on the 158th birth anniversary of the monk. “The values and doctrines propagated by Swamiji like honest practices, persistence and focus on goals, self-belief, indiscrimination, facing problem with courage, introspection and reflection, pure and positive thinking, risk taking and learning from failure, among others, are highly relevant in the present society,” Father Dominic Savio said. Father Savio and Father Jeyaraj Veluswami, the rector of the Park Street institution, paid floral tributes to Swami Vivekananda on Tuesday. “His teaching of universal brotherhood, love for mankind and empowerment of youth in nation building should be followed in letter and spirit,” said Father Savio. The principal also recollected the monk’s adoration for Jesus Christ and the bond between the Jesuit Order and the Ramakrishna Mission. He spoke about the formative monks of Ramakrishna Mission and direct disciples of Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa who were students of St Xavier's College, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Stalker on Calcutta Metro arrested||A 26-year-old woman who said a man had been stalking her and touching her inappropriately on Metro trains over the past two months got her alleged harasser arrested on Monday. The woman raised the alarm when the man, later identified as Amit Das, was allegedly trying to molest her while boarding a train at Kavi Nazrul station. She boards a Metro train daily at Kavi Nazrul on her way to office and gets off at Esplanade, Police said she told them that she had been noticing a man follow her in Metro over the past two months. “She alleged the man would intentionally stand next to her, especially when the train is crowded, and would try to touch her inappropriately. She said she had been noticing that the man would follow her into the compartment every day. Today she caught him red-handed when he tried to molest her while she was boarding the train,” said an officer of Patuli police station. The woman screamed when Das allegedly touched her inappropriately while she was boarding the train around 12.45pm, the police said. Instead of boarding, the woman pushed the man on the platform and got off the train herself before screaming for help. The Metro Railway Police rushed to her help and took custody of the man. He was handed over to Patuli police station. The woman accompanied the police to the police station and filed a complaint, based on which Das was arrested and a case under IPC sections related to stalking and outrage of modesty registered against him. Das, a resident of Sonarpur, will be produced in court on Tuesday. If convicted, he can be jailed for five years. Senior police officers lauded the woman for the courage she had shown in getting her alleged tormentor arrested and urged victims of similar circumstances to follow her example, instead of fearing social stigma. “Most such cases of sexual harassment go unreported because the victims are scared of the stigma or they do not want to get involved in a legal tangle by approaching the police. It is a welcome change that women are more confident these days and are coming out to report the cases to the police,” said a senior police officer of the south suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Shield yourself from bird flu: Advice to poultry handlers||The health department has instructed poultry farm workers and others who handle birds and animals to wear protective gowns, gloves and goggles to protect themselves from the avian influenza (HSN1) virus. There have been reports of outbreak of the disease in some states but so far the virus has not been detected in Bengal or the adjoining states - Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha. The Union health ministry has said the disease is zoonotic, which means it can spread between animals and people, but infection in humans has not yet been reported in India. Experts have said the virus doesn't spread from cooked or boiled poultry products. The health ministry has also advised states to tackle rumors that may influence poultry product consumers. In a two-page advisory to the chief medical health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and his counterparts in 23 districts of Bengal, the deputy director of health services (public health) has said those working in poultry farms and handling animals and birds should wear gowns, gloves, goggles and shoes. At the end of the day's work, the protective gear should be discarded or sanitised. No one should eat or smoke while working in poultry farms or handling animals and birds. “The idea is to spread awareness, stop rumors and prepare our officials to tackle a situation,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan, the health department headquarters. “The municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has been requested to step up surveillance in all 144 wards. The deputy CMOHs have been instructed to circulate the guideline among community-level workers, including health assistants and Asha workers.” Monday’s advisory refers to the recent death of migratory and other birds in Himachal Pradesh and an order issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change to states and Union Territories to take “steps for containing the spread of the disease”. Bengal is the third meat producing state in India after Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Bengal produces around 2.5 crore kg of chicken every week and consumes around 2 crore kg. The rest is exported to neighbouring states. Around 5 lakh farmers are directly involved in the poultry business and another 10 lakh are involved indirectly, according to officials of the West Bengal Poultry Federation. “There have been no reports of bird flu in Bengal or its adjoining states as of now. So don’t get alarmed,” said Madan Mohan Maity, the general secretary of the federation. “We urge people to eat more chicken and eggs because that is the cheapest way to build protein.” The advisory spells out that avian bird flu doesn't spread from cooked food and asks officials to keep all those who have been exposed to dead or sick birds under surveillance and provide them antiviral medicines for 10 days. “We have been asked to get in touch with public health officials and their counterparts in the animal resources development (ARD) department immediately if there are reports of unusual symptoms or death of common birds, wild birds and those in poultries," said an official of Birbhum district, which had witnessed over 61,000 poultry deaths during the last outbreak of bird flu in India in 2008. The advisory also instructs health officials to find ways to minimise bird-human interface and use masks, goggles and gloves while handling sick and dead birds. Officials in the district have been asked to keep adequate stock of masks, personal protective equipment, swab sticks and antiviral medicines as a preventive measure. Health workers have been instructed to spread awareness among farmers so they remain alert to certain symptoms among birds such as vigorous shaking and drooping heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
