14-01-2021||Calcutta||Click Your Township 2019||Shukraditya Bose, BJ Block I want to thank The Telegraph Salt Lake and the judges for deeming my photograph to be worthy of a winner’s title. It was a great honour to find my photograph picked for recognition from amongst many others. It ushered in a sense of great joy in such trying times. I would like to thank my parents who supported me and everyone who believed in me and motivated me to keep getting better. My parents gifted me the Nikon D5100 in 2014 which enabled me to start off on this captivating journey and overtime as my interest grew, I explored new avenues and learnt a lot from friends, reading up guides and observing the work of many great photographers. I still use the same D5100 with an 18-140 which serves my purpose. I plan on getting a better body in the future to allow me to click even better images. I use Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop for post-production and subtle retouching. Peter McKinnon, an eminent Canadian YouTuber, photographer and filmmaker, has been an inspiration and a role model and it is from him that I’ve learnt how to hone my skills. He has received many awards and honours, including his photograph appearing on Canadian currency. It is my dream to match up to the lofty standards that he has established and this prize is going to be a great push in that direction. Abhijit Dutta, DA Block I thank The Telegraph Salt Lake for declaring me a winner for the year-long photography contest for 2019. Let me say a few words about the photograph that has been awarded. It was a shot of the partial solar eclipse visible from Salt Lake. It was not very easy to shoot on that day as the sky was partially cloudy. I had to wait for a long time to shoot the eclipse. Honestly, in spite of the cloudy sky, I shot quite a number of photographs using tele lens and captured the sun in a much bigger dimension. Then I thought of sending a photograph to The Telegraph Salt Lake and used a different lens so I could get the picture of our neighbourhood along with the sun. This photograph was specially taken for The Telegraph Salt Lake. The inclusion of camera in the mobile phone has increased the affinity towards photography for the common people. Of course, there is a limitation, though the quality of the cameras is improving. Now a days, there are options of even multiple cameras for different photographic moments. However, mobile phone cameras are mostly used like using a DSLR camera in the auto mode, which, I believe, is just a waste of money. It is not difficult to learn the techniques of good photography. The key is to keep on shooting. Saachi Saha, HB Block I am a software engineer and currently a homemaker with a five-year-old lovely daughter Alisha. I am overwhelmed and extremely thankful to The Telegraph Salt Lake for adjudging me a winner of the Click Your Township contest. Photography is my passion and in between my schedule, I nurture this hobby of mine. On a leisurely rainy afternoon from my balcony, I spotted a pair of drenched crows huddling together and perched atop a dish antenna below a sunshade trying to shelter themselves from the downpour. I immediately captured this moment with my OnePlus6. I was surprised beyond belief when I received a call from The Telegraph Salt Lake congratulating me on my snapshot being adjudged a winner for the year. Since the award ceremony for this year is withheld due to the pandemic, I requested to personally visit The Telegraph office to receive my certificate as a fond memory to cherish forever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta gets nearly one lakh vaccine doses, the highest in Bengal||Calcutta has been allocated the highest number of Covid vaccines in West Bengal, at 93,500, for the first phase of the vaccination drive scheduled to begin on January 16, a senior health official said on Thursday. North 24 Parganas district has been allocated the second-highest number of COVID vaccines at 47,000, followed by Murshidabad at 37,500, he said. "All necessary preparations are on the track for the vaccine rollout. The district-wise allocation has been made as per data uploaded on CoWIN portal as on January 12, 9.45 am for the first dose of COVID vaccination of health workers and personnel of armed forces," the Health Department said in a communication to the CMOHs in all the districts. West Bengal has been allocated 6,44,500 vaccines for the first phase of the drive. The state government has allowed the use of private hospitals as COVID vaccination centres after a meeting with authorities of such medical establishments. West Bengal has so far registered 5,62,795 coronavirus cases, including 9,993 fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Soumitra Chatterjee’s painting exhibition to be held at Kolkata Centre for Creativity||Some of Soumitra Chatterjee’s paintings that will feature at an exhibition, along with posters designed by him, at the Kolkata Centre for Creativity in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will formally inaugurate the exhibition on Thursday evening, while it will be open to the public from the next day. The exhibition, to continue till January 31, will also commemorate Chatterjee’s birthday on January 19. “The exhibition is curated by Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya and will have a display of Chatterjee’s art and paintings. It will also present various aspects of his life and work. The evenings will also be celebrated with drama, poetry reading, music, and documentaries. An attempt to keep the evergreen Soumitra Chatterjee alive in our memories,” said a spokesperson for the Kolkata Centre for Creativity. The actor died on November 15 after prolonged illness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Bagbazar fire swallows shanties, threatens Udbodhan house||More than 100 shanties next to the Udbodhan building in Bagbazar were gutted in a fire that triggered serial explosions, probably from domestic LPG cylinders, on Wednesday evening. The fire started around 6.45pm and by 11pm, the blaze was under control but firemen were still working to douse the embers. Hundreds of people who had lost their homes were on Central Avenue. No casualty had been reported, police said. Evening traffic in north and central Calcutta was thrown out of gear as affected residents from the shanties descended on streets. The north-bound flank of Central Avenue and Udbodhan Lane was closed to traffic to facilitate fire-fighting. The fire damaged several windows and doors of the first and second floors of the Udbodhan building in Udbodhan Lane, behind the shanties, senior monks of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission said. Several books of the Math and Mission, including the Udbodhan magazine, the Bengali mouthpiece of the order, are published from the Udbodhan house. “Several files in the accounts section have been damaged. Thankfully, we could save the computers that store valuable data. Even the godown that stores books was spared,” said Swami Nityamuktananda of Mayer Bari in Bagbazar. “We are yet to assess the extent of the damage since there is no power connection.” Around 30 fire tenders were deployed to control the blaze that broke out in an area that has tenements made of plastic sheets and bamboo poles, a fire official said. There were several structures that had at least three floors built out of flammable materials like plastic and bamboo. Residents of the area said they had heard at least five explosions. The shanties had several LPG cylinders and kerosene stoves, a fire official said. “The entire area was a tinderbox. Not only cylinders, flammable liquids like kerosene were kept there. We also found drums of paint and motor oil,” said a fire official. State fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose said: “There were explosions that smashed windows of several neighbouring buildings in the area. The fire was fed by flammable materials and a steady wind from the Hooghly river fanned it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Alipore bridge truck bar likely||The bridge that connects DL Khan Road with Alipore across the Tolly’s Nullah could soon be closed to heavy goods vehicles. With the imposition of restrictions on trucks and lorries on the bridge, called Dhana Dhanya Setu, Dahi Ghat bridge in the Port area will become the lone bridge for the movement of heavy goods vehicles from the southern fringes to Vidyasagar Setu, through the heart of Calcutta. Every day, thousands of goods vehicles enter the city from Diamond Harbour and Maheshtala, on the southern fringes of the city, and head for Vidyasagar Setu. Six bridges over Tolly’s Nullah have been the major arterial lines that connect the city to the southern fringes for smooth passage of goods vehicles. Three of these have been closed to heavy vehicles because of repairs since 2019. The Chetla bridge, on which heavy vehicles are permitted, opens onto Chetla Central Road, which is too narrow for heavy goods vehicles, police said. “At present, only Dhana Dhanya and Dahi Ghat bridges are open to heavy vehicles.” The city-bound flank of the 90-year-old Zeerut bridge, near the Alipore zoo, had been declared unfit for heavy vehicles in May 2019. The old steel bridge in Kidderpore and the Kalighat bridge have been closed to heavy vehicles since August 2019. “When the Kidderpore steel bridge was closed to heavy vehicles, all trucks from Maheshtala, Bishnupur, Diamond Harbour and other sides were diverted through Dahi Ghat bridge to reach Vidyasagar Setu. Earlier, the Zeerut bridge, which used to share some of the load, had been closed to heavy vehicles,” said an officer of the traffic department. When heavy vehicles were restricted on the Zeerut bridge in May 2019, the vehicles were being diverted through Dhana Dhanya bridge. “Now, if Dhana Dhanya bridge is also closed to heavy vehicles, the entire load will be on the Dahi Ghat bridge. It will be very risky and will affect the city traffic if any heavy vehicle breaks down on the bridge,” the officer said. The top brass at the city police headquarters are likely to hold a meeting with the agencies in charge of maintenance of the bridges that have been under repair for years now, Lalbazar sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Metro e-pass out from Monday||Metro passengers will not need an e-pass to enter a station, starting Monday. “From January 18, no e-passes will be required for travel in Metro,” the carrier said in a statement. “The number of trains from Monday to Friday will go up to 240 from 228. The number of trains on Saturday and Sunday will remain unchanged at 228 and 102,” said an official. The timings of the first and last trains will remain unchanged at 7am and 9.30pm. Tokens will not be issued for now and a smart card is a must for entering the platform, the official added. The e-pass system was introduced for access control at the gates when Metro services resumed on September 14 after being suspended in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A section of doctors and public health experts had been worried about crowd control mechanisms in the city’s transport lifeline, which carried over six lakh passengers every day before the fleet was grounded on arch 23 last year. There were multiple meetings between officials of the state government and Metro Railway in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services. Metro officials told the state government that they were ready to run trains provided the state worked out the modalities of crowd control. The state government finally engaged a private agency to develop a technology-based system for crowd control. The e-pass system has been effective in controlling the number of passengers, though some people have accused it of being “discriminatory”. For the past several days, the count has been well over 1.5 lakh every day. When the services resumed, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 8am and 8pm. There were 72 trains every day to start with. The day’s operations were divided into 12 one-hour slots. A colour-coded e-pass was mandatory to enter the station during that slot. Metro Railway had gradually been narrowing the e-pass window and increasing its daily fleet. Till now, male passengers aged 16 to 59 needed an e-pass to enter a Metro station from 9am to 11am and 5pm to 7pm from Monday to Saturday. “We have been monitoring the daily ridership and the Covid-19 situation. We think the passenger count will be manageable even without the e-pass system,” said Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson. Metro officials said since tokens will not be issued, the number of passengers is unlikely to go up above two lakh immediately even after doing away with the e-pass system because schools and colleges are shut. “The number of smart card holders would be around three lakh. But people are not travelling if they don’t have to,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Schools doubt online assessments||Schools have conducted online exams this academic year but several heads said they were not sure if it was a “right assessment” of how much the students had learned. One school has done away with ranks, prizes and scholarship for senior classes this academic year and two others are considering doing so. At least two other schools are pushing back their final term exams so they can conduct them on the campus if allowed by the government. Teachers can only appeal to the students for “honesty and integrity” but they have found instances suggesting some of them had copied from books or elders helped them write the answers, a principal said. Also, the marks are being scaled up because it is no longer a 80-marks paper in many institutions. “The online exam is an exercise to prepare a report card and not a right assessment of how much a child has learnt,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. The Cambridge School has decided to award only grades, not marks, to students of senior classes. In a notice to guardians of the students of Classes IX to XII, the school said: “...as the integrity of online examinations cannot be guaranteed in full, grades rather than marks will be awarded to students on the basis of examinations and class performance. For the same reason, ranks, prizes and scholarships will not be awarded this year.” Loreto House held a meeting recently and decided not to give out academic and at-tendance certificates at the end of the year. Mahadevi Birla World Academy is "deliberating" doing away with ranks, prizes and scholarships. Proctoring exams online is posing a challenge to teachers though detailed instructions have been sent to students and guardians about the conduct of the exams. A teacher at an ISC school in the city said it was difficult for them to proctor the exams online. “There are more than 40 students and to monitor all of them online at once is not possible. We can only check if they leave their desk,” the teacher said. Another teacher said that it was difficult for them to know if a student had opened another browser on the screen or is sending chat messages. “Not just while writing a paper, students can cheat even when uploading it,” a teacher said. In an online exam teachers cannot be sure if a student has copied answers from books or taken help from others, Ireland said. “In online education, one thing still lacking is a system to have proper online examination. We have found that sufficient proctoring solutions are not available,” said Sarojesh Mukerjee, the director of The Cambridge School. St James’ School and Calcutta Girls’ High School both are hoping they can conduct final-term exams on campus. “We have time till March and if we get any indication to call the students to school, we could have the exams on campus for classes VIII to XII. But parents’ consent has to be taken,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. Also, across many schools the exams have been of shorter duration and of fewer marks, which is not a realistic assessment. “The exams are of fewer marks and they are scaled up. The duration is also less. That is not a realistic assessment of a child,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. The school has given them time-bound short-answer questions where they have to finish off within a certain time which does not give them scope to refer to books or seek help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals can set up jab sites||The state health department on Wednesday requested several private hospitals to create vaccination sites on their campuses. The interested hospitals will have to send emails to the state health department by Thursday, following which government teams will conduct inspections to find out whether the campuses have the required infrastructure to run Covid-19 vaccination sites, officials said. The hospitals have been told that the government will only provide vaccine doses and syringes and they have to deploy the necessary human resources such as vaccinators and support staff. “A private hospital that will be selected to set up a vaccination site has to administer the doses to its healthcare workers as well as to healthcare workers of other private hospitals or nursing homes in their vicinity. I think most private hospitals will be keen to create vaccination sites on their campuses,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and CEO of the AMRI group of hospitals. Officials of AMRI, Peerless Hospital, Woodlands Hospital and Belle Vue Clinic said on Wednesday they were keen to run vaccination sites on their premises. The Covid-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, state that each vaccination team will have five members. Each vaccination site will have three rooms. The recipient’s identity will be checked at the gate. On entering the first room, the recipient’s details will be matched with the ones on the Co-Win, a digital platform created by the Centre for Covid-19 vaccination across the country. The jabs will be administered in the second room, while in the third, the recipients have to wait for 30 minutes post-vaccination under the watch of the support staff. “The private hospitals have to provide the full human resources required to run a vaccination site,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. Barua said Covid vaccination at private hospitals would not start on Saturday as selection of sites will take some time. “It may begin next week,” said Barua. Officials of private hospitals who attended Wednesday’s meeting with the health department said the vaccination sites on their premises would not be folded up after all health-care workers were vaccinated. The process will continue even when vaccination of the “general population” begins. However, the hospitals have been allowed to opt out at a later stage, Barua said. According to the Centre’s guidelines, health-care workers will be vaccinated first, followed by frontline workers. Next in line are people above 50, to be followed by those below 50 suffering from comorbidities. The remaining population will only be vaccinated after these groups get their jabs. The health department on Thursday asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to start vaccination from some of its clinics on Saturday. The clinics that have been chosen for Covid-19 vaccination are in wards 11 (Hatibagan), 31 (near Ultadanga), 46 (Free School Street), 82 (Chetla) and 111 (near Garia). Sources said talks were on to open vaccination sites at more ward health clinics. “It has been decided that healthcare workers of the CMC will be vaccinated in these clinics. A list of over 5,000 health-care workers of the CMC has been prepared for Covid-19 vaccination. They include doctors, nurses, lab technicians and ambulance drivers,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine response teams in all districts||Specialist doctors will be stationed at the headquarters of every district, including Calcutta, to respond to complaints of adverse effects of the Covid-19 vaccine and also address issues related to anxiety recipients might suffer from, health department officials said. The doctors will decide whether an adverse effect reported by a recipient has its roots in anxiety or has a causal relationship with the vaccine, and respond accordingly. “Depending on the nature of complications, a specialist will be asked to attend to a vaccine recipient,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said. "The idea is to reduce the time of intervention of experts from respective fields, particularly in districts where vaccination will be held in rural hospitals and block primary health centres in remote areas.” Each block will also have a Rapid Response Team, which will include doctors. The team will rush to a vaccination site with an ambulance if any serious adverse effect is reported. At each vaccination centre, two officials armed with life-saving drugs and syringes will monitor the health of the recipients for at least half an hour, post-vaccination. “We are not fearing any major complications. But a well-defined system is being kept ready in case of any emergency,” said an official. Doctors’ demand An association of doctors of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Wednesday demanded that they be given the vaccine shots at hospitals, where a number of specialist doctors will be present, instead of civic clinics. Covid-19 jabs will be administered in at least five ward health clinics in the city from Saturday. Sources said health-care workers of the CMC will be getting their doses from the ward clinics. “We do not know much about the vaccine or the kind of adverse events it may cause. So, it is better to get the shots at hospitals, which are better equipped to manage adverse effects than ward clinics,” said Manas Som, the president of the CMC Doctors’ Association. “The doses can be administered from ward clinics a week after the launch, by when we will have some knowledge about adverse effects, if any. We thank the government for choosing health-care workers as the first recipients. We only want to ensure that no health-care worker faces any challenge in receiving treatment if any adverse events occur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||City protest at Visva-Bharati suspension and suppression||The Visva-Bharati authorities are keen to silence dissent and the suspension of economics teacher Sudipta Bhattacharyya bears testimony to that, said a group of teachers who assembled in front of the university’s publishing department office in Calcutta. The perception on the Santiniketan campus is that Bhattacharyya has been penalised for the role he played in revealing how vice-chancel-lor Bidyut Chakrabarty had insulted Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. The teachers, from various colleges and universities, alleged that the Visva-Bharati administration was trying to destroy the atmosphere of free thinking on the campus. They assembled under the banner “Right to Save Education Forum”. Subhanil Chowdhury, a teacher of economics at the Institute of Development Studies, Kolkata, said the suspension of Bhattacharya — the president of Visva-Bharati Faculty Association — was not an isolated incident but part of a larger ploy to launch a sustained attack on institutes of higher learning so critical thinking can be nipped in the bud. “I remember about a year back we, teachers, had organised a protest march on College Street against an assault on JNU teacher Sucharita Sengupta by members of the (RSS student wing) ABVP. They assaulted JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh as well. No one has been arrested till date. But here at Visva-Bharati, a teacher was suspended because he dared to raise some uncomfortable questions. The message is loud and clear — critical thinking will be nipped in the bud through sheer intimidation,” said Chowdhury. Another teacher explained the necessity to curb critical thinking. “If you are not allowed to think critically, you will never try to find out whether the farm bills are good or bad. You will just give your consent to whatever a person or a dispensation in the country says. To do that, it is crucial the centres of critical thinking are silenced,” the teacher said. A letter issued by Visva-Bharati said Bhattacharyya, who did his MPhil and PhD from JNU, was suspended because the university’s executive council had found him guilty of “misconduct by mass circulating a complaint and derogatory/defamatory/baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. Teachers at the gathering in Beckbagan said Bhattacharyya became a target after lodging a complaint with the Prime Minister, who is Visva-Bharati’s chancellor, and President Ram Nath Kovind, who is the university’s visitor, about the appointment of the principal of one of the schools. “Not only Sudipto Bhattacharyya, several teachers and employees have been suspended during the tenure of this VC.  The Visva-Bharati administration has created an atmosphere where no one will dare to speak against the insult meted out to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, allegations of lack of transparency in appointments,” said Keshab Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the West Bengal College and University Teachers’ Association. According to many on the campus, the authorities decided to go after Bhattacharya after the teachers’ association brought to the fore how VC Chakraborty had made some allegedly baseless claims about a purported telephone conversation with Amartya Sen, which the Nobel laureate later described as a “completely imagined conversation’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Rallies support farm law protest||The city saw two demonstrations against the new central farm laws on Wednesday. Copies of the laws were burnt and one speaker after another iterated that the repeal of the laws, not a temporary stay on their implementation, was the solution. At a demonstration near the intersection of Chakraberia Road and Sarat Bose Road, the participants performed a skit that culminated in burning of the copies of the three farm laws. Large sheets of papers, representing copies of the three controversial farm laws, passed the hands of three women, all blindfolded. “The three women represent legislature, executive and judiciary,” said Nausheen Baba Khan, one of the organisers of the demonstration. “So far we knew justice is blind. But the way the farm bills were turned into laws shows that Parliament and the government have also become blind to people’s concerns,” said Khan. The bill finally went to a fourth woman whose eyes were not blindfolded. She represented citizenry. “Our eyes are open. So, we reject this bill,” said Khan and the papers were set on fire. The organisers of the demonstration have been conducting a relay hunger strike at the site for 11 days now. On Sunday, they had organised a torchlight rally in solidarity with farmers. At Moulali, the site of another demonstration, the speakers said the Supreme Court-constituted committee to broker peace between the protesting farmers and the government would not yield any dividends. The only solution is total repeal of the laws, they said. Multiple speakers pointed out that all four members of the committee have backed the farm laws in the recent past. “The Centre wants to stop the tractor rally on Republic Day at any cost,” said a participant. One of the many posters at the demonstration had a Bengali poem which read: “Marchho jader ichhemoto, jalkaman e, paayer tolaye. Orai tomaye baanchiye rakhe, aadhpeta khaye, phasal phalaye. Tobuo ora deshodrohi, pitiye marai bodh hoye sreyo. Rajar rajye ebar, khide pele, dharma kheyo (People you are beating at will, with water canons and boots, they are the ones who keep you alive. They don’t get a full meal but still grow crops. Still, they are anti-nationals. Perhaps, they should be beaten to death. In this kingdom, eat religion the next time you are hungry).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||CU cuts short BTech summer break ||The 2021 summer vacation for first-year BTech students at Calcutta University will be reduced to compensate for the lost time in the session that was supposed to start in August but began digitally on Wednesday. Jadavpur University has decided to reduce the summer vacation to a week following the start of BTech classes on January 11. CU, however, is yet to decide on the revised duration of the vacation, an official of the university said. “The break could be reduced to seven days. Or else, we will not be able to complete the syllabus and start second-year classes in August,” the official said. Students are being provided an email link to participate in a class from the respective subject teachers. “Students may send their academic query to btech2020coordination@gmail.com,” says a notice. The first semester examinations for all undergraduate courses, including BTech, will be held between March 8 and March 26. “Classes for the second semester will have to be started immediately after the exams. Then the exams of the second semester will be held. So, the vacation has to be curtailed,” said another official. At CU, the summer vacation, called “semester break”, is usually for one-and-a-half months, from the third week of May and till the first week of July, when the second-year classes start. The mandatory induction programme at the university was held between December 18 and 24. The AICTE, from 2019, has made it mandatory for all engineering institutions to conduct an induction session before classes start to reinforce the fundamental concepts and strengthen language skills required for technical education. But what prevented the university from starting the classes on December 26? “Since 89 of the 237 BTech seats remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the state JEE board, CU had to conduct independent counselling to fill the vacancies. Now that the process is over, classes started on January 13,” said an official. CU registrar Debasish Das, who looks after the technology campus, could not be contacted. He did not respond to text messages either. JU, too, had to hold decentralised counselling for a staggering number of seats that had remained vacant after the counselling by the JEE board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
