15-01-2021||Calcutta||Bochhorer Best: where history and youth team up||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took the "unique opportunity to welcome a 228-year-old legend to the 218-year-old Raj Bhavan" on Friday while presenting the first “Bochhorer Best” award, instituted by ABP Digital to identify and crown the Person of the Year. The “legend in question was Ditipriya Roy, the young actress who has been essaying the role of Rani Rashmoni for over 3 years and more than 1,170 episodes on Zee Bangla's Karunamoyee Rani Rashmoni. "I started shooting for the serial before my class 10 board exams, and they said we would be done in three months. By the time I gave my class 12 board exams, I was growing old on the set and had grandchildren running around," smiled Ditipriya, clearly overwhelmed by the grand occasion. To make it even more grand for the teenager, Tollywood stars Prosenjit and Paoli Dam joined Ditipriya on stage for a quick session of "gyaan and gaan" (sage advice from Prosenjit and a song with Paoli). Prosenjit advised the young actress to not burn herself out on television and to hold back for a career in films. Paoli, on the other hand, joined Ditipriya in humming a couple of lines from the song Kalankini Radha. This was followed by Tolly star Dev engaging in a fun session on films and "anything but politics" with the Governor. The exchange between the Trinamul MP and one of the fiercest critics of the Trinamul government in West Bengal was marked by easy humour and refreshing candour. The first such award ceremony in Bengal, attended by leading lights from culture and industry, was the brainchild of ABP Digital led by Editor Emeritus Aveek Sarkar, who thanked the Governor for "opening the doors of Raj Bhavan" for this unique event. Dhankhar, in turn, felt that such occasions celebrating and championing cultural achievements was just what Bengal needed. The evening -- with Esha Dutta as emcee -- clearly belonged to a 19-year-old playing everything from a child bride to a feisty widow who left a deep imprint on Bengal and our collective consciousness some 200 years ago. "I am truly blessed to be receiving this award at such a historic venue, in the presence of such stalwarts of society. People's appreciation had made all the hard work worthwhile for the past three years, but this award makes me feel that I must do a lot more," said Ditipriya Roy, much better known as Rani Rashmoni in several households in Bengal where she is a constant presence every evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Gifts for your furry friend||Has Covid has forced you to hold more house parties than go clubbing this winter? Well, the upside is that your pets can join you now. As you wine and dine, so can they. You can dress up your dog, accessorise your cat, serve them food, beverages, pupcakes.... The Telegraph Salt Lake visits pet stores in the neighbourhood to see what’s on offer this year. Party wear How about an elegant lace cocktail dress for your Persian kitty? Or a macho leather jacket for your German Shephard? “Cats, particularly, love grooming and dressing up. My own Persian cat, Cotton (picture below), loves wearing clothes and I’ve gifted her a classy red and black outfit from our new winter collection,” says Tarun Gupta of Animel Planet. They have hoodies, frocks as well as zipped-up leather jackets. “We have Santa clothes too but customers say the can’t be used after Christmas so we are keeping a wider range of clothes,” he says. Price: Rs 250 to 1,500 Available at: Animel Planet in BD Block Salt Lake, Swapno Bhor, New Town and City Centre 2 Necktie and bow tie Trendy neon shades or camouflage colours — complement your pet’s personality with a necktie or bow-tie at the next party. Both varieties come with elastic straps and are available in a range of colours and prints. Price: Rs 90 for ties, Rs 162 for bow ties. Available at: Pet Pleasure, DL Block Pet perfume The finishing touch on your pet’s party look would be fragrance. “At present we have two fragrances – Capt Zack Scent’sationlly Yours cologne spray and Fondapet by Mankind, which is a deodorant,” says Nabanita Majumdar of Animal Pride in BE Block. The latter is to be sprayed about 10 inches away from the body, in a sweeping motion down from the head. The cologne is alcohol and paraben-free. Price: Capt Zack Scent’sationlly Yours is Rs 450 for 100ml; Fondapet by Mankind is Rs 250. Available at: Animal Pride, BE Block Sunglasses If you’re planning to bask in the sun at a picnic, don’t forget shades for your pet. Pet goggles — available in bright shades like yellow and blue – come with adjustable elastic bands such that they fit all breeds. Price: Rs 315 Available at: Pet Pleasure, DL Block Pet pizza Are you ordering pizza for the party? Then skip the chicken-rice for your dog tonight and order him one too. Rena Pizza has cute slices that even look like they have pepperoni on them. But it’s pet-safe, made of wheat flour, ground chicken meat and cheddar cheese. Price: Rs 495 Available at: Animel Planet Pet champagne, wine and beer Don’t worry, it’s not alcoholic. These are pet-safe beverages packaged to look like bottles of booze. Bottom Sniffer beer is malt water that can be served as a drink or with food but a maximum of a bottle a day is advised. Woof n Brew Champaws is marketed as champagne for cats and dogs. This too is a concoction of grape-free herbs and then there’s Pawsecco Wine. Suitable for cats and dogs, this is a herbal infusion of elderflower, linden blossom, ginseng and carrot. Price: Rs 450 for the beer, Rs 595 for champagne and Rs 415 for the wine. Available at: Pink Paws, AC Block Dog chocolate If your dog would like some chocolate with his wine, there’s an option too. Schoko Drops are made of vegetable by-products, saccharose, cereals and minerals and you may allow him three to 10 pieces a day, depending on his size. If you want to go even more exclusive, try Trixie Milchie White Dog Chocolate. This too is made of similar ingredients and your pet may have two to five pieces a day, depending on his size. Price: Rs 175 for 75g for chocolate, Rs 150 for 100g for white chocolate. Available at: Pink Paws Pet cake If winter is your excuse to gorge on cakes, allow your pet the pleasure too. Deb’s Pet Care bakes cakes but uses honey instead of sugar, rice flour instead of regular flour, egg white instead of whole egg…. “It’s sweet but healthy,” promises Ronyth Deb, who runs the store. “Since most dogs are lactose intolerant, we use water instead of milk to make their muffins too. The goodies can be stored for up to seven days.” Price: Rs 600 for half pound Available at: Deb’s Pet Care, Chinar Park Winter cookies This being the season of vegetables, how about some fresh-baked cookies made of spinach or ginger? “I’m making them shaped like the ginger bread man, houses or even Christmas trees,” says Oishani Dey, a Beleghata resident who started the venture Licky Paws during the lockdown and is home delivering the treats. “I’m using pet-friendly icing made of yoghurt and using natural colours. The green is from spinach, red from beetroot, yellow for turmeric and orange from carrots.” Price: Rs 325 for pack of 250g Available at: Licky Paws, Beleghata Popsicles Dog owners have always allowed their furry friends small quantities of vanilla ice cream but here’s a dessert tailor-made for both canines and felines. Pawsecco Freeze Pops are made of elderflower, linden, ginseng and you are to store the popsicles in the freezer and and serve it to pets as a cold dessert. Price: Rs 595 Available at: Pink Paws||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Mamata inaugurates exhibition featuring paintings by Soumitra||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday opened an exhibition featuring paintings, film posters and costumes done by Soumitra Chatterjee. Also on display are his manuscripts and letters. The exhibition is being held at Emami Art, a gallery in the Kolkata Centre for Creativity in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. The exhibition is being jointly organised by The Soumitra Chatterjee Foundation, Emami Art and Mukhomukhi (a theatre group with a close association with Chatterjee) to celebrate the late actor’s 86th birth anniversary, which falls on January 19. The exhibition, curated by Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, will continue till January 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Preparations in run-up to vaccine rollout||The state government on Thursday almost completed distribution of Covid-19 vaccine doses to the sites in Calcutta and other parts of Bengal that have cold storage points and was ready with the list of people to be vaccinated on Saturday. According to the initial plan, the doses will be administered four days a week, said a health department official. “On other two days of the week, other immunisation programmes will be held. Sunday is a holiday. The Covid vaccine plan has been prepared in a way that other immunisation programmes are not affected. This is being followed in other parts of the country, too,” said the official. The government has also decided to train staff at a few more hospitals where it plans to open vaccination sites. Metro spoke to senior officials of the health department and various hospitals on the preparations in the run-up to the vaccine roll-out on Saturday. The recipients All vaccination venues have to administer the doses to their healthcare workers as well as to those associated with the hospitals and nursing homes in the vicinity that do not have a Covid-19 vaccination facility. “We are trying to get a large cross-section of healthcare workers, from various institutions as well as private practitioners, vaccinated on the first day. A venue will have to administer the vaccine to some of its own healthcare workers and some who are not attached to the hospital,” said an official. The list will also include ambulance drivers. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said they had planned to vaccinate some waste collectors every day from the first day. “Our list will include our doctors, nurses, lab technicians and waste collectors,” said an official of the civic body. Vaccine venues Across all government-run medical colleges in Calcutta, three rooms have been earmarked for Covid-19 vaccination. Medicine, gynaecology and orthopedics are some of the wards where rooms have been reserved for vaccination. The medical colleges have also prepared a blueprint for turning the general lecture theatres into vaccination sites when more people will need to be administered the shots. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, officials have prepared two places — the annexe building and the diabetic clinic opposite the main building — as possible sites. An official said either of these places would be selected. Health department officials are supposed to visit the hospital on Friday to finalise the site. The department had requested private hospitals at a meeting on Wednesday to create vaccination sites on their campuses. On Thursday, it gave permission to three private hospitals to start vaccination from Saturday — the RN Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals and AMRI Dhakuria. “We have been selected among the first sites to vaccinate frontline workers,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore institute is the flagship unit. He said two sites had been readied adjacent to the emergency ward so that if any recipient developed any adverse effect, she or he could be shifted there. Apart from the vaccinators, five people and a doctor will be deployed at each site. Till Thursday evening, 18 venues in Calcutta had been finalised where Covid-19 vaccination will start on Saturday. Distribution of doses Vaccine doses were transported to the cold storage points of five medical colleges in Calcutta. Health department officials said they had distributed about 93,500 doses in Calcutta. The bulk of the doses was sent to the vaccine storage depot of the CMC on Ballygunge Circular Road. Sources in the health department said NRS hospital received 3,350 doses, Calcutta National Medical College 1,620 doses, SSKM Hospital and RG Kar hospital 4,250 doses each, Chittaranjan Seva Sadan 850 doses and Calcutta Medical College 3,990 doses. Last minute training Health department officials said they would train the vaccinating staff on Friday on the volume of the vaccine to be administered to each. A fact sheet provided by the manufacturer of Covishield, Serum Institute of India, mentions that the “Covishield vaccination consists of two separate doses of 0.5 ml each”. The vaccination team will be taught how to use the Co-Win application, a digital platform created by the Centre for the Covid vaccination across India. The vaccination team will also be asked to preserve some vials so that the batch number is known in case of any adverse events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||How to allay fears over Covid vaccines||Is it safe to take a Covid-19 vaccine shot? Normally, it takes several years of clinical trials before a vaccine is given approval. But Covid-19 vaccines are being approved with trials conducted for less than a year. Shall I take it? Is it effective? These are some of the questions faced by scientists and others involved in Covid vaccine trials in the UK. The same confusion and anxiety are there among many healthcare workers in Calcutta and other parts of Bengal, where the vaccination is set to start on Saturday. Calcutta girl Divya Chadha Manek, clinical trials lead for the UK vaccines taskforce in the London region, told Metro they found doubts, anxiety and reluctance among people while conducting the trials since March 2020. Communication, she said, is the key to allay misconceptions. Addressing problems In the UK, according to Divya, the most common doubts expressed by people during vaccine trials and roll-out was whether one should take the jab considering the short span of the clinical trials. “Usually it takes 10 years for clinical trials to be completed in various phases. But for Covid vaccines, including Covishield (developed) by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, the trials were conducted and approval was given by the regulatory authorities in the UK in less than a year,” said Divya, who has been involved in trials of flu vaccines, including those for influenza, for 14 years in the UK. The trials are conducted by the National Institute for Health Research. “The answer to why it was given such a quick approval was coordination and funding by government, industry and regulatory agencies engaged at all levels.” The Centre has sent around seven lakh doses of Covishield to Bengal. “The anxiety factor in the UK about the vaccine was very high. People even asked whether the government is microchipping them through the vaccination drive,” said Divya. “Many people are also concerned about the side-effects, both immediate and long term.” “All the phases of the trial were conducted (in the UK) and the health regulatory authorities gave the approval after examining all data,” Divya said. Still, there is a close monitoring system in the UK for possible reactions, she said. “The usual side-effects for Covishield as seen during the trials are fever, headache and pain, and bruises around the part of the body where the vaccine is administered. But these are common for many other vaccines,” said Divya. As for another Covid vaccine, which has provoked allergic reactions among some recipients, the authorities have said those having anti-allergic drugs should not take it, she said. The UK authorities, Divya said, have taken communication drives at several levels to allay the misconceptions and anxiety. “We are involving community groups to explain to people that it is safe. Also, there are media campaigns. Celebrities are taking vaccines and saying how safe it is. The government in the UK is actively involved in the communication process. The Queen herself took the vaccine and said it is safe,” she said. “The government is also using social media to spread the message.” Bengal situation In Calcutta and other parts of Bengal, several doctors and healthcare workers have expressed reluctance to take the Covishield jab on Saturday, officials said. “Some doctors came to me and said let others take the dose first. We’ll follow suit after seeing their reactions,” said an official of a government medical college in Calcutta. “To allay fears we are choosing senior, well-known doctors who are willing to take the jab in the initial days.” The global advisory board set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and chaired by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, discussed the problem on Thursday, sources said. “We’ll set up a strategy for communication soon,” said a member of the board. “Over a period of time, we’ll be able to communicate more on the vaccine. Also, both the state and the Centre are doing media campaigns about the safety of the vaccine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta|| Meet Rajib Roy's four legged child||Ria, Rima, Rishab, Royal, Rishan. Rajib Roy has five children out of which one — Royal — has four legs. The playful Labrador came into the family three years ago when the other kids had started pleading for a dog. “They were even ready to forgo their birthday and Puja gifts in lieu of a puppy,” says Rajib. “My parents and wife Indira were dead against the idea but the kids divided the responsibilities of looking after the pup and gave it to them in writing.” Shortly after the puppy came, of course, came the kids’ exams and now it’s their dad who does all the cleaning and feeding but he’s not complaining. A year after Royal came, Rishan was born. “We were apprehensive about how he would react and kept him away from the baby for about a month,” says Rajib. The day Royal was let loose he ran to the baby. “He didn’t look, didn’t sniff; simply planted a kiss on his cheek!” says the surprised father. And now Rishan sits on his tricycle holding a rope that Royal pulls around the terrace with his teeth, quite like Santa and his reindeer. The Lab is protective of his siblings and will not Rajib scold them at any cost. “Once Rishan, who’s still a toddler, was approaching a bucket with an immersion rod heating it up. Royal pounced and stopped him. He averted a terrible accident.” Since Royal loves playing in water, they’ve got an inflatable swimming pool stitched for him. “It’s 20ft long, 3ft deep and the whole family can jump in to play with him,” Rajib smiles. “We’ve made a bathtub for him too.” Besides the fun and games, Royal has a high emotional quotient. “He knows exactly when I’m down and will come console me. And when I’m happy he’ll play. In November, I was hospitalised with Covid and he was so upset. No amount of speaking to him over the phone could cheer him up,” recalls Rajib. Royal is a religious dog. He rises with Rajib 96 minutes before sunrise at brahmamuhurta everyday, and patiently sits outside the prayer room, listening to him chant. Another curious habit is for Royal to sit touching his family members. “So if all of us are in the living room together he’ll come sit in the middle and touch some of us with paws and yet another with face,” smiles Rajib. It’s a large family but Royal has a large heart with space for everyone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||RKM lost rare manuscripts to Bagbazar blaze||A number of rare manuscripts and religious texts that would be used to cross-check information before it was printed in the Udbodhan magazine have been damaged by Wednesday’s fire in Bagbazar, monks of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission said. These books were kept on the first and the second floor of the Udbodhan building, in Bagbazar’s Udbodhan Lane, from where the order’s mouthpiece Ubodhan is published. “We are yet to assess the number of manuscripts that have been damaged by the fire,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Math and Mission. “It was a devastating fire and our hearts go out to those who have been severely affected.” Senior monks at the Udbodhan building said the damaged manuscripts and books played a key role in bringing out the magazine, the first copy of which was released on January 14, 1899, a year after the Udbodhan office was set up. The printing press was set up in a house in Ramchandra Maitra Lane in north Calcutta. “Some of these books were rare copies of old manuscripts on the Vedas and are no more in circulation,” said Swami Nityamuktananda of Udbodhan. “We would fall back on them to cross-check any information before an article would get printed in the magazine. The room of the magazine’s editor has been damaged, too.” More than 100 shanties next to the Udbodhan building were gutted in a fire that triggered serial explosions, probably from LPG cylinders, on Wednesday evening. The leaping flames, which reached the Udbodhan building’s second floor, damaged several windows and wooden furniture, apart from the rare manuscripts and books. “Mayer Bari or Mother’s House in Bagbazar, which is under Ramakrishna Math, has remained unscathed. Some items at the Udbodhan building, under Ramakrishna Mission, have been damaged,” Swami Suvirananda said. “That includes about 40 wooden windows fitted with glasses, seven air conditioning units, 25 chairs and tables, electrical cables and a generator.” Udbodhan, the only Bengali periodical of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission, was started by Swami Vivekananda. Over the years, it grew into a publishing house and has been one of the leading publishers of literature on Sri Ramakrishna and his disciples. Udbodhan the magazine has close to one lakh subscribers. Senior monks said distribution of copies would not be hit because of the fire. With electric lines yet to be restored, monks at the Udbodhan building rummaged through the debris on the first and second floors throughout Thursday trying to figure out the extent of damage. While making an assessment, senior monks at Belur Math, the headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, realised that there was an immediate need to throw a security ring around Mother’s House and the Udbodhan building following the fire. Accordingly, the Math authorities approached senior officials of the state government and subsequently, a 20-member police team under an assistant commissioner was deployed around the two premises. “We are extremely grateful to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and to the state government for extending cooperation of all sorts to us within a short time,” Swami Suvirananda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Bagbazar fire: Homes to be rebuilt, assures CM||More than 150 families who used to live in shanties next to the Udbodhan building in Bagbazar lost their homes in Wednesday night’s fire. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the fire-ravaged area on Thursday afternoon and promised to rehabilitate the residents. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, she said, will start building dwelling units once the area is cleared of debris. “Today we will clean the place, after this we will construct houses for all the people. Each family will get their house rebuilt here,” Mamata said. She also told the dwellers, who had gathered since morning to salvage their possessions from the burnt remains of their houses, that they could stay at Women’s College nearby till the dwelling units are built. “We will give 5kg of rice, lentils, vegetables as well as milk to each family,” Mamata said, before instructing Sashi Panja, the local MLA and state minister for women, child development and social welfare, to distribute blankets and woolens among the affected people. Throughout Thursday, families tried to salvage whatever they could from their gutted homes. Many looked distraught after failing to find crucial documents such as ration cards, voter identity cards and Aadhaar cards. Many youngsters were seen rummaging through debris in search of headphones, speakers and other electronic devices. Sapna Dolui, a 23-year-old homemaker, stared at what seemed like a burnt piece of cloth at the spot where stood her home even a day before, for several minutes before tears welled up in her eyes. Dolui, who was accompanied by husband Mongol, a daily labourer, said the burnt piece of cloth used to be her handbag where she had kept three Rs 500 notes — her wage for working at a fast food stall — as well as their voter ID cards. “I had planned to buy groceries, vegetables and other essentials with the money. We lost all the money as well as our home. The voter cards are gone, too, and I don’t know if we can apply for new ones in time,” said Dolui. As evening set in, a group of young businessmen and professionals visited the slum and distributed blankets and dry food items. “The people here have lost all their possessions and we wanted to make sure they at least had a blanket each,” said Jignesh Thakkar, one of the men who distributed the blankets. Thakkar, who lives near Shyambazar, said he and his friends had appealed to people on social media to donate blankets and food and they were “amazed” at the overwhelming response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||JU sounds state govt on Centre-hit scholars||The Union education ministry’s decision to hold back the money the Centre had earlier promised Jadavpur University under a scholarship scheme has left 200-odd research scholars in the lurch. The PhD scholars had quit a fellowship provided by the state government to opt for the Centre’s scholarship, which was offering four times more money than the state scheme. They were getting Rs 8,000 a month under the non-NET fellowship to those pursuing PhD or MPhil provided by the state higher education department. But when JU was selected by the Centre for the scheme in December 2018, many of them opted for the scholarship under the Rashtriya Uchchatara Siksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0, which offered a monthly scholarship of Rs 30,000 for a period of two years till March 31, 2021. Since the second instalment of the Rs 100-crore grant payable from April 1, 2020, has been put on hold and repeated pleas from the university in between have failed to evoke any response, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has written to the state government to consider bringing the scholars within the ambit of the non-NET fellowship. A university official said when a PhD scholar quit one scholarship in favour of another, he or she could not revert to the old scholarship at will. It requires a special consideration from the funding agency. At JU, after the first instalment of Rs 41.67 crore of the promised sum of Rs 100 crore had come in January 2019, the authorities gave the scholars the option of opting for RUSA scholarship. “There were a section of scholars who had two years of their research left. So they opted for the scholarship,” said an official. In March, the Centre extended the scheme till March 31, 2021 and promised to sanction the remaining amount, said another official. The Centre was to sanction the second instalment of about Rs 35 crore, but the release has been kept on hold and this put the scholars in a lurch. “The non-release of the second installment of the grant has caused unimaginable distress to young scholars – working as RUSA 2.0 Fellows - who have had to bear the double burden of having to find alternative sources of income in the unprecedented situation of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Das had told The Telegraph on January 10 . On January 11, the university had said in a circular: “This is for the attention of the scholars who had been supported with RUSA scholarship may apply to the government of West Bengal for the remaining period of their course.” The interested candidates have been asked to contact the university’s scholarship section with the PhD registration document at the earliest. “I have appealed to the state government to consider bringing them within the ambit of non-NET fellowship, a scheme they were entitled to but left as they were offered scholarship under a scheme funded by the Centre. Now, the Centre is not releasing its due share under the scheme. Restoration of non-NET scholarship could help them to some extent,” Das said on Thursday. An official said that since the department had agreed to look into the appeal, the scholars have been asked to contact. “We don't know whether they will consider the VC’s appeal,” he said. Although under the scheme, the Centre is to release 60 per cent of the amount and the state government the rest, but the state’s grant has to follow the Centre’s. A state government official said JU was told at a meeting between the education ministry and VCs on July 7, 2020, that the second installment was not being released because 70 per cent of the teaching posts were vacant. “The condition was not mentioned in the RUSA 2.0 guidelines. It was not mentioned when the grant was sanctioned. How can a grant be stopped halfway?” Das had told The Telegraph on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||A Covid-proof award ceremony||The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir 2019 Salt Lake FE Block Residents Association Yet again our block souvenir was adjudged the winner in The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir contest. We are happy, proud and honoured. We have received this award earlier too and every time it inspires us to bring out an even better souvenir next time. We are grateful to The Telegraph Salt Lake for inspiring literature at the local level. Over the last few years, the number of entries to the souvenir has been on the rise. Not just the elderly, even youngsters are coming forward to submit write-ups and drawings. Our neighbours who are residing abroad send their submissions with equal enthusiasm. Inspired by our president Gautam Roy and secretary Kallol Dutta, we gave out mementoes to our young contributors. This year, we also brought out our e-souvenir on a mobile app and the making of the e-souvenir was captured in an audio-visual form. We are sure that getting the overall super souvenir award and the individual prizes for several contributors will boost our enthusiasm. The Telegraph Salt Lake has cultivated a new culture through their souvenir contest. — Krishnendu Mukhopadhyay, Convenor and editor, Salt Lake FE Block Souvenir Sub Committee Best Editorial Winner: Gora Roy, Secretary, Salt Lake CF Block Residents’ Association It is a great privilege to have our editorial, based on the theme of pollution and showcased in our Durga Puja 2019 souvenir, be acknowledged as the best. I accept this award on behalf of the souvenir sub-committee members and every resident of our block with gratitude. Winning this award would not have been possible without the support of the entire governing body of our residents’ association. Due to the pandemic, we were forced to curtail the budget of Puja 2020 and decided not to publish the souvenir for the year 2020. But we look forward to winning more such awards for our block in the days to come. Special mention Iswar Mukherjee, Purba Samabay Abasan (Cluster XIII, Purbachal) Many thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake. A mention of my editorial article in this widely circulated weekly has made our efforts in organising the puja more meaningful. This time, however, traditions like community lunch and cultural programme remained a pipe dream during the festive days. We held the puja differently in a Covid-afflicted world. There were small initiatives to share the joys and sorrows and counter the pandemic like distribution of clothes among the Durgas in distress. I hope you will continue to inspire our efforts in future. We are always loyal readers of The Telegraph Salt Lake. We wish this weekly newspaper further improvement and spread. Special Mention Satyaban Roy, New Town AA1B Sarbojonin Durgotsab I do not have words to acknowledge the tribute received in the form of Special Mention for excelling in the Editorial category. Even in the unforeseen virus-stricken situation, The Telegraph Salt Lake has done its best to continue its endeavour to inspire the cultivation of art and literature among residents through Puja souvenirs. My wholehearted gratitude to the editorial team on behalf of New Town AA1B Sarbojonin Durgotsab platform. With profound regret, we announce that we could not publish the Puja souvenir for 2020. Early Bird BE (West) It is indeed a great honour to receive this award on behalf of our Puja committee for 2019. I thank the entire editorial team, along with Alok De and Susobhan Roy, whose consistent effort has made receiving this award almost into a habit every year. Due to early preparations, the quality of articles and advertisements is never compromised while delivering the souvenir early to your office. Thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake once again. — Shampa Aich, President, Sarbojonin Dugotsav Committee, BE (West) Best travelogue Winner Susmita Bhaduri, Sanjeeva Town Bungalow Estate I had written an account of the daring North Pole adventure by me and my husband in the last puja souvenir. I had no expectation that the article would get recognition this time as well. I am floored by this delightful surprise. My gratitude to The Telegraph Salt Lake that you found my tell-tale travelogue worthy of a prize. After getting the award for the third time, I am beginning to get a feel of being an author! Special Mention Sekhar Basu, JC Block Visiting Magic Castle in Hollywood, for me, was a wonderful experience. The castle is over half a 
century old, and the atmosphere there is reminiscent of classic night club days. It’s a clubhouse for magicians and magic enthusiasts. Only members and their guests are allowed entrance. My son Shamik, a resident of Los Angles, and I spent half a night there as guests. There are many small stages for magic shows. At their numerous bars, both bar-tenders and customers are magicians. They play tricks with cards while sipping on a drink. The shows go on all night. My write-up in the JC Block puja committee’s souvenir was all about this experience. Thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake for selecting it for a Special Mention. Best cover Winner, DL Block Residents’ Association The October 2 edition of The Telegraph Salt Lake landed with “Best of Puja Writings” on the cover page. We were thrilled to learn that the DL Block souvenir had been selected as the winner in the Best Cover category. Our hearts were filled with pride. More so, as the cover illustration was done by me. Sreya Ghosh, the souvenir sub-committee convenor, had inspired me to draw the cover. I wanted to draw the entire family of Ma Durga. Sreya agreed and suggested that I draw the mounts of the gods bigger than the gods themselves. These days, animals show more humanity than humans, she pointed out. The idea appealed to me. This year, DL Block is not bringing out the souvenir because of the pandemic. We are really sad. Let us remain hopeful for a positive future. May 2021 be much brighter. —Indrani Bhattacharya, Member, DL Block souvenir sub committee Special Mention Salt Lake BE (East) Puja Committee A special thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake for their commendable work in scouting for new talent in the field of arts and literature every year since the inception of the Super Souvenir contest. The way you have organised the prize distribution ceremony this year in Covid-19 pandemic situation is also noteworthy. Our Puja souvenir for 2020 has also been published. Amid this pandemic, for the first time in our puja history, our lady members had organised the puja. There was no theme or community lunch. Instead, there was a traditional idol and simple spacious mandap, decorated with alpona within low budget. But that did not rob us of the enjoyment. All puja rituals were held properly under strict Covid-19 protocol, which was appreciated by all the residents of our block. — Narottam Dutta, convenor Special Mention BL Block Durgotsab Committee The award for the cover page design of BL Block Durga puja Souvenir 2019 has enthused all of us associated with the printing and design of the souvenir cover. It encouraged us to do even better next year. While receiving the award at home, we were reminded of the ceremony arranged by The Telegraph Salt Lake in the previous years to hand over such prizes. We missed the occasion this year for the pandemic. Even though they had to expectedly avoid the social gathering, The Telegraph Salt Lake continues to motivate Puja organisers in this difficult year for their hard work on souvenirs. Unfortunately, we cannot participate in the contest this year, as the puja committee has decided not to publish the souvenir. We scaled down other aspects of our puja as well. There was no community lunch, breaking a tradition of 30-odd years. The cultural programme, which is another highlight, was organised virtually. Even pushpanjali was arranged through Facebook Live to facilitate elderly people to participate. We hope that normalcy will return over time and The Telegraph Salt Lake will arrange such events again in future. — S.K. Mallik, member, BL Block souvenir sub committee Best memoir Winner: Tandra Goswami, FE Block A piece on my childhood reminiscences got published in our FE Block puja souvenir 2019, titled Amar Chhotobelar Saatkahon. One fine day, I learnt that my article had been selected a winner in the judgement of The Telegraph Salt Lake team. And that our block souvenir had been adjudged the best. Joy, happiness and gratitude — all emotions fuse together. This encouragement will inspire me to write better articles. Thank you, The Telegraph Salt Lake, for this priceless award. Special mention Rita Das, BE Block A puja souvenir is the only platform where amateur writers like us can showcase our talent. From the very beginning of the year, we start thinking what to write for the year’s Puja souvenir and after submitting the write-up, we wait for the result, like in our student days. An award obviously gives us pleasure and at the same time we get a chance to measure our writing skill against that of others. The Telegraph Salt Lake has been giving us this chance for the last 15 years. This time, the whole world is tired of Covid-19 and all of a sudden everything stopped. But The Telegraph Salt Lake has continued its Super Souvenir journey. The prize-giving ceremony could not be held but the certificates have been sent to every winner. The initiative must be appreciated. Best fiction Winner: Biva Roy Chowdhury, FE Block My heartiest respect and good wishes to The Telegraph Salt Lake, especially those who chose my article. I have been selected for prizes on five earlier occasions on this platform. This small-time writer has been publishing her articles here and there since college life; some won prizes too. Once even the great author Sibram Chakraborty had congratulated me. But the award from The Telegraph Salt Lake — six times in all — is a priceless achievement in my life. This comes like a flash of lightning in a sky lit up by a setting sun. My gratitude for being supportive of literature despite the rotting, odorous, directionless circumstance all around today and the all-encompassing wave of the coronavirus. A lot of good wishes to FE Block too. May our block prosper and find inspired pathways to progress. Special Mention Kumkum Chattopadhyay, East Enclave, New Town It is a great honour to get The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir award when we are confined at home due to the situation created by Covid-19. This obviously proves the sincerity of the organisers. Yet, it is true that we are missing the flavour and pleasure of an award ceremony. This award definitely inspires me, so I want to convey my gratitude to The Telegraph Salt Lake. I hope that we will be able to enjoy the next award distribution like in the previous years. On this occasion, I also want to congratulate the other prize winners. Best poetry Winner: Sarbani Banerjee, East Enclave, New Town It is a great privilege and pleasure to be an awardee of the prestigious The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir contest. If not for this warm and welcoming platform, I would have remained a closet poet. While my poems catch on the colours of my imagination, The Telegraph Salt Lake lends them the wings to fly. With all the kind appreciation I have received so far, my poems soar higher and happier in the sky of my thoughts. The Telegraph Salt Lake has partnered the toddler walk of my journey as a poet, and there has been no stopping after that. Thanks for discovering a hitherto unknown facet in me! Special Mention Asim Das, East Enclave, New Town I am delighted to have received the certificate in the poetry category. I had started writing in my school days. That passion remained despite taking up science. My short stories, essays and poems have been published in magazines. Now they have found readers across the world thanks to the reach of social media. I get to attend various poetry conventions. I have been enriched by getting access to eminent poets and litterateurs. I have two books of poems to my credit. There is no joy like the joy of creation. I want to spend my remaining days in the cradle of this joy. I am thrilled to have received this encouragement. I will keep writing as long as I can. Special Mention Purba Kar, CD Block, New Town Getting a prize is always a delight, more so if it is for one’s passion. I write since my childhood but not till my middle ages did I see my work get published. Last year, a collection of my stories came out in the Book Fair and then my poem was printed in our block souvenir. But when my name was printed in The Telegraph Salt Lake it seemed I had managed to reach out to a wider audience. It filled my heart with delight and self-confidence. I got congratulatory messages from neighbours in my block and from across New Town. I cannot express how much inspiration this recognition gives me. Best essay Winner: Saptarshi Chowdhury, CD Block, New Town I have been studying the history of Calcutta for two years out of an emotion for the city. The subject attracts me and has paved the way to a book titled Ka e Kolkata, Sohorer Oli Golir Golpo. Mess Bari and Baithakkhana Bazaar are two institutions of colonial Calcutta that found centrestage in my essay in our puja souvenir. Thank you, The Telegraph Salt Lake. This recognition will inspire me to write more on our city’s history in the coming years. Special mention Sonali Roy, BE Block Increasing enthusiasm for cooking is noticeable all around as is the entry of foreign dishes in Bengali kitchens. But I cannot ignore the mid-day meals and the cooking on the pavements. The two opposing pictures worry me. My article in our 2019 Puja souvenir, titled Swad O Sadhyo, was on this. Let the middle class live out its cooking fantasies but let the underprivileged have access to two square meals. I consider cooking an art and am cooking since youth. I am happy that the judges appreciated my viewpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Teenager missing, family gets ransom calls||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped on her way to a tuition class in Narkeldanga on Wednesday. The family has registered a police complaint alleging that they had received a ransom call of Rs 25 lakh, police said. The teenager, who is a school student, did not return from her tuition class on Wednesday, prompting her parents to raise the alarm. The family contacted her friends and later learned that she had never reached the tuition class. A few hours after the girl’s disappearance, the family said they received a phone call asking them to pay Rs 25 lakh to secure her release. The family reported the matter to the local Narkeldanga police station. Based on the family’s complaint, the police have started an abduction for ransom case. Sources said the family had received multiple ransom calls. The police have talked to the student’s friends and were considering the possibility of tracking her down through the electronic gadgets she was carrying. The teenager’s father runs a business in the Rajabazar area. “We are not in a position to comment on the progress of the investigation at this moment,” said a senior officer of the eastern suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Tenant ‘assaults’ owners||An elderly woman and her daughter were assaulted on Thursday evening allegedly by their tenant, who apparently wanted back the rent he had paid in advance, police said. Niladri Ghosh, 36, a resident of Astha Apartment in Baghajatin Colony, off Swami Vivekananda Road, has alleged that his mother and sister were attacked by Raju Mandal, who runs a salon in a property belonging to the Ghoshes. According to the complaint, Mandal and two others had forcefully entered their home around 5.30pm and allegedly assaulted his mother with a chopper before outraging the modesty of his sister when she tried to resist the attack. The men fled when the women screamed for help. The police said the tenant had paid Rs 70,000 to the family as advance rent and was demanding the money over the past few days. “The family has alleged that the accused has taken away two gold chains, three finger rings and cash Rs 20,000. Based on the complaint, we have started an investigation. The tenant had been visiting this house for the past three-four days demanding the money. But today he and his accomplices tried to use force to extract the money,” said an officer of Jadavpur police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Schools want teachers back on campus||Several schools have started calling teachers back to the campus or are planning to do so to prepare them for a routine once students are allowed to come back. Heads of schools said if teachers took online classes from classrooms, it would mean better “connectivity” and would also help them test the school infrastructure that was lying idle for a long time. Teachers will be more accountable when they take classes from school and they will not have to juggle household chores while teaching, at least two principals said. On Thursday, the ICSE council sent a circular to the heads of all schools preparing candidates for the 2021 ICSE and ISC exams, asking them to utilise the period before the exams by helping the students complete their project work and submit it for evaluation. The schools have also been advised to conduct the practical classes in the laboratories for the candidates in a staggered manner, Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations, said in the circular. “Keeping in view of the fact that schools are being permitted to re-open gradually by their State/UT Governments, I write to inform you that while allowing children to attend the school, the Heads of the schools are advised to follow the Standard Operating Procedures(SOPs) and norms of social distancing as per the directions given by the Central Government and the respective State/UT Governments,” said Arathoon. At both La Martiniere for Girls and La Martiniere for Boys, the teachers have been asked to take online classes from the respective campuses from Friday. While The Heritage School has asked teachers of Classes VI to XII to come to school from Monday on rotation, teachers of South City International School will have to visit the campus according to the institution’s timings. At Birla High School, coordinators have been visiting the campus since January and teachers as and when required. There has been no regular activity across schools for nearly 10 months. “Our preparation should be good before students start coming in...,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. “The school will have high speed internet connectivity and will also provide the necessary support in case there is any hardware issue,” said Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of La Martiniere schools. John Bagul, the principal of South City International School, said unlike at home “teachers can use the interactive smart boards in the school while taking classes.” Heads of schools feel that taking classes from school will help get back the routine, which has been upset in the last so many months. “We plan to do so in a phased manner,” said Father Rodney Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School. Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School, said “biggest challenge” would be to get back teachers and subsequently, students back on campus. “People have settled in a work-from-home culture,” said Saigal. For example, across several schools, classes start an hour later than usual. With no commuting, teachers get some time, which is not the case when it comes to on campus classes. With the new academic session to begin soon, schools will have to set the academic calendar, select the booklist and prepare for term exams. “We have been taking viva for senior classes and conducting it from the school makes it more professional...,” said Alok Tibrewal, the pro vice-chairman, Delhi Public School Ruby Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Fishing cat rescued from  25ft-deep well ||A fishing cat was rescued by a group of animal lovers from a dry well in a village in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday evening. The cat fell into the 25ft-deep newly-dug well in Bagda, around 100km from Calcutta. The sub-divisional police officer alerted an NGO about the animal, following which a team of four members reached the spot. Along with a couple of foresters, the rescue operation started around 4pm. A ladder and a noose were the only “equipment” at the disposal of the team. A cage was brought later. The cat was brought up after an hour. Not before one of the team members, Kaushik Chakraborty, suffered a bite. “There were hundreds of people surrounding the well. The cat was very scared,” said Chakraborty, 21, a member of Bongaon Green Wave, an NGO that has been active in Bongaon and adjacent areas in organising nature camps with children and including villagers in conservation efforts. The cat was taken away by the forest department and will be released soon, said a local forest official. There have been several instances in the recent past of fishing cats, Bengal’s state animal, being killed in different parts of the state. The Telegraph had on November 27 reported that at least eight fishing cats had allegedly been killed across the state since May 2020. The last was allegedly beaten to death by some residents of a village in Howrah’s Shyampur block on November 26. Fishing cat, baghrol in Bengali, is included in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The nocturnal animal thrives in wetlands and feeds mostly on fish. Shrinking wetlands has dwindled their numbers and forced them to stray into human settlements and prey on fish in ponds and livestock. A Facebook post by Bongaon Green Waves on the rescue operation has generated significant online traction. “The best part is now the people don't beat or kill these creatures, after our enormous awareness camps the local people of Bonagon and surroundings are aware…. If they find any kind of wild animals… they immediately inform us or the police or forest department,” says the post. “In the wake of decreasing wetland habitat and increasing negative interactions between humans and fishing cats, this incidence gives much hope. More eyes and ears are looking out for the state animal now who are responding on time to reduce threats,” said Tiasa Adhya, the founder of the Fishing Cat Project, a campaign for research on and conservation of the animal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Kids amid a pandemic||Has your otherwise well-behaved five-year-old become excessively naughty since the lockdown? Or has your 10-year-old suddenly gone quiet and withdrawn? Instead of games and cartoons, is he talking of Covid deaths or is he binge eating out of stress? “Children are usually resilient but the pandemic has been difficult for them to understand. They lack the maturity to accept the drastic changes around us,” said Mila Sengupta, early childhood development trainer and consultant, at a webinar last week. “But every situation — positive or negative — can be turned into a teachable moment if parents learn how.” The event was organised by a Salt Lake-based NGO, Change Initiatives, that works for children’s education among other issues. “We decided to hold this webinar after receiving several requests from parents. They badly needed help on managing kids during the pandemic,” said Jhumpa Ghosh, director of the NGO. The other speaker at the event felt webinars and workshops were good platforms for parents in such situations. “Not only do they learn different ways to approach their problems but they draw assurance from the fact that they aren’t the only ones suffering,” said Subarna Chattopadhyay, a special educator who works with children of a cancer hospital. Here’s what The Telegraph Salt Lake learnt from the webinar — Tantrums or silent treatment “Some of the younger kids have become hyperactive, extremely naughty and started misbehaving during the pandemic,” said Chattopadhyay, a resident of GC Block. “This has been out of boredom, frustration or because they know it will make parents give them attention.” Sengupta described kids throwing tantrums, kicking and screaming, demanding to know why they can’t go out and why no one is allowed to come over. “But there are also kids who have withdrawn into a shell. Some are even talking of stress and sorrow. The lack of social interaction and the absence of friends are manifesting such behaviour in children,” said the lady who is based out of Texas but is stuck in Calcutta due to the pandemic. Lack of routine Since work-from-home parents are in no hurry to go to office they are waking up late and this has sent the entire family’s body clock for a toss. Kids’ screen time has risen exponentially due to online classes and the lack of alternative entertainment options. Sometimes kid are playing games well past their ideal bed time. “Often parents approve or even encourage children to study late into the night but this is unhealthy. They would be better off studying during the day,” said Chattopadhyay. “Children need six to eight hours of sleep a day and lack of sleep can impact the brain as certain hormones are secreted while sleeping. It also helps digestion.” Exposure to domestic tiffs “Living with someone 24 hours a day can get on anyone’s nerves and many couples have been arguing or worse during the lockdown,” said Sengupta. “While at other times, kids would be out playing or in school when parents fought, they now have to witness the violence,” said Sengupta. What parents can do ⦿ Acknowledge your child’s feelings- Do this even if his behaviour is unacceptable. Say something like: ‘I can see you’re upset but you cannot act like this. Do you want to tell me why you are doing this?’ “Then when he starts speaking, be a good listener. Often we start answering and giving advice even before they are done talking. Children want to be heard,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Share your own feelings with them - Parents usually shield kids from their own worries but this is not the right attitude. “Tell the child that you too are confused about the pandemic. That you too want to go out and are fed up of being stuck at home. But that you have no choice since Covid is still a worry,” explained Sengupta. “Your honesty will assure them that it is all right to feel stressed and to talk about it. The child will realise that his own feelings are normal.” ⦿ Make him part of the solution - Kids like to offer their opinion so involve him in setting new pandemic-time rules at home. “Till the previous generation, a father could end a conversation by telling his son: ‘Because I said so!’ but today kids will ask why. Tell him that like school, there are house rules that all have to respect but that he can help set those rules. This will help him become independent and be a problem solver,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Respond positively to needs - Don’t turn to your child only when he’s crying. This applies to babies too. Infants try to communicate by different means but if they see you responding only if they cry, that’s what they’ll do. “As for older kids, offer specific praise. So instead of saying ‘good job!’ say: ‘I saw you help your brother and hug him when he fell down. I’m proud of you!’” said Sengupta. This is the time to create strong bonds with your kids. ⦿ Reduce screen time - Thanks to online class, they are already spending hours staring at the phone so limit their entertainment time on gadgets. “Smaller the screen, the worse it is for the eyes. It’s better that you watch a film with your child on TV and then switch off,” said Chattopadhyay. “Then you can discuss the parts that he didn’t understand.” The phone should, under no circumstance, be left with the child overnight. “You never know what they access with it on their own. If it needs charging, let it charge overnight in your room. And don’t let the child browse the phone before sleeping as it will get him excited and disturb his sleep pattern,” Chattopadhyay said. Set parental control on the TV, check  privacy settings on the phone, cover the computer web cam when not in use and switch to ‘SafeSearch’ on Google to block inappropriate content. ⦿ Team up- If parents aren’t on the same page, kids take advantage of them. “If the mother is more lenient they’ll approach her instead of the dad for something they want,” said Chattopadhyay. “Often parents start blaming each other in front of the child even when they for counselling.” A mom and dad may disagree, but you can do so agreeably, without creating a scene that impacts. ⦿ Set exercise time- set this for the entire family. If you don’t have space use the balcony or terrace but try to get the child to jump, run, kick, throw etc. Music can work wonders to calms kids and you can play vocal, classical, instrumental or even the sound of the rain or a forest before bed time. ⦿ Manage your own stress- While we’re discussing children, it’s important to realise that adults are more likely to yell and be impatient under stress. “Mothers, particularly, sacrifice their own needs before their family’s so pick the phone and speak to your relatives, friends or neighbours when you feel stressed out,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Be a role model - children are like sponges, watching and learning from you all the time. So you can’t tell him not to play on his phone if you spend every free minute on Facebook. Lockdown obesity “Obesity itself has become a pandemic today with over 14 million chidlren in India suffering from it. After China, India has the highest number of obese children and the figure is on the rise,” said Sengupta. The lockdown has worsened the phenomenon. “Kids who would go for swimming or martial arts classes have had to stop them and our social media feed had got flooded with pictures of the fancy dishes everyone was cooking. Unfortunately, most of those dishes were rich and unhealthy,” reasoned Chattopadhyay. “Yes the ingredients may have been better than at roadside shops but a fried dish is still fried.” She also cited how kids had resorted to binge eating out of stress or boredom. “And, of course, no one binges on healthy food.” Road to obesity Sengupta explained the typical route to obesity. “A child is born healthy but gets addicted to video games, fast food and long hours of studying and this leads to “mild obesity” in him,” she began. The condition makes it strenuous for him to perform activities like climbing stairs and so he bypasses them. This in turn pushes the child towards “moderate obesity”. At this stage exercise is uncomfortable and he neither finds energy nor has the will to engage in any physical activities after school. He ends up with “severe obesity” and grows into an obese adult. This increases his risk of heart problems, diabetes, hypertension and a host of other lifestyle diseases. “In fact with excess weight gain they develop adipose cells which make it more difficult to lose weight in future and maintain it.” What causes obesity- ⦿ High fat and sugar in diet - even worse than sugar is refined sugar, which is the white coloured sugar we usually consume. “It is better to have brown sugar, which is available online and in supermarkets these days,” said Sengupta, asking people to start reading the nutritional facts behind food packets. “A can of cola, for instance, has nine teaspoons of sugar!” Sengupta also clarified the meaning the junk food, which is loved by kids but frowned upon by doctors. “Junk food is that which has sugar, fat but no other nutrition. It is food packed with empty calories. Processed food, too, is best avoided as it has high sodium as preservative and chemicals to preserve colour,” she said. ⦿ Lack of exercise, sedentary nature of recreation - Besides access to too much TV and phones, these gadgets also give access to advertisements showing junk food. “If a child sees an ad for chips 15 times a day he will eventually want to try it. In schools too, the recess time gets shorter in higher classes so kids have less time to play,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Socio-economic background - obesity is three times more likely to occur in urban areas than rural, said Sengupta. “As a family’s standard of living improves, its lifestyle tends to get unhealthy.” ⦿Genetic factors - a child has a higher tendency to get obese if the mother got diabetes during pregnancy. What you can do- Don’t stock junk food at home - Chocolate, chips and the like should not be purchased in bulk along with other groceries. If there aren’t any at home, kids cannot eat it. “Growing kids will get hungry and you cannot ask them not to eat so keep healthy snacks at hand like fruits and nuts,” said Chattopadhyay. Also, don’t deprive them of junk food totally. “They will crave it even more if their friends have it and they are not allowed any. Let them have chocolate once a week, ice cream once in 10 days, for instance.” Physical activity - Kids need 90 to 120 hours of physical activity a week. “This can be a combination of indoor and outdoor activities, structured as well as free play time…,” said Sengupta, adding how even infants need activity. So babies crawl, roll, move around freely and explore his environment under adult-supervision. Let him bang a pot with a spoon, let him rest on his tummy and look around. Don’t body shame them - if your child is obese don’t turn it into a body image issue. “Girls, especially, suffer from this and could be driven to eating disorders like anorexia. So don’t equate losing weight with looking good. Rather, tell them that the objective is to be healthy. Their weight should not affect their self-esteem and confidence in any way,” said Sengupta. Balanced diet - “There are homes where one kind of food is cooked for adults and another for kids, comprising fries, meats and only the select few items they like eating,” said Sengupta disapprovingly. “Parents claim the kids refuse to eat other dishes.” No one is born with habits but it is the parents’ onus to instil good eating habits in them, she said. “If you let him eat only junk food he will continue with this his whole life and suffer from poor nutrition.” Besides what you eat, monitor how much you eat. “Don’t lunge into 10 pieces of chicken or five pastries just because you feel like it,” she said. Breast feed babies for six months - This is a must as it is directly linked with obesity. “And once the child starts eating solids, do not mix together all dishes and feed him,” said Sengupta. “Rather, feed each dish individually so the child develops a taste for it.” Ensure co-operation from the family - Often parents try to enforce healthy eating habits in the child but a grandparent interferes, said Chattopadhyay. “‘O toh chele manush, or kichu hobe na,” says the grandma and stuffs the child with all the sweets he wants,” she said. So it’s important for family members to communicate. “Explain to everyone at home that the diet is for the child’s well-being,” said Chattopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Govt creche for kids of needy working folk||A daycare centre is coming up in AD Block, New Town. It promises to be one of a kind not because of the facilities being offered but because of who it is being offered to. The working parents, whose needs are being targeted, belong to the lower-income group. “There are a lot of people coming to New Town to work who have no proper place to leave their children in. They might be security or housekeeping staff. Or the husband might be a rickshaw-puller and the wife a domestic help. Their situation is the same as that of couples who are say, IT professionals. They leave their child in a creche and take him or her back when they return home,” pointed out Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Corporation (NKDA), which is building the facility. While there are many baby care options in office or at private facilities for well-to-do professionals, he pointed out that there were no creches for working parents from the economically backward segments. NKDA, he said, was starting the facility on an experimental level. “It will not be very large. We intend to build the structure and give it to a self-help group to run,” he added. Pegged at a project cost of Rs 76 lakh, work on the three-storeyed building started in February 2020. It was supposed to be completed by December but got delayed by the lockdown. “We will surely get it operational this year. The building is almost ready,” Sen said. No decision has been taken yet as to where the day care facility will be free for the parents who keep their children here. “The SHG women will have to be paid. Whether we do it or we charge the parents a moderate amount  has not been worked out as yet. But the operation and maintenance cost has to be recovered for the project to sustain,” he signed off. Service in Salt Lake The New Town authorities would do well to take a leaf out of the experiences of AIWC Salt Lake Constituent Branch which has been running a creche for the needy for over 30 years now. Although currently closed due to the pandemic, the AD Block unit in Salt Lake cared for about 30 children at a time in the one-to-five year age group. “One of the objectives of our organisation is to empower women but in slums even grandparents go to work. How do mothers become financially independent if they have to stay home and look after their children?” secretary Bubu Basu told The Telegraph Salt Lake. The kids at the creche would eat, play, study and draw. “From the nearby slums, kids would come together in rickshaws or in app cabs that one of their parents drove. We have even had a domestic help coming from near Bongaon who would drop her child and go to work in Salt Lake homes,” says Basu. But AIWC members would always conduct a need analysis before admitting the kids. “Many women, especially those who live in garages of Salt Lake, do not work anywhere and would send their kids over only at meal time to avail of the nutritious food we served or to avail of the clothes and other freebies we gave out round the year. We would filter out such children in favour of those in real need.” They would get an undertaking signed by the parents before admitting the kids. “Otherwise we have seen the mothers accusing us if their child ever got hurt in a scuffle with another student,” says Basu. Welcome move Anjana Biswas, from Nibedita Palli in Gouranganagar, works in three apartments in Action Area 1, about 15 minutes away on cycle. She leaves at 6.30am and her husband deposits their five-year-old with the tutor on way to his salon at 8am. “After the tuition, she walks home alone and is left with our 12-year-old all day. It would be a big help if such a facility comes up. We don’t mind paying a small fee if the child is kept safe,” she said. Additional reporting by Brinda Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
