16-01-2021||Calcutta||73-year-old murdered at Calcutta home||A 73-year-old man was found murdered in his flat in a congested neighbourhood in central Calcutta’s Phears Lane on Friday afternoon. Police said Ayub Fida Ali Aga was found with his throat slit and bleeding from the head on his first-floor flat around 4.30pm. His daughter-in-law found the flat door latched from outside when she arrived to meet him. “A blood-stained vegetable knife and a pressure cooker with blood all over were found at the spot. It appears both were used to kill the man,” said an officer of Bowbazar police station. Aga lived in the flat with daughter Tehera, who had left for office around 10am. She said Rs 2 lakh and some jewellery were missing from cupboards, which had been ransacked. Police said small bags containing money were found at the spot. “The fact that no one heard anything unusual suggests the victim did not raise any alarm. It seems the assailant was known to the accused,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||A college driven by a dream to excel and expand||St Xavier’s College will turn 162 on Saturday. Past and present students and teachers of the institution came together to celebrate the eve of the 161st anniversary of the foundation day on the Park Street campus on Friday. The Jesuit priests at the gathering included Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, and former principals Father Felix Raj and Father PC Mathew. The programme was organised by the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association Remembering St Xavier’s College is to take a quiet walk back to the ’50s and ’60s when it was happy and content to be a college that stood quietly apart as a centre of unassuming excellence in academics, sports, theatre and music. In the turbulent ’60s and ’70s, St Xavier’s, just down the road from the swinging nightlife of Park Street, also stood apart as an oasis of tranquillity surrounded but untouched by the passionate and sometimes violent ideologies of student movements. Some things do not change. St Xavier’s is still an oasis of tranquillity, still a bastion of discipline, still an institution committed to academic quality and all-round excellence. But the college is no longer happy and content to stand quietly apart. The college is driven by a dream to expand and excel. The dream began a long time ago, in 1978, when the college took the momentous decision to become co-educational. Enrolment almost immediately doubled, especially in the arts departments. But it was in the ’90s that the college began to push the limits of its ambition to grow and develop and strike ahead into the future. The 21st century vision encompasses the continuing improvement of academic quality as a centre imparting education of international merit to compete on a global platform and attract the best students and teachers from India and abroad. This vision began to be implemented gradually. From the late ’90s, new departments began to be added; an undergraduate management degree course was introduced; postgraduate departments followed in commerce and science; integrated MSc programmes were initiated; and the grand culmination of this academic drive was the start of doctoral courses in select departments. To encourage research, the college made provision for seed money to promising research initiatives. Since 2017, postgraduate departments have been added in English, political science, economics and sociology. Courses in data science, history and chemistry are on the anvil. Soon, all departments of the college will be ready to offer PG and PhD courses to provide students with a seamless academic transition and varying points of exit. The academic vision now also has a broader scope. It is to introduce popular, cutting-edge programmes at both UG and PG level. This departure from traditional courses in the basic sciences, humanities and commerce is part of the vision to make the college contemporary and relevant to make it an exciting and attractive destination for students looking for new kinds of academic experience and training. Such growth and expansion requires constant upgrade of infrastructure. As a Heritage College, we cannot alter existing structures; yet the continuing expansion requires additional space for classrooms, laboratories, canteens, and other conveniences. The college library was shifted to the old hostel premises, which now also houses the BEd department in a separate and self-contained facility. Smart classrooms, a Wellness Centre, more toilets, a modern canteen with an extension outside the library, have all been part of the modernisation and improvement of infrastructure. Old labs have been upgraded; new labs like the finance lab and the Central Research Facility, which is open to students and scholars from other colleges and institutes, have been set up to ensure research and development. The faculty are offering valuable consultancy services through Consultancy Cell, which is strengthening the industry-academia collaboration. To accommodate the physical demands of further growth, the college plans to create another campus on EM Bypass. Vision 2025 will transform this campus into a communication hub and include multimedia and mass communication departments. Other PG departments will also be accommodated here to free space on the Park Street campus. Embedded into this growth were triggers that acted as catalysts to change. The year 2006, when the college was granted autonomy, can be considered as a momentous turning point. The college, still indelibly linked to its mother-university, had to learn to function as an independent institution charting its course, looking to the future, and establishing new systems. The first step towards this was to create a new curricular structure that departed from the older 1+1+1 system. The transition to a semester system was a challenge that required administration and faculty to reconfigure the old traditions of teaching and learning. There were inevitable teething problems but the college quickly found its feet, and put in place new systems of governance, administration, pedagogy, assessment and examination. The proof that the college is following the right path of excellence lies in the fact that we have been placed in 10th position in 2019 by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) among the colleges nationwide. We got more encouraged and pulled our strings up to work harder when we moved up in ranking to 7th in 2020. Other triggers have set up landmark years: the declaration of St Xavier’s as a Centre of Excellence; the granting of heritage status; and most recently ISO certification of the quality of education, infrastructure and opportunity. The college sees these as natural and inevitable steps in the ladder of progress. It has meant a change in the fundamental character of the college. Back in 1978, the college had a very different face. It was almost bucolic in its leafy verdant greens that by 4pm would be deserted and empty. The green benches, still untouched by time and change, stood quietly watching the last stragglers walking to the backgate on their way home. A solemn stillness would fall on the evening campus and the shadows in the dim corridors would lengthen. The whizzing swallows which had made the corridors home would fly in to nest. A solitary light from the physics lab on the second floor cast an empty pool of lonely light. The college was redolent with an atmosphere of scholarship and learning that belonged to another age. Now, 4pm today is abuzz with activity as the evening’s commerce classes begin. At the Entrepreneurship Development Cell where the students remain busy with brilliant start-up ideas and their implementations after their regular class hours. The college has a different feel. It remembers where it came from and will continue to hold a candle to the past, knowing that it defines and strengthens us as we hold our direction boldly to the future, keeping pace with time and technology and market realities. At the same time, it does not allow us to swerve from the humanistic essence of the Jesuit vision, which is to take the benefits of education to the poor and marginalised and to bridge the rural-urban divide and offer higher education to deserving and meritorious students irrespective of caste and creed. For this reason, the college is continuing its investment and endowments in new buildings and infrastructure at the rural campus at Raghabpur for students from rural backgrounds, many of whom are first-generation learners. The success of the Raghabpur project is the affirmation and consecration of the Jesuit ideals which give force and structure to the overall vision for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Kamala: A beautiful story comes to an end||Kasturi Gupta Menon speaks about Kamala with a quiet maternal pride. She is conducting a tour of the landmark handloom and handicrafts store in the city that she has been looking after since 2010. The store is only one large L-shaped room at the ICCR building in Ho Chi Minh Street, but the tour takes long, because Menon stops at every shelf, every display, and describes every handpicked sari and object in detail, and every description ends in a story. The Bengal taant saris alone come in at least three varieties: Phulia (for Tangail) and Shantipur in Nadia and Begampur in Hooghly. Some customers will drop in only for the Barmer curtains with their delicate applique work of white on white, which also hang in the store, illuminating the glass front. The Kullu shawls, beautiful and affordable, are vanishing fast. A small, buttoned pouch, open at both ends, with Sanganeri print, works as a cable organiser. It is simple, beautiful and efficient: the perfect design. Menon and her team have given the store their time, love and care. But now it is about to close down. On Saturday it starts its closing sale. The pandemic has taken its toll. Kamala in Calcutta was started in 2008. A former IAS officer who had been development commissioner, handicrafts and handlooms, at the ministry of textiles at the Centre, and had retired as principal secretary of the planning commission, Menon took over Kamala’s charge in 2012 and brought to it the passion and experience of a lifetime spent among India’s arts, crafts and textiles. Kamala is the craft outlet of Crafts Council of India (CCI), a registered society started by Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Menon is its current honorary president as well. CCI is headquartered in Chennai and has decided principally that after the losses incurred during the lockdown, Kamala in Calcutta cannot be operational in the future. This is most unfortunate for many reasons, feel many. One, with the shutting down of Kamala, Calcutta will lose another beloved landmark. Kamala was like a little oasis in the middle of a dreary workday, not far away from a dreary work district. Handmade cloth and objects offer an odd comfort. Two, and more important, the closing down comes at a time when it hurts most. The store sources its stock from weavers and craftsmen all over India. “We get our stock from artisans in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, as well as from the interiors of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. And also from other craft-rich states in India such as Karnataka, Gujarat and Rajasthan,” says Menon. The lacquered toys from Chennapatna in Karnataka are a delight. The Calcutta store has stocked the works of thousands of weavers and craftsmen, many of them National Award winners and members of co-operatives. The handloom and crafts sector have been among the worst-hit during the pandemic. To close a store like Kamala is going to be a second blow to them. Chattopadhyay’s vision has guided the Kamala stores, which are located in Chennai and Delhi, other than in Calcutta. “She was deeply interested in the question of crafts as a livelihood,” says Menon. Chattopadhyay, who was instrumental in setting up Sangeet Natak Akademi and National School of Drama, was also the driving force behind the revival of arts and crafts in independent India, including the establishment of Central Cottage Industries. She was also a founding member of All India Women’s Conference. “Under her influence, the craft sectors got a lot of money allocated to them in the 1st and 2nd Five Year Plans,” says Menon. They were also recognised as livelihood generating sectors and given equal weightage as agriculture. Chattopadhyay saw the crafts as functional, Menon adds. They are a part of our everyday activities, our worship, and also integral to forms of culture such as theatre and dance, but ignored ordinarily by capital. “So it is more important that a store in her name should not close down now, when craftsmen need the most help,” says Menon. Chattopadhyay had a special connection with the Bengal crafts. In the 1940s, after the famine, she was visiting Bankura, and staying with Menon’s family, when she spotted two old terracotta horses that belonged to one of the family attendants. She liked them so much that she got them as a gift from the attendant. These “Bankura horses” became an icon as the logo of Cottage Industries. “Kamala should not be closed down,” stresses Ruby Palchoudhuri, who heads Crafts Council of West Bengal. It was Palchoudhuri’s idea to set up a Kamala store in Calcutta. She has always been a part of Kamala in Calcutta in a very supportive role in all its events. Kamala has hosted four events through the year, bringing much joy: Poila Baishak was for saris; Patram, held in July, was for household and lifestyle objects; the Puja event was for saris; and Christmas was about gifts of various kinds. The store not only sourced traditional handicrafts, but has also innovated. “Tradition is not enough,” says Menon. Kamala experimen-ted with the colour mauve — “panaphool rong”, the colour of water hyacinths — and pink, and silver grey with the Shantipur weavers. Tradition evolves, says Menon. It is not a static thing. The same weave changes from village to village. The craft is inseparable from its makers and is coloured by the environment, literally. Such interactions with the craftsmen go far beyond just the market. “We went into their homes, ate with them.” It was a vital connection. Kamala may close down, but its last collection is still on display, if for a few days. Menon resumes her tour. A cluster of perfectly finished ladles are from Bankura, made of Akashmoni wood, and also from Burdwan. A set of exquisite weaves are from Bhagalpur. At one side, lies a bunch of Gondh paintings. Their colours are vibrant and their patterns delicate and fine. Why then the distinction between art and craft? “This is art,” says Menon. “The artist, Ramkumar Tekam, had not sold a single piece when he brought them all over here,” she adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Celsius takes sub-15 plunge after 10 days||The Celsius plunged to 14.5 degrees in Calcutta on Friday, going under 15 degrees for the first time in 10 days and living up to the January reputation. The minimum temperature on January 5 was 13.4 degrees. Ten days of 15-degree plus minimum temperatures in January is extremely unusual in Calcutta, said Met officials. The warm spell was triggered by a strong Western Disturbance over north and northwest India, that had stalled the flow of north-westerly winds across northern parts of India. The system has since dissipated, leading to a fresh flow of north-westerly winds from Jammu and Kashmir, which has been witnessing heavy snowfall. After the long warm spell, cold winds have started making their effect felt in Calcutta again from Wednesday. The woollens are back to being visible on roads over the past couple of days. The Met forecast is mixed — the temperature is tipped to slide marginally over the next 48 hours, then climb up again before another plunge. “The temperature is expected to be around 14 degrees on Saturday as well. Sunday morning will also be cold. But from Sunday evening, the temperature is expected to rise again,” said a Met official. A trough of low pressure, tipped to reach Bay of Bengal over the next couple of days, will trigger the flow of easterly and south-easterly winds from the sea towards the direction of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh from Sunday. The moisture-laden winds will again stall the flow of north-westerly winds from Kashmir, the official said. “The winds (from the Bay) will not directly head towards south Bengal. But they will stall the north-westerly winds that bring chill to Calcutta,” he added. The only hope in the forecast — the warm spell is expected to be brief. “The trough is expected to dissipate soon. The warm spell should not last beyond a couple of days. From January 20-21, cold winds will enter Calcutta again and the Celsius will go south,” the Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Refund and damages order for 2 Calcutta  hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Thursday asked AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria to refund Rs 3.19 lakh to the family of a man who was admitted to the hospital with Covid. The hospital had billed the patient Rs 9.34 lakh for a stay of 11 days. The commission also asked Bandhan Hospital in Nadia’s Krishnagar to pay Rs 3 lakh as compensation to the family of a man who was admitted there after meeting with a road accident. The man was kept at the hospital for two days without proper treatment, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “A 74-year-old man was admitted to AMRI Dhakuria on July 12. He was on a ventilator from the first day and passed away after 11 days. The hospital had billed the patient Rs 9.34 lakh for the treatment,” said Banerjee. “We examined the bill and found that the hospital had charged Remdesivir (a drug) at the maximum retail price (MRP). Besides, they could not justify why they had given the patient the costlier version of Meropenem (a drug).” The commission had issued an advisory in August asking private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the MRP of medicines and consumables. It had also asked private hospitals to offer patients cheaper versions of a drug unless the doctor prescribed the costlier version. “AMRI Dhakuria could not justify why it had offered the patient the costlier version of Meropenem,” said Banerjee. The commission also found that the cost of some pathology tests like liver function test and blood gas test was very high. “The test costs were twice or thrice than what we considered as reasonable rates. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 3.19 lakh to the patient’s family,” he said. As for Bandhan Hospital, the commission said: “A man was admitted there after meeting with a road accident. His family alleged they wanted to take him to a government hospital but a friend of the driver of the ambulance they had hired suggested Bandhan. At the hospital, the man received no treatment, because of which his condition deteriorated.” The man was later shifted to another hospital. The commission had ordered a probe against the hospital. The probe, conducted by the district administration, found that the hospital “was run with quacks”. The hospital was shut down but reopened after hiring qualified doctors. “We have asked the hospital to give Rs 3 lakh to the man as compensation,” said Banerjee. The commission also asked Sankarnath Dialysis Centre in Tollygunge’s Swiss Park to offer Rs 20,000 as compensation to a patient and RSV Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 13,000 on a bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Bagbazar fire ravages dreams and life savings||Chumki Samadder was staring at her burnt books and weeping inconsolably on Friday morning. The home in Bagbazar that the student of history shared with her mother was gutted in the devastating blaze on Wednesday night. Chumki was at home when the fire broke out. She and her mother ran out but could not take anything with them. “We ran to the main road near Sanjeevani Hospital. The next day, when we were allowed to go, there was nothing left. No books. No clothes. No utensils,” said Chumki. “We tried to rummage through the contents of our almirah, but there was nothing left. I found a bag which contained my certificates. They were half burnt,” said Chumki. The almirah also contained saris and some jewellery that her mother had been saving for years for Chumki’s wedding. None of that was intact. Chumki’s father had passed away in September, following a prolonged illness. Her mother runs a tea stall in front of their home, which was also gutted. Chumki’s mother could only study till Class IX but she has been relentlessly trying to ensure that her daughter completes her education. NGO Calcutta Rescue, which has been helping Chumki continue her studies, stepped in to help beneficiaries in the area. But it will take long to rebuild their lives, said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator of the NGO. “We can give them clothes and ration. But we cannot restore their life savings,” she said. Chatterjee said the fire had left Chumki “shocked”. “Everything has been damaged and it will take so many years to get things back again,” said Chumki. Chatterjee said they would have to provide moral support too. “We are counselling her that she would be able to get her life back on track. She will complete her graduation in a few months and with a vocational training in computers, she will be able to get a job.” On Friday, some of the teachers of the NGO  went with clothes and handed them to some of the beneficiaries. The NGO also supports Sharmila Mondal, a Class IX student whose house has been gutted, too. Sharmila’s father is a bus driver. Her mother Mamta, who works as a domestic help, tried to pull out a trunk that contained their valuables — two gold earrings and a silver trinket. “But my husband stopped me... everything is gone,” said Mamta. The neighbourhood includes two other families who are cardholders of the medical unit of the NGO. The NGO had offered the families a temporary place to stay but they refused to move from the area. “They are scared that if they go, they might lose their space in the area,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors speak on the eve of the Covid vaccine rollout||Three doctors spoke to The Telegraph on the eve of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout. Here are their views:  Arunabha Sengupta, 65, professor of ENT at SSKM Hospital: I have been informed by the health department that I will get Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. I am very happy. I will definitely take the vaccine and request everyone else to take it. There are some people, including a few doctors I know, who are saying they don’t want to take the Covid vaccine in the first phase fearing adverse reactions. But as health-care workers, we should know that most drugs, including some of the commonest ones like paracetamol and vitamin pills, can trigger adverse effects. But does that stop us from having these medicines? I have spoken to two of my students who are doctors in the UK and who have taken Covishield. Both said they didn’t have any side-effect and urged me to take the vaccine. I have suffered from severe Covid infection and underwent physical and mental trauma. I was admitted to AMRI Salt Lake on May 11 and was in the intensive care unit for 18 days. The unit had four beds, and the other three Covid patients had died. My condition had turned critical, too. I could not see patients for a month after returning home. I don’t want to go through that trauma again and so I want to take the vaccine. I have co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes and COPD. Next time I have Covid, it can be fatal. Dulal Basu, 77, ENT surgeon: I had tested positive for Covid on October 22 and was admitted to Peerless Hospital for 10 days. Recently, I got tested for Covid antibody and the levels were quite high. So, I can do without a vaccine for maybe a month or two. That is why I decided not to take the vaccine in this phase. I feel that everyone should take a Covid-19 vaccine as that is the most effective way to fight the pandemic. Since I have developed strong antibodies against Covid, I want to make way for a colleague who has not been infected by the virus. I have heard limited doses of the vaccine have arrived and so it will be unethical of me to get the vaccine now despite knowing that I have developed antibodies. My colleagues, especially those who are treating Covid patients, should get priority. So many of them have sacrificed their family lives for all these months. Many have elderly parents and children at home but still they are discharging their duties in Covid wards. Many people are talking about side-effects. I think there is no reason for concern as data reveals the reactions are mostly not severe. lso, the vaccine will be administered under medical surveillance. So, any adverse effect will be dealt with immediately.I will get another antibody test done after a month. If I see the levels have fallen, I will take the vaccine. Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, 62, respiratory and critical care expert: Till Friday evening, I did not receive any message from the health department about when I will get the vaccine. Once I get the message, I will take Covishield on the designated day. But I also want to know why will there not be multiple vaccines to choose from? There will be many who want to pay and get vaccinated. Given a chance, I would have gone for a vaccine whose efficacy is more than Covishield. I had suffered from Covid and had almost collapsed in my home. I was in the hospital for 13 days. I had experienced the severity of Covid-19 infection and would definitely take Covishield because that is the only available option for the time being. But once other vaccines with more efficacy are available, I will again get myself vaccinated. I want to make it clear that I am not doubting the quality of the vaccine that is being given. Many people are raising doubts about these vaccines because approvals came in less than a year after trials began. Usually, it takes almost 10 years to get a vaccine. But we must not forget the world had not seen a pandemic like this. So, huge funds were made available for development of Covid-19 vaccines. All vaccines have undergone proper trials for safety and efficacy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
