17-01-2021||Calcutta||Xavier’s expands primary section||St Xavier’s Collegiate School has expanded the primary section and added more classrooms to accommodate kindergarten students. The primary department annexe on the Wood Street campus was inaugurated on Saturday, which is the foundation day of the school Since last year the school started taking in children for kindergarten, lowering the entry level in the school. Earlier, the school would take in children from Class I, apart from a preparatory class reserved for Christians. “We have five sections in kindergarten and four sections Class I upwards. So, for five new classes in kindergarten and an additional section in each class from Class I we will need more space. The additional rooms will be used to accommodate more number of students,” said Reverend Father M. Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School. In December 2018, Metro had reported when a plaque for the kindergarten section was unveiled and the school had announced its decision to start a kindergarten section by 2020. The principal of the school said because of the pandemic the kindergarten students have not been able to see the school and have been attending classes from home. “There are so many parents who want to put their children in St Xavier’s Collegiate School but because of lack of space we were not able to expand. So, after a lot of planning we decided to increase the intake because we felt there is a need. Also, the Jesuit principle is to provide an educational system to not only those who can afford but also to those who cannot afford,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, who was also present at the programme. The primary building of the school now also has a multipurpose AV room on the fourth floor, which can be used for cultural programmes, prize distribution ceremonies, examination hall, said a school official. “The additional space can also be used for more computer labs, language room, an additional music room and other activities,” said Soma Gomes, the vice-principal of the primary section of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Jute bags for New Town||The New Town authorities will start distributing bags and boxes made of jute and paper in markets of Action Area I, II and III and urge shopkeepers not to hand out plastic bags to customers, an NKDA official said. The decision to use these biodegradable boxes and bags was taken at a recent board meeting of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority. The step is to reduce the generation of plastic waste in the township’s shops, eateries, households and food delivery establishments, the official said. Three NGOs have been inducted to make paper bags, boxes and jute bags, the official said. The bags will be given to shops in the community markets and to residents. A pilot project will be carried out where sweetshops at the Mishti Hub near Eco Park and Cafe Ekante outlets will be given these bags and boxes. “Plastic is very bad for the environment and we want to reduce its usage to the maximum extent,” said Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman. Three kiosks will be set up near bus stands in New Town where people can buy the items, Sen said. The NKDA will also organise awareness workshops and camps among shopkeepers and residents of the township to reduce the use of plastic. Earlier this month, The Telegraph had reported that the NKDA has decided to start using plastic waste collected from homes, offices and commercial establishments to make paver blocks in a bid to recycle plastic, which is otherwise difficult to dispose of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Held for defrauding job seeker||A woman, in her late 30s, was arrested early on Saturday for allegedly duping a job seeker by telling him that he had bagged a job in Singapore and taking money from him for “Covid-19 fitness certificates and documents needed to travel abroad”, police said. Pubali Mitra, who hails from Khardah in North 24-Parganas, was picked up from her rented accommodation in Kasba after Purnangshu Bose lodged a complaint at cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. He complained that he had received a mail directing him to call a number if he wanted a job after he had put up his resume on a website in October, an officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “He also received a second email asking him to get in touch with a Mitra, who had introduced herself as the placement officer of a fake Singapore-based company. The mail offered him a senior position in sales at a telecom company,” said the officer. When Bose called the number for a job interview, Mitra asked him to cough up nearly Rs 15,000 for preparing his “Covid-19 fitness certificate and other medical certificates”, the officer said. Bose was convinced since she had also asked for his payslips, identity cards and other documents. After he paid the money Mitra even gave him a money receipt and a few days later asked him to give more than Rs 30,000. “That made him suspicious and he lodged a complaint,” said the officer. Mitra was produced before a court in Salt Lake that sent her to judicial custody for 14 days. She has been charged under various IPC sections, including 420 (cheating). If proven, she can be sent to jail for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Kolkata International Film Festival ends with first open-air closing event||The 26th Kolkata International Film Festival  concluded on Friday with the awards being announced in the competition categories in a closing ceremony held outdoor for the first time. But there was no prize distribution. The Iranian film Bander Band, directed by Manijeh Hekmat, was named the Best Film while Artykpai Suiundukov of Kyrgyzstan was the Best Director in the Innovations in Moving Images segment. Ukrainian film Blindfold got Special Jury Mention. In the Indian Languages category, the Best Director was Biswajit Bhora for the Assamese film God on the Balcony while the Best Film was False Eye in Malayalam, by Rahul Riji Nair. Nonajoler Kabyo, directed by Rezwan Shahriar Sumit of Bangladesh, won Best Film in Asian Select Netpac section. Ujjwal Pal’s Dusk was the Best Short Film. The Best Documentary was Highways of Life by Amar Maibam. Festival chairman Raj Chakrabarty was relieved and happy. “This was the first physical film festival to be held in India after the Covid outbreak. We were worried whether people would come. They did so, maintaining protocol. Even after online booking was scrapped and entry was allowed with delegate cards, those in the queue who were denied entry after the 50 per cent seats filled up waited for the next show without a murmur. Our industry colleagues too participated wholeheartedly,” he said. Watching films at the festival, he hoped, had served to allay the fear of entering cinemas that has been keeping the audience away from halls. “Small is beautiful,” said filmmaker Sudeshna Roy, who curated the exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee, coordinated the daily cine adda held on the open-air stage and co-edited the daily bulletin. “International guests might have been missing but  the enthusiasm of those who came was high. Films like Abhijatrik, Bander Band and The Man Who Sold His Skin drew full house as did Federico Fellini’s La Dolce Vita,” she said. In deference to the chief minister’s wish, some old films, like Dadar Kirti, were shown on the three LED screens set up outdoor in the Nandan complex after the Cine Adda concluded every evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||90 healthworkers receive Covishield vaccine ||Over 90 healthworkers received the Covishield vaccine at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s health clinic in Chetla, Ward number 82, on Saturday. Soma Laha, 38, the medical officer of the clinic was the first among them to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. She narrated her experience to Metro.  A slight prick of a needle inserting through the skin — that’s all what I felt while receiving the shot of Covishield on Saturday. It is a similar feeling to receiving a tetanus vaccine. I did not feel much pain or any discomfort while I was administered the vaccine. I received the dose around 11.30am and did not experience any adverse reaction. There is no pain around the site where the injection was pushed. Being the in-charge of the Ward 82 health clinic, which was chosen as one of the Covid-19 vaccination sites in Calcutta, I took the first vaccine here on Saturday. I did so to alleviate any fear in the mind of any healthcare worker about the safety of the vaccine. I thought that other healthcare workers in our clinic would think it was safe to take the vaccine if they see me taking it. I suffered from Covid-19 in November. I had moderate symptoms, including severe cough. I would suggest everyone take the vaccine and there is nothing to fear. More than 90 people took the vaccine from the Ward 82 health clinic. They included doctors, nurses, honourary health workers and accredited social health activists (ASHA). None of them reported any adverse event till evening. No one reported even common after effects like lump at the injection site, pain or redness. I did not have any fear in my mind regarding receiving the vaccine. I have read about the trials that the Covishield vaccine has undergone and its results. The Covishield vaccine has completed third phase and there has no report of any major adverse event. So, when I learnt on Friday that I will be among the select few who will receive the vaccine on Saturday, I instantly made up my mind to take the vaccine. No vaccine can give protection to all people, but they protect a large majority. Similarly, there are very good chances that taking the Covishield vaccine would trigger immune responses in a person, which can reduce chances of contracting Covid-19. I would motivate all my doctor friends and healthcare workers to take the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||App failure on Day 1 of rollout||Over 1,700 frontline healthcare workers including doctors, nurses, group-D workers and security guards received their first jab of the Covishield vaccine across 19 centres in Calcutta on Saturday. Only two recipients complained of minor adverse effects till late evening. Of them, one is a nursing staff from BC Roy Memorial Hospital for Children who was admitted to NRS Medical College and Hospital. What left senior health department officials, who were monitoring the vaccination process on Day 1 from Swasthya Bhavan, on the edge were intermittent snags in the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network or CoWin app. The app has been developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process. The app remained mostly unresponsive through Saturday and at the end of the day, the health department left it to the respective health officials in Calcutta and the districts to decide on which days next week the vaccination programme will be held. Monday has been fixed tentatively with three other days yet to be decided, depending on how the CoWin app functions. The CoWin app plays a key role in the inoculation process. It registers recipients, according to the data that it is fed, and allotment of date, time and venue is done through it. After administering the jab, a health worker has to upload details of the recipient on the app. Ahead of Saturday’s rollout, Swasthya Bhavan had collected a list of healthcare workers for each of the 19 centres in the city — 212 for Bengal — so that the data could be fed into the app to ensure SMSs would be sent to recipients for Saturday. But the app developed snags through most of Friday and entering the list of recipients for the vaccination centres could not be completed. “Our staff were awake through Friday night struggling to use the app to upload the names and mobile numbers. Finally, we decided to call each recipient and inform them about the venue and time,” said a senior health department official. Many recipients could not be contacted in time and didn’t turn up to receive their vaccine. In many centres including the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Hospital, a new list of recipients had to be drawn up on the spot, which caused inordinate delays. Vaccination at some centres continued well past 5pm, which was the scheduled deadline for wrapping up the day’s process. “To open a vial, you need 10 people with each receiving 0.5ml as intramuscular injection. Each vial contains 10 doses and once it is opened, it can’t be stored half-used,” said an official of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital.  All major medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta had earmarked areas as “Covid vaccination centre” with separate rooms dedicated for receiving recipients, moving them to the vaccination room and then to a waiting room for the mandatory 30-minute wait period. Separate tables with covers had been readied for scanning details including identity checks. Guardrails had been placed in the compounds with police overseeing the queues. Private healthcare institutions had even bigger and more elaborate arrangements. The five sites under Calcutta Municipal Corporation had comparatively smaller arrangements with partitions used to set up separate chambers where health staff from the civic body worked with trained inoculators. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of CMC’s board of administrators, and health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam went to one such site in Chetla to oversee the process. “After our identities were checked, each of us were handed a card with the number of the vaccination site and a serial number. My number was 4. Once the process started rolling, it didn’t take much time,” said Priyanka Maitra Karak, an anaesthetist at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. “We have been told that the next date will be informed over the phone. Till then, it will at least leave me feeling that science has found a breakthrough that we have all been waiting for during this pandemic,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Lab work for only third semester Calcutta University students||The department of chemistry, which is first among the departments of Calcutta University to start postgraduate practical classes on campus from Monday, will resume lab work only for third semester students to avoid crowding, said a university official. A department committee meeting on Thursday decided that first semester classes would not be started immediately as the first-year batch could not be split into small groups as the practical paper was common. “First-semester has 70 students. Third semester has an equal number of students but as the practical classes are split into specialised areas — organic, inorganic, physical and analytical chemistry — from second year, the batch can be split into small groups,” said a teacher of the department. Each group in the third semester will be split into two sub groups based on the specialised paper. Classes will be held thrice a week involving each sub group. The university has started the sanitisation process of the labs that are located at Rajabazar Science College. Physics department will start practical classes with students of the first semester from Wednesday. Since the practical papers in physics are spread over the first and second semester, the first-year students are being called, said a teacher of the department. The batch will be split into four groups. Classes will be held twice a week and each day will be set aside for each group. Practical classes can be held on Calcutta University campuses, provided students attend them in small batches, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had said on Monday following a letter from the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association urging her “to allow holding practical classes in willing departments maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols” since those classes are essential for many courses. “It has been left to the departments to decide on when they want to start classes,” she said earlier. However, there is no clarity on whether the colleges can start the practical classes for the undergraduate students. The principal of New Alipore College, Joydeep Sarangi, said: “Our students want to know when practical classes will start. We are planning to get in touch with the university”. The exams of the fifth semester for the undergraduate students are likely to be held in March. IIEST Shibpur has postponed its convocation because the institute’s director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, has been admitted to hospital with Covid, an official of the institute said. The convocation, which was to be held virtually, had been scheduled for January 30. A notice signed by IIEST registrar Biman Banerjee says “the annual convocation has been postponed till further order” because of unavoidable circumstances. A revised date will be announced later. Chakrabarti’s condition is stable, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
17-01-2021||Calcutta||‘Excited to be among first Covid vaccinators’||Salini Mondal, 27, a lecturer at the Peerless Institute of Nursing and a nurse at the Peerless Hospital, has been administering vaccines for three years. She spoke to The Telegraph about how she felt. Administering the Covishield vaccine is similar to administering a TT (Tetanus toxoid) vaccine. I did not face any difficulty on Saturday. The route is the same for administering the vaccines. Both are intramuscular injections, administered in the upper arm, the portion of the arm above one’s elbow. The Covishield vaccine has to be given in the deltoid muscle. The other thing to remember is that the vaccinator has to maintain a 90-degree angle between the recipient’s arm and the syringe while administering the vaccine. I used 0.5ml syringes and 24 gauge needles. Most of the 30 healthcare workers who received the Covishield vaccine from me on Saturday seemed very excited. Some of them had doubts, but I counselled them before pushing the injection. I told them it was safe to take the vaccine, that it may save one from getting Covid. Some of the recipients who are support staff like security personnel or housekeeping staff seemed nervous. But they all agreed to take the vaccine once they were counselled. There were four of us administering the vaccine in rotation. Each of the vials had 5ml volume of the vaccine. Ten people could be vaccinated from one vial. Each person was administered 0.5ml of the vaccine. The Covishield vaccine cannot be used after four hours of opening the vial. I administered vaccine to 30 people, all of them my colleagues at Peerless Hospital. I started around 11.20am and continued till around 6pm, with several breaks. We were a team of four, administering the vaccine to a total of 101 recipients. Personally, I never felt any anxiety. I am a pediatric vaccinator and have pushed similar type of injections to many children. Since the route of administering is known to me, I did not feel nervous. I was very excited since yesterday, being among those trained by the health department to run the vaccination site at our hospital. I was excited thinking that I will be among the first few across the country who will be administering the vaccine to people. This vaccine can save so many lives. It can save so many people in the pandemic. I read up the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry for the vaccination. Before administering the vaccine, I asked each of the recipients if they had allergic reactions to any food or drug, whether they have diseases like HIV or tuberculosis. Such people will not be given the vaccine. Women who are pregnant or lactating mothers will not be given the vaccine. I also told the recipients that they should come to the emergency ward of the hospital if they had high-fever or breathing trouble or allergy after receiving the shot. I am now looking forward to my turn to receive the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
