18-01-2021||Calcutta||In the letter, and in the spirit||When Shambhu Chakraborty began his work as an apprentice signboard painter in the mid-70s, he was about 12. A signboard painter would then “draw” the letters, designed by himself, and also do the artwork that often accompanied the lettering. He would also be asked to draw portraits, of famous personalities, for political and cultural events, or compose “sceneries” that would form the backdrop of a puja or in a photo studio. A skilful signboard or scenery painter would be called an artist. Chakraborty, 58, is the owner of Kalpana Arts, a name well-known in the city since the late 70s for its neat, elegant signage and humble charges. He is still considered an artist, but his profession has changed drastically since he began. Not much art is left in it. But Chakraborty’s spirit, and his passion, remain. Kalpana Arts, which stood proudly at the Golpark-end of the Gariahat boulevard, on the vanguard of the long row of delightful shops, is now reduced to one small room on the first floor of the Gariahat market building on the side that overlooks Rashbehari Avenue. Chakraborty can be found on the balcony, a solitary figure putting finishing touches to a signboard, his working hand placed on a rest so that it does not go too close to the board, or in his shop a few feet away, cluttered with signboards and glow signs, but mostly metal nameplates. He has an assistant who is not around. Clustered around the shop are other one-room shops: a tailoring shop where clothes are both stitched and altered; a little away, a stationery store specialising in printing materials and a shop known for its framed pictures of the goddess Kali. All of them look slightly desolate, as if abandoned in an upper storey when the “real” market of fish, meat, vegetables, groceries and every household item teems at the ground level, a mini universe bursting with life. Many of the shopkeepers in the upper three floors of the market building owned shops in Gariahat Road or the boulevard, and were evicted in 1996 by Operation Sunshine, a drive to end hawkers’ shops in the city. Chakraborty’s stint at the boulevard had been a glorious one. His family had crossed over from Chattagram, Bangladesh, around 1970, and settled in Bauria, in Howrah. Chakraborty had six siblings. Kalpana, after whom his shop is named, was one of the sisters. The large family found it hard to make both ends meet. Chakraborty joined his elder brother’s sign painting shop when he was 12. His elder brother had set up the shop in Bauria. “My brother was a true artist,” says Chakraborty. “He had imagination. We had no prescribed fonts,” says Chakraborty. “He would make signboards and banners, in Bengali, Hindi, English and Urdu, which we still do. He would also draw portraits and sceneries, and make cutouts. He would design the cover of jewellery boxes, both the lettering and the design.” From his brother, Chakraborty learnt the basics of signboard painting: sorting of letters by size — M, W or O are the widest letters in English — or how to choose the thickness of a letter. The rest was instinct. “We drew freehand,” says Chakraborty. He would acquire some basic idea of fonts later — “Arial, Brush, Park Avenue” — but his lettering was mostly his own. He loved the work. It gave him joy. In 1977, he started his shop in the boulevard and it caught on. His biggest clients were political parties. “I worked for every party,” says Chakraborty. In the 80s and 90s, with the CPM in power, and Mamata Banerjee gathering strength, there was no dearth of work. Sometimes up to 20 persons were employed in a day. Plus there was work for signboards for shops and establishments. “I have forgotten how many people I have worked for.” He has worked for big enterprises, such as Bharat Biscuit, Polar Fans or Indian Oil, and also a few distinguished organisations, such as Ramakrishna Mission, Lalit Kala Akademi and Nari Seva Sangha. “For a sari block-printing shop the design would be ‘modern’,” says Chakraborty. The lettering could be slender, ornamental, striking. The boulevard had a few block-printing shops, too, which seem to have vanished. Not much of Chakraborty’s old work remains, either. Signage is ephemeral. Then Operation Sunshine struck. And so did computer technology, from the mid-90s. “They happened together. Everything changed,” says Chakraborty, who, by then, was a resident of Garia. Out of the boulevard, he first set up shop in Panchanantala, and from 2000, he relocated at the first-floor Gariahat shop. His work has now been completely transformed by technology. The signboard is there, but overwhelmed by the flex banner, glow signs and LED and SEP lighting. Chakraborty has adapted to all of this. But the processes are almost totally controlled by technology. Chakraborty’s daughter Priyanka Banerjee, a computer engineer, does the designing entirely on the computer now for him. In case of a signboard, he may draw the letters designed by Priyanka by hand on the board. In case of a flex banner, he has no role to play. But nothing has changed more than letters. Fonts available on computers, with their speed and accuracy, have killed hand-drawn lettering. If also the creativity of a person like her, Priyanka says. The volume of his work has gone down significantly. “But my father still goes to the shop every day, sometimes also on Sundays,” says Priyanka. “He can’t help it.” Chakraborty’s mainstay now is the nameplate, on metal, wood and plastic. These are also designed digitally by his daughter, but he does the metalwork himself. On a rare occasion someone comes with a special request for hand-drawn lettering on a nameplate. Then he does everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Attack and robbery near Lalbazar||A man has been arrested for allegedly attacking another man with a sharp weapon and snatching his money and phone near Lalbazar. Lalbabu Yadav, 45, a resident of central Calcutta, was attacked last week, police said. Based on his statement, the police tracked down the accused, identified as Mohammad Selim, and arrested him early on Sunday. The robbed mobile phone has been recovered. The police said Yadav was found profusely bleeding in front of the exit gate of the Calcutta police headquarters at Lalbazar early on January 13. “The man had suffered cut wounds all over his body. He was admitted to SSKM Hospital. When his condition stabilised, he told the police that a man had attacked him with a razor and robbed him of Rs 18,000 and also snatched his cell phone,” said an officer of Muchipara police station, where a case was registered based on Yadav’s statement. According to Yadav’s statement, he came under attack near the Ghanteswar temple on BB Ganguly Street. He ran after being attacked and collapsed outside the city police headquarters. The police tracked down the accused with the details of the stolen mobile phone.. According to Selim’s statement, he had met Yadav a few weeks ago on Prem Chand Boral Street, in central Calcutta, where he had picked a fight with him over a trivial issue. “Selim said he saw Yadav that night and decided to attack him to settle the score. He denied having robbed Yadav. We are investigating the claims made by both,” the officer said. Selim, a resident of Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, has been remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Health workers’ condition stable post vaccination ||The health department has set up a medical board to look into the possible causes of illness of a nurse of the BC Memorial Hospital for Children who had to be admitted to NRS hospital on Saturday after receiving a jab of Covishield. The woman, in her 40s, complained of numbness in her hands and feet following the inoculation. A health worker in Howrah’s Bagnan, too, complained of similar adverse effects after the vaccination and is under observation at Bagnan Rural Hospital. Officials of the state health department said the condition of both women are stable. A dozen of others across Bengal who had complained of uneasiness as an after-event of immunisation (AEFI) on Saturday were sent home after being observed for some time, senior health department officials said. Almost all of them complained of dizziness. Their blood pressure and other parameters were continuously monitored by doctors who were deployed by the health department to treat such patients across all vaccination sites, said officials. Doctors said the woman admitted to the NRS Medical College and Hospital was on medication for bronchial asthma from childhood. “She is under observation and a team of critical care experts and others is trying to ascertain whether her numbness was related to the Covishield shot,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said. “She has undergone several tests. The potassium level in her blood dropped. That can cause muscular weakness. Doctors are trying to find out whether the fall in the potassium level was an after-effect of immunisation.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Friday requested all recipients to alert the state health department if someone developed any complications after getting the shot. “Amra dekhey nebo (We will look into it),” she had said. Senior doctors who are part of the AEFI team in Calcutta — such teams have been formed for all districts — said that only 14 of the 15,707 recipients of the vaccine on the first day across the state had complained of after-effects. “That’s hardly a cause of concern as the number is less than 0.5 per cent of the recipients on the first day. No one complained of severe illness,” said a member of the team who refused to be named. On Sunday, the health department decided that starting next week, the vaccination drive would be carried out four days a week — Mon-day, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Health workers to be deployed for inoculation drive in rotation||The state government thinks the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination will last several months and is drawing up plans such as deploying doctors and nurses for the inoculation drive in rotation so hospital services do not suffer. The 19 Covid-19 vaccination sites in Calcutta are either in hospitals (government-run as well as private) or ward health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). Primary, secondary and tertiary care as well as routine immunisation is provided by most of these institutions. The state health department has decided that Covid-19 vaccines will be administered on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday every week. Hospital administrators said it meant that some of their nurses and doctors would be away from hospital services on four days a week. The hospitals have planned to deploy doctors and nurses at the vaccination sites in rotation so that the disruption, if any, to the other services offered by them is minimal. “Administering the Covid-19 vaccine to all healthcare workers and frontline workers could take about six months. It will also depend on how quickly we get the adequate number of vaccine doses. But a rough estimate suggests that it could take about six months to complete the first phase of vaccination,” said a health department official. According to Covid-19 vaccination guidelines issued by the Centre, one crore healthcare workers and two crore frontline workers in the country will be vaccinated in the first phase. State health department sources said around six lakh healthcare workers in the state had been registered for the vaccination. The list of frontline workers in the state is still being prepared. An official of a private hospital in south Calcutta said they would train more employees in administering Covid-19 vaccine doses so that they have a bigger pool of trained personnel to run the vaccination sites. “We have planned to train multiple batches of doctors and nurses who can run vaccination sites. We can use the batches in rotation. This will ensure that no single doctor or nurse remains stuck at the vaccination site always. That will enable them to discharge their other responsibilities,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Sisir Naskar, the superintendent of MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital, said that four doctors of the hospital were present at the vaccination site on the campus on Saturday to deal with any emergency situation. “There was one medical officer, one gynaecologist and two general medicine practitioners. We had kept the four-member team at the site to ensure that recipients got immediate medical attention if any of them had shown any adverse reaction after receiving the jab,” said Naskar. He added the number of doctors at the vaccination site may be reduced after a week or so. Several doctors have said they will get to know more about adverse events following immunisation after one or two weeks. “The Covid-19 vaccines are little known to us. We have to be very careful for the first few days. But a week or fortnight later, we will have more knowledge about after-effects of the vaccine,” said the doctor. Naskar said the hospital could keep only one doctor at the vaccination site and ask others to go back to hospital duty after around two weeks. CMC officials said they were planning to change the vaccination sites in regular intervals for two reasons — to take the sites closer to recipients and to not burden one site with vaccination workload for many days. Five ward health clinics of the CMC have been chosen as Covid-19 vaccination sites. All five are located in different boroughs. There are 16 boroughs in the Calcutta municipal area. A senior CMC official said they were mulling to shut down the current vaccination sites after the healthcare workers in the five boroughs got their first shots of the vaccine. “We will pick five new sites in five other boroughs. This will help reduce the burden on the existing sites and help them concentrate more on other routine jobs. Shifting the vaccination sites will also help healthcare workers in other boroughs as the new sites will be closer to their home or workplace,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Campus sanitisation ahead of reopening educational institutions||The state government has started sanitising educational institutions and is taking time to draw the safety protocols before approving in-person classes, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Sunday. “It is not that we are not holding any discussion on when the educational institutions can be reopened. We have already started a sanitisation drive at the institutions. Before reopening them, we are taking the time required to prepare the health protocols. Thereafter, the institutions can be reopened in consultation with the state government at any moment,” Chatterjee said in response to a question on when the schools and colleges could be reopened. The minister said it was crucial that the safety protocols be drawn up before taking a call on reopening, factoring in instances from states that allowed in-person classes only to reverse the decision following a surge in Covid cases. “It is not just about reopening the institutions. Those who reopened had to close down. We are hearing that those who reopened have reported getting infected with the coronavirus. This has happened in other states. We will reopen schools in a planned manner,” said Chatterjee. “It is a challenge to think about the health of the students as well as their education simultaneously. It is necessary to reopen the institutions but at the same time we have to ensure that students do not get infected by the coronavirus on the campus,” he said. An official of the education department referred to the Karnataka government’s decision in late November against reopening schools and colleges in December because of the still raging pandemic. “The Tamil Nadu government had revoked its order of reopening schools from November 16 for Classes IX to XII. So, we have to tread cautiously,” he said. Another official said there was a growing demand from the heads of schools that the campuses be reopened before the science practical tests of the higher secondary exams, which are to be held in March. “Since not a single practical class could be held since March 2020, when all educational institutions were shut down as a precaution against Covid, the HS science students are a worried lot. They do not have the bare minimum hands-on training. Schools heads are requesting that they be allowed to resume practicals for HS students,” he said. “We have already announced the exam dates. Classes are being held on digital platforms. We are doing everything that we could,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||More than 5,600 birds recorded in count conducted at Santragachhi Jheel||More than 5,600 birds were recorded during a count conducted at Santragachhi Jheel on Saturday. The number of birds recorded at the water body this year is higher than the count over the past five years, said birdwatcher Prosenjit Dawn, who has been part of the census for more than 10 years. The counting procedure is tedious and requires an experienced set of eyes. Dawn said seven men and women spread around the water body in teams to count birds. The volunteers carried telescopes. “It is quite tedious and we have to use telescopes as many birds hide in the water hyacinths and are difficult to spot. Drones cannot be used as birds fly away,” said Dawn. Four Northern Pintails, trans-Himalayan migrants, were spotted on Sunday. Only one was spotted on Saturday. Northern Pintails fly from Siberia, Mongolia and northern China to spend the winter months in temperate zones. This year, around 25 Gadwalls and one Ferruginous Pochard have been spotted at the jheel. Gadwalls and Ferruginous Pochards breed in central Asia, China and Mongolia and fly thousands of miles to the subcontinent to escape the harsh winter there. The Ferruginous Pochard, also called Ferruginous Duck, is listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). A Black Winged Stilt, another trans-Himalayan migrant that had never been known to have been sighted at Santragachhi, was seen at the water body in the first week of December, said Dawn. This year's count revealed that the overwhelming majority of birds are Lesser Whistling Ducks, which are found around water bodies in Bengal through the year but in far smaller numbers. The ducks numbered 5,536. Among other birds, 25 Gadwalls, a couple of Bronze Winged Jacanas and three Barn Swallows were recorded. V.K Yadav, the chief wildlife warden, said bird counts were on at every place where migratory birds roost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Clouds keep day Celsius in check ||The maximum temperature on Sunday was 23.4 degrees, two notches below normal, for the second day on the trot. The minimum was 14 degrees. The low day temperature added bite to the chill. On January 13, the city had seen the maximum temperature dipping to 23.1 degrees. But the city had been under a warm spell back then, triggered by a strong Western Disturbance that had stalled the flow of cold north-westerly winds. With the north-westerly winds back on track and the minimum temperature in the normal range, the low day temperature on Sunday made its effect felt. Winds from the Northeast and Bangladesh have been causing some cloud formation and a blanket of fog in Calcutta, keeping the sun from shining brightly throughout the day. As a result, the day temperature has been lower than usual, said a Met official. The Met office had forecast a marginal rise in the Celsius from Monday. But a trough of low pressure over Bengal that was tipped to trigger the rise has not yet formed, said a Met official. “The trough is expected to take shape by Tuesday. Till then, the mercury will be under check in Calcutta, in the range of 14 degrees,” he added. Once the trough takes shape, it is expected to send easterly winds to Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh. The moisture-laden winds will stall the flow of the cold north-westerly winds and push the mercury upwards in Calcutta. “The minimum temperature will be in the range of 17 to 18 degrees in Calcutta. But the rise will be temporary…. From January 21, the mercury will again start plunging in Calcutta,” said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Plea to Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation for early end to tunnel work||Police have requested Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation, the implementing agency of East-West Metro, to complete tunnel-boring work in Sealdah by Monday afternoon so that the part of the Sealdah flyover closed for the project can be opened at night. According to the schedule announced before the closure on Friday night, the flyover will be opened on Tuesday morning. The closure of the part of the Sealdah flyover between its crossings with MG Road and Beleghata Road has prompted police to put in place large-scale diversion plans. “We will request KMRC officials to try and wrap up work by Monday afternoon so that we can reopen the Sealdah flyover by Monday night,” said a senior police officer. Three other flyovers — Park Street flyover, VIP Road flyover and one flank of the flyover that connects VIP Road with EM Bypass — remain closed at night to avoid accidents. A Calcuttan who was out on a late-night drive on Saturday said he found the Chetla bridge and the one connecting the zoo with the racecourse and Park Street closed. “Monday, being the first full-fledged working day following the closure of a part of the Sealdah flyover, will pose the real challenge in managing traffic. Saturday and Sunday were comparatively easy because of lesser traffic load,” said an officer of the Calcutta police. “We will try a few changes on Monday, including making Nirmal Chunder Street one way towards SN Banerjee Road from Bowbazar. This road is now open for both-way movement.” Since 11pm on Friday, vehicles from Shyambazar and headed towards Sealdah are being diverted from the Rajabazar intersection to Narkeldanga Main Road. These vehicles are reaching the Phoolbagan crossing through Narkeldanga Main Road and then moving down RL Mitra Road and Beleghata Main Road to reach Sealdah. In other parts of Calcutta as well, commuters are forced to take alternative routes after 10pm because of closure of flyovers. Both flanks of the VIP Road flyover, which runs over Kestopur and Baguiati, remain closed to traffic at night. Guardrails stand at the entry on either side of the flyover forcing motorists to take the road underneath, dotted with traffic signals. The Bypass-bound flank of the Ultadanga flyover, which takes off from VIP Road, remains closed to traffic from 11pm to 6am. The Park Street flyover remains off to traffic between 10pm and 6am, forcing vehicles to move down the comparatively narrow stretch of JL Nehru Road on either side of the flyover. Police said the closures were aimed at reducing accidents, including fatal ones, caused by drink and reckless driving at night. The move helps the police brass to deploy more personnel elsewhere at a time when heavy vehicles ply across the city. Metro commuters will not need an e-pass to enter a station from Monday. The number of trains from Monday to Saturday will go up to 240 from 228 and the number of entry/ exit gates will be increased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
18-01-2021||Calcutta||CU undergrads keen to attend practicals||Undergraduate students of colleges under Calcutta University are writing to the authorities asking when practical classes will resume on the campuses, an official of the university said. This follows CU’s decision to allow its postgraduate departments to start practical classes from Monday in small batches. “The students are getting worried because semester exams are likely to be held in March. We are waiting for instructions from the university,” said Joydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College. Practical classes, unlike theory classes, cannot be held on digital platforms. The principal of a college in central Calcutta said: “The university’s decision to permit its postgraduate departments to start holding practical classes from Monday has made our students more eager.” Practical classes for CU’s postgraduate batches can be held provided students attend them in small groups and follow the safety protocols, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had said on January 11. A day later, CU pro-vice-chancellor (academic) Asis Chattopadhyay wrote a mail to departmental heads: “This is for your kind information that the departments those are willing to conduct practical classes may start the process as soon as possible, in small batches of students provided they agree, by strictly maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols”. But till date no such instructions have reached the college principals. “We are waiting for orders from the university or the government. I believe the university and the government must be in the know of this. I think they will take an appropriate decision at an appropriate time,” said Somnath Mukhopadhyay, the principal of Dinabandhu Andrews College and office secretary of the All Bengal Principals’ Council. A university official said they wanted to first assess whether the postgraduate departments could successfully hold practical classes following the safety protocols before taking a call on what could be done at the undergraduate level. They also want to assess whether the decision to reopen the campuses at the master’s level has resulted in any adverse health impact on students and teachers. “There is a need to tread cautiously, given that the colleges have a larger number of students. The colleges are spread across districts as well and it would be difficult to centrally monitor whether each college is abiding by the safety protocols,” said an official of the university. The university has over 140 colleges affiliated to it. Another official said in case of the postgraduate departments, the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association wrote to the VC urging her “to allow holding practical classes in willing departments maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols” since those classes are essential for many courses. Days after pro-VC Chattopadhyay had told the heads that the first and third semester postgraduate exams would be held from March 8 to March 26, the association approached the VC on January 6. “We have not received any such appeal from the principals’ council,” said the official. Repeated calls to VC Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. She also did not respond to the text messages. Calls and messages to registrar Debasish Das did not elicit any response. The department of chemistry, which is first among the departments of Calcutta University to start postgra-duate practical classes on campus from Monday, will resume lab work only for third semester students to avoid crowding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
