19-01-2021||Calcutta||Will skip if it’s Covaxin: Calcutta doctors ||Many doctors in Calcutta who will not get the Covid jabs in the first round of vaccination said they would skip the second round if the “untested Indian vaccine” is given to them. In Bengal, Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, is being administered to health-care workers in the first round. State health department officials said there was no clarity on which vaccine the Centre will send in the next instalment — Covishield or Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Many doctors told Metro that they were not keen on receiving Covaxin, which is still undergoing phase-III trial and for which there is no efficacy data. “Although not peer-reviewed, there is efficacy data on Covishield. But there is no such data about Covaxin. A recipient cannot choose between the two and will have to take the one the government makes available. I will prefer to skip the second round if Covaxin is sent to our state in the hope that Covishield would be made available later,” said a senior physician, whose name does not figure in the first round of vaccination. “I will prefer Covishield because Oxford was involved in its development and there have been internationally accepted trials in the UK with efficacy data available. Compared with Covaxin, the data is more robust for Covishield,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, who is waiting for his turn for a Covid shot. Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya said he had reservations about Covaxin, but not Covishield. “The government should not have authorised a vaccine without publishing proper efficacy data. Although at this moment it is impossible to gauge the long-term efficacy of any of the Covid-19 vaccines, we have to go by whatever data is available based on trials,” said Bhattacharya. “There is hardly any adverse effect of these vaccines, which trials have shown. However, if a vaccine is administered without proper efficacy data, it can indirectly cause harm because a recipient might think he is safe, though in reality the vaccine might not be effective,” the physician said. “I will take Covaxin if there is no other option,” Bhattacharya added. A state health department official said they were in the dark about which vaccine will come in the next rounds. “We are yet to receive any communication from the government,” said the official. In the first phase, Bengal received nearly seven lakh doses of Covishield, which was half the doses required to vaccinate a little over six lakh health-care workers in the state. The Telegraph had reported last week that chief minister Mamata Banerjee during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked whether “adequate scientific confirmation” was available in favour of the two Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) that have been approved for emergency use in India. During the meeting, Mamata had asked why the states were left with no option to choose one of the two vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC set to triple Covid vaccination sites||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will triple the number of Covid-19 vaccination sites from next week, civic officials said on Monday. Five ward health clinics located in as many boroughs of Calcutta have been running vaccination sites since Saturday, when Covid-19 vaccination began across the country. There are 16 boroughs in the Calcutta municipal area and civic officials feel at least one vaccination site in each will expedite the vaccination of healthcare workers. According to Covid-19 vaccination guidelines issued by the Centre, about 1 crore health-care workers across the country will be vaccinated first. They will be followed by 2 crore frontline workers, including police and defence services personnel. The CMC has about 5,300 health-care workers – doctors, nurses, accredited social health activists (ASHA) and honorary health workers who visit door to door – who are eligible for a Covid vaccine, said an official. The list of frontline workers under the CMC – such as waste collectors and cremation staff – is still being prepared. An official said the names of more than 30,000 CMC employees who would be eligible for Covid jabs had been included in the list and more names would be added. “We are preparing to start Covid-19 vaccination in 11 more ward health clinics starting next Monday. Inspections will be conducted over the next few days but that will be a formality because most clinics have enough space to administer the shots,” a CMC official said. Inoculation of health-care workers can gain speed if more vaccination sites are opened, the official said. Apart from that, more sites mean the sites will come closer home, making it easier for health-care workers to get vaccinated. Because of some glitches that affected the functioning of Co-Win, a digital app launched by the Centre for Covid vaccination across the country, many vaccination sites were reaching out to  recipients over the phone and asking them to turn up at the site. The advantage was that if a prospective recipient said he or she could not turn up, someone else was approached for vaccination. “Once everything is done through the Co-Win platform, this advantage will be lost. The system will send text messages to recipients and only they can receive the doses that particular day. Those who cannot turn up cannot be replaced by others,” an official said. “If we set up more centres, we will be able to vaccinate more people.” The guidelines issued by the Centre say a site must have three rooms – the recipients will wait in the first, get their jabs in the second and be observed in the third for 30 minutes for adverse effects, if any.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Crowd surge on first day minus Calcutta Metro e-passes||Metro Railway ferried around 1.92 lakh passengers on Monday, the most since the resumption of commercial services on September 14 and the first day without e-passes. For the past several weekdays, the count had been in the range of 1.7 lakh. The carrier had ferried around 1.82 lakh passengers on January 13, the highest before Monday. The number of trains also went up to 240 from Monday, up from 228, to ease the expected rise in the number of passengers. The office hours were busy but the non-rush hour trains ferried fewer passengers than they used to during pre-Covid times. Metro officials said the count was not expected to be much above 200,000 in the near future because schools and colleges were shut and tokens were still suspended. “Our average passenger load per train used to be above 2,000 before the pandemic. Now, it is not expected to go beyond 850. We are confident of being able to maintain social distancing norms with that count,” said an official. Before the pandemic, the carrier ran 288 trains and ferried around 6 lakh passengers every day. Since commercial services resumed on September 14, many entry/exit gates across the stations in the north-south corridor had been shut to ensure crowd control. Five of such gates were opened on Monday. “The abolition of e-passes is expected to lead to a gradual rise in the number of passengers. Following social distancing protocols is still imperative. We have opened some more gates on Monday for better crowd control and will open more in phases if needed,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. The e-pass system had been effective in controlling the number of passengers, though some people accused it of being “discriminatory”. The carrier had been gradually narrowing the e-pass window before completely doing away with it from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Day Two turnout of vaccination lower than Day One||A little over 60 per cent of the people who were supposed to be vaccinated across Bengal took the Covid jab on Monday. In Calcutta, the figure was slightly better at 81 per cent. The health authorities have decided to draw up a longer list from now to ensure that more people are vaccinated each day. On Saturday, the day Covid-19 vaccination was launched across the nation, Bengal had witnessed around 75.9 per cent turnout. Calcutta’s figure was 93 per cent. Co-Win, the app developed by the Centre for Covid vaccination, had developed snags on Saturday, too, but health officials said the turnout was higher because of manual mobilisation of recipients. The authorities arranged for replacements for those who had either not received an intimation or couldn't make it to the designated site. On Monday, the entire vaccination programme was routed through Co-Win. Health officials said that since Sunday evening, the app functioned erratically. As a result, most of those who were selected for the jab started receiving text messages for Monday's programme a little after Sunday midnight. Most didn't see the messages in the early hours of the day and by the time some did, they realised it was well past their designated time. Since manual mobilisation was not allowed, there was no way others could be allowed to take the jab. As a result, the number of those receiving the shot came down on the second day. “We have decided to increase the number of prospective recipients from 100 to 200 for each site,” said a health department official. “The idea is to ensure that more people get text messages. This will hopefully push up the turnout.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools see increase in transfer certificate requests||Several schools have received applications from parents asking for transfer certificates of their children this academic year. During exit interviews or when they communicated with the parents, the schools found out that the parents had suffered financial loss during the pandemic and hence, wanted to shift their children to a school with lower fees or of vernacular medium, the heads of at least two schools said. The number of requests for pulling out children is not many but more than other years, school heads said. What is different this year is that the transfer certificates are needed mostly because parents are not shifting to other cities but to native places. A school head said they had come across instances of parents shifting to their “native places or districts”. “There are some parents who applied for transfer certificates around November when we asked parents to clear their fees (following the court order). During the exit interview, when we asked them the reason, they said they would put their children in a vernacular-medium school where the fees will be less,” said Richard Gasper, the principal of St Augustine’s Day School in Calcutta. Gasper said parents cited reasons like loss in business and salary-cuts for being unable to let their children continue in an English-medium school of their choice. The requests for transfer certificates have been mostly coming since December. But there were some before December, too. “The parents said they are going back to their native places and hence, they want transfer certificates,” said an official in a CBSE school in the city. “There are families who were living in Calcutta on rent and they have moved back to the places or districts where they came from. Some of them said they cannot afford and they will put their children in government schools nearby,” said Sucharita Roychowdhury, the headmistress at Silver Point School. Roychowdhury said parents of students in primary or middle school were at least seeking transfer certificates. The exodus is more at the pre-primary level, where parents are not even informing the authorities. “In nursery or kindergarten, parents are not even asking for transfer certificates. They are just pulling out their children and not coming back for readmission,” she said. he schools are letting go of those in pre-primary or junior classes without seeking much details but they are trying to deal more sympathetically with students in higher classes. “We don’t get such requests in other years. But this year while a few are choosing to move out, we are also trying to retain some by talking to the parents, especially whose children are in senior classes,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal at Loreto Convent Entally. At Saifee Golden Jubilee School, a couple of parents requested to pull out their children citing financial difficulties. One of the students is in Class X and the father, who runs a small shop, said he was finding it difficult to continue with the business, which had suffered a huge blow because of the pandemic. “The school counselled him and dissuaded him from withdrawing his child as it would have ruined the child's career. The school gave him a generous extension of the fee deadline. Finally, he agreed not to pull out his child,” said Huzaifa Motiwala, a committee member of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||More smart eyes to enforce road rules in Calcutta ||Calcutta police are installing automatic number plate recognition cameras and red light-violation detection cameras at 120 sites as part of their efforts to strengthen prosecutions using cameras, instead of manual citations that could be erroneous. At present, only 15 locations are covered by these cameras, which can automatically detect a vehicle’s movement if it violates a traffic signal and also capture the picture of its number plate as evidence. As Cyclone Amphan had left more than half of the regular CCTV cameras defunct in the city, citations through cameras had taken a backseat, police said. The pandemic only aggravated the problem, preventing the police from carrying out manual citations, traffic cops said. However, with the installation of over 320 new “intelligent” cameras at 120 locations, officers said they were hoping to again start a prosecution drive against traffic violations in the city. In the past few years, Calcutta police had reduced manual citation and started using CCTV cameras for citations. At present, there are over 1,600 regular CCTV cameras located at more than 600 intersections. Earlier, traffic cops used to note down the registration numbers of the vehicles that violated the traffic rules. The lists of vehicles used to be updated by all 25 traffic guards on an internal server that was linked to the traffic computer cell at Lalbazar, from where challans were issued to the owners of offending vehicles. The process, which completely depended on manual interventions, often allegedly led to erroneous citations. Often motorists would complain that they had received a challan citing that their vehicle had violated a traffic signal at a particular time, though the vehicle was actually somewhere else then. The onus would be on motorists to prove that the citations by the police were wrong. “Initially, the police would scan the footage of regular CCTV cameras at the traffic building to detect violations. Once the smart cameras came, the work became more accurate with less human interface,” said an officer in the traffic department. However, as there were only a few intelligent cameras in the city and the pandemic had shifted the police’s focus from prosecuting traffic violators to those without masks, the prosecution rate of traffic violations had reduced considerably over the past few months, officers said. Installation of intelligent cameras at 320 locations would also mean motorists would have to remain alert against violating traffic rules. The integrated system of intelligent cameras not just detects violations and recognises the vehicle number but also initiates the process of sending an e-challan to the mobile number registered against a vehicle number. Police said details of violations are also uploaded on the website of the Calcutta traffic police and can be assessed by the vehicle owners by entering their vehicle details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Suvendu Adhikari vows to defeat Mamata Banerjee||Suvendu Adhikari, who had joined the BJP last month, on Monday vowed to ensure Mamata Banerjee’s defeat in the Nandigram constituency by a margin of 50,000 votes. “She has decided to fight from Nandigram. Whoever our party decides to field against her, I promise that if I don’t defeat her by half a lakh votes, I’ll quit politics,” Suvendu said at a public meeting at the Rashbehari crossing. Banerjee had earlier in the day sprung a surprise by announcing her wish to contest the Assembly polls from Nandigram, a seat Suvendu had won in 2016. He had quit as the MLA before joining the BJP. The BJP had decided to hold a road show from Tollygunge to Rashbehari on the day Mamata travelled to Nandigram and addressed a rally in the aftermath of Suvendu switching over to the saffron camp. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh led the rally, in which Union minister Debasree Chaudhuri and other party leaders participated. The BJP leaders claimed 10,000 people took part in the rally that concluded with a public gathering. Both Ghosh and Chaudhuri tried to present Mamata’s decision to “shift to Nandigram” as a result of her fear that she might lose in her traditional seat, Bhowanipore in Calcutta. “She is trying to find some ground in Nandigram and we will sweep Bhowanipore,” Ghosh said at the meeting. “She is afraid that she will lose in Bhowanipore,” Ghosh added. The road show, however, reflected the acrimony between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP with Suvendu and Ghosh accusing their rivals of attacking their rally at three points between Tollygunge and Rashbehari. While the rally was crossing Mudiali, bricks were allegedly hurled at it from a nearby building. BJP supporters retaliated by throwing the bricks back at the building. They also allegedly vandalised a few motorbikes that were parked nearby. “I salute the members of our youth wing for giving a fitting reply to them (the attackers),” Suvendu said in his speech. Although senior police officers refused to say if any lapse in security arrangements had led to the violence, a cop with Tollygunge police station said that police were preparing to initiate a case against unknown persons for the attack on the BJP’s road show. The BJP has submitted a police complaint against Trinamul supporters for carrying out an attack on their rally. Around 27km away from Suvendu’s road show in south Calcutta, two other Trinamul turncoats, Sovan Chattopadhyay and Baisakhi Banerjee, led a rally at Bishnupur in South 24-Parganas on Monday. Speaking at a rally at the end of the road show, Chattopadhyay attacked Mamata for refusing to recognise the role of Contai’s Adhikari family in the Nandigram movement. He also referred to Mamata’s comments where she had compared the BJP to a washing machine that “purified” tainted leaders. “Don’t forget that you had gone into an alliance with the BJP several times in the past,” he said. While Suvendu is scheduled to hold a rally at Khejuria’s Heria in East Midnapore on Tuesday, he announced on Monday that he would hold another rally soon in Calcutta along with Ghosh. “The next rally will be from Garia crossing to Hazra crossing,” he said. “We won’t take any police permission, but will hold a public meeting at Hazra itself,” he added. Mamata lives near Hazra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Unidentified body on Bypass service road||A man was found dead on a service road adjoining EM Bypass, near Salt Lake stadium Metro station and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, early on Monday. The man, in his 30s, identified as Sanjeev Das, a resident of Duttabad, had injuries on his head and at the back of one of his ears. Police said the post-mortem report was “inconclusive” as it could not be ascertained whether the injuries were homicidal or accidental in nature. The stretch along the Bypass is frequented by walkers, motorists and pedestrians throughout the day. At night, however, the area turns deserted. The police said a passer-by had alerted them about a person lying on the road with bleeding injuries early in the morning. A team from Phoolbagan police station took the man to a hospital, where he was declared dead. “We are waiting for the final post-mortem report. We are not ruling out any possibility at this moment,” said a senior police officer of the eastern suburban division. Many vehicles ply down the service road along the EM Bypass and could have caused the accident, police said. At the same time, cops were unable to rule out whether someone killed the victim and dumped his body on the stretch at night. Cops are trying to extract footage from the closest CCTV cameras. However, a large number of CCTV cameras were damaged by Cyclone Amphan, which had struck the city in May last year, and are yet to be repaired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal panel issues refund order to 3 Kolkata hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked Belle Vue Clinic and Ruby General Hospital to refund to the families of two persons treated by them the amounts not covered by the state and central government health schemes. The commission also asked Horizon Life Line Multispeciality Hospital in Entally to refund Rs 2.5 lakh to one person and Rs 1.34 lakh to another. The hospital overcharged the two, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. Glocal Hospital in Midnapore was asked to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation to a patient’s family. The family of a sub-inspector of the state police complained to the commission that Belle Vue Clinic refused to offer cashless admission to the cop, though he had a medical insurance cover under the state government health scheme, which provides for cashless admission. “During the hearing, Belle Vue Clinic said it was difficult for them to admit the patient under cashless facility since the policeman was not diagnosed with any disease and was not even suggested hospitalisation by a doctor from outside,” said Banerjee. “Belle Vue did not refuse the patient but said there were some technical difficulties in extending a cashless admission facility to him. The patient tested positive for Covid-19 subsequently and he was then allowed the cashless facility.” In the process, the patient had to pay Rs 56,000 of the total bill of Rs 1.56 lakh. The hospital got Rs 1 lakh reimbursed under the state government scheme. “We have asked the hospital to give all documents to the patient’s family so they can claim reimbursement under the health scheme. The hospital must reimburse the patient any amount that will not be reimbursed by the health scheme,” he said. A similar complaint was lodged against Ruby hospital by the family of an ex-employee of Damodar Valley Corporation. The 76-year-old man passed away at the hospital in December. The hospital had refused the patient the benefits of the central government health scheme on the ground that they had ceased to have any agreement with the DVC for treating its employees, said Banerjee. “But the agreement is supposed to continue till February 2021. We have asked the hospital to prepare a separate bill according to the rates of the health scheme and give it to the patient’s family,” said Banerjee. The family will claim reimbursement under the scheme. “If there is any amount the claim for which is rejected on the ground of extra charge or on any other merit, the hospital has to refund the patient’s family that amount,” said Banerjee. “We have also asked Horizon Life Line to return Rs 2.5 lakh to a patient’s family, who had complained about overcharging,” he said. “Horizon must also offer a discount of Rs 1.34 lakh on the total bill amount to a patient’s family,” Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta records 'very poor' air quality||Calcutta is literally in the “red” when it comes to air pollution, according to the state pollution control board data on Monday. Around 7.30pm on Monday, the entire stretch of Calcutta along with Howrah and the fringes of the two 24-Parganas was found to have “very poor” air quality with all 11 automatic air pollution measuring stations in the region recording air quality index (AQI) values in excess of 300; according to the app maintained by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. A rough calculation shows that the stations cover nearly 375sqkm and a population of about 8.5 million. The air pollution station within Rabindra Bharati University recorded the highest AQI value of 380; the station at BITM in Ballygunge area showed 359 followed by 355 at the Jadavpur station. While Padmapukur in Howrah was found to have an AQI of 341; Ghusuri and Belur in the same district recorded 339 and 322 respectively. Victoria Memorial, Fort William and Rabindra Sarobar - where the measuring stations are located within green verge and hence expect to show less pollution — showed AQI values of 308, 317 and 316 respectively. Budge Budge on the city's southern fringe recorded AQI value of 318 and Salt Lake on the northern fringe recorded 323, showing the pollution spread is all over the wider city. In all the stations, PM2.5, the most toxic ultrafine particulate, was the dominant pollutant. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, prolonged exposure to AQI value in excess of 300, considered “very poor” air pollution, may trigger respiratory illness within common people. “Both known sources of air pollution as well as meteorological factors combine to create poor quality of air. However, without a detailed study, it is difficult to conclude which one contributes how much in the city's air pollution mix,” said Professor Sagnik Dey, an air pollution expert with IIT Delhi and presently working on the city's air pollution. Dey opined that post-unlocking, the city has gone back to the path of usual pollution peril. Earlier, a study by environment think tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) showed that Calcutta had experienced an extremely polluted December, even worse than last year, as the level of ultrafine PM2.5 in the city had jumped 13 times compared to August which was found to be the cleanest on the aftermath of the Covid-triggered lock down. “Poor commercial vehicles are mainly responsible for the city's heightened pollution level. The PCB, the state environment department and the government need to act on that front,” said environmentalist Subhas Datta, who has moved the court demanding introduction of environment friendly CNG in the city replacing highly toxic diesel. According to a recent study carried out by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), about 28 per cent of toxic PM2.5 pollution in the city is caused by households, closely followed by road dust and vehicular pollution (both around 25 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta protester: Why not Mann ki Baat at Singhu border? ||Narendra Modi should have held Mann ki Baat at Singhu border if farmers’ concerns were genuinely on his mind, a protester at a south Calcutta demonstration against the contentious farm laws said on Monday. “Modiji nu kisana di agar aini chinta si, taa mann di baat Singhu border jaake karni chahidi si,” said Jagtar Singh, standing behind a makeshift stage near the intersection of Sarat Bose Road and Chakraberia Road. The president of Gurdwara Guru Nanak Satsang in Howrah’s Andul, Jagtar Singh, led a team that visited the Sarat Bose Road demonstration. The other members of the huddle echoed him vigorously. “Singhu border is barely a few kilometres from his home in Delhi. What is stopping him from going there,” asked Manjit Singh, one of the organisers of the demonstration that entered its sixteenth day on Monday. A relay hunger strike from 10am to 5.30pm, led by women, is part of the demonstration, apart from speeches, songs and skits. Monday was dedicated to women, in keeping to a call given by the Jai Kisan Andolan to celebrate the role of women farmers in the country. “They are wondering why women are protesting at Singhu, at Tikri and other places. Women are protesting because they are an integral part of farming — right from sowing the seeds to harvesting the crop,” said Ramanprit Kaur Sodhi, a social worker who lives in Bhowanipore and has been a part of the Sarat Bose Road protest from the start. Items like potato and cereals were removed from the list of essential commodities to allow big companies to hoard and then sell them at a higher price, said Nausheen Baba Khan, another organiser. Cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes were removed from the list of essential commodities in The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, that was passed by Parliament on September 22. “The law will increase the price of everyday items in the kitchen. People are still reeling under the financial burden of the lockdown. The wounds of demonetisation are not forgotten. The government has now come up with other tools of harassment,” Khan told the audience. A group of women staged a short play on Monday. It began with one of them working on a farmland. She is seen waiting for “acchhe din” and “Rs 15 lakh”. Her path crosses with that of two other women who are headed to the Singhu border to take part in the farmers’ protest. At the end of the play, the first woman joins the other two in heading towards Singhu. “All the government sees in the protesters in Khalistanis. Only BJP supporters are patriots. The rest are all branded traitors. Some of the protesters are called Pakistanis. Some are called Khalistanis,” said Manpreet Singh, another organiser of the demonstration. The protesters have occupied a slice of a narrow lane off Sarat Bose Road. On Monday, the site comprised a small stage, carved out of a pavement and a series of plastic chairs on the lane. Posters and banners surround the place. A large banner that contains the names of people who have died at the siege at Delhi border hung at the site. The list contained 57 names. The number has since gone up. Sarat Bose Road is one of the busiest roads in south Calcutta. A heavy flow of buses, cabs, private cars and two-wheelers went about their business as usual as the protest continued. eads turned towards the venue occasionally, when a bus of a cab was stuck in a signal. A tea stall right next to the stage, the destination of scores of people for their evening cuppa, brought in some more listeners. Members of the Sikh community from Dunlop and Barrackpore also visited the Sarat Bose Road venue on Monday. “The government is scared because we are nearing victory. We cannot let our guard down now. The government will have to repeal the laws,” Sukhvinder Pal Singh, who had come from Dunlop, told the audience amid a loud cheer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Digital gateway to festivity||Tulipians Academy Tulipians Pre and Primary schools recently planned a virtual fun camp where kids got to enjoy with their favourite characters such as Chhota Bheem, Peppa and Doraemon. At the same time, they learnt baking cakes, singing carols and other creative activities. The school also organised a Santa visit to most of their students’ homes, giving them Santa meals of pasta or burgers, gifts and personalised letter from Santa Claus. “What we brought to so many families was boundless joy, surprise and the belief that even Covid-19 couldn’t take away from us. Christmas, indeed, is a reminder of hope and love. And the happiness is all about togetherness and kindness. Together we can, together we will,” said founder director and chairman Nirmal Verma. Vivekananda Mission School, Joka Students from pre-primary to Class XII of Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, recently organised its annual function on a virtual platform. A PowerPoint presentation celebrated the academic and co-curricular achievements of the prize winners for the academic session 2019-20. Around 25 children from the lower primary section came together to present A Vision of Paradise that depicted how people can build a better future and make this planet a paradise to live in, putting aside all the differences and bitterness. The primary students took the viewers on A Stroll Down the Memory Lane that showcased the idea of life as an endless interplay of joys and sorrows. The students also paid a tribute to the community helpers. Students of the day section reflected on the present challenges the world is dealing with and their presentation focused on how the human mind could not be restricted from travelling even when the situation did not permit them to do so. “It was a challenge for us to organise the function on a digital platform. But we made it possible thanks to our teamwork. The message for all is — Build yourself in such a manner that come what may, you are sure to succeed,” said principal Sarmistha Banerjee. Class IX student Sreejato Pramanik said: “I have always taken part in all the annual functions of my school years. That this is not happening this year like the previous occasions simply added to my misery. I, therefore, could not be happier to see it held online — a different and great experience. Our school proved that situations have changed but not the mindset.” Abhinav Bharati High School Abhinav Bharati High School recently organised online winter carnival for two consecutive days to surprise its students, who missed being in school physically. The students of classes I to V were divided according to their class and each class was provided with tutorial videos in which the teachers demonstrated interesting games and the children performed them virtually. After the games, the students took part in music and dance shows. A virtual picnic, too, was organised on the second day owing to which the students were asked to bring in their favourite food and wear casual clothes. The teachers encouraged the students’ potentialities as they had decorated the background walls of their rooms. “This was a new experience for us, so we were worried about how everything would be done. I am glad that the students took part in it with so much enthusiasm. The parents’ co-operation is worth mentioning,” said headmistress Moumita Rakshit. Principal Sraboni Samanta said: “This is an event which the whole school looks forward to. And the kind of response we got from both the students and parents was overwhelming.” Shri Shikshayatan School Shri Shikshayatan School recently organised its annual science exhibition and art and craft show for the junior section on a virtual platform. The exhibitions together were a part of the STEAM education pedagogy, an integral to the CBSE curriculum. The science exhibition was based on the theme of Science in Nature, where students of classes III and V representing the four houses — Anushuya, Arundhati, Satavisha and Vishakha — demonstrated experiments on topics such as The Earth and its natural environment, Aqua lab, Air and Pressure-PRIZED. The art and craft exhibition, on the other hand, was organised as a motif to develop love for one’s roots by mixing education with culture. Students of classes I and II displayed their drawing and craft skills based on the theme Seasons and Best out of waste with things easily available at home. The exhibition commenced with the students of the NGO Bhantuali Ekal Vidyalaya displaying their contribution to the occasion. It is one of the many schools who receive charity contributions from Shri Shikshayatan School. “This year cannot be considered as a gap year. Children are growing and so should their knowledge,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. Headmistress Poushali Mukherjee said: “It gives me pleasure to see how much enthusiasm and hard work have gone behind this exhibition. There is science everywhere around us, keep your eyes open and develop that passion and you will chance upon a wonderful world. With best of wishes for a happy and safe life, we will meet again but this does not stop us for the search of science and art and craft as part of our co-curricular activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
