20-01-2021||Calcutta||More smart eyes to enforce road rules||Calcutta police are installing automatic number plate recognition cameras and red light-violation detection cameras at 120 sites as part of their efforts to strengthen prosecutions using cameras, instead of manual citations that could be erroneous. At present, only 15 locations are covered by these cameras, which can automatically detect a vehicle’s movement if it violates a traffic signal and also capture the picture of its number plate as evidence. As Cyclone Amphan had left more than half of the regular CCTV cameras defunct in the city, citations through cameras had taken a backseat, police said. The pandemic only aggravated the problem, preventing the police from carrying out manual citations, traffic cops said However, with the installation of over 320 new “intelligent” cameras at 120 locations, officers said they were hoping to again start a prosecution drive against traffic violations in the city. In the past few years, Calcutta police had reduced manual citation and started using CCTV cameras for citations. At present, there are over 1,600 regular CCTV cameras located at more than 600 intersections. Earlier, traffic cops used to note down the registration numbers of the vehicles that violated the traffic rules. The lists of vehicles used to be updated by all 25 traffic guards on an internal server that was linked to the traffic computer cell at Lalbazar, from where challans were issued to the owners of offending vehicles. The process, which completely depended on manual interventions, often allegedly led to erroneous citations. Often motorists would complain that they had received a challan citing that their vehicle had violated a traffic signal at a particular time, though the vehicle was actually somewhere else then. The onus would be on motorists to prove that the citations by the police were wrong. “Initially, the police would scan the footage of regular CCTV cameras at the traffic building to detect violations. Once the smart cameras came, the work became more accurate with less human interface,” said an officer in the traffic department. However, as there were only a few intelligent cameras in the city and the pandemic had shifted the police’s focus from prosecuting traffic violators to those without masks, the prosecution rate of traffic violations had reduced considerably over the past few months, officers said. Installation of intelligent cameras at 320 locations would also mean motorists would have to remain alert against violating traffic rules. The integrated system of intelligent cameras not just detects violations and recognises the vehicle number but also initiates the process of sending an e-challan to the mobile number registered against a vehicle number. Police said details of violations are also uploaded on the website of the Calcutta traffic police and can be assessed by the vehicle owners by entering their vehicle details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta|| Call for 3-day bus strike from January 28||Five private bus and minibus unions have called a three-day strike from January 28 to protest the rising price of diesel which, union members said, had further intensified their struggle for existence amid the Covid pandemic. The decision was taken on Tuesday after members of the five unions held a meeting and discussed the fallout of the rising price of diesel on business. On Tuesday, diesel sold at Rs 78.72 a litre in Calcutta. A month back, the price was around Rs 68.14 a litre in the city. “The price of diesel has been rising regularly since June and we have not been getting enough passengers to see any profit during this period,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “How do we survive? We have decided to go for this strike. We understand commuters would face problems but we request them to understand our plight as well.” On Tuesday, the association wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting the Centre to reduce taxes on diesel and enhance the interest-free moratorium period for transport vehicle owners. Copies of the letter have been sent to Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union minister of petroleum and natural gas, and to Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister of road transport and highways. “Bus owners are unable to pay their EMIs and the price of diesel is continuing to rise. This was affecting the CIBIL score of the borrowers. Next time, several bus owners would not even qualify for a loan. What do we do?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. There are around 21,000 private bus operators in Bengal. In Calcutta and its surrounding areas, the count stands at 7,000. Almost all of them have been reeling from financial distress since the diesel price started rising.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Glare on loud music in Sunderbans||Patrol teams of the forest department will remove sound systems and loudspeakers from launches and motor boats hired by tourists in the Sunderbans, an official of the department said. Hundreds of launches and motor boats take tourists inside the Sunderbans and most are fitted with music systems and loudspeakers, inflicting torture on animals and birds living in the mangroves. The National Green Tribunal had three years ago ordered the state government to prevent sound pollution in the Sunderbans and dumping of untreated waste in the rivers and creeks there. Most launch and boat owners, however, flout norms and instal sound systems and loudspeakers on their launches and boats to entertain tourists. “We have found that most boats have sound systems installed on them. Loud music leads to a spike in sound pollution levels and is bad for animals and birds. Our patrol teams will remove such sound systems and loudspeakers,” said another forest department official. Officials will also keep watch on dumping of plastic bags, glasses and items made of styrofoam such as plates from boats, the official said. “In case any boat is found carrying plastic items or things made of thermocol, we will issue hefty fines on the spot and seize these items. Most boats serve lunch on board and utensils made of plastic and styrofoam are frequently used,” official said. Tourism in the Sunderbans, which was suspended following the outbreak of Covid-19, has resumed and on an average around 300 boats and launches are taking tourists into the mangroves every day. “We will not allow any boat to flout norms and will send notices to all boat owners as well as those who conduct tours. We will check every boat before they leave and monitor the waterways and impose heavy fines on violators,” said Milan Mondal, the divisional forest officer of the South 24-Parganas range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||More Covid vaccine sites on anvil||The state government is planning to set up more Covid-19 vaccination sites following a confirmation from the Centre that the second lot of Covishield doses will arrive in Calcutta on Wednesday. In the second round, 6.99 lakh doses are expected to arrive in the city, state government officials said.  Some of the doses will be for other eastern and northeastern states. “The additional doses will help expedite the vaccination process,” a health department official said. Twenty more private hospitals in and around Calcutta are likely to open Covid-19 vaccination sites next week, a state government official who is managing Covid-19 sites in the city has said. Only three private hospitals in the city have so far been allowed to run vaccination sites. Some of the hospitals where sites could be opened are Belle Vue Clinic, Woodlands Hospital, CMRI, AMRI Mukundapur, Charnock Hospital and Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation also issued an order on Tuesday announcing that Covid-19 vaccination sites will be set up at 11 more ward health clinics from Monday. “We had a meeting with private hospitals on Tuesday. We will conduct inspections soon to see if they are prepared to run vaccination sites on their campuses. They are expected to begin vaccination on their campuses from early next week,” said the state government official. Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue, said three representatives of each of the 20 hospitals attended Tuesday’s meeting. “The nodal officer chosen for Covid-19 vaccination in each of these hospitals, the system manager and a vaccinator were called to the meeting. They were informed about the Co-Win application and other necessary details,” said Tondon. “All the selected hospitals have to vaccinate healthcare workers of other healthcare institutions in the vicinity that do not have a Covid-19 vaccination site on their campus,” he said. On Tuesday, 13,693 healthcare workers were vaccinated across the state. The number of those vaccinated was 13,661 on Monday and 15,707 on Saturday, the first day of Covid vaccination. “Eleven adverse events were reported on Tuesday but those were mostly minor issues like pain at the injection site,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services of the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Injured civet cat takes shelter, rescued||An injured civet cat took refuge in the compound of a house in Chandernagore late on Monday after it was chased by dogs. Swapan Pal and his family members came out of their house near the Nadua temple complex in Chandernagore when they heard loud noises at night to find a civet cat. It looked scared and kept snarling at them. Alerted by the sounds, Pal’s neighbours also came to check. When they saw the animal, they asked Pal to drive it away. But Pal refused and let the animal stay in their compound. He then contacted animal rights activists and wildlife lovers on Facebook seeking their help. “The animal was bleeding and snarling. Our neighbours were afraid and asked us to drive it out of the house. But I realised that if we did that, it might get killed,” said Pal. He managed to contact Soumyodip Mukherjee, who runs Bonyo, an NGO that helps rescue injured birds and animals. Mukherjee advised Pal to give the civet cat some food and water and requested him not to drive the animal out. “We got in touch with the wildlife rescue centre in Salt Lake,” said Mukherjee. An official of the wildlife rescue centre alerted the Hooghly beat office of the forest department about the animal. A team from the Hooghly beat office reached the spot and rescued the animal on Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||GI-tagged Joynagar Moa fly to Bahrain||The first consignment of GI-tagged Joynagar Moa will leave Calcutta on Wednesday. Thirty kilos of moa will land in Bahrain after flying out of Calcutta in specially created packages. Along with it will travel a little over 100 kilos of patali gur (date palm jaggery), another winter delicacy from Bengal. “This is the first time GI-tagged Joynagar Moa will be exported from Bengal,” said Sandeep Saha of the Agricultural and Process Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), under the Union ministry of commerce and industry. “We have also received enquiries from Italy and Canada. We will wait for feedback about the first consignment and then take our next step.” The origin of Joynagar Moa dates back more than a century. Ashutosh Das, a resident of Das Para of Sreepur village in Joynagar, had started the moa industry in Bengal in 1904. But it was only in November 2014 that this delicate sweet made of khoi (popped rice) bagged a geographical indication tag for its uniqueness that would be only found across two blocks of Joynagar in South 24-Parganas. “When APEDA officials reached us with the proposal, the challenge was to maintain the freshness of the product with right moisture content according to GI specifications,” said Ashok Kumar Kayal of Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society. “We finally found a way and the moa has been sent in log box packets with a shelf life of five to six days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Engineering course at Jadavpur University loses sheen||A Jadavpur University engineering course that is usually pursued by working professionals has had only 40 per cent takers this year, possibly because the hope that the degree will bring promotions has faded among potential applicants. After the university conducted counselling independently, of the 50 seats each in the evening courses of electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, 33 and 34 seats have remained vacant, respectively. The university is holding a fresh round of counselling. The current job situation does not suggest that the course would be rewarding for working professionals, several teachers said. Those who have completed their diploma in engineering pursue the five-year BTech (evening) programme while working during the day, in the hope that a degree from JU will help them land a plum promotion, officials of JU’s engineering faculty said. A candidate has to have at least a year’s job experience to apply for JU’s evening engineering programme. The applicant has to submit a no-objection certificate from the employer to enrol. But after the university held counselling among 379 applicants in December, a staggering number of seats remained vacant in the two coveted streams. Three seats have remained vacant in the civil engineering department, which is among the three evening engineering programmes JU offers. For HR departments, an additional degree by a working professional does not trigger much of a response anymore. According to them, retaining a job should be the sole concern of an employee. A professor of IIM Calcutta said that he wasn’t surprised by what was happening at JU. At IIM, six working professionals had quit the executive MBA programme because hope faded that the degree would bring a promotion. Candidates would sometimes quit their jobs to pursue the course. “Under normal circumstances, candidates feel the course will land them a plum job so they don’t hesitate to quit their current job. But Covid has changed everything,” an IIM-C teacher said. Working professionals might find it more prudent to work longer hours now instead of taking time off to pursue an evening course, another IIM-C teacher said. “They are focussed on retaining the job they have.” “We have to find out why so many seats remained vacant,” said JU pro vice-chancellor Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, who is also the former dean of engineering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||ICSE content on Covid protocol||The ICSE council has asked schools to spread awareness on how to wear masks, wash hands and maintain distance among each other as a precaution against Covid-19. The Union education ministry has created an online link containing posters, wall paintings and social media creatives on the subject and sent it to all school heads, asking them to share the link with students, parents and teachers. Several school heads said the move was aimed at familiarising students with Covid-safety norms ahead of possible resumption of in-person classes. Students have to be prepared well in advance on how to conduct themselves in the presence of friends, whom they will meet almost after a year, once campuses reopen. “This is in reference to the IEC (Information, Education and Communication) material for mainstream Corona Responsive Behaviour (CRB) circulated by the ministry of education…. The link will give you access to posters, wall paintings and social media creatives. You are requested to share the... link with all teachers, staff, parents, students of your school,” reads a notice issued by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, which conducts ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. The posters include visual images with messages such as “Corona spreads when you share/Keep to yourself to show you care” and “Meet your friends and say hello/But remember touching is a strict no-no” and “4 golden rules when you are eating: Use a spoon, wash your hands, eat from your own plate or tiffin, maintain 6ft of distance from each other”. The wall paintings demonstrate the distance to be maintained among each other outside toilets or on playgrounds, places where students are not usually under the supervision of an adult. “We need to prepare students for classes on campus and they will have to maintain distance while they are writing examinations or attending classes because online classes cannot be a permanent thing,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Some of the heads plan to circulate the information through online classes. “We will have a dedicated time during online classes to tell students about the safety protocol (to be maintained on the campus). They need to know they will have to abide by them for their own sake,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Ram Mohan Mission High School. “The children will meet after a long time and they will tend to drop guard. Hence, the training is important to make them more responsible. The fear is they will want to get close to one another during lunch break…. There should be no assembly and entry and exit should be staggered,” said Manish Dalmia, a parent whose daughter is in Class XI and son in Class VI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Cinema owners worried over occupancy||Ten days after Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that cinemas in Bengal can operate with 100 per cent capacity, the state government has yet to come up with a formal notification. Several hall owners, however, said they were struggling to get even 10 per cent of the audience and in the absence of new films, a government notification will just be another piece of paper. “It does not matter what capacity is allowed by the government. The capacity of one of my halls is around 800. I am not seeing even eight people in a show,” said the owner of two halls in south Calcutta. He said the fixed establishment costs like power bills and staff salary were bleeding him, a common concern for hall owners across the state. “I have been paying 50 per cent of the staff salary. In the coming days, I am unlikely to continue doing that,” said another hall owner. The absence of new big-ticket films is the big problem, hall owners said. “It is a classic chicken or egg first syndrome. Producers do not want to release big films unless occupancy is increased. Unless big films arrive, people are not going to go to cinemas,” said a distributor in Bengal. “Halls are operating with 50 per cent capacity because of the pandemic. I will ask chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to issue a notification allowing halls to run with 100 per cent capacity,” Mamata had said on January 8, at the inauguration of the Kolkata International Film Festival, drawing loud applause from the audience. The Tamil Nadu government had on January 4 passed a similar order, withdrawing the 50 per cent cap on cinema hall occupancy. But following an objection from the Union home ministry and legal challenges, the government revoked the order. The Centre had greenlighted the reopening of cinemas from October 15, the seating capacity curtailed to 50 per cent of the total capacity. The Covid-19 pandemic had sounded a possible death knell for many single-screen theatres. Hundreds of people who worked in the halls have lost their jobs, many more have been forced to take pay cuts. Out of around 225 halls registered with the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), some 75 are closed, said sources in the association. “We had written a letter to the Union home secretary, seeking a virtual or physical meeting. Unless the occupancy is increased, we will not see big releases. But there has been no response so far,” said a Calcutta-based exhibitor, who is a member of the All India Exhibitors’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Survey data delinked from vaccine list||The data from a survey in the city to identify people with comorbidities is not good enough and will not be used to prepare a list of people who will get Covid-19 jabs on a priority basis, sources said on Tuesday. The survey was conducted by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation from September 7 to 30 and data of more than seven lakh households in the city have been uploaded. The data was to be used to monitor people with comorbidities so that timely treatment could be arranged if they contracted Covid and to make a list of those who would need vaccines on a priority basis. “The data from the comorbidity survey will not be used to prepare the list of people. It could be used for other purposes,” a health department official said on Tuesday. Health department sources said the quality of the data was not good enough to be used to prepare the list of people with comorbidities who should be in priority groups for a Covid vaccine. CMC officials, however, denied the data was not up to the mark. “There were flaws in the collection of data at the ground level and also in data uploading. Sample checks have revealed that in many cases names, addresses and contact numbers of the respondents did not match. The quality of the data was far from desirable,” said a state government official involved in Bengal’s Covid response. Several residents across Calcutta told Metro that CMC workers had not visited their homes to collect data about co-morbidities. The CMC was helped by the state health department and Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, health officials and Covid survivors, in conducting the survey. The health department and the network provided technical knowhow, while CMC workers and officials collected and uploaded the data. The exercise was undertaken because people with comorbidities — such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease — are more vulnerable to the novel coronavirus. Health department data reveals that 83.9 per cent of the people in Bengal who died after contracting Covid had comorbidities. Till Tuesday, the Covid death toll in the state stood at 10,074. The government had planned to use the data from the survey to monitor these people. If any person with comorbidities had Covid, the health department and the CMC would monitor his or her condition closely and arrange for prompt hospitalisation, if needed. In the initial days, many people with comorbidities had turned critical because they got admitted to hospital late. Around six lakh health workers will get Covid vaccine jabs in the state in the ongoing first phase of vaccination. Health department officials said frontline workers such as cops and civic workers would be vaccinated in the second phase, to be followed by people above 50 or those below 50 but suffering from co-mor-bidities. State government officials said the schedule of subsequent rounds of vaccination would depend on availability of doses from the Centre. “We will have to prepare a guideline to identify people with comorbidities. It will be done soon,” said a senior official of the health department. The department had received the comorbidity data from the CMC a few weeks back, following which officials started an analysis. The CMC had first decided to upload the entire set of data by Durga Puja last year. The deadline was later extended to October 31, but even that was missed. The data was finally uploaded towards the end of November, after which the analysis started. The survey’s initial target was to cover 10 lakh households in Calcutta but that could not be achieved. At several stages, CMC employees had expressed their reluctance to continue with the exercise, sources said. CMC officials denied that the quality of data was not good. “We held several meetings with the health department and Covid Care Network. The process and format of data uploading was prepared by the health department. We implemented it and to the best of our capacity,” said an official of the civic body. “There are lakhs and lakhs of names and addresses. In such a huge exercise, there could be a few lapses but the health department has not told us that the quality of data is not good,” he said. According to the official, in many cases reluctance of residents in providing data proved to be a hindrance. He said there was a possibility that some people did not want to reveal contact numbers or other details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
20-01-2021||Calcutta||When Gabba felt like Eden Gardens||Among the Indian supporters at the Gabba savouring from up close one of Indian cricket’s biggest days were Sagnik Guha, 24, and Arka Basu, 25. While Sagnik’s mother is from Sinthee, he was born in South Africa and migrated to Australia at the age of eight. Arka, born and raised Down Under, has roots in Ballygunge through his parents. But when it comes to cricket, both bleed Blue. The two friends share with Metro the action and the celebration. Sagnik Guha There were seven of us — four Bengalis, one Tamilian and two Australians. And all of us were supporting India! We decided to go for the match at the end of Day 4. This was to be my first international match at the Gabba. Since I did not have an India shirt, I wore my South Africa jersey instead. We could sit next to each other but the rows before and after us were blocked to ensure social distancing. Rohit Sharma was already out when I reached. But given how Shardul Thakur and Washington Sundar had held ground in the first innings, we were not worried about a batting collapse. Truth be told, it was a draw that we were expecting. At the Gabba, you don’t expect a touring team to chase down a full strength Australian side’s score on the last day. The Indians were chanting Bharat mata ki jai with such vigour that one of our Australian friends said he felt like he was at Eden Gardens! Yet, the crowd was so sporting that both good shots and good fielding got applauded. We could spot the Bharat Army seated square of the wicket with a huge banner. They got increasingly noisy as Rishav Pant and his partners wore down the Aussie lead. With three to get, the crowd simply went crazy. A guy possibly had a beer too many and kept jumping. And when the victory lap was happening, many had tears in their eyes. Arka Basu I have been to the Gabba several times before but this is the first time that I saw India play a Test. And what a beautiful day it turned out to be! While the first four days have price tickets, the last day is usually a gold coin donation day. This means one simply donates a one or two-dollar coin at the gate. They are the only two coins coloured gold in Australian currency. With me were two Australian friends with whom I play indoor cricket. We reached the stadium early. The souvenir stalls that sell flags, team shirts, bucket hats or scarves were missing this time. But I had my India shirt on. There were dholaks playing outside and people were dancing to the beat. It was a magical atmosphere. We had an unbelievably good time. And when we were walking out for a celebration dinner, many Australians driving by rolled down their car windows to shout “Well done” to us. That felt nice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
