21-01-2021||Calcutta||Drive to end abuse of children||A drive to eradicate child labour and begging by children in Calcutta was launched on Wednesday. The state commission for protection of child rights, Calcutta police, state labour department and several NGOs have come together for the initiative, which will include awareness campaigns and counselling of parents. “Whenever we go down certain streets we see children begging or selling balloons and the campaign is to eradicate that,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBPCR). The drive, she said, will continue for several months. The campaign started in front of Tollygunge police station and the group walked to the Rashbehari Avenue crossing, and from there to Southern Avenue. Members of the group talked to some of the families who live by the roadside. Awareness campaign and sensitisation are the first step of the initiative, which will be followed by counselling of parents, Chatterjee Chakraborti said. “If it still continues, we will produce the children in front of the Child Welfare Committee and try to stop it…. It is a difficult task but we have to make genuine efforts to stop it,” she said. Child labour cannot be eradicated just by implementing an act, said Manisha Bhattacharyya, joint labour commissioner (P), labour department. “All stakeholders, from parents of children to those who employ children as domestic help, will have to be aware of the problem. During the pandemic, when schools are closed, there is a propensity (among children) to go out to work or beg to earn some pocket money,” said Bhattacharyya. Announcements were being made from the procession that making children beg or work to earn money is a punishable offence, children should be sent to school, no child should be deprived of his or her right and one should not encourage begging by giving money. “People need to understand that they should not encourage begging by giving money to children…. Even if one person makes note of what we are trying to say, it will help the cause,” said Mahuya Santra, a consultant at the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. From Thursday, announcements to discourage child labour and begging by children will be made from vehicles in pockets of Gariahat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Trafficked Bangladeshi girl to be sent home||A Bangladeshi girl allegedly trafficked to Calcutta with the bait of a job and rescued from Sonagachhi four years ago is set to return home this month. The girl was 15 when she came to Calcutta in April 2017. Instead of a steady income, the next two months allegedly had captivity and repeated rapes in store. She was rescued from Sonagachhi on May 30, 2017, by police and has since been living at a rehabilitation centre. Five alleged traffickers were arrested. The department of women and child development and social welfare of the state government has recently issued a travel permit to the survivor. She will have to spend three months under observation at a shelter in Bangladesh before she can reunite with her family, said a lawyer who represented her. Upon receiving the news, the girl is said to have told her counsellors that she was happy but wanted to continue the legal fight against the alleged traffickers and spread awareness on trafficking in Bangladesh. Last month, she testified in court, identifying her alleged tormentors. On January 12, a Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court granted an interim compen-sation of Rs 50,000 for the survivor. “This is the first time that a court in Bengal awarded interim compensation to a victim of sex trafficking who is a foreign national,” said an official of the International Justice Mission, an NGO that helped the police in the rescue and has been instrumental in the rehabilitation of the girl. The compensation money will be spent on her immediate rehabilitation, the court said. “She said she would want to use the cash to continue her education,” said Piyali Mukherjee Sarkar, an IJM lawyer who represented the survivor. The girl has told the police and counsellors that her father is an auto driver. “She was good in studies but the family was poor. A family friend offered to take her to Calcutta to work in a garment factory,” said Mukherjee Sarkar. She was first taken to an apartment off the EM Bypass, where she spent a couple of weeks before being shifted to Sonagachhi. “She was also forced to take medicines to appear more physically developed than her age,” said a police officer. Among the five alleged traffickers arrested were the family friend and the owner of the brothel in Sonagachhi where the survivor was kept. The accused have been slapped with IPC sections 370 (trafficking), 366B (import of a girl from another country), 373 (buying a minor for prostitution), 376 (rape) and 467 (forging documents), and also some sections of the Pocso Act and the Foreigners Act. If convicted, they can be jailed for life. “This order not only reflects increased sensitivity and proactiveness of the judicial and government stakeholders towards a sex-trafficking case, but also a progressive application of laws, especially on foreign victim compensation,” said Saptarshi Biswas, the director of legal solutions, IJM, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Businessman found hanging in Kasba||A 29-year-old man was found hanging at his house in Talbagan in Kasba on Tuesday evening. Police said Sanu Parbat, who ran a travel business, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. No suicide note was found, officers said. In Garfa, a 22-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his home on Tuesday evening. Debasish Das was declared dead at a hospital in Dhakuria. Police said a preliminary inquiry suggested that a recent break-up in a relationship led to the suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Body off Bypass: 2 held for murder||Two men have been arrested in connection with the murder of the man whose body was found lying on a service road of EM Bypass near the Salt Lake stadium Metro station on Monday morning. The victim was later identified as Sanjit Das, a resident of Duttabad. The post-mortem report was inconclusive, leaving police confused over whether the man was a victim of a road accident or was murdered. Once his identity was established, the police launched a search for the person with whom Das was last seen before his death. Sources said it appeared that the majority of the injuries on the victim’s body were caused by a road accident. However, a deep wound behind one of his ears had left the police and the autopsy surgeon wondering whether it was homicidal in nature. Officers said they soon learnt that he had a fight with two of his neighbours on a trivial issue on Sunday night near his home. “That was the last time anyone saw him alive. He did not return home. The next morning, his body was found a few hundred metres from his neighbourhood,” an officer said. The victim’s brother, Tukai Das, lodged a complaint with Phoolbagan police station on Tuesday, alleging that his brother had been killed by unknown men around 4.30am on Monday. After questioning neighbours and witnesses, the sleuths zeroed in on Rabi Dutta, 45, and Mantu Das, 42. Dutta is a resident of Shib Krishna Das Lane in Phoolbagan, while Das is from Duttabad. Both have been arrested for murder and remanded in police custody. “According to the preliminary findings, the victim was engaged in odd jobs and apparently did not have any enemies. Till now we have not found any criminal history of the accused men. We are not ruling out the possibility of the accused harbouring a grudge against the victim,” said a senior officer of the eastern suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Model code must respect noise norms: Activist to poll panel||Environment activist Subhas Datta has written to the chief election commissioner of India, Sunil Arora, urging him to include judicial orders on noise pollution in the code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly polls. Copies of the letter have been sent to the state election commissioner, under whose supervision a number of civic polls are likely to be held over the next few months, and the member secretary of the state pollution control board. “By virtue of the order of the National Green Tribunal, Eastern Zone Bench …dated 3rd October, 2017 it is mandatory in the state of West Bengal to fix sound limiters in the microphones/ loudspeakers played in the public space,” Dutta wrote in the letter, which was sent to Arora on Tuesday. Datta pointed out that “there is total embargo put by the Supreme Court of India on loud public address systems like DJ” and demanded that the same be banned during the elections. The activist in the letter referred to the mandate of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, which states that “prior permission is required from the appropriate authority before deploying any public address system”. “These norms are routinely flouted in the city and elsewhere in the state,” said an activist associated with the green platform, Sabuj Mancha. Recently, at a programme to observe Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary in Ballygunge Place, the organisers had violated the mandatory sound limiter norm and also not bothered to seek permission from police. “The organisers had only told us about the programme,” an officer from the local police station had said. Representatives of various political parties shifted the onus of non-compliance to non-availability of sound limiters. “If sound limiters are not available, what can we do?” said a Trinamul leader from north Calcutta. An environment department official said the government agency WEBEL had enough sound limiters in stock. Environment activist Naba Dutta said loud speakers and DJs were a menace in some parts of the state during Diwali. “The problem is political parties and a large number of government officials do not consider violation of noise norms as an offence and tend to ignore the violations. Had they been serious about it, people would have suffered less ordeal,” said Biswajit Mukherjee, a former chief law officer of the state pollution control board. Subhas Datta also urged the election commission to put an embargo on the use of plastic, polythene and thermocol during the election campaign and requested it to keep tabs on bike processions, which he said are a potential source of “social, political and environmental disorders”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Practical worry for higher secondary students||The higher secondary practicals will be held from March 10 to March 31, but the absence of any clarity on when practical classes could resume has left many students anxious. Teachers are worried, too. Basic hands-on training is essential to successfully write a Class XII- level practical examination. Twenty-six days after the council had announced the dates, the education department has yet to clarify when campus activities could resume. “We are yet to decide whether it would be proper to reopen schools for practical classes since the pandemic is still on. We need more time as we have to think about the health of students and teachers,” said an official of the education department. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid. Metro asked the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Examination, Mahua Das, whether the schools could reopen for practical classes. She said: “We have said everything in the notice that the council issued on January 18.” Monday’s notice mentions details of the topics that are included in the practical papers but does not say anything about whether classes would be held, teachers said. “In the absence of clarity, how can we call students to the campus? This could trigger a health hazard. Be it the council or the department, someone has to give a clarification,” said Saugata Basu, the general secretary of the government school teachers’ association. An official of the council said they were awaiting instructions from the school education department about resumption of classes. “We are only an exam-conducting body. In respect to the affairs of the schools, the department takes decisions and we just issue the orders,” said the official. An association of the headmasters described as “utterly impractical” the decision to announce the dates of the practicals without clarifying whether the classes could be held. “This is an utterly impractical decision. We wrote to education minister Partha Chatterjee on January 18, telling him that the schools are confused since there is no clarity. This has left the students anxious,” said Sridam Chandra Jana, the secretary of the West Bengal Headmasters’ Association. Repeated calls to Chatterjee went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. Calls and messages to school education secretary Manish Jain did not elicit any response. Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur, said students and guardians had repeatedly requested him to resume practical classes. He said he was keen to reopen the school provided the higher secondary council and the office of the district inspector (DI) of schools gave the go-ahead. “I will soon write to the council and the DI, seek-ing permission to reopen the school. Students in small batches can attend practical classes, Our campus is huge, so following the physical distancing protocol will not be a problem,” Akhtar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Man found dead inside public toilet with throat slit||A 33-year-old man was found dead inside a pay-and-use public toilet with his throat slit in the Hastings area on Tuesday night. Police said a purported suicide note found on the man mentioned joblessness as the reason for ending his life. The body has been sent for post-mortem to verify whether the deep gash on his throat, which apparently caused his death, was self-inflicted. Family members of Dashrath Mullick, residents of Achambit Shah Road in the Hastings area, started searching for him after he failed to return home on Tuesday evening and found him in the public toilet near their home, with his throat slit. He was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. Mullick, who had been engaged in multiple odd jobs, became jobless during the lockdown, police have learned. He was one of the thousands in the city whose lives changed forever following the outbreak of Covid-19 and imposition of the lockdown to curb the spread of the disease. Over the past few months a number of people chose to end their lives after failing to cope with changes brought about by the pandemic. The scare of the transmission of the coronavirus and the changed working profile of the majority of the citizens have had a profound impact on the lives of people dependent on odd jobs. With the closure of public places, thousands of people who were engaged as cleaning staff or security guards found themselves unemployed. People who earned a livelihood working as domestic help, carpenters and masons had to switch professions almost overnight to survive the crisis. Many women from districts who worked as domestic help in the city were left unemployed after the suburban train service was suspended in March to slow down the spread of Covid. A large number of those women took to selling vegetables. Carpenters and masons, who were trained in specialised work, had to work as labourers to support their family. Police said Mullick’s father was a Group D employee at a government hospital in central Calcutta. After his death, Mullick had apparently tried to get his father’s job but failed, a police officer said. Family members have told the police that Mullick, after having lost all hope of getting his father’s job, started working in a private firm. He lost that job, too, during the lockdown. “A note has been found on him that says he was depressed because of being unemployed,” an officer of Hastings police station said. “A preliminary investigation indicated it was a case of suicide,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal receives second lot of vaccine doses||Bengal received 6.99 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday, which, together with the 6.89 lakh doses that came last week, will be enough to vaccinate the 6 lakh-odd health workers in the state, officials said. A state health department official said now that an adequate number of Covid-19 vaccine doses were available, they were targeting to administer the first dose to all health workers within one-and-a-half months. Doses were administered at 31 sites across the state on Wednesday, though it had been decided initially that Covid vaccination would not be held on Wednesdays, which are reserved for routine immunisations. “In all, 2,439 people were inoculated in Bengal on Wednesday. There was no report of any adverse event,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. Till Tuesday, the doses were being administered at 207 sites across the state. On Wednesday, the health department approved around 200 more sites, taking the total count to 400. The newly approved sites could start vaccinating health workers on Thursday or Friday, health department officials in Calcutta told their colleagues in the districts. Officials in the health department said more sites needed to be set up for speedy immunisation, which has been made possible by the arrival of the second lot of Covishield doses. The heads of the health department in several districts sent the names of proposed sites to the headquarters in the morning and most were approved by the afternoon. All sites have been asked to administer the jabs five or six days a week, depending on the availability of doses. The government had earlier decided to conduct Covid vaccination four days a week. “We received 6.99 lakh doses of Covishield on Wednesday. This entire lot is for Bengal. We had received 6.89 lakh doses last week, before the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination,” said Chakraborty, the director of health services. “We now have an adequate number of vaccine doses to inoculate the health-care workers. If we are able to vaccinate 20,000 health-care workers each day across the state, it would take one month to inoculate 6 lakh health-care workers in our state,” he said. Chakraborty felt that with holidays and weekly off-days in between, inoculation of health workers could be completed within a month and a half. Another health department official said each district had been given the liberty to choose its vaccination days, though all have been asked to provide the shots more than four days a week. “All districts have to increase the number of vaccination days in a week. They will have the liberty to choose the days taking into account local issues,” said the official. The department has also set itself a target of administering the first dose of Covishield to 60 per cent of all health workers by January 29, said an official. January 31 is the year’s first polio vaccination day. The health department has asked its staff to vaccinate as many health-care workers by then as possible. Metro reported on Wednesday that the health department was planning to allow 20 more private hospitals in and around Calcutta to run Covid vaccination sites from early next week. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, too, will open vaccination sites in 11 more ward health clinics from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
