22-01-2021||Calcutta||On your paws, get set, walk||At long last did the show season start. New Town Carnival wasn’t strictly a dog show — it wasn’t a test of adherence to breed specifications and it was open to felines too — but pet lovers lapped up the excuse to play with and click pictures with man’s best friends. “My dog had no handler for eight months during the lockdown and since the Kennel Club of India has cancelled all pointed shows this season he is missing the action,” said Diptiman Sengupta, who had come with Diesel, a Golden Retriever with an enviable coat. “This carnival is a great idea, at least the dogs get to stay in practise.” The event had pets and their owners walking down a red carpet to showcase how obedient the pets were, how well groomed they were and also how well dressed they were. Puchkai, the Shih Tzu, paraded in a purple sweater knitted by owner Pritha Roy Sarkar. “Now that I’m done with Puchkai’s sweater, I shall start knitting one for my daughter,” laughed Pritha later, while picking up a prize for grooming. Google, the Siberian Husky who bagged the prize for obedience, wowed with a bandana that had his name on. “I got it printed from Presto,” smiled Mousumi Das of Salt Lake’s EC Block. Google’s popularity preceded him and many a visitor went and asked Mousumi if he was indeed the Husky who played in FD Park in the afternoons. “Some even asked if I lived in Google’s house,” she laughed. Pixel, the Beagle, walked in an attractive yellow jacket with Tom and Jerry motifs. In fact Madhurika Modani offered him a treat in front of the judges that made the scent hound stand on two legs for it. The audience broke into cheers. Hats off to Deboleena Majumder who had come with — not one, not two, not three but — four pets out of which two were cats. She had dressed them all differently. “Himu, the Himalayan cat, is wearing a hat and galis pants and Sweety, the Persian cat is wearing a frock with a floral hair band,” smiled the Salt Lake CD Block resident before walking in with them. Aditri Tarafder, a nine-year-old from Kankurgachi, walked with her cat Billy. “He was a little nervous so I carried him,” she said about the cat she adopted a year ago after he was abandoned by his mother. “I have a Lovebird named Sunshine but didn’t get him as this show isn’t open for birds,” said Aditri’s friend Mohona Sengupta. “I love dogs too but am allergic to them. I guess I’ll be OK playing with them today since I have a mask on,” she said, embracing her friend Srinika Dasgupta’s Husky Frozzo. A memorable moment was when Rik Ganguli Biswas held his two month old kitten up to the world in a scene straight out of The Lion King. The rest of the time Miffy stayed put on his shoulder. “If you fall off, Miffy, you’ll be dinner for some dog here!” warned Rik’s mother Runa. Beagle puppy Enzo kept slipping out of his harness and running to eat anything that lay on the ground, keeping Avijoy Biswas on his toes. “He eats everything but what we give him,” laughed the college student. “We have all lost weight running after him.” Glen, the black Lab, was a bit of a runaway too when he slipped out of Shamik Poddar’s hands and ran to Shamik’s fiance Madhuwanti Goswami. Mayo, a Spitz, jumped off the fountain ledge she was resting on and barked at it profusely when it suddenly got turned on and started spraying water on her. And Duggu, the English Cream Retreiver, had a bleeding paw somehow but the Animel Planet crew (that was organising the show) rushed in with first aid. There was also participation by a few “Indie” dogs, much to the cheer of Shrddhaa, who runs an animal adoption centre called Shrddhaaz Adoption. “These days a lots of pedigreed dogs are getting abandoned in New Town but hopefully awareness can be raised for pet owners to have a heart,” said the IT sector employee who has four homes, each full of animals awaiting families. Some rare breeds set the cameras ablaze, like Sumit Dutt’s Cane Corso, Choco, and Rahul Chowdhury’s Alaskan Malamute, Rustom. The audience gasped collectively as Rustom walked the ramp with a mane and attitude no less than that of a lion. “They are friendly and obedient,” said owner Rahul. “I have Huskies too and they have a mind of their own but Malamutes can be trained.” And then came Chicaboo, the showstopper of the ramp walk. The Rottweiler was dressed — not in clothes or hair bands — but a topor and garland. He walked in with Souvik Chakravarti and was accompanied by a board that read “Bharat Pet-rimony”. The dog was scouting for a bride! The board had Chicaboo’s bio-data in brief, where his profession was mentioned as stand-up comedian and hobbies included destroying furniture and stealing shoes. “A hundred people must have come to click pictures with him today,” said Souvik. “They can’t believe a Rottweiler can be so friendly. It’s very important to us that he be kind and gentle.” The search for the bride, by the way, is still on. The carnival was held under the New Town Kolkata Development Authority banner and chairman Debashis Sen welcomed everyone to the festivities. Judges included fashion designer Mamika De, Anvita Singh Kumar who has over 26,000 followers on the Instagram account she runs for her Labradors Brad and Pitt, and Satarupa Bose, an avid dog lover. All loved the ambience and appreciate the platform for so many pet lovers to meet. “The dog shows that take place around town have become commercial and get hijacked by breeders. We wanted a fun day for people who love their pets as members of their family,” said Tapan Gupta of Animel Planet, which has branches across Salt Lake and New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Pat on the back from NKDA for 20 New Town organizers||Members of 10 gated communities and 10 blocks receive a Covid Safe Puja Award from Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) on the final day of the New Town Carnival on Sunday. “Every year NKDA felicitates the best puja, idol, decoration etc in New Town but in 2020 we wanted it to be low-key affair. So we are awarding the top pujas that best maintained Covid safety protocol on the recommendation of New Town Forum and News (NTFN),” said Sen. Social group NTFN had compiled the Covid guidelines issued by the government and the high court before the Pujas and used them as criteria for their markings. “We had 26 volunteers who did the rounds of 86 pujas,” said vice-president Ankur Roy Choudhury. “We even paid surprise visits and found that while some organisers claimed to have called off cultural programmes, the events took place after all!” Arabindo Adhikary, president of the Alaktika Housing Complex puja committee, said the judges even made calls to security guards and random residents to verify claims. “We cancelled community lunch, shifted functions online and were very strict about anjali and sindur khela. Residents had to make sacrifices but it was a matter of safety,” said Adhikary. Pictures by Gautam Bhadra and Shukraditya Bose||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||And the winners are...||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Lessons from the Covid year||• If one was happy to save money on transport another had to, with a heavy heart, lay off his juniors. The year 2020 has been a whirlwind and New Town’s CD Block organised a virtual meet where residents talked about how they fared. Sumi Pal was happy with the quality time she got to spend with her daughters. “I haven’t had this luxury in the past 13 years since my kids were born,” said the IT professional. “I also got to enjoy the beauty of dawn and dusk. Still, I feel the virtual world cannot fill the void of human touch and face-to-face interaction.” Debi Dutta shared her experience of online teaching and was happy with all the extra time she found to read. Purba Kar converted her passion to profession during the lockdown by going all out with her homemade chocolates. “The year has also taught us terms like lockdown, social distancing and the use of new apps,” she said. There was music and recitation too. Ruma Baul sang Tagore’s Tomar kotha hetha keho. “Earlier I used to travel a lot for my business and never bothered about travelling expenses. But during the lockdown, I realised that I was saving a hefty amount. I donated this money to charity and it brought me satisfaction. I tried to stay positive so any form of depression couldn’t touch me. Rita Basu, who recited Tagore’s Prabin, felt the pandemic gave people time with the family and taught everyone to share chores, irrespective of gender. Amalabha Dutta recounted the harrowing experience he had when his company asked him to lay off some employees. “I felt like shifting passengers from a sinking boat to a lifeboat,” said the resident. “But on the upside I got the opportunity for ample spiritual practice which was not possible earlier.” Patralekha Mukherjee sang Tagore’s Borisho dhara majhe shantir bari, Sathi Bairagi sang Charan dharite diyo go and Gouri Sanyal sang Jibon jakhon shukaye jay. Rita Chowdhuri sang folk and Sukla Dasgupta a prayer song. The organiser of the event, cultural convenor of the block Sithi Kana Ghatak, shared her own experience. “I was alarmed when we learnt about the deadly virus at a seminar at Biswa Bangla Convention Centre on March 15, but gradually chalked out a survival strategy for residents. We kept everyone connected online and held periodic programmes May onwards,” said the lady who also paid tribute to Covid victims. Bharati Kanjilal Health high • Through an interaction with doctors, EE Block residents learnt that the risk of kidney problems increases with hypertension, diabetes and age. They also learnt that symptoms include back pain or difficulty in passing urine. The rule of thumb, however, was to increase the intake of water if urine is yellowish. “Kidney ailments would be the fifth leading cause of death globally by 2040 but it is preventable through intervention,” said Ranjan Sarkar, nephrologist of AMRI Hospitals. The hospital had held a health and awareness camp with EE Block Residents Forum. “Residents are coming for blood pressure, blood sugar, ECG, pulmonary function tests as well as free doctors’ consultation and some tips on kidney diseases,” said secretary Samir Mondal. Puspa Kar, an EE Block resident, had come especially for the awareness camp. “I’ve been having some pain in the back and wanted to check if it’s kidney-related. I’ll also get my blood pressure and blood sugar measured,” she said. General physician Sharmistha Ghosh was impressed by the initiative, especially the assistance the forum will lend to senior citizens. “Today we have found 70 to 75 per cent of patients to be suffering from diabetes and hypertension as well as a few with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), arthritis and Parkinson’s disease.” Bharati Kanjilal Women on top • A platform for women entrepreneurs — Winning Strees — had conducted a health and fitness drive at BF Park which was fun, educational and motivational. Zumba instructor Priyadarshini Singh led the group to a fun workout before which she addressed the crowd. “Despite the stress in your life take some time out and stay fit,” she said. “You can also take it up as a profession later,” she said. Fitness expert Swati Singh Roy helped measure BMI and other parameters for visitors. “I know a 21-year-old woman who weighs 101kg! She suffers from a host of health problems but sadly there are many like her now-a-days,” noted the lady who runs a facility called Kinnys Wellness Mantra. Psychotherapist Kakoli Das Mandal spoke on mental wellness and about overcoming the taboo of seeking help for mental issues. Anupriya Chowdhary, co-founder of Shivam Swachh Soch, spoke on menstrual hygiene and about overcoming inhibitions in using menstrual cups. There was a health quiz as well as recitation by Tanushree Chakraborty, founder of Winning Strees. “Every woman is a star, be it a homemaker or an entrepreneur. We want to inspire these women so they can unlock their true potential,” said Chakraborty. Bharati Kanjilal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||5 crocodiles released in the Sunderbans||Five saltwater crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) bred in captivity for conservation were released into the wild in the Sunderbans on Thursday. The crocodiles have been bred at a sanctuary in Bhagabatpur in Patharpratima, South 24-Parganas, said a forest official. Around 12.30pm, the adult crocodiles were brought to the Netidhopani forest camp inside the core area of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Each crocodile was kept in a cylindrical perforated capsule made of synthetic plastic polymer. Two diesel-powered boats manned by scores of foresters carried the capsules to the bank of a canal at the camp. The boats stopped around 100 metres from land. Groups of foresters then carried each capsule on their shoulders to the river bank. Had the crocodiles not been sub-adults, the task would have been easier said than done. Fifty more crocodiles will be released into the wild in the Sunderbans this year, said a forest official. “Earth’s largest living crocodilian — and, some say, the animal most likely to eat a human — is the saltwater or estuarine crocodile. Average-size males reach 17 feet and 1,000 pounds (450kg), but specimens 23 feet long and weighing 2,200 pounds are not uncommon,” says National Geographic. The sub-adults released on Thursday weighed between 16kg and 22kg and were 5-5.5ft long. Once on land, the mouths of each capsule were opened and following a brief wait, out came the crocodiles. Slowly but steadily, they crawled their way through the mud to the water, cheered by the audience. Each crocodile was marked by a unique code by clipping their tails scutes (thickened horny or bony plates) for monitoring, said a forest official. Climate change and loss of habitat have depleted the number of saltwater crocodiles in the mangrove delta, said a forest official. A 2012 census conducted by the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, and the wildlife wing of the forest department of Bengal, recorded 240 crocodiles spread over 1,160km in the estuarine mangrove delta. Saltwater crocodile is the top aquatic predator in the Sunderbans, said forest officials. In 2011, a crocodile killed a tiger in water at the Dobanki camp of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. “Classic opportunistic predators, they lurk patiently beneath the surface near the water’s edge, waiting for potential prey to stop for a sip of water. They’ll feed on anything they can get their jaws on, including water buffalo, monkeys, wild boar, and even sharks,” according to National Geographic. The saltwater crocodile conservation breeding programme started in 1976. At the beginning, 32 eggs were collected from a creek. “Now, the centre has six breeding pools, 14 tanks to keep hatchlings. Over 600 crocodiles bred at the centre have been released into the wild,” said a forest official. The centre is home to five mating pairs of crocodiles. The crocodiles usually mate in March and the females lay eggs in May. The eggs laid by female crocodiles are collected within a fortnight by forest staff, who keep them in a temperature and humidity-controlled incubator. “The hatchlings come out within 80-85 days,” the forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||New Town seeks Covid vaccine site||An application has been submitted by the New Town authorities to start a Covid-19 vaccination centre in New Town. “We have sent a proposal to the district magistrate. Our safe house is being kept ready for the purpose,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The safe house in Action Area II, next to Tank 12, was started in August. But no one has been admitted there since December 24 when the last person was released. The health department has been intimated about the closure of the facility. “We are procuring a cold freezer to store vaccines. We already have a doctor and nurses to conduct the vaccination process,” said Sen. General vaccine centres Three general immunisation and Mother and Child Care centres have been started in New Town by the health department, supported by NKDA. They are operating on Mondays, from 11am to 3pm. All the routine vaccines of babies like polio and DTP (diptheria, tetanus and pertussis), will be administered here. Medical advice will also be given to pregnant women and mothers. The first centre started functioning on January 11 at the Utility Building near Akankha More. Two more started this Monday at the CB Market community hall and opposite the NBCC Square complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Trafficking story in comic strip to spread awareness||The real-life story of a young girl who was lured into a trap and trafficked from the heart of Calcutta has been turned into a digital comic strip to create awareness about the menace of human trafficking. The comic strip named Web of Deceit — A Missing and Trafficking Casefile has been developed by two NGOs and will be available in the form of an app on android phones from Sunday (January 24). The developers have adopted an interactive format so that readers can type inputs when prompted and help the story progress. The story has been infused with data on legal rights of women and things one can do to report such incidents. Hundreds of young girls in Bengal are forced into prostitution every year either to support their poverty-stricken families or because they were betrayed by a male friend or a relative they had trusted. Some are lured with false promises of a job and others with the prospect of marriage. Most of the cases remain unreported because of the social stigma attached to victims of trafficking. The makers of the comic strip said they were hoping to reach out to their young audience who have access to smartphones but often fail to assess their vulnerability. “The majority of the girls we work with, even in remote villages of the Sunderbans, have access to smartphones. An interactive format has been used in the comic strip and the readers will be given two options to react to every situation. Depending on their response, the story will progress,” said Leena Kejriwal, the founder of the Missing Link Trust, which jointly developed the comic strip in collaboration with International Justice Mission. The Web of Deceit is the story of a school girl who is lured by an “aunt” with the promise of new clothes and forced into prostitution. The narrative is based on real-life incidents like the girl being fed with a sweet laced with sedatives every time before she is forced to meet a stranger, Kejriwal said. The comic strip also shows how law enforcing agencies use technology to zero in on traffickers and their money transactions. It also highlights the harassment a trafficking survivor faces during the trial of her tormentors. Many school girls go missing in pockets of South 24-Parganas such as Kultali, Mathurapur, Madhusudanpur, Jamtala and Gosaba, and also in other districts. “Trafficking is no longer confined to the rural population. Anyone living next to you could be a victim of trafficking. People often do not open up because of the stigma attached (to trafficked persons). Hence, we are trying to address the problem at its preventive stage so that people can identity human trafficking and its tell-tale signs,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Double decker bus for New Town tour||One might soon get to take a tour of New Town in an open-air double decker bus. Hidco has approached the tourism department with a proposal to run one of its two buses in the township. “The route is being worked out. We will prepare a tourist circuit, starting from Biswa Bangla Gate. It will do the rounds of Coffee House, Eco Park and Mother’s Wax Museum and get back to Biswa Bangla Gate, where passengers might stop for lunch if they so wish. The department has agreed in principle,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. A trial run has been conducted and another round of meeting took place on Wednesday. Ticketing will be handled by the tourism department. Sen said he had suggested sale of tickets on the bus also, so that people can board the bus along the way, much like the hop-on-hop-off buses in London and Paris. Launched in October, the buses now do a guided heritage tour of central Calcutta, with tickets costing Rs 2,500 for the nine seats on the open-air upper deck and Rs 1,250 for the eight seats on the lower deck. The bus is running at 50 per cent seating capacity due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Guided tour of New Town on double-decker||A restored double-decker bus with an open-air deck will start plying across New Town taking residents as well as visitors on a guided tour of prominent places. The bus, retrofitted with a modern engine and spares, is undergoing test runs in the township, said an official of Hidco, which has launched the project in collaboration with the tourism department. “The bus will start from Kolkata Gate and travel past major attractions of New Town such as the Rabindra Tirtha complex, the new Coffee House, Eco Park, Mother's Wax Museum and Eco Urban Village,” the official said. The passengers will be taken on short guided tours of all the places where the bus will stop. “The bus will have a guide…. Snacks will be served on board,” said the official of Hidco, the agency that looks after civic amenities of the township. A double-decker bus now plies in New Town ferrying passengers from Eco Park to Eco Urban Village but it doesn’t have a guide on board and also does not stop for the passengers to visit the prominent places in the township. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said: “We thought of having the bus (double-decker bus with an open-air deck) here as a lot of happening tourist spots have come up in New Town.” The British government had in 1926 introduced double-decker buses. In Calcutta, they were labelled slowcoach monstrosities belching black fumes and withdrawn from the streets. But in London, they enjoy the right of way, for traffic and tourism. Double-decker buses once plied along all main thoroughfares in the city and also to Howrah. The buses were phased out in the mid-1990s when they ran into maintenance issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||E-bus for cancer hospital||An electric bus service has been started to connect the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) to Biswa Bangla Gate crossing. “The superintendent of CNCI met me with a request to provide connectivity to the Major Arterial Road. With cancer treatment having started there, patients are coming from far and wide. Once they reach Narkelbagan, they are forced to hire totos which fleece them to cover the short distance. The patients are often not from economically solvent backgrounds. So we realised that it was a very genuine requirement,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco). Hidco owns three e-buses. The route of one of them has been rationalised. With booking for New Town Coffee House going fully online and those making the booking reaching mostly by private transport, the bus has been diverted to CNCI. Instead of making a left turn at Tata Memorial Center to reach Coffee House via Eco Space, the bus now goes right after Tata Memorial Center towards CNCI, reducing the route from 4km to a 2km one. The service starts at 9am from Narkelbagan and continues to and fro till 12.30pm. There is a break for the battery to be recharged at the depot before resuming at 2pm.  There are nine trips being done now through the day. The last trip is at 6.30pm from CNCI. More electric buses Hidco has plans of increasing its electric bus fleet. A tender has been floated seeking bids for buses on lease. “This time we plan to lease buses and pay as per the kilometres run. The existing e-buses were bought by us from KPIT Technologies, with a three-year maintenance contract. But it is turning out to be an expensive arrangement,” said Sen. The electric bus service, introduced in 2018, has carried 2.97 lakh passengers so far. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt to launch buses in Netaji’s memory||The state government will launch three bus services and lay the foundation stone of a bus terminus in Nadia’s Krishnagar as a tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. The decision comes ahead of the Assembly polls in Bengal and at a time when political parties, mainly the BJP and the Trinamul, are trying to appropriate the legacy of Netaji, whose birth anniversary will be observed on Saturday. The Centre has decided to celebrate Netaji’s birth anniversary as “Parakram Diwas”, a move that has drawn criticism from the Left and Trinamul, which has been demanding that the day be observed as Deshprem Divas. The Bengal government-run South Bengal State Transport Corporation (SBSTC) has come forward to dedicate three new bus services - between Siliguri and Mayapur, Tollygunge and Tarapith, and Tollygunge and Jhargram - in Netaji’s memory on January 23. “The Siliguri-Mayapur service has been named Netaji Express, Tollygunge-Tarapith service Azad Hind Express and the Tollygunge-Jhargram service Joy Hind Express,” said SBSTC managing director Godala Kiran Kumar. The same day the foundation stone of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Bus Terminus in Krishnagar will be laid. The foundation stone of the proposed terminus will be laid by the state correctional home services minister, Ujjwal Biswas. A statue of Netaji will be installed at the site during the programme. The statue will be unveiled by Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Civic chief tests positive||Former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, who is now the chairperson of the board of administrators (BOA) of the civic body,Krishna Chakraborty tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. According to Chakraborty, she has very mild symptoms and has isolated herself at home. “I got myself tested and the report has come out positive. I am in quarantine at home and apart from weakness have very little of the other symptoms of the disease,” she said. Chakraborty was part of the team from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation that kicked off the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 at the Duttabad urban primary health centre. She had not taken the vaccine shot, unlike three of her colleagues. Tapas Chatterjee, the former deputy mayor of the civic body who is also on the board of administrators, had tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be hospitalised in September. Apart from Chakraborty and Chatterjee, Nirmal Dutta, the councillor of Ward 38 that comprises areas in Duttabad, had also tested positive for Covid-19 and was quarantined in a New Town facility. Dutta was leading from the front in terms of conducting sanitisation drives in the area that comprises swathes of tenements bordering Salt Lake. Sudhir Saha, a former mayoral council member, has recovered from Covid recently. Covid-19 has claimed the life of one civic official with Subhash Bose, the councillor of Ward 6, succumbing in August. He was in his mid-fifties. Ward 6 includes Teghoria, Atghara, Kaikhali and Chinar Park. These places had seen a steady rise in infection at that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid shot limit doubled at select Bengal sites||A number of Covid-19 vaccination sites in the state have been asked to remain prepared to inoculate 200 health-care workers every day from Friday, officials of the health department as well as those managing some of the sites said on Thursday. Also from Friday, Covid shots will be administered at over 400 sites across Bengal, up from 207. “The number of persons to be given the shots every day and the number of sites have been increased to speed up vaccination,” said a health department official. The department informed vaccination site managers that 200 individuals would be invited — through text messages or phone calls or both — to get inoculated at each site from Friday. “Initially, all sites were asked to inoculate 100 people each every day. The number has been increased to 200 to prevent any significant dip in the number of people vaccinated per day,” the official said. “If we invite 200 people to a site on a day, 100 may turn up. So with 50 per cent of those invited turning up, the actual number would still remain 100. This is a way to work around vaccine hesitancy among many health-care workers…. If 200 people turn up, the site should be prepared to inoculate all of them. There is no dearth of vaccines and vaccinators.” Bengal received 6.99 lakh doses of Covishield on Wednesday, which, together with 6.89 lakh doses it had received last week, will be enough to inoculate the 6 lakh-odd health workers of the state. Covishield is a two-dose vaccine and the second shot is to be given 28 days after the fIrst. Which means 12 lakh doses will be required to vaccinate all health workers of the state. Sources in the health department have said that some doses always go waste in any vaccination programme. With total 13.88 lakh does in its custody, the state health department is in a position to inoculate all health-care workers. Some of the new sites in and around Calcutta where vaccination will begin on Friday are Woodlands Hospital, Medica Superspecialty Hospital and AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake, said sources in the state health department. Several more hospitals will launch inoculation next week. Besides, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will also begin inoculation at 11 more ward health clinics from Monday. Now, the jabs are being given at five clinics. On Thursday, vaccination went ahead at 94 sites. “Covid-19 vaccination was successfully done for the fifth day on Thursday at 94 planned sites. Altogether, 7,692 people were vaccinated against the target of 9,400. We managed to vaccinate 81 per cent of those targeted,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. No serious adverse event was reported on Thursday, Minor issues like pain at the injection site, dizziness, vertigo and nausea were reported. “Recipients with such complaints were sent home after initial observation,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Antibody survey to weigh potency||A study is being done at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital which may provide valuable data to indicate how effective the Covishield vaccine is. The Bypass hospital is one of the vaccination centres in the first phase. “We have undertaken a project whereby a survey will be conducted among 1,500 of our colleagues. We are testing once just before the first injection, again just before the second injection after 28 days and then we will repeat the test a month later to see if antibodies have developed,” said Mahesh Goenka, director, Institute of Gastro Sciences and Liver Transplant. The antibody test will come positive if the vaccine is effective. The test, he said, would be repeated at regular intervals to check how long the protection continues. “After two months, we will be able to say how effective the vaccine is. It must have been tested already in a controlled environment before it was launched. But this might be the first study which will tell us its efficacy in a real-life scenario in the population. Of course, it will be a population of healthcare workers,” said Goenka, who himself took the jab at the hospital on Saturday. On Day 1, 107 people were inoculated from the Apollo rolls, overshooting the day’s target of 100. But on Day 2 and 3, the figure fell to 74 and 76 respectively, with several listed recipients from outside not turning up. Director, Institute of Gastro Sciences and Liver Transplant, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Age: 63 Resident of: BH Block (permanent), Silver Spring (temporary) Took the jab at: 10.50am. I was the third person in the queue. State of mind: Though we were getting WhatsApp messages from colleagues all across the country that so many people had complications or side effects, I had no misgivings, not even one per cent. After four days: I have no problem. Not even local pain. Some of my colleagues felt weakness or muscle pain. Nobody had anything significant. But for me, it was perfect. I went to work straightaway. Brush with Covid: No, I did not have it. I was tasting my PCR regularly and tested my antibody at least five times in this period. I would have been happy if I had developed antibody. But it came negative. We were coming in contact with patients in the outpatient department, who we listen to and examine. Also when we do surgery, we often come to know later that the patient was Covid-19 positive. So we were always worried. There must have been 40-50 cases when I got exposed. I was doing OPD all along except for two weeks after I returned from South America in March when I quarantined myself. I may be a senior citizen but I do not have comorbidities. If you would have taken Covaxin: I was sure I would take whatever was available. Confidence level now: Being in medical science, I know that within three days of taking the vaccine, it is not giving any protection to me. I am looking forward to taking the second vaccine. I cannot relax one bit now. It is only after 15 days of taking the second dose that we can expect antibodies. Senior consultant in pulmonary and critical care, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Age: 48 Resident of: Highland Woods, New Town Took the jab at: 10.45am. I was the first in my hospital to take it. I had been the first to get into the Covid unit and admitted the first Covid patient in our hospital. I still remember the date and time — March 27, 8.10pm. So our hospital gave me this privilege. State of mind then: I was not nervous at all. The safety of the vaccine is well-proven. Even if the efficacy is 50 per cent it will give us more chance of herd immunity. If two people next to me get good immune response from the vaccine even if I do not, it helps me. Then even if a fourth person gets infected, these two will form a ring around me and I will be safe. The chain of transmission will break. It will reduce the geometric progression of infection to arithmetic progression if enough people in the transmission chain develop immunity from the vaccine even if everyone does not. After four days: I have no problem. Brush with Covid: No, I haven’t had Covid-19 despite treating more than 2,000 patients in the last nine months and doing aerosol-generating procedures like incubation, ventilation, tracheostomy and bronchoscopy. If you would have taken Covaxin: Yes. Theoretically it is a better vaccine as it uses an inactivated virus (i.e. killed Covid-19 virus). Covishield is a subunit vaccine. It uses spike protein using an adenovirus vector. So, you are not giving the blood brother but the cousin. Obviously, it would have been better if Covaxin got two or three weeks more to present their data. That could have avoided the misgivings. Confidence level now: It won’t stop me from wearing a mask, avoiding close environment and close contact. I will wait for millions around to be vaccinated to feel confident. Chief gastrointestinal and liver transplant intensivist, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Age: 44 Resident of: Sanai Abasan, New Town Took the jab at: 10.50am State of mind then: I was eager to take the vaccine as soon as it became available. Since I am an infectious diseases specialist and intensivist, I know about vaccine protocol. After half an hour of being under observation, I came back to my ITU and did the rounds. After four days: There is mild myalgia (muscle pain) but that happens for any vaccine that is injected. Brush with Covid: No, I did not get it despite working in the critical care unit. We did the first cadavar liver transplant in eastern India in Covid times. If you would have taken Covaxin: Yes. Both are safe. The central government doctors have taken it. The adverse effects of all these vaccines are coming at 0.2 or 0.5 per cent which is acceptable for any vaccine. Confidence level now: I feel confident. But I am using all the protective gear till I get the second dose. Paediatrician, Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Age: 64 Resident of: Madurdaha Took the jab at: 10.45am. Was the first to take it at the hospital. State of mind then: As a paediatrician, I know about vaccination and the possible side effects. I lost a friend and batchmate at Medical College to Covid-19. His registration number was just before mine. I feel emotional and also realise the need for vaccination. Brush with Covid: No. Confidence level now: High. Those who are getting the chance should take the vaccine at the first chance. Save yourself and thus save others. Anaesthetist and in charge of the rapid response team at the vaccination centre at Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Age: 57 Resident of: Rajdanga, Kasba Took the jab at: 10.50am State of mind then: The nurses briefed me about the vaccine. I am aware of its theoretical side. Only after the taking it will we know about its practical side. In my head, it is similar to the tetanus vaccine. Yes, I was a bit scared and spoke to my family. But since I head the rapid response team, I had to step up. Brush with Covid: No. Confidence level now: They kept me under observation for half an hour. I am feeling fine now. In fact, I am on duty here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to offer tuition fee relief ||St Xavier’s University will offer a 50 per cent waiver on the tuition fee to MBA students from the second semester if their family income is less than Rs 4 lakh a year, a move prompted by pandemic-induced financial constraints. The university is introducing the Father Beckers Scholarship to offer the waiver — Rs, 2.05 lakh in each semester, vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj told Metro. Father Beckers, a DSc in biochemistry, had come to India in 1954 and joined the chemistry department of St Xavier’s College in 1960. He had served as head of the department for over a decade. The Belgian priest became an Indian citizen in 1978. “Since retiring from service, Father Beckers had been working for the marginalised, especially the santhals of Bengal. As the scholarship stems from a spirit of benevolence, we decided to name if after him,” said Father Felix Raj. “The pandemic has caused hardship to the families of the students. The financial constraints will not go away easily,” the VC said. “So the scholarship will be offered from the second semester onwards”. The university will try to give the scholarship to “as many MBA students as possible based on the annual income”. Since admissions will start in June and the waiver will come in force from the second semester, the detailed criteria will be announced later, an official said. The recipients of the scholarship will have to comply with other conditions such as at least 75 per cent attendance in all semesters and no arrear paper in any preceding semester. Of all the components of the fee in the MBA programme, the tuition fee is the highest. “Therefore, we have decided to offer a waiver on the tuition fee,” the VC said. Last month, St Xavier’s University had decided to offer a concession on fees in the current semester (January to June) to the undergraduate and postgraduate students who would need it. Institutions across Bengal are offering fee relief to students and helping them buy smartphones or laptops so they can attend classes on digital platforms amid the pandemic. Convocation St Xavier’s University will hold its second convocation on February 6. A total of 451 postgraduate and undergraduate students of the university will be awarded degrees. The ceremony will be conducted in a blended mode with only 80 rank holders joining the programme in person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt cuts Covid requisitioned beds||The state health department has decided to reduce the number of Covid beds it had requisitioned in private hospitals across the state in early days of the pandemic because “rates of hospitalisation of Covid patients are…going down”. The director of state health services, Ajay Chakraborty, issued an order on Wednesday allowing requisitioned beds at 55 private hospitals across Bengal to be used for treating non-Covid patients. “Total numbers of active cases are coming down gradually and rates of hospitalisation of Covid patients are also going down. Under these present circumstances, it has been decided that these beds of private hospitals requisitioned by the government may be released in phases,” reads the order. The order mentions that the beds may again be taken over, “with a three days’ notice”, if required. A bulletin issued by the health department on Thursday said Bengal recorded 409 new Covid-19 cases over the past 24 hours. Wednesday’s bulletin said 412 new cases had been recorded in the preceding 24 hours. The government had requisitioned 72 beds (60 general and 12 intensive care unit) at AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake for Covid patients. Fifty general beds have been released. Of the 113 beds (83 general and 30 intensive care unit) requisitioned at Desun Hospital, 63 general beds and 20 intensive care unit beds have been released. All 100 Covid beds at the KPC Medical College and Hospital have been released. Seventy five of them are general beds, 13 are intensive care unit beds and 12 are high dependency unit beds. The high dependency unit is a ward where patients who need more medical support than those on general beds but less support than those in intensive care units are kept. Covid patients requiring advanced care could be brought to these hospitals from any place in Bengal. Some of the other private hospitals where Covid beds have been released are ILS Golabari, Narayana Hospital Old Building (West Bank Hospital) in Howrah and Charnock Hospital in Chinar Park. Patients allotted requisitioned beds at private hospitals are treated for free if they are sent there by a state-run hospital or the health department. After a patient’s discharge, the hospital sends the bill to the state government and gets reimbursed. “If a Covid patient is referred to our hospital by the health department, we admit and treat the patient for free,” said Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals. But Covid patients approaching the hospitals directly — without any referral by the state health department — have to pay for the treatment even if they are alloted requisitioned beds, said Barua. “We try not to keep Covid bed vacants. If a requisitioned bed is vacant and Covid patient approaches us without any referral from the health department, we will allot the bed to him or her. But the patient has to pay for the treatment,” Barua said. A senior official of the health department said that since the rate of hospitalisation of Covid patients had declined, the department felt people with other illnesses should have more scope for hospitalisation. Around 70 per cent of the requisitioned Covid beds at AMRI Salt Lake had remained vacant for the past month, Barua said. “But the intensive care unit occupancy during the period was between 95 and 100 per cent,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Life in lockdown, drawn by children||Twelve-year-old Shalbani Ghosh could not step out during Durga Puja last year. Her situation, and that of many families like hers, were reflected in a drawing she made for a competition whose topic was “festival celebration during the pandemic”. The painting competition for kids aged between seven and 16 was organised by Nehru Children’s Museum. Migrant workers returning home, online classes and work from home, and doctors and cops as Covid warriors featured in the paintings the children made to depict their interpretation of the Covid pandemic and the lockdown. For Class IV student Shalbani, pandal-hopping last Durga Puja was on the television screen. She drew a family, including the grandparents, watching Durga idols on the screen. “Every year we go out for pandal-hopping, but this year there was no going out to keep the infection away,” said Shalbani. The competition was for two age groups: seven to 11 years and 11 to 16 years. Unlike previous years, the canvas shifted from wall to paper because of the pandemic. “In previous years we provided a wall to the students, on which they painted in a group. But this time, because of the pandemic, we could not allow any gathering. Hence, we asked the students to send their entries to us,” said Indrani Sengupta, the secretary of the museum. Students had to courier the paintings to the museum. More than 100 entries from Calcutta and districts came in. Every year, a topical theme is chosen. This year, Sengupta said, the pandemic was the most obvious option. The painting exhibition at the museum will be on till Sunday, January 24. Seven-year-old Debajit Pandit juxtaposed the picture outside and inside the house during the lockdown. The Class I student show-ed a child attending online class and his father working from home, while outside the home is the image of stretchers and doctors treating patients. Apratim Mukherjee’s drawing of migrant workers returning home after the lockdown was announced won one of the top slots. “It had to be related to the lockdown and the image was not alien to him when his drawing teacher spoke to him about it. Being at home for months at a stretch, he had seen these images on the television and newspaper and he could relate to it,” said father Tapas Mukherjee. Apratim’s drawing also had a community kitchen from where food was being distributed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
22-01-2021||Calcutta||V-Day in Salt Lake: Councillors jump queue to get the jab||The Covid-19 vaccination drive began in Salt Lake from Saturday with a total of 125 people getting vaccinated at two centres. This included three members of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) board of administrators who courted controversy by reportedly jumping the queue to get the shot. In the first phase, only healthcare and frontline workers are supposed to get inoculated. The drive in Salt Lake is being conducted at the urban primary health centre in Duttabad, opposite Labony Estate, and at the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital, where 71 hospital staffers took the shot on the first day. At Duttabad, the number of people administered vaccines on Day 1 was 54.The day’s target at both sites was 100 each. The drive is being conducted on Monday,Tuesday, Friday and Saturday every week. Courting controversy The Duttabad centre on Saturday had opened its doors to administer Covishield shots at around 10am. The first vaccine was administered to two doctors — Lakshmipat Nahata, who is associated with the civic body, followed by Kusum Adhikary, the BMC’s chief medical officer. After they took the shots, there was nobody else present from the day’s vaccination list. As the first hour went by, three members of the civic board of administrators ‑ Pranay Roy, previously in charge of health, Rajesh Chirimar, previously in charge of education, and Sudhir Saha, previously in charge of parks and lighting in the now defunct mayoral council, took the jab. Roy defended their action saying that they took the vaccine shots as very few people had turned up in the first couple of hours and even those who were there were very apprehensive of taking the shots.“We stepped up in order to inspire people and dispel fears,” he said. Chirimar said they did not want to deprive anybody from taking the shot. He pointed out that their names did feature on the list of people to be vaccinated although their date was not on the first day. According to Chirimar, they had received a directive from the health department that beneficiaries would receive messages on their cellphones asking them to visit the centre. Low turnout to take the shot “However a day before the drive we were asked to call up 100 health workers out of a list of 457,” said Chirimar. “Only 19 of them agreed to take the shots and just a handful arrived in the first couple of hours on Saturday.” “We had expected a huge crowd and there was strong police bandobast as well. Since nobody was turning up we asked the health officials if we could volunteer and they did not object,” said Chirimar, who then wrote a post on Facebook to encourage others to take the shot. Apart from Chirimar and Roy, Saha, who has just recovered from Covid, took the shot. Asked what his urgency was since he is now expected to have developed antibodies in his system, he refused to comment. Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of the civic body who is now a state secretary of the BJP, said it was selfish of the three members of the board of administrators to take the vaccines. “Everyone will receive the shots but these people could not wait. They manipulated the system to get the shots for themselves,” said Dutta. How it’s done People whose names feature on the list of beneficiaries are supposed to get SMS alerts via the CoWin mobile app. The SMS carries the date and venue where the recipient has to reach. Once there, a health official first enquires if the person has any co-morbidity and if needed, conducts a basic check-up. The candidate is then administered the shot and asked to wait for 30 minutes. In case he feels unwell, doctors conduct a second check-up and if symptoms are serious, he is sent to a hospital. Till Tuesday, nobody in Salt Lake had to be hospitalised. On January 16, a total of 54 people were vaccinated at this centre, including 20 doctors. On Monday, the number was 41 and on Tuesday 36. There were healthcare workers from centres like Susrut Eye Foundation & Research Centre of HB Block and Charnock Hospital of Chinar Park. “We are thankful that the authorities are administrating the vaccine to us first but I wish we had a choice of vaccine,” said a healthcare worker who did not wish to be named. There was an air of apprehension and curiosity and so the centre remained heavily guarded by police. Many residents tried to peep through the windows, after which the windows were kept shut throughout. Duttabad residents, who clamoured outside, asked the policemen why they were not being given the shots. “Our area is badly affected and you are not letting us take it. Why are they are doing it from our locality then?” an irate Rabi Misra demanded from a cop before being shooed away. There was a much steadier flow of beneficiaries at Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital. “We got 540 doses of Covishield from the district health administration. Our target is 100 beneficiaries per day,” said superintendant Partha Pratim Guha. But 71 took it on the first day, 59 on the second and 69 on the third. App & apprehensions From Monday, the government started using the CoWin app to send out SMSes to inform recipients about the jabs but the authorities suspect something to be amiss. On Monday, only four of the enlisted people turned up in the first hour at Duttabad. In the first five hours — from 10am to 3pm — only 21 turned up. The next batch of 16 people arrived between 3.30pm and 5.30pm while the rest turned up a little before 6pm. On Tuesday, the number of people who turned up dipped further and stood at 36 at the end of the day. “It is evident that some people are afraid but there are also some who did not receive the alerts,” said an official. A conservancy worker refused to take the shot, saying he feared the doctor would ask him to go without alcohol for 28 days after which the second dose has to be taken. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
