23-01-2021||Calcutta||PM lands in Calcutta on ‘Parakram Diwas’ meant to commemorate Netaji||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Calcutta on Saturday afternoon to take part in the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The prime minister’s aircraft landed at the NSC Bose International Airport around 3 pm, from where he took a helicopter for the city. State minister Purnendu Basu received him at the airport. Modi’s copter landed at the RCTC Ground in the heart of the city at 3.25 pm. The prime minister was received there by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and state minister Firhad Hakim. Modi will deliver the valedictory address in an international seminar on Bose titled “Re-visiting the legacy of Netaji Subhas in the 21st century” at the National Library. Following this he will participate in a programme at the Victoria Memorial. There, he will inaugurate an exhibition and a projection mapping show on Netaji that is intended to be showcased all around the year. He also visited Netaji Bhavan, Bose’s residence. Earlier in the day, the prime minister paid homage to the freedom fighter in a Twitter post. “Tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a great freedom fighter and a true son of Mother India, on his birth anniversary,” the prime minister said in the tweet in Hindi. “A grateful nation will always remember his sacrifice and dedication for the independence of the country,” he said. The government has decided to observe January 23 as “Parakram Diwas” to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose, who was born on this day in 1897. Ahead of his visit, state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee attacked the Centre and said it only remembers Bose when elections are due. “We don’t remember Netaji before the elections. He is in our hearts for 365 days. We are in touch with his family,” she said. “Why was the national Planning Commission, which was conceptualised by Netaji in independent India, dissolved? Why is the demand for a holiday on Netaji’s birthday by our government not yet met,” Mamata said after paying tributes to Bose. Earlier in the day, Mamata kicked off a grand procession in Calcutta to pay tribute to Netaji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Relief soon near Avishikta crossing||The widening of a stretch of EM Bypass near the Avishikta crossing is nearly complete and cars will be running on the widened portion in about 10 days, a senior official of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of EM Bypass, has said. Twenty-five metres have been widened on the western side and 12 metres on the eastern side. The widened stretch, which runs over a canal, will handle a lot of traffic soon after it is opened as the Avishikta crossing would be closed for construction of the New Garia-Airport Metro tracks, said an officer of Calcutta police’s traffic department. “We have almost completed the widening work. The bituminous top coat is being laid now. Some illumination work is left. It will be operational within 10 days,” said the CMDA official. The existing width of the Bypass is 26 metres — each of the two flanks is 13 metres wide. After the widening, the total width will be 72 metres. The official said that the widened portions were actually two culverts that have been built above the canal. There were two culverts on which vehicles moved. Two more culverts have been built to widen the road width. The work began in November 2019. The CMDA had to temporarily block the flow of water through the canal to build the piers of the culvert. Work on widening another stretch of EM Bypass — near the Metropolitan crossing — is underway. The CMDA official said the widening work there would be completed by July. The CMDA had embarked upon widening EM Bypass in 2013. The CMDA official said the width of EM Bypass between Ultadanga and Ajoynagar, further south of Avishikta crossing, was 72 metres wide. But the portion of the Bypass between Ajoynagar and Dhalai bridge was 55 metres wide. “We have not been able to widen EM Bypass further south of Ajoynagar,” he said. The total length of EM Bypass — Garia Dhalai bridge to Ultadanga — is 15.6km. The police officer said that once Avishikta crossing is closed, vehicles coming from Anwar Shah Road connector would not be able to take a right turn towards Garia from the crossing. Similarly, cars coming from Ruby cannot take a right turn towards Anwar Shah Road connector. “Garia-bound vehicles coming from Anwar Shah Road connector have to turn left and then take a U-turn from a place called Mandipara to enter the Garia-bound flank of EM Bypass,” said the officer. “Anwar Shah Road connector-bound vehicles coming from Ruby have to go straight towards Patuli and take a U-turn from the Kalikapur crossing. The vehicles will then come to the Avishikta crossing and turn left to enter Anwar Shah Road connector,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Bike tragedy after trip for blessings, glare on bump||A 29-year-old motorcyclist died after his two-wheeler spun out of control and rammed into a tree along Prince Anwar Shah Road early on Friday. His friend, who was on the pillion, suffered critical head injuries and has been hospitalised. Soham Mullick, 29, from Kasba, and Mayukh Ranjan Ghosh, 32, who lives in Naktala, were returning home after visiting their teacher in Jadavpur the night before, police said. The teacher has purportedly told the police that Mullick and Ghosh had met him to seek his blessings as they had recently changed their workplaces. Ghosh works for a news channel as a journalist and Mullick was associated with another channel. The two were taken to SSKM Hospital, where Mullick was declared dead. Ghosh was shifted to the Institute of Neuroscience in Mullickbazar. “Both were wearing helmets. They suffered head injuries and one of them died on the spot,” said an officer of Lake police station. The accident happened near the Lords Bakery crossing around 4am. An officer of the traffic department said a speed breaker on the stretch could have triggered the accident. “Skid marks were seen on the road from the spot where the two-wheeler apparently lost control. The marks started just after the bump. The biker might have failed to spot the speed-breaker and lost balance after hitting it. The two-wheeler finally rammed into a tree,” the officer said. Mullick is survived by his parents. A family member alleged that some of his belongings, including his mobile phone, were missing from the spot. A case of unnatural death has been registered with Lake police station. Officers stressed the need for motorists to regulate speed, especially on empty stretches, when there are no cops and fewer vehicles around. “But unfortunately motorists just do the opposite. Most of them press the accelerator when they see an empty road. Speeding leaves little scope for the driver or motorist to negotiate a crater or speed-breaker,” another officer of the traffic department said. As many as 64 motorcyclists and pillion-riders lost their lives in road accidents in Calcutta last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Vidyut Bhavan sieged by thousands of contractual employees||Vidyut Bhavan — the headquarters of the West Bengal State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd —  was under siege by thousands of contractual employees on Friday, prompting the police to intervene late at night as the protesters refused to budge even after 12 hours of blockade. Around 100 permanent employees who had reported for work at Vidyut Bhavan, in Salt Lake’s DJ Block, could not return home before late on Friday. The employees, who had arrived around 10am, could not leave till the police removed the protesters around 9.45pm, a spokesperson for the utility said. “Our employees had been trapped inside the building for hours and they could not get out,” said the spokesperson. The contractual employees were demanding a minimum wage of Rs 21,600 a month, a well-defined salary structure, an assurance that they would be retained till they turned 60, an opportunity to become permanent employees based on performance, and allowances, bonus and provident fund benefits. The police said more than 3,000 people had gathered outside Vidyut Bhavan in the morning and the count swelled as the day progressed. “We were keeping a close watch. It was a peaceful gathering. But things started taking an unwanted turn when the agitators blocked the gate of the building, leaving other employees trapped inside. Despite our repeated requests, when they did not agree to move, we had to push them back to rescue the trapped employees,” an officer of the Bidhannagar police said. The 100-odd employees who were inside could leave for home after 10pm. A huge contingent of police cordoned the area and pushed back the agitators to make way for the people trapped inside for close to 12 hours. They were taken out of the building through the rear gate and escorted back home. Around 60 people were arrested from the spot and taken to the police station. A woman employee who was stuck said: “We are habituated to meetings and gatherings outside our office. But we were shocked to discover that we were not being allowed to step out. We were stranded for so many hours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Man allegedly shot dead in Chitpore over ‘family dispute’||A man was allegedly shot dead in Chitpore on Friday evening apparently because of a family dispute, police said. Officers of Chitpore police station said a woman’s parental family and in-laws had got involved in a dispute over taking her back to her parental home. The dispute led to the shooting around 6pm, the officers said. The incident took place in front of 22 Lockgate Road. Hossain Din, who is brother-in-law of the woman, was shot by a few men. Neighbours managed to catch two of the men and handed them over to the police. The cops came to know that they were friends of the woman’s brother. They were allegedly acting on his behest. An improvised gun and two fired cartridges were found at the spot, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Health panel orders refunds to healthcare institutes||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked two healthcare institutes to refund the extra amount they had charged for Covid-19 tests. “We have told them that the amount charged for the Covid test in excess of what the government has fixed has to be returned,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The two establishments are BMRI and SRL. BMRI had overcharged Rs 3,600 for the reports of three RT-PCR tests for Covid and SRL had overcharged Rs 700 for two reports, said Banerjee. The tests were conducted in November and December. The state government has capped the rate of an RT-PCR test for Covid at Rs 950. Despite the government-imposed cap, there have been instances of private hospitals and diagnostic centres charging more for an RT-PCR test. Overbilling The commission asked Divine Nursing Home to return Rs 35,805 to a patient who was overcharged. “The hospital had billed Rs 6,500 as bed charge. We had said bed charges could not be enhanced. Despite that they charged more than the original rate, which was Rs 4,000. There was also some overbilling in pathological tests. So, we have asked the nursing home to refund Rs 35,805," said Banerjee. Refund Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has been asked to refund Rs 1 lakh to the family of a cancer patient who died. The patient had tested positive for Covid during his stay in the hospital. Banerjee said the patient was undergoing prolonged treatment at the hospital. “Since the patient tested positive for Covid on the 21st day, the hospital has some responsibility. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 1 lakh,” said Banerjee. The patient’s family was billed Rs 15 lakh, of which they paid Rs 9 lakh. The rest was paid by the insurance company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Netaji, the name of an ever-burning candle||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, whose 125th birth anniversary falls on Saturday, was an  exceptional personality. To ensure the independence of his motherland from the clutches of the British, he sacrificed his whole life. Unfortunately, he could not see India as an independent nation; Netaji disappeared from the national scene at a climactic moment. Yet, he is alive in the hearts of millions of Indians. Netaji’s spirit and ethos shall remain an ever-burning candle for the generations to come. “Jai Hind”, coined by Netaji, became a national slogan, to commence any conversation, as a greeting and as a salutation to our Mother India. “Jai Hind” is being used by all ranks and files of the Indian Army for the past decade. The slogan has bound the army in a more positive and unique way. Netaji has been one of my greatest heroes since childhood. My late mother was largely responsible for this. I consider myself extremely lucky to have been able to meet Colonel Lakshmi Sahgal, the commanding officer of the Rani of Jhansi Regiment of Netaji’s Indian National Army (INA). I met her when she used to come to Calcutta every year for Netaji’s birth anniversary celebrations. Her stories on Netaji and the INA enthralled me. It was very kind of Colonel Sahgal to accept my invitation to visit our home and motivate my wife, daughter and son. It was another honour for me to have met Netaji’s daughter, Anita Pfaff, when she visited Netaji Bhavan on January 23, 1995. Netaji not only sacrificed his life for the country but also visualised ways of eradicating poverty, illiteracy and diseases. His most unique quality was that he could transcend all barriers of caste and creed. The INA had generals from the Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and other communities. “Had Subhas been there, the partition would not have taken place,” Mahatma Gandhi had said. On August 25, 1943, Netaji formally assumed supreme command of the INA. He said in a special order: “In the coming struggle for the liberation of our motherland, the Azad Hind Fauj has a vital role to play. To fulfil this role, we must weld ourselves into an army that will have one goal — freedom.” On August 26 that year, the commander of the Japanese army revealed a major plan of operation in the Imphal area on the Indian border. Netaji concentrated all efforts on the mobilisation of men and materials for the fight. A guerrilla regiment was raised. The elite regiment had the best soldiers and ammunition to spearhead the INA operation. While Netaji was busy mobilising men and materials for the struggle, he received news of the Great Famine of Bengal. He made arrangements for 1 lakh tonnes of rice to be sent to Bengal. He urged the British government in India to permit the movement of the rice from Myanmar to India, but was spurned. On October 21, 1943, a meeting of the delegates of Indians living in East Asia was held in Singapore. Here, Netaji announced the formation of a provisional government of “azad Hind (free India). But with all leaders in prison and the common people disarmed, it was not possible to set up a provisional government within India or to launch an armed struggle, Netaji said. “It is therefore the duty of the Indian Independence League in East Asia, supported by all patriotic Indians at home and abroad, to undertake this task — the task of setting up a provisional government of azad Hind and of conducting the last fight for the freedom with the help of the Azad Hind Fauj,” he said. On November 5-6, 1943, at the Greater East Asia Conference in Tokyo, Netaji represented the provisional government as an observer. Here, Netaji persuaded the Japanese to transfer the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to the provisional government. Netaji, like Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, had always fought for “poorna swaraj”, or complete freedom. Had Netaji prevailed, the tragic fallout of dominion status granted by the British, especially the communal massacre, could have been avoided. Netaji and his vision for economic planning, national unity, women’s empowerment and poorna swaraj have left behind a fiery legend.  Pratapaditya Mazumdar is a Lieutenant Colonel (Retd)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||La Martiniere for Boys gives exam dates for X, XII||La Martiniere for Boys has gone ahead and announced dates for exams to be held on the campus. Several other schools are ready with their calendar, too, but are holding back from announcing the dates because the state government is yet to give a nod. In a notice for Classes X and XII, La Martiniere for Boys said on-site rehearsal exams for Class X will be held from February 22 to March 5; and on-site rehearsal exams for Class XII from Thursday, February 18 to 20 and from March 1 to 5, “but both are subject to directives from the state government and parental consent.” The exam schedule will follow, said the notice signed by principal John Rafi and sent out late on Thursday. Traditionally, La Martiniere for Boys informs students about exam dates at least a month in advance. Schools like St James’ and South Point, too, are ready with their schedules for holding on-campus practicals and rehearsal exams for Classes X and XII. La Martiniere for Girls plans to hold rehearsal exams for Classes X and XII on the campus. Don Bosco Park Circus is considering calling students to the campus for practicals from mid-February. But the state government is yet to make any announcement about when they plan to ask schools to reopen. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid. Education minister Partha Chatterjee and school education secretary Manish Jain did not respond to calls or messages from The Telegraph. The chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certification Examinations (CISCE), Gerry Arathoon, had earlier told Metro that schools would need two months of on-campus classes before board exams could be held. “It’s high time those appearing for board exams came to school for offline classes. We have prepared the time-table and we are waiting for the government’s go-ahead. We need to have practicals, revision classes and then rehearsal exams,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’. In most schools, students have not written a full-length paper for close to a year. “Students need to practise writing for two-three hours at a stretch,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. “We will have on-campus rehearsals for Classes X and XII as and when we receive government notification.” St James’ has been conducting practicals where teachers show the experiments from the lab to students at home. “It is not enough but it is the best we can do,” Ireland said. Usually, every year students attend eight to nine months of practicals but this time there have been none so far. “Students should at least come for a month-and-a-half for practicals. We are thinking of mid-February but we are also hoping that the government will come out with some directives by end-January,” said Father Bikash Mondal, the principal of Don Bosco Park Circus. Students of classes X and XII can be called in groups in a staggered way, school heads said. St Augustine’s Day School Barrackpore said they were ready to reopen as soon as the government gives a nod. “Parents of Classes X and XII have approached us to call students for practicals and some classes,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School. “Our schedule is ready in the hope that in February we will be allowed to reopen for Classes IX to XII. But we cannot do anything without the government’s approval,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point, a CBSE school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Why Covid vaccine has run into reluctance||The state government is worried that many health workers are reluctant to be vaccinated against Covid-19 and is asking hospital authorities to dispel their doubts and motivate them to take the jabs. The health workers are still reluctant because they harbour doubts about the vaccines approved for emergency use in India, ranging from their adverse effects to dearth of efficacy data. “We want to finish this phase of vaccination as quickly as possible and proceed to the next phase, but reluctance among many health workers is slowing down the process. We are hoping that the number of vaccine recipients will go up in the next few weeks. There are a variety of reasons why many health-care workers are not keen on getting a dose. So, we are asking senior doctors and hospital officials who have already taken shots to motivate others,” a senior official of the health department said on Friday. Health-care workers are being vaccinated in the current phase, following which frontline workers will be called. “Human resources and infrastructure are wasted if people don't turn up for vaccination. We expect the turnout will increase once prospective recipients see for themselves that those who have taken the shots have not suffered from any serious adverse effect.” At the vaccination centres in Peerless Hospital and the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, barely 50 per cent of the prospective recipients from other hospitals who are to get their shots there are turning up. Officials of both hospitals said they were asking their employees to fill up the vacant slots. Many of those who did not turn up said their family members had asked them not to go for vaccination now since they had suffered from Covid-19 and developed antibodies. “There were others who said they were on leave. Several did not receive calls. We got some of our employees vaccinated in the vacant slots with the health department’s consent,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director (eastern India) of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The hospital was given 12 vials of Covishield vaccine, each having around 10 doses. The hospital could vaccinate 109 people and returned two vials to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The hospital has asked senior doctors to motivate health workers to take the vaccine. Utpal Brahma, a consultant in emergency medicine at the hospital, said there were questions in the minds of several co-workers. “I had taken the vaccine on the first day (January 16) and had no reaction. After several senior doctors and nurses have taken the vaccine, doubts are slowly getting cleared. But still we are being asked about adverse effects,” Brahma said. “We are assuring them that there could be minor side effects like fever or pain at the site of injection. Paracetamol can be taken.” Before vaccination, Brahma and other senior doctors are talking to recipients in groups and addressing their concerns. “People are also asking what they should eat before and after the vaccination. There are no restrictions,” said Brahma. At Peerless Hospital, there were plans to get 120 health workers vaccinated. All were supposed to come from the two other private hospitals. However, only 64 had turned up. The hospital filled some vacant slots with its employees. “There is reluctance among some of our employees, too. Government officials are calling up every day, asking us to motivate such workers,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “People are confused about whether Covishield underwent proper trials and about adverse effects. We are speaking to such workers individually to explain that the vaccine did undergo trials and it's safe,” he said. The health department, in video conferences, is also asking senior officials of government hospitals to try and bring more employees for vaccination. “We are asking senior doctors and administrators to take the vaccine and then speak to their colleagues," said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination: Lists of frontline workers sought||The state health department has requested various government departments to draw up by January 25 lists of employees who are in the frontline in the battle against Covid-19 so that a plan can be prepared for the next round of vaccination. The departments that have been identified for “line listing” — according to the health department’s parlance — include home, transport, police, panchayat, prisons, municipal affairs and civil defence. “The Union health ministry wants the completed list to be uploaded on the CoWIN app by January 28. We have requested all departments, including those in the offices of the district magistrates and the block development officers, to give us the lists three days in advance,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said. “The health department will be responsible for administering the doses. If required, we can train nodal officers and back office staff in each department in uploading data on the CoWIN app.” Some departments said they were in the final stages of drawing up the lists, while a few said their lists were ready. Calcutta police, for instance, have submitted a list of 36,500 personnel, including civic volunteers. On Friday, senior health department officials held several rounds of meetings with representatives of various central organisations, including the railways, Calcutta Port Trust, BSF, NSG, CISF, ITBP and Assam Rifles, to decide on sites where health-care workers from these agencies could be vaccinated. Once the complete list of frontline workers is ready, vaccination centres will be set up across four strata — district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, block primary health centres and rural hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
