24-01-2021||Calcutta||Netaji aide, who coined the slogan 'Jai Hind', posthumously honoured ||Abid Hasan, aide to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and the man who coined the slogan “Jai Hind”, was posthumously honoured at an event here on Saturday that resonated with messages of unity and secularism. Hasan, who was a major in the Indian National Army (INA) and served the country as a diplomat after Independence, was conferred with the Netaji Award 2021 by the Netaji Research Bureau at Netaji Bhavan. Bureau chairperson Sugata Bose, Netaji’s great-nephew and a Harvard history professor, delivered a speech on “Netaji, Abid Hasan and the Unity of India” that was peppered with anecdotes and highlighted the emphasis Netaji and his comrades laid on inclusiveness and secularism. Excerpts from the speech by Sugata Bose: It was 51 years ago, January 1970. You can imagine the thrill of a boy just entering his teens to be told that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s sole Indian companion on his perilous 90-day submarine voyage from Europe to Asia in 1943 was coming to stay with his family. We happily vacated the children’s room as we were duty bound to do whenever Netaji’s close associates visited Calcutta. The room on the ground floor at 1 Woodburn Park was better known as “Nehru’s Room” because that was where Jawaharlal stayed as Sarat Chandra Bose’s guest during his visits to Calcutta during the freedom struggle. We were familiar with Abid Hasan’s photographs with his leader on the deck of the German submarine and their transfer together in mid-ocean on a rubber boat to the Japanese submarine. They were prominently displayed at the museum in Netaji Bhavan. His hair had greyed, but it was easy to recognise Netaji’s comrade-in-arms when he arrived at our home with a smile on his lips and a twinkle in his eyes, and in an instant endeared himself to us. Uncle Abid’s room had a door leading to the beautiful curved southern veranda of 1 Woodburn Park. That is where we gathered around him as he sat on a cane chair, looking at the eucalyptus tree in the distance, to hear him narrate his adventures with Netaji in Europe, the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, and Asia. The devotion and loyalty that Netaji elicited from his followers had to be seen to be believed. As with most other men and women of the INA I have met, Uncle Abid wept profusely as he remembered his leader. He had not yet written his oration when he arrived in Calcutta. He was provided with a desk and a chair along with my mother Krishna Bose’s Olivetti typewriter in one corner of the veranda. My mother was pleased to find someone who could beat her in the art of slow typing. After composing a passage, Uncle Abid would give us a shout and we would rush to hear what he had written. After reading a few sentences, his voice would choke with emotion. He became concerned that he would not be able to deliver the oration before the public. “How embarrassing it would be if I break down like this,” he kept saying. My mother tried to boost his morale with a steady supply of good food and music. He enjoyed Bengali cuisine, supplemented by a bowl of green chillies placed before him. I watched him sitting at the oval marble table in our dining room with beads of sweat appearing on his forehead as he munched the chillies. On the morning of January 23, 1970, at Netaji Bhavan, Abid Hasan delivered his beautifully crafted and deeply moving Netaji oration, titled “The Men from Imphal”, in a somewhat monotonous voice, struggling not to be overcome by emotion. Abid Hasan then flashed back to October 1943, telling the story of Netaji’s visit to the Chettiar temple in Singapore. He (Netaji) had turned away the head priest, saying: “What! Come to your temple where even Hindus of other castes are not permitted entry, not to speak of members of other communities who are equally near and dear to me?” He agreed to go when the high priest returned with an invitation to “an Indian national demonstration”. “When we came to the temple,” Abid Hasan remembered, “I found it filled to capacity, with the uniforms of the INA officers and men and the black caps of south Indian Muslims glaringly evident. The memory I retain is one of an invigorating music — as that of a symphony dedicated to the unity of the motherland.” That music sustained him during his travails on the battlefield. The extended interview with Abid Hasan that formed the basis of Krishna Bose’s long-form article Sainiker Smriti, later published as A Soldier Remembers in the Netaji Research Bureau’s journal, The Oracle, was conducted day and night between March 13 and 15, 1976. Uncle Abid was an indifferent public speaker but a very engaging conversationalist. Puffing an endless chain of cigarettes and sipping cold beer, he transported us to the military camps of the Indian Legion in Germany, the rehearsal of the national greeting “Jai Hind” with Netaji, the drama and discipline of the submarine voyage, the tumultuous public events and the intimate private moments with Netaji during the Azad Hind movement in Southeast Asia, and the saga in Imphal. Netaji had asked his followers in Europe to help him find a common national greeting that would have a nice ring to it and be acceptable to all religious communities. One day Abid Hasan heard some Rajput soldiers greet each other with “Jai Ramji ki”. It seemed to have a musical quality and Hasan changed it to “Jai Hindustan ki”. That did not quite work but the abbreviated form, “Jai Hind (Victory to India)”, sounded perfect and Netaji enthusiastically embraced it as India’s national greeting. Always conscious of the need to foster unity among religious communities, Netaji had toyed with the idea of taking a Hindu, a Muslim and a Sikh on his journey to Asia. Once the German naval authorities told him that he could take only one aide, he picked Abid Hasan to be his companion. N.G. Swami and four others with advanced training in wireless telegraphy, secret inks and sophisticated radio transmitters were to follow on a blockade-runner in March. Abid Hasan was simply told to pack his bags for a long journey without any inkling of his destination. He thought that he might be sent to Mecca as part of a scheme to find anti-colonial recruits during the Haj. It was only when he met Netaji at Lehrter Bahnhof (a railway station in Berlin) that he realised he would be accompanying his leader. On the train from Berlin to Kiel, Netaji asked Abid Hasan: “Now, do you know where you’re going?” “Yes, sir,” Hasan replied, “I know where we’re going.” “Where are we going?” Netaji enquired. “We are both going to perform Haj,” Abid Hasan commented wryly, eliciting from his leader peals of laughter. He had truly become Netaji’s only companion on a pilgrimage to freedom. We never forgot him, but India’s younger generation needs to be taught about the forgotten vestiges of our freedom struggle. Faced with the threat of unequal citizenship from the forces of religious majoritarianism, Krishna Bose wrote her last article, published on February 1, 2020, on the values represented by Abid Hasan before her own passing weeks later on February 22, 2020. Fifty-one years ago, Abid Hasan had in his Netaji oration referred to “these frustrating times when India again seems to be a house divided against itself”. The times have turned even more ominous now and the “inhuman acts” that Abid Hasan deplored are becoming an everyday reality in today’s India. His oration was in Sisir Kumar Bose’s words “a moving affirmation of the revolutionary faith given to us by our leader”. Abid Hasan had closed his oration with a message of hope: “The people of India will accept any leadership provided the call remains the same and the call cannot be but — ‘Forget not that the grossest crime is to compromise with injustice and wrong’.” Can India defeat today’s divisive policies and bind its diverse people together once again, as Netaji and Abid Hasan had done, with a garland of love? As for our national greeting that Netaji gave us with Abid Hasan’s help, the inspiration that it gave to the Azad Hind Fauj must be rekindled today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
24-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC to double storage capacity in Mukundapur reservoir||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will increase the storage capacity in Mukundapur booster pumping station by more than double, reducing the dependency on underground water pulled up through deep tube wells for supply to residents. The work to build the additional capacity will begin from next week, said a senior engineer of the civic body. The current storage capacity of the reservoir at Mukundapur station is 0.5 million gallon. Two more reservoirs — one semi-underground and one elevated — with a combined storage capacity of 0.75 million gallon would be built, said the engineer of CMC’s water supply department. “The deadline to commission the two reservoirs is 18 months,” said the engineer. Several residents of ward 109 — including areas like Mukundapur, Nayabad New Garia and Panchasayar —would benefit once the storage capacity is doubled. The residents now receive a mix of water supplied from the Dhapa water treatment plant and water pumped up from underground through deep tube well. A resident of Nayabad’s 1B bus stand neighbourhood said the water they receive from the CMC’s network was turbid. “If we do not clean the reservoir once in two months at least, a lot of dirt flows through the tap,” said the resident, who is a state government employee. Asis Majumdar, the director of School of Water Resources at Jadavpur University, told Metro that underground water could have arsenic and fluoride as contaminants. “The underground water in Calcutta’s eastern fringes has very high amount of to- tal dissolved salts. This makes the taste of the water very salty...,” Majumdar said. The existing station at Mukundapur was commissioned in 2013. Treated water from the Dhapa water treatment plant is stored in the reservoir of the station. It is then pushed into the distribution with added force by the pumping station. The CMC engineer said that the existing storage capacity in the booster pumping station was commissioned with the hope that treated water would reach all households in the area. A Nayabad resident said that they received good quality water in the initial days after inauguration of the booster pumping station, but within a year and half the pressure reduced. “This happened because the population growth in the area exceeded expectation and the storage capacity at the Mukundapur booster pumping station was not enough to supply the demand of the increasing population,” said the CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
24-01-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission online programme to celebrate patriot||The values that Netaji stood for need to be celebrated and that will be a tribute to the patriot, said the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama Narendrapur, Swami Sarvalokananda, while addressing students, parents and teachers at a programme to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “There is an ongoing research on whether India would have gained independence sooner or later had Netaji been alive… I think in the current situation, instead of going into these complexities, what will be more important is if we could nurture Netaji’s values of courage, honesty and patriotism and take India ahead,” said Swami Sarvalokananda. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya organised the programme that was streamed on the school’s YouTube channel on Saturday evening. On Netaji’s birthday, one should not stop by only garlanding him and expressing respect for some time. “That is not how it should be... Given our country’s situation, it has been noticed that patriotism has sunk to the bottom... We have forgotten to love our country… and whatever unpleasant is happening is primarily because we have forgotten to respect our motherland,” Swami Sarvalokananda said. He said that Netaji had got his values of patriotism from Swami Vivekananda. Swami Sarvalokananda later told Metro that “there is a difference in the brand of politics that Netaji practised and that of today’s”. “During Netaji’s time the country came before self,” he said. The one-and-half-hour programme included songs, recitation, speeches and episodes from Netaji’s life by students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya. Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Bengal’s chief secretary, and Jayanta Ghoshal, the state government’s information and development officer, were the keynote speakers. “To celebrate this day despite it being an online programme we wanted to engage students and not just today, we will have celebrations round the year. The students need to imbibe the values that Netaji stood for,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya, the headmaster of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya. Around 500 men, women and children donned their running shoes and hit the streets of New Town on a wintry Saturday morning. The Newtown Green Run 2021 was organised by Hidco and Sports Development Foundation in association with West Bengal Athletic Association to mark Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The run was flagged off at Eco Park by Debasis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, table tennis player Subhajit Saha and Olympian and shooting coach Joydeep Karmakar. Participants ran down the ring road behind Eco Park, parallel to the 112-acre water body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
24-01-2021||Calcutta||Coronavirus outbreak: consent form for Covaxin recipients||Recipients of Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, would have to sign informed consent forms before they are administered the vaccine, the Centre informed officials of the state health department on Saturday. The state health department or the vaccinating site has to call the person after seven days and again after 28 days to enquire about the person’s health. The recipient must also fill up a form if they experience any serious events after receiving Covaxin, said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. Simultaneously, the Union health ministry announced on Saturday that Bengal would be among seven new states that would begin administering Covaxin next week in addition to 12 states that started administering the vaccine last week. Till now Bengal had been administering only the Covishield vaccine, which is developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. India has vaccinated 15.37 lakh healthcare workers since the nationwide campaign started on January 16. Bengal received its first batch of 1.6 lakh Covaxin doses on Friday. During a video conference on Saturday, the state health department officials were told by officials of the health ministry that recipients of Covaxin must give a written consent that they have agreed to take the home-grown vaccine. There is no such requirement for administering Covishield, manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India. The state has received 13.88 lakh doses of Covishield and is administering the vaccine to all healthcare workers. Senior officials of the state health department held a meeting among themselves on Friday where many raised concerns what would happen if recipients refused to be administered Covaxin doses. During Saturday’s video conference, officials of health ministry told the state officials that there was no possibility of taking back the Covaxin doses. “The Centre will send us a consent form where recipients have to sign before they are administered the vaccine. They will give their informed consent before they are inoculated with Covaxin,” said Chakraborty, the state health services director. He said the consent was required since full data of phase-III trial of Covaxin is still not available. “There would have been no requirement of a consent form if phase-III trial results were available. But this is just an added precautionary measure. Covaxin has passed the safety trial and there is no reason to be afraid. The vaccine has been prepared using a time tested technology, which is using an inactivated virus,” he added. State health department officials did not have clarity on the content of the consent form till Saturday. The fact sheet supplied with Covaxin — which contains general information about the vaccine — mentions that the vaccine is undergoing efficacy trials. “A phase III efficacy study is ongoing in 25,800 participants and administered with first dose of vaccination with Covaxin, no vaccine related adverse events were observed”. Chakraborty added that the phase-III trial results of Covaxin will be available only after at least another three of four months. “But we cannot solely depend on Covishield because that will slow down the vaccination programme,” he said. Dipyaman Ganguly, an immunologist with the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, explained the three phases of trial. “The phase I trial assessed whether the vaccine is safe to administer to a person. In case of Covaxin, phase II trial only assessed if the vaccine generated immune response in the recipient. The phase III trial will assess whether the vaccine has efficacy in preventing the disease for a considerable period of time,” he said. The Covaxin fact sheet also mention that those with fever or severe infection, pregnant and lactating mothers, individuals below 18 years and those who are sensitive to the ingredients of the vaccine should not take it. “Covaxin should be administered as two doses on Day 0 and Day 28,” the fact sheet added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
