25-01-2021||Calcutta||Domestic help arrested for allegedly stealing money||Sushma Yadav, 35, who worked as a domestic help, was arrested on Sunday for allegedly stealing Rs 4.5 lakh from her employers’ residence on Prince Anwar Shah Road earlier this week. The theft was reported by the employers’ daughter, police said. The stolen amount has been recovered from Yadav’s possession after her arrest, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Hopes rise after Covid vaccine 1st week ||Around 84,000 health workers were administered the Covid vaccination in Bengal in the first week of the nationwide exercise, prompting local officials to conclude that the state has done “fairly well” and raising hopes that the initial reluctance among potential recipients will subside soon. The country-wide count is 16 lakh. Of the 83,709 people who were vaccinated in Bengal since January 16, as many as 30,517 got their shots on Friday. Health department officials hope the reluctance among many people to get Covid shots would go away gradually as there are hardly any reports of adverse events. “A week has passed since the Covid vaccination was launched across the country and there are hardly any reports of serious adverse events. More health workers will now be keen to get the shots,” an official said. From Monday, the jabs will be administered at 400 sites across the state, 50 more than Friday’s count. “We have done fairly well in the first week despite reluctance among a section of health-care workers to take the vaccine. Some states have done better than us. We hope to do better from this week,” said a health department official. Metro has reported that the health department is asking senior doctors and hospital administrators to motivate their colleagues to take Covid shots. The number of vaccination sites has been increased across the state to ensure that more health workers are inoculated. In Calcutta, the count has been doubled. “Covid vaccines will be administered at 54 sites in Calcutta from Monday. On Friday, there were only 26 sites in the city,” said a state government official involved in the supervision of the Covid vaccination. Among the new sites are two private hospitals — Belle Vue Clinic and the Institute of Neurosciences — and 11 ward health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. According to the state-wise break-down of Covid-19 vaccination posted on the website of the Press Information Bureau, Bengal had vaccinated 53,988 health-care workers till 7am on January 22. The state stood sixth in vaccinating health-care workers. Karnataka had inoculated 1,38,807 health workers, Andhra Pradesh 1,15,365, Odisha 1,13, 623, Telangana 97,087 and Bihar 63,541 health-care workers till 7am on January 22. The total inoculation done till then was 10,43,534. Bengal has the fifth highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the country now, according to a tweet by the ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. The tweet at 12.09pm mentioned that India’s active cases stood at 1,84,408. It also mentioned that Kerala accounted for 39.19 per cent of the cases, Maharashtra 24.45 per cent, Karnataka 3.99 per cent, Uttar Pradesh 3.97 per cent and West Bengal 3.47 per cent of the active cases. “5 states account for 75% total active cases of the country,” the tweet said. In terms of absolute numbers, the number of active cases has come down significantly. The bulletin issued by the state health department on Sunday mentioned that 389 Covid-19 cases were reported in the state over the past 24 hours. The bulletin issued on Saturday mentioned that 410 cases were reported in the preceding 24 hours. An official of the state health department said that if vaccination gained steam, Bengal would be at a more advantageous position. “The faster we can inoculate our people, the better off we would be,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta tram routes to be colour-coded||Calcutta is set to have colour-coded tram routes, like the Granton tram network of Edinburgh, from February. “The colours to be assigned to the various routes include pink, red, yellow, violet, blue and green. The scheme will be launched in February,” said an official of the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). According to the plan, trams with pink stripes will run on routes 24 and 29, between Tollygunge and Ballygunge station via Tollygunge Club, Lake Market and Hindustan Park. Trams with yellow stripes will connect Gairahat with Esplanade via Ice Skating Rink, Quest Mall, Nonapukur, Ripon Street, Wellington crossing and Chandni Chowk. The red line will pass through College Street, while the green line will connect the Howrah bridge with Rajabazar. The violet route will cover central Calcutta and the blue line will connect Esplanade with Kidderpore, via the Maidan. “For easy identification, tramcars will have colour stripes on the top. There won't be any shortage of tramcars on any route even if one develops a snag,” said an official of the WBTC. “Those who will buy a ‘Trampass’ will be given a pocket map on tram routes.” The Trampass is an all-in-one day-ticket that allows a commuter to travel on all trams, including air-conditioned ones, at Rs 100 a day. The pass offers a free ride on Paat Rani, a heritage tram displaying jute products, which otherwise costs Rs 99. It also allows a free entry into Tram World Calcutta, a museum on trams set up in Gariahat to commemorate 140 years of the tram operations by the Calcutta Tramways Company, which was registered in London on December 22, 1880. “This is part of our endeavours to try and revive love for trams in Calcutta,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of WBTC. The West Bengal Transport Corporation, which runs on subsidy from the state government, has of late been trying to popularise trams. Apart from rolling out AC trams on select routes, the transport department has recently opened an art gallery on a tram and a library on wheels. Trams, an environment-friendly mode of transport, started their journey in Calcutta in 1873 with horses drawing them. In 1902, the first electric tram began its service in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta chill set to last 4 to 5 days||The current spell of chill, brought on by snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, is likely to last another four to five days, the weather department said. Sunday's maximum temperature was 26.1 degrees Celsius and minimum 14 degrees Celsius.. The chill was accompanied by fog on Sunday, which disrupted flights. Officials at the Calcutta airport said 30 outgoing flights and five incoming ones were delayed. Visibility dropped below 50 metres between 3.50am and 6am, causing the delays, the officials said. The airport has the Category IIIB instrument landing system, which allows flights to operate at a minimum visibility of 50 metres. Conditions improved after 6am but the domino effect of delays continued almost till noon, an official said. The weather office has said the next few mornings are likely to be foggy, too. “There has been continuous snowfall in the north-western part of our country, in places like Jammu and Kashmir, over the past few days. The northwesterly winds blowing in from those areas are bringing the cold. The chill in the air in Calcutta is a result of that,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “We expect the chill to persist for another 4-5 days.” Tamanna Khanna, 27, a resident of Rosedale Garden in New Town, enjoyed a ride on her bicycle through the misty Major Arterial Road in New Town on Sunday morning. “Sunday had the near perfect weather for riding and we enjoyed it to the fullest,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Classic Drivers' Club organise car rally for the first time since Covid-19 outbreak||A fleet of around 30 vintage and classic cars and two-wheelers made a trip down to Eco Park from Loreto House on Middleton Row on Sunday. The drive was an opportunity for the owners of the golden oldies to take out their prized possessions for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak led to the imposition of a nation-wide lockdown in March last year. Whoever came to take a close look at the cars or click photographs, the owners explained to them the need to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene to keep Covid at bay. The term “vintage car” is used quite loosely these days. Going strictly by car parlance, all pre-World War I cars, up to 1914, are considered Edwardian or veteran; cars manufactured between 1914 and 1939 are vintage; and those made between 1940 and 1970 are called classic cars. Sunday’s drive had representatives from nearly all categories. On display were a couple of Rolls Royce Phantom IIIs, manufactured in the late 1930s; an Austin Tourer 12/4, which hit the roads in 1922; and a 1963 Fiat Super Select, among other beauties. The cars that took part in the Sunday morning drive, organised by the Classic Drivers' Club, assembled near the Loreto House on Middleton Row. From there they took a turn to Park Street, got on to the Parama flyover via the Park Circus seven point crossing and headed north through EM Bypass before plying down the Chingrighata flyover on their way to Eco Park in New Town. Throughout the drive, other motorists as well as pedestrians shot the cars on their cellphones. At traffic signals, other drivers pulled up alongside the oldies and asked the owners how it felt to drive them. Prithvi Tagore, an organiser of the drive, said the idea was to keep the cars running as well as to let Calcuttans have a glimpse of the city’s rich motoring heritage. “Calcutta was the car capital once and we want to make people aware that such cars do exist and despite being so old, they still run,” said Tagore, who drove a 1963 Fiat Super Select. The oldest car was a 1922 Austin Tourer 12/4, which was driven by Phoolbagan resident Supratim Basu. “We got a chance to drive and also spread awareness about the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in the current situation,” Basu said. The car, he said, had been bought by his family in 1922. Shipped from England, it arrived at the Kidderpore dock on board a container ship. “We treat it like our baby, though it is older than most of our family members,” Basu said. Once all the cars and two-wheelers pulled up in front of Dhaba Ajante in Eco Park, they were nearly mobbed by people, who took photographs of the vehicles and selfies alongside them. Arijit Bhattacharya, who rode a 1948 BSA Bantam, said it felt great to see so many people queue up just to take a look at the vehicles. “This is a great way to keep the love and passion for these vehicles alive,” he said. Souvik Ghosh Chaudhuri, another organiser said, they were planning more such drives over the next few months. “Delhi and Mumbai have this culture. Old cars and bikes drive together in those cities every week. We are trying to do a similar thing here,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Who made Modi look like a ungracious host?||An attempt is unlikely to be made but if Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keen to find out who made him look like a ungracious host at Victoria Memorial on Saturday, a safe starting point will be the trail of a batch of 400 invitation cards. As many as 400 invitation cards for the Prime Minister’s programme celebrating Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary were distributed from the BJP office, a source in the state party headquarters, 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, said on Sunday. Many more than these 400 guests were invited to the event in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her displeasure at the behaviour of a section of the audience that kept shouting “Jai Shri Ram”. According to police sources, parking arrangements were made for 600 chauffeur-driven cars, of which only 150 turned up. “It is unlikely that the sloganeers came in those 150 cars,” said a police officer. Which casts the glare back on the 400 cards purportedly farmed out from the BJP office. Sugata Bose, Netaji’s grandnephew and chairperson of the Netaji Research Bureau at Netaji Bhavan, asked on Sunday: “My question is how the upholders and bearers of an extreme degenerate culture were allowed to enter the event by the Union culture ministry? How did these elements get past the SPG net? Or, were they specifically allowed to be part of this?” A BJP leader said in private: “It is customary that if it’s a Union government programme, which is to be attended by central ministers, some cards reach us which we distribute among party leaders. This time, some 400 cards came for the programme.” This newspaper tried to corroborate the version with the BJP but calls to Pratap Banerjee, the officer-in-charge and a state vice-president of the party, went unanswered. Officially, the BJP is putting up a brave face, accusing Mamata of using “the occasion to further her sectarian politics” and insisting that chanting “Jai Shri Ram” is part of Indian culture. But the consensus across the rest of the political spectrum appeared to be that the party had once again ended up underscoring its cultural disconnect with Bengal. A more discernible measure too suggested that Modi could have done without the controversy. It ensured that the Prime Minister’s thunder was stolen — at least on the front pages of most newspapers in Bengal where Mamata’s protest overshadowed all other developments of the day for which Modi had been grooming himself. “The sloganeering gave Mamata Banerjee the opportunity to prove that the culture of Bengal is alien to the BJP,” a BJP office-bearer said on Sunday. “The distribution of cards should have been done by the Union culture ministry itself. Distributing the cards through the party led to this ruckus.” Another state BJP leader said the leaders would have gone to the event in any case and that there was no excuse for sending so many party workers to a Union government event, which made it look like a partisan programme. But another section of BJP leaders insisted that it was only natural that party workers would be invited to a programme — whether government-sponsored or not — that is graced by the party’s tallest leader. “There is ample evidence of the dominating presence of Trinamul supporters at state government programmes. Why is it a big deal if BJP supporters are invited to an event hosted by the Union government headed by the party?” a state BJP vice-president asked. Mamata found support from her archrivals, the Congress and the Left, with front chairman Biman Bose and the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, issuing statements condemning the heckling. Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Rammohan Mission High School teachers carry relief to Sunderbans||Teachers of a city school travelled more than 80km carrying clothes and other relief materials that students had collected for villagers in the Sunderbans who are yet to recover from the impact of Cyclone Amphan. Rammohan Mission High School chose the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to travel to Budhokhali and Madhukhali, on the banks of the Matla. “We reached out to 500 families with clothes, blankets, food, school bags and mosquito nets. The students contributed the clothes,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of the school who was accompanied by teachers and members of the management. Biswas said it took them more than two hours to cross the last 30km because of poor roads. “We chose these two villages because we wanted to travel to remote areas,” said Biswas. The villages were devastated by Amphan, which struck in May last year, and the residents are yet to get back their normal sources of livelihood. “The villagers said Amphan had left their ponds and farmland inundated with saline water, which impacted their source of livelihood. They could not harvest from June to August," said Biswas. Metro had reported in May how the rising salinity in water would put many people out of work in the Sunderbans in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. “We don’t know about these two villages (Budhokhali and Madhukhali), but there are areas in the Sunderbans where farmland has been damaged following inundation by saline water. The water evaporated and the salt mixed with the soil,” said Sankar Halder, the founder of Mukti, an NGO that works in around 15 blocks in the Sunderbans. The crisis has left many of the villagers without livelihood and the pandemic has only aggravated their problems. Biswas said the idea of choosing the occasion of Netaji's birth anniversary to stand by the villagers is to drive home the message of doing responsible work to mark important days. “Students need to know that the day is to be marked not just by hoisting the national flag, but also by reaching out to people who need them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Street library outside Kasba school||A school in Kasba has installed a bookshelf outside the campus, beside the gate, for residents of the locality to pick up books and read, an initiative aimed at encouraging reading. The idea is to make books available to those who don't have, from people who don't need them anymore. The street library, as it is called, is an initiative of Silver Point School and iLEAD, a private institute that offers a host of professional courses. The library was opened on Friday with an initial collection of 500 books. The books are not under lock and key. Anyone can pick up a book at any time of the day, read it and return. “We want to promote the habit of reading. We will keep replenishing and make books available to those who don’t have easy access to books,” said Sucharita Roychowdhury, the headmistress of Silver Point School. From pictorial books to stories by Ruskin Bond and travel magazines, there is something for everybody. Pradip Chopra of iLEAD, who started the project about two-and-a-half years back, has set up 20 bookshelves in the city, some of which are in parks and slums. “The exchange of books from those who don’t need them to those who need them is happening at the lowest possible cost because there is no manpower required and no rent,” said Chopra, the chairman of the iLEAD Foundation. “The exchange is unsupervised. Even if a book is stolen for reading, the purpose is served.” Each bookshelf has a fibre curtain to protect the books from the elements. The concept of a street library also encourages people to keep books on the shelf that they no longer need. Chopra said he learnt about street libraries during a visit to Sydney, where he saw book racks outside homes and in public spaces. Silver Point School has also kept two chairs beside the shelf so that one can also sit there and read. “In the locality there are makeshift stalls where vendors sell fritters and children roam around. While we were setting the street library, we noticed that the children were taking interest in it. If these children touch, smell or feel the books, half the work is done,” said headmistress Roychowdhury. The Covid pandemic has yanked many children off studies. Not all can afford a personalised device for online class. “The habit of reading is to be encouraged among the children of any community,” Chopra said. He said he had seen rickshaw-pullers pick up books from a shelf that was set up outside Vidyanjali International School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
