26-01-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcuttans’ account of Netaji event ||Two professionals, leading figures in their respective fields who have spent long years in Calcutta, were at Saturday’s event at Victoria Memorial to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Both said they were aghast when they saw 15 to 20 people among the audience erupt in chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. The two Calcuttans narrated to The Telegraph what they heard and saw at the event organised by the Union culture ministry. Both requested anonymity for obvious reasons. First professional: A group of people, actually I’m not sure whether they were part of one group as the men were scattered across a few rows at the back, had started chanting “Jai Shri Ram” even before the programme began. At the Victoria Memorial gate near the AJC Bose Road flyover, we could see Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s car heading towards Elgin Road. We could clearly see the Prime Minister sitting in the car, and these people chanted “Jai Shri Ram”. First professional: I was surprised and so were a few of my friends whom I had run into at the event. We saw some of the volunteers and organisers rushing towards them and asking them to be quiet. But after a short while, some of them chanted “Jai Shri Ram” several times again. Most of them were young. A few were wearing saffron scarves that resembled those that some politicians wear. Initially, they chanted the slogan in a low voice but the moment chief minister Mamata Banerjee walked towards the podium, they sprang to their feet and started shouting “Jai Shri Ram” at the top of their voices. The volunteers and organisers rushed towards them and the chief minister too protested strongly in her short speech. Then there was complete silence. Maybe some of these people too understood that what they had done was not right. I did not like the slogan-shouting at all. This was not a political event and most of those invited like me were not politicians. We had accepted the invitation because it was a programme to celebrate the birth anniversary of a great leader. But unlike these people, we kept our opinions to ourselves because it is inappropriate to express your views there. Second professional: I was seated in a middle row. The moderator announced the name of chief minister Mamata Banerjee as the next speaker and immediately I heard from the back chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. Like everyone else, I too turned my head to see who was shouting. They were young people. Some of them, I think, wore suits or jackets and sat in the last few rows at the back. I think there were barely 15 to 20 people shouting the slogan. The moderator appealed to them to stop but they continued. The chief minister was visibly annoyed. After she sternly said this was a government programme and there should not have been any political slogans, there was an uneasy calm. I heard one elderly gentleman asking why political slogans were being chanted at such a solemn event. The chief minister thanked Prime Minister Modi for arranging the programme in Calcutta. The programme was to start at 4.30pm but I had arrived a bit early. It was very well organised. There were security checks at two points, one at the main entrance to the Victoria Memorial and the other at the point of entry to the open-air space where the main programme was being organised. The security personnel checked my identity document at both points. They also checked the invitation card minutely. But despite such vigil, they could not prevent such a nuisance. Many doctors, musicians and other known faces were in the audience. They later told me they were surprised and shocked that a group of people could behave this way. At the beginning of the programme, after the Prime Minister arrived, he went inside to inaugurate an exhibition on Netaji. It was shown on a screen. It showed the Prime Minister, the governor, two Union ministers and Victoria Memorial officials walking together and the chief minister walking separately. I got the impression that she had got left behind and they were not talking to her, which I did not like. This was not a place for politics, I thought. After the chief minister’s protest, the Prime Minister spoke for about half an hour but the spirit of the programme was dampened. Initially, people in the audience, most known to each other, were talking and taking selfies. After the incident, everyone was quiet. The slogan-shouting had left a bad taste in the mouth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||As the world fights Covid-19, another pandemic is inching close||As the world fights Covid-19, another pandemic is looming in the horizon. This will be caused by bacteria which are becoming resistant to the entire gamut of antibiotics discovered so far, rendering humankind and animals defenceless against infections. A travelling exhibition, titled Superbugs: The End of Antibiotics?, reached Science City on Monday after doing the rounds of Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore. Organised by the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), in collaboration with Science Museum Group, London, Wellcome, UK, and supported by the Indian Council of Medical Research, it will be on view through February. The exhibition consists of 30 exhibits divided into three segments — microscopic, human and global. “The first part tells the story of the hidden world of bacteria and the history of antibiotics. The human section deals with those affected by and combating antibacterial resistance. The third is on global initiatives in search of new antibiotics and alternative solutions,” said Subhabrata Chaudhuri, director, Science City. The first section starts with an innocuous picture of a man posing in front of Taj Mahal. A wheel in front of the digital panel on being turned zooms in manifold on his head, till single strands of hair and finally a bacteria under his skull become visible. “That’s just 1 micron in size. This has been devised to show how small bacteria are,” said curator S.S. Ghosh, while showing guests around. There are 10 original bacterial slides in petri dishes, collected mostly from patients at Tata Medical Center. Once a sliding magnifying glass is held over each dish, the shape and other details of the bacteria appear on the panel in front. Two petri dishes in an adjacent exhibit show how an antibiotic has killed and stopped growth in a colony of Staphylococcus aureus in one, and how bacteria resistant to the antibiotic have kept growing in the other. On picking up a vintage telephone handset, one can hear the voice of Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of the world’s first antibiotic penicillin, predicting the rise of superbugs as part of his Nobel Prize acceptance speech in 1945. A penicillin mould grown from Fleming’s original sample is on display, alongside a picture of Albert Alexander, a police officer who was the first to receive penicillin. Passing a hand over a sensor-fitted book allows one to flip panels in front, showcasing trivia like Winston Churchill being cured of pneumonia by a newly discovered antibiotic in 1943. Recalling how the exhibition was conceptualised, Arijit Dutta Choudhury, director general, NCSM, said: “In 2018, we were approached by Science Museum, London, to develop an exhibition on the subject. They held one in London which our team visited. Their exhibition also travelled to China. We contextualised it to fit the Indian situation and opened it in September 2019 in Delhi. It was kept in abeyance because of the lockdown. This exhibition has been visited by five lakh people across the country and we reached out digitally to another 10 lakh.” Scientists attending the inauguration pointed out how because of Covid-19, people have started taking plenty of antibiotics, aggravating the problem. Emdadul Islam, a retired director of the Birla Industrial and Technological Museum, pointed out that no new antibiotic had been developed since the 1970s. “If the ones we have become ineffective, no surgery can be done for fear of infection,” he said. Human geneticist Partha Pratim Majumdar, National Science Chair of the government of India, who inaugurated the exhibition, warned against both overuse, when people take antibiotics without being prescribed, and underuse, when they stop before completing the course. He also rued the rampant use of antibiotics in poultry farms and crop plants. “These are secondary ways in which antibiotics enter the human body and promote resistance. It is a man-made disaster. We need to use antibiotics more responsibly.” Microbiologist Sanjay Bhattacharya of Tata Medical Center also spoke at the programme, as did three other experts virtually. “We will hold programmes like puppet show, online quiz, poster making on the sidelines,” said Samarendra Kumar, director, headquarters, NCSM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Compensation order for south Calcutta hospital||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked a hospital in south Calcutta to give Rs 50,000 as compensation to a patient who was overbilled during his Covid treatment. Chinmoy Chakraborty had stayed at Kasturi Das Memorial Superspeciality Hospital in Santoshpur for 15 days. “We have given a discount of Rs 50,000 to the patient. We found that the bed charges were very high. He was in a triple-sharing bed and charged Rs 9,000,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairman of the commission, said on Monday after the hearing. There was separate billing for resident medical officer, sanitisation and biomedical waste disposal. “The patient was billed Rs 3.41 lakh,” Banerjee said. “He gave the entire amount and later got a reimbursement of Rs 2.11 lakh. He had to bear Rs 1.29 lakh. We have given him a further discount of Rs 50,000,” Banerjee said. There have been instances in the past when the commission has asked hospitals to return various amounts to patients for overcharging, which included exorbitant amounts for pathological tests. The government has capped doctors’ consultation fees and PPE rates. The commission issued an advisory that PPE rates would include glove and mask charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||College girl found  dead in complex||The body of a teenage girl, later identified as Nidhi Poddar, was found in front of a multi-storey building in Bangur Avenue’s A Block late on Sunday. Residents of the area, alerted by a thud, rushed out and saw the girl lying face down in a pool of blood. The residents immediately alerted the police and some of them took her to a nursing home in Lake Town, where she was declared dead. Police said Nidhi, 18, a first-year student at a college near Sovabazar, stayed with her family in Lake Town’s SK Deb Road. “Nidhi’s family members had visited Lake Town police station on Sunday night and told the officers that she had stepped out after telling her parents that she wanted to buy packets of instant noodles,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. “A friend of Nidhi alerted the family that she had posted a status message on WhatsApp that she would commit suicide. As soon as we learnt about it, our men fanned out in search of the girl. In the meantime we received news that the body of a young girl was found on Bangur Avenue.” The police found a purported suicide note in which Nidhi apologised to her parents for ending her life, the officer said. According to another officer, Nidhi had been suffering from hearing loss. “She mentioned in the letter that she was getting increasingly depressed because of the medical condition,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Relative held for wedding theft in Beleghata||A man allegedly drugged seven family members at his in-laws’ home a day after his brother-in-law’s wedding reception and stole the bride’s jewellery worth Rs 8.5 lakh from a cupboard she had brought from her parental home. The accused, Partha Sarathi Ghosh, who runs a horticulture business in Behala, has been arrested. “He had mixed sleeping pills with the food. To stay awake, he skipped dinner, saying he was not keeping well. He admitted he entered his brother-in-law’s room and stole the jewellery while all other family members were asleep,” an officer of Beleghata police station said. Abhijit Das and Dolly had tied the knot last Sunday and the reception was held on Tuesday. On Wednesday, apart from the newly-wed couple, Das’s parents, elder sister, her husband and their son were at home. On Thursday, Ghosh had left for his home with his wife and son. Shortly thereafter, Dolly discovered the theft. “We were examining the family members one by one when we learnt that the groom’s brother-in-law and sister had left for their home,” an officer said. “Following prolonged questioning, Ghosh admitted to the crime.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Protest against insult to CM and online attack on artistes||Actors, filmmakers, painters, poets and others came together on Monday burying their political differences to condemn what they said was the humiliation of the Bengal chief minister and an attempt to sully an event to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary. The immediate trigger of the protest meeting was the slogan-shouting that forced Mamata Banerjee to abandon her speech at Victoria Memorial, but the protesters also spoke against online abuse a number of artistes have been subjected to for expressing their opinion on faith and food. Among those present at the protest, opposite Metro cinema, was actor-director Koushik Sen and filmmakers Goutam Ghose and Sudeshna Roy. Sen, known for speaking his mind against the Trinamul government, spoke about the need to bury political differences to fight the BJP. “I will tell everyone that our biggest enemy is the BJP. I tell my friends on the Left that we must unite. I have had difficulties in staging plays during both Left and Trinamul regimes. But I will talk about that later. Right now my primary objective is to stop the BJP…. This is the first time we are coming face to face with fascism. They keep hammering on some pet points like the nation is under attack, your religion is under attack and thus divert attention from real issues like unemployment or farmers’ demands,” Sen said. Among the speakers was actor Debleena Dutt, who has faced an onslaught of abuse from the BJP’s troll machinery. Even her mother was not spared, she said. “I have been threatened with rape, death and various kinds of sexual abuse. I have been told that I will be beheaded and my head will be placed on a pavement,” said Dutt. “They are abusing my mother. How can I sit silently? If they can do this when they are not in power, imagine what will happen if they come to power.” Actor and Trinamul MP Nusrat Jahan, too, said she was frequently threatened with gang-rape. “Try raping me if you can,” she dared the hate mongers. “We will broom you out of Bengal.” Speaking at an event in Hooghly’s Pursura, the chief minister said Dutt and actor Sayoni Ghosh had told her about what they were being subjected to. “I will never bow my head before the BJP. I would much rather behead myself before that,” said Mamata. “Such audacity…. Debleena and Sayoni told me that the BJP had told them that they would be raped if they ventured out of Bengal. What audacity! I dare them to even try. I will then show them what Mamata Banerjee is. What Bengal is.” At Esplanade, speakers condemned Mamata’s humiliation at Victoria Memorial on January 23 in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his silence on the matter. Some members of the audience at an event hosted by the Union culture ministry to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji had shouted “Jai Shri Ram” after Mamata was invited to speak. Mamata went up to the lectern and said in Hindi: “I think there should be some dignity to a government programme. This is a government programme, not that of a political party. This is a programme of all parties and of the people.” She then refused to deliver her speech and returned to her seat. Poet Joy Goswami had said on Saturday: “The Prime Minister, who spoke after the chief minister, did not utter a word about Mamata’s humiliation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math to reopen gates on February 10||Belur Math will be open to devotees and other visitors from February 10, after remaining shut for nearly six months as a precaution against Covid-19. Around 300 monks stay at the Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, and close to 250 employees work there. The Math closed its gates to visitors in August after a brief reopening post-lockdown. Sources said senior monks of the order met recently to review the situation and unanimously decided to reopen the gates to the public, but with new timings. “The Math will remain open between 8.30am and 11am and from 3.30pm to 5.15pm,” Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said on Monday. “We will gradually relax the timings. As of now, visitors will only be allowed in temples on the Math premises…. There will be no diksha-daan as of now.” Between October and March, the Math usually remains open from 8.30am to 11.30am and from 3.30pm to 5.30pm. To start with, devotees will only be allowed to visit the temples of Sri Ramakrishna, Holy Mother, Swami Vivekananda and Swami Brahmananda, and the Pally Mangal and book stalls in the Math compound. Belur Math had shut its gates to visitors on March 15 as the coronavirus started spreading across the country. The gates were reopened on June 15 and visitors were required to undergo a series of checks before they were let in. But soon thereafter, several monks and Math employees tested positive for Covid-19 and the administrators decided to shut the gates again on August 2. Monks overseeing the Math’s administration said all visitors would have to follow Covid-19 protocols, inclu-ding wearing a mask, sanitising hands and maintaining a safe distance among each other. “There will be no distribution of bhog for the time being. Visitors, other than those who have special appointments, will not be allowed to meet monks,” said a monk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Surge in vaccination with rise in site count||More than 4,600 health workers were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Calcutta on Monday, the city’s highest daily count since the vaccination was launched across the country on January 16. Also on Monday, Covid jabs were administered from the highest number of sites so far in the city. Some of the medical colleges in Calcutta ran multiple vaccination sites on Monday. Officials said multiple sites would continue for now. “We vaccinated over 4,600 health workers in Calcutta on Monday. This is the highest since the Covid-19 vaccination was launched. We had vaccinated 2,500 health workers on Friday, which is the second highest till now,” a health department official said. Officials in the department attributed the rise in the number of daily vaccinations to an increase in the number of sites and the decision to invite 200 health workers, instead of 100, to get the shots from each site. “The health department has adopted these measures to expedite the vaccination. Invitations are being sent out to 200 people (to get vaccinated at each site) with the understanding that even if some fail to turn up, the number of vaccinations at each site will still be 100, the target from day 1,” said an official of the health department. “However, all sites have been asked to remain prepared to vaccinate 200 people daily.” Accordingly, every site in the city was given 20 vials, each containing 10 doses of Covishield, on Monday. Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic, said they received 20 vials on Monday, the first day of Covid vaccination at the hospital. “We vaccinated 187 health workers. We are very happy with what we achieved,” he said. Tondon, 74, was the first to get a shot at the hospital. “Our medical superintendent, who is 80, was the second person to get a dose and our nursing superintendent, who is 69, was the third. We were the first ones to receive the vaccine so that no one has any fear in taking it,” Tondon said. Some of the hospitals that ran multiple vaccination sites were the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital and the NRS Medical College and Hospital. “We ran three sites on Monday, one more than Friday. We vaccinated 336 health workers, the highest since the vaccination was launched,” said Indranil Biswas, the medical superintendent of Calcutta Medical College. The Indian Medical Association’s Bengal chapter has tied up with SSKM to run a vaccination drive for private practitioners on Wednesday. “Two hundred private practitioners will be invited to get the shots,” said Anirban Dalui, an assistant treasurer of IMA, Bengal chapter. The state health department had registered the names of private practitioners among the six lakh healthcare workers in Bengal who would be vaccinated in the first phase, but their vaccination is yet to begin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta school discussion on Constitution on the eve of R-Day||India has to be a “secular society”, not just a secular state, said a 17-year-old. The speaker was among three Class XI students of Indus Valley World School who had a discussion on the Preamble to the Constitution on the eve of Republic Day. When the school initiated the idea of having a discussion on the Preamble and what it meant to the students, they chose different aspects to talk about — secularism, liberty and the three words with which the Preamble begins: “We the people”. One of the girls, Brinda Banerjee, said the three words were “carefully chosen giving power to the Indian people including those who hadn’t been given the same before”. “It is not enough to memorise the Preamble and reproduce it in answer scripts. As educators, it is important to take the Preamble out of the textbook and make the children think about it and what it means,” said Amita Prasad, director of the school who has an experience of teaching history for 25 years. The online discussion has been put up on the school's YouTube channel and website for other students and parents. While underlining the importance of “inclusion” and acceptance, Debojyoti Mishra, a Class XI science student, recounted an experience of having seen his tiffin thrown away at a school in Pune because he committed the crime of taking a chicken sandwich to a “vegetarian school”. Also, he said, his school diary was torn apart and his desk defaced with communal slurs. Niharika Chakravorty, another Class XI student, pointed out that “India is a constitutionally secular country, but socially it still isn’t. We still have a long way to go and a lot to work upon.” For Debajyoti, true secularism is the freedom to “profess, practice, propagate any religion or no religion at all...” “But most importantly, it is mutual respect, acceptance and inclusion of every person in society despite religious beliefs...” he said. The idea of liberty, Niharika said, stands opposed to what it meant to her grandmother. “Liberty to me is freedom, it is equality and it is being able to voice my opinion on things I truly believe in,” she said. Brinda pointed out that it was not the British who “left us with this Constitution”. “It is we who gifted us this Constitution. We who declared our nation’s pride being in these ideals of sovereignty, secularism, socialism,” she said. The discussion was anchored by Priyadarshinee Guha, the dean of arts in the school. “We thought it would be nice to open this up for discussion... it leaves us wondering sometimes what are these young people thinking about this very important document (Preamble to the Constitution),” said Guha. Another group of students expressed their understanding of the Preamble through music, dance and illustrations. Tagore’s Where the Mind is Without Fear and Leila Seth’s We, the Children of India featured prominently in that section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Unlock: Revival of business, on time salary||The revival of business, albeit marginal, has been a life-changer for many in the city. Salaries credited on time, after a long time, have come like a lease of life for some. The Telegraph went back to some of the people first met during the course of the lockdown, people who had shared their plight back then, to find out how they were doing in 2021. Not everyone had something to cheer. Biswajit Barua, bartender August 2020: The Theatre Road pub where Barua worked was shut. An out-of-work and unpaid Barua was desperately looking for a job, including that of a guard. January 2021: Barua is a month-old employee at a Sector V lounge, back to doing what he loves most. When this reporter called him on Thursday, Barua was at Esplanade with his family. “I have taken a day off. This is my first outing with my wife and daughter in close to one year,” said the 40-year-old Barrackpore resident. He got his December salary on time. The lounge is busy on weekends, though the work-from-home culture has affected footfall, he said. But a timely salary is a bonus for Barua, who said he had not got any payment from June to September. Post-Durga Puja, he had apparently received “partial salary” for a couple of months from his former workplace. Now that his income has been streamlined, the topmost thing on Barua’s list is to start clearing his daughter’s pending school fees. Jitendra Pandit, phuchka seller September, 2020: “Swatting flies and listening to the radio, that is what I am doing,” Pandit had replied when ask-ed about business in the first week of September. He had reopened his stall behind Vivekananda Park on August 15. January, 2021: The waiting time for a new customer on Saturday evening was 10 minutes, half of pre-Covid times but still a long way from the months immediately after the lockdown. For the past couple of months, Pandit has been selling around 300-400 phuchkas on weekdays and above 600 on weekends. This time last year, Pandit had been selling over 1,000 phuchkas on weekends. He had zero income from March 22 to August 15, when his stall reopened. “I had to spend most of my savings on my daughters’ wedding. As a result, I had to borrow money during the lockdown to meet the expenses. Now that some cash flow is back, repaying the money is the first thing on my mind,” said Pandit. Kunal Kapasi, manager of a menswear store June 2020: Only one item had some takers in Kapasi’s Shakespeare Sarani store — masks. January 2021: Things have improved reasonably, said Kapasi. He has been selling around “15 to 20” blazers per week. Sale of 40 blazers per week was normal in December and January. “The wedding season was good but the dip in business travels and meetings have taken a toll on the revenue,” said Kapasi. But he is not complaining. He has people to talk to in the store. From June to August, he would yearn for visitors, even casual walk-ins who would not buy stuff. The employees of the store who had been asked to stay home are back now. Sonali Chakraborty, co-founder of a social welfare organisation for artisans in Indi August 2020: A Ballygunge store run by Chakraborty, popular for its indigenous products, had re-opened in July. But there was hardly any footfall even in August. Exhibitions, the support system for the sale of indigenous products, had stopped totally. January 2021: Thousands of rural artisans she works with are yet to cope with the losses borne during the lockdown, she said. She recently interacted with some Dokra artists in Burdwan and Bankura. “They are left with so much of unsold stocks and the cash flow has stopped. They do not have cash to buy raw material for making new products,” she said. The only upside she has spotted is how a section of the artisans has for the first time shifted to the online mode to reach out to potential customers directly. Deepak Shaw, usher at a cinema hall July 2020: Shaw was then getting half his salary and had to depend on help from several NGOs to run his family. January 2021: His situation has worsened, Shaw said. The hall is still shut. He has been getting a third of his usual salary for the past few months. Shaw’s employer is said to have called him and a few of his colleagues — employees who have spent two decades or more at the hall — to offer a “severance package”. “I was offered around Rs 2 lakh in total. After having worked for 24 years, this is nothing,” said Shaw. At the age of 50, it is nearly impossible for him to switch careers, said the Titagarh resident. As the country limps back to normal, the aid from NGOs has dwindled. Shaw’s borrowings — from neighbours to the local grocery store owner — are on the rise. Divya Agarwal, event manager September 2020: Agarwal had zero events from March to September. Many of the people she worked with — models to singers — had left their rented apartments in Calcutta to go back to their hometown. January 2021: The wedding season has been busy for Agarwal, with bookings on almost every day. “But the budget is less than half of what it used to be, because of the curtailed guest list,” she said. Corporate events are yet to take off, though. “There have been some virtual product launches but they are miniscule in terms of revenue,” she said. The only sign of hope — the revival of events has allowed Agarwal to provide some financial support to some of her small vendors — decorators, florists and caterers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
