27-01-2021||Calcutta||Republic Day parade in Calcutta||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
27-01-2021||Calcutta||Fire leaves 12 families homeless on Gurusaday Road ||Around 12 families were left homeless after a garage next to their homes on Gurusaday Road caught fire early on Tuesday. Police said no one was hurt but the shanties were gutted. Four fire tenders were pressed into action amid allegations of delay. People in the neighbourhood alleged that had the fire engines reached the spot earlier, some of the shanties could have been saved. Fire department officials, however, claimed they had not wasted any time after receiving the alert about the fire. Around 5.45am on Tuesday, thick smoke was spotted emanating from a garage at 9 Gurusaday Road. Before anyone could react, the garage was engulfed in flames and the fire had spread to adjoining shanties. The blaze was put out around 8am. “Some inflammable articles inside the garage could have fed the fire. Luckily, no one was inside,” said an officer of Karaya police station. A forensic team will visit the spot to collect samples. A few days ago, a blaze in Bagbazar in north Calcutta had gutted 100 shanties next to the Udbodhan building and left hundreds of people homeless. Elderly woman dies in accident Entally: An elderly woman travelling in an autorickshaw died after she fell off the vehicle following a collision between the auto and a bus. The accident happened on DC Dey Road, near Palmer Bazar, around 7.20am on Tuesday. Police said Lakshmi Dolui, 71, was taken to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where she was declared dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
27-01-2021||Calcutta||Prayer for farmers and soldiers||The Sikhs of Calcutta are planning to invite some of the farmers protesting in Delhi for over two months against three farm laws to districts of Bengal and tell the state’s farmers why they are demanding a repeal of the laws, a member of the Calcutta Sikh Sangat said on Tuesday. The Sangat organised a car rally during the day in support of the farmers who are camping at three border points of Delhi. As the farmers in Delhi had decided to hold a tractor rally on Republic Day, the Sikhs in Calcutta, many of them from farmer families, planned to organise a car rally. A  special ardas (prayer) was held for India’s farmers and soldiers at the Behala Gurdwara. “We have been discussing if we can bring some of the farmers who are camping at Delhi’s borders to Bengal. They can explain to farmers in Bengal what they are protesting against and why they are demanding the repeal of the three central farm laws,” said Ajit Singh, the vice-president of Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat in Burrabazar and a member of the Sangat. “They can meet farmers in Burdwan, Hooghly and other districts. They will explain to farmers in Bengal the benefit of minimum support price and how that guarantees income for farmers,” said Singh. The community prayed for the well-being of farmers and soldiers at the Behala Gurdwara. “Ardas is held after a kirtan, during which we pray for something from our Guru. Usually, we pray Sarbat da bhala, which means the well-being of everyone. On Tuesday, we made a special mention for the well-being of our farmers and our soldiers, besides praying for everyone’s well-being,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of the gurdwara. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three border points of Delhi and have had several meetings with the Union government. The farmers are firm on their demand that the Centre roll back the farm laws. Ahluwalia said India always raised the slogan Jai Jawan Jai Kisan because soldiers and farmers were valued by the people. “But what have we come to today? We are not valuing our farmers. So many farmers have died while camping in the cold in Delhi. We pray for their good health and so they achieve their rights,” said Ahluwalia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
27-01-2021||Calcutta||200 cars participate in rally against three farm laws||About 200 cars, almost all with the Tricolour fluttering on them and some with the yellow flag of a farmers union, wound their way through the city on Tuesday in support of the tractor rally in Delhi against three farm laws introduced by the Centre. The organisers wanted to circle around Raj Bhavan, since “the governor is the representative of the Centre in the state”, but were not allowed by police. They went till the East gate of Raj Bhavan and turned right towards the KC Das crossing in Esplanade before heading towards the Dunlop Gurdwara. “There were about 1,000 people in the cars. We shouted slogans. Some carried posters,” said Avtar Singh, who took part in the rally that began from Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road at 12.30pm. “A lot of people from Dunlop and Shyambazar assembled at the Dunlop Gurdwara to lend their support,” said a participant in the rally. Dunlop, like Bhowanipore, has a large number of Sikhs. Singh, who is also general secretary of the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya, said there were about 3,000 Sikhs in Bhowanipore and 5,000 in Dunlop. “Most of us have been living in Calcutta for generations, but we still visit Punjab every two-three months. Many of us still own farmlands in Punjab,” said Ajit Singh, another participant in Tuesday’s rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
27-01-2021||Calcutta||Soiled notes ‘discarded’ by temple in Bhowanipore||Soiled currency notes that were found in Kalighat two days ago had been discarded by a temple in Bhowanipore and accidentally reached Kalighat with discarded flowers, police said on Tuesday. A gunny bag stuffed with soiled notes was spotted on Mukherjee Ghat in Kalighat last Sunday when it suddenly caught fire. Police tracked down a rickshaw puller by analysing CCTV footage and found that the man had brought the gunny bag from a temple a few kilometres away in Bhowanipore. “The temple discards flowers offered by devotees twice daily. On Sunday, the rickshaw-puller had mistaken the bag of soiled notes with that of flowers and had taken it for dumping at the ghat,” said an officer of Kalighat police station. The police contacted the temple authorities and found that water had seeped inside one of the donation boxes during Cyclone Amphan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
