28-01-2021||Calcutta||Panditiya Road building site guard dies||A man was found unconscious in the compound of a building under construction on Panditiya Road on Wednesday morning and was declared dead in hospital in the evening. The man — identified as 40-year-old Lakshman Hati — was a resident of Narendrapur. He worked as a guard in one of the buildings in the neighbourhood where he was found unconscious, police said. Hati was found in an unconscious state in the compound of 29A Panditiya Road around 9am, the police said. From there he was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. The Panditiya Road locality — close to Dover Terrace — has a mix of highrise apartment blocks and standalone buildings and slums. Most of the highrise compounds and standalone buildings have security guards. The police said after a preliminary investigation that there were no external injury marks on Hati. The body has been sent for post-mortem. “We are suspecting the death was caused by heart failure. The exact cause of death could be known after the post-mortem report comes,” said an officer of Rabindra Sarobar police station, where an unnatural death case has been registered. “No suicide note was found on him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
28-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC to install water meters in 5 wards to prevent wastage||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has embarked on a project to install water meters in houses in five wards in Kasba, Jadavpur and Patuli to prevent wastage and divert water that is being wasted in one neighbourhood to another that faces a crisis. A small pit has been dug up in several lanes across these places as a step towards installing meters in houses.The water pipe running under the pit is the one through which water flows into a locality from bigger pipes. Water meters will be first installed at strategic points on pipes through which water flows into a small locality. These points will act like openings on a boundary through which water enters the enclosed area. From the meter readings the CMC will get an idea about the volume of water flowing into a neighbourhood. “The project is being implemented in five wards. We will divide each ward into zones and study water wastage in each zone,” said an official of the CMC. The civic body has hired Suez India, a water utility company, for the water loss management project. “Once we know the volume of water entering a zone and the volume of water being supplied to the houses in the zone, we will be able to assess the loss, which could be because of leaks,” said the official. The water meters that will be fitted in houses will help the civic body assess the wastage, if any, by the individual houses. The five wards chosen for the project - 101, 102, 107, 108 and 110 - are in the command zone of the Dhapa water treatment plant. The first phase of the project was undertaken in wards 1 to 6, which fall under the Tallah water reservoir’s command zone. “A similar project will be launched in wards that fall in the command zone of the Garden Reach water treatment plant,” an engineer said. “The project is aimed at reducing water wastage. Since our policy is not to impose water tax, we will adopt other measures like counselling the households to prevent water wastage,” the engineer said. A survey will be conducted to find out the number of residents in each house to calculate how much water is required by that household. Metro had earlier reported that the Central Public Health and Environmental Engineering Organisation had calculated that 135 litres were required by each person daily in India. If it is found that the volume of water supplied to the house was much more than what the household should require, its residents will be alerted and told that they are wasting water. After assessing the water wasted in an area, the project will design the distribution in a way that the excess water can be diverted to a zone where several households suffer from water shortage. “The aim is equal distribution of water among all,” the engineer said. Following the implementation of the project in wards 1 to 6, many households that used to waste water became cautious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Victoria Memorial hosts Netaji exhibition||The Victoria Memorial Hall has started its year-long centenary celebrations (it was opened to public in 1921) with an exhibition titled Nirbhik Subhas (Fearless Subhas), put together on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The multi-media exhibition, inaugurated on Wednesday morning, is spread across six galleries on the ground floor of the Memorial. Nirbhik Subhas consists of photographs and documents, graphic panels and projections, Netaji files loaned from the National Archives of India and original artefacts loaned from the Archaeological Survey of India museum on Netaji in the Red Fort complex in Delhi. “It will be on for two years, and will act as a ‘living’ exhibition, since we will keep adding things to it,” said Victoria Memorial curator Jayanta Sengupta. The exhibition has been designed by a Delhi-based agency that has also put together the Netaji exhibition at Red Fort. The exhibition asks 125 questions about Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary and provides information in the form of stories while answering them. Like with the picture of a Time magazine cover on Netaji, there was a question: ‘Why did Time magazine carry Netaji on its cover?’ The answer: “Netaji was the first Congress president to appear on the cover of Time magazine in the edition dated 7 March 1938. This demonstrated his popularity and status in the freedom struggle.” The memorial will also run a light-and-sound show on Netaji and the freedom movement on the eastern façade from February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Private practitioners get Covid vaccine shots at SSKM||Over 200 private medical practitioners were administered Covid-19 vaccine doses at a special session at SSKM Hospital on Wednesday. This was the first time a vaccination session was held in the city for private practitioners, doctors not attached to any government or private hospital, nursing home or clinic. Since the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination on January 16, doctors from private and government hospitals, nursing homes and clinics have been receiving Covid vaccine shots. Health workers associated with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) are being inoculated against Covid at ward health clinics of the civic body. But before Wednesday, no drive was undertaken for private medical practitioners. “The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had requested the health department to include private practitioners in the list of healthcare workers to be vaccinated first. They listened to our request. Today, the department organised a session for private practitioners. We helped them in the drive,” said Santanu Sen, the secretary of the IMA’s Bengal branch. “Another vaccination drive for private practitioners will be held at Sambhunath Pandit Hospital next Wednesday.” A state government official involved in the supervision of the Covid-19 vaccination in the city said the government was mulling to open other channels to vaccinate private practitioners. “Wednesday’s session at SSKM was dedicated to private practitioners. We are working out a plan to vaccinate small numbers of private practitioners at some other vaccination sites every day,” said the official. “A few private practitioners might have been vaccinated at one or two sites earlier, but not on the scale witnessed on Wednesday.” An IMA official said they had prepared a list of 4,500 private practitioners across the state, 1,800 of them are from Calcutta, and sent it to the health department. “These were names that reached us. The actual number of private practitioners will be much more. Some of them filled in a form and emailed it to the department, many others used other channels to get themselves registered,” the official said. The CMC had delivered a printed sheet with 24 columns at chambers of private practitioners in Calcutta. “The doctors have to fill in the columns and email a scanned copy of the document to an ID to get their names registered,” an official said. The private hospitals that have been allowed to run vaccination sites on their campuses have been asked to administer the jabs to a certain number of health workers not attached to the respective hospitals. “When vaccination of health workers attached to hospitals will be near completion, more and more private practitioners will be called,” said another state government official. About 4,000 health workers were vaccinated in the city on Wednesday, said a health department official. The jabs were administered from 43 sites in the city on Wednesday. The CMC sites did not run Covid vaccination during the day because Wednesdays are reserved for routine immunisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Floating library sets sail on the Hooghly||A floating library on a ferry on the Hooghly set sail on Wednesday. Trips start from the Millennium Park jetty at 11am, 1.15pm and 3.30pm. The launch has a collection of around 500 books and facilities like free WiFi and a tuck shop. Visitors can enjoy the river while browsing through books in the library, which has been curated by Oxford Bookstores. The cost of a two-hour trip is Rs 50 for kids and Rs 100 for adults. “We are planning longer trips on the weekends,” said a transport department official. “We have named this the Boat Library. There will be year-long activities for children, including story-telling sessions, dramatised readings, book launches and poetry sessions on board the Boat Library,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation. “The books will include several genres to cater to the interests of all age groups, particularly children.” One launch can accommodate around 20 passengers on each trip. “This initiative is one of our efforts to celebrate the river that has immense cultural significance for Bengal,” said Priti Paul, director of the Apeejay Surrendra Group, which is collaborating with the government for the project. “Children will be able to discover our roots and history on board this floating library.” In September, the transport corporation launched a library on an air-conditioned tram that connects Shyambazar with Esplanade and trundles through Calcutta’s boi para on College Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Pangolin rescued at New Town, 3 held||A Chinese pangolin that had been trapped in the forests of the Northeast was rescued by a team of foresters at the New Town bus terminus late on Tuesday, an official of the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB) said. Three men, who had allegedly come to sell the pangolin, have been arrested. The Chinese pangolin is listed as critically endangered species by the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). In India it is found in the foothills of the Himalayas and can be spotted in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim, among other states. The pangolins are believed to be the world’s most trafficked mammal, apart from humans. Tens of thousands of pangolins are poached every year, killed for their scales that are used in traditional Chinese medicines and for their meat, a delicacy among the wealthy in China and Vietnam. According to a WCCB official, they had received information that three men were trying to sell a pangolin. “Our officers got in touch with these men. They posed as buyers and asked them to show the animal before any deal could be struck,” said the official. Another officer from the state forest department’s Barasat range said the men asked them to meet at one point and then suddenly changed the rendezvous point. “It became clear to us that they were quite wary. However, finally we asked them to come with the animal to the New Town bus stand,” said the officer. Officials from the forest department, the wildlife crime control bureau as well as plainclothesmen from New Town police station spread out in the area around the bus stop. After the officers established contact with the trio, they showed the pangolin stuffed inside a bag. “We immediately arrested the three men. The pangolin was alive. We took it to the Wildlife Rescue Centre in Salt Lake,” said the officer. Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director, wildlife crime control bureau, said they were surprised but relieved to find the pangolin breathing. “It must have endured a long journey and in most cases, the trauma is too much for the animals to take and they don’t survive. We are overjoyed as it seems to be in good health,” said Mitra. The three men — identified as Abdul Rashid Halder, 36, a resident of Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas; Kedar Maity, 42, and Atul Jana, 52, both from Egra in East Midnapore, were produced in a court that sent them to custody. Another forest department official said pangolin scales were valued at nearly Rs 3 lakh a kilo in the grey market and the price of its meat was as high as Rs 30,000 a kg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Sector V at mercy of parking rackets||Parking rackets are fleecing motorists like never before in Sector V at a time many office-goers are being forced to use private vehicles to avoid public transport amid the Covid pandemic. Many companies in Sector V have employees working from their offices now, although the staff of several others are still working from home. Nearly all restaurants, cafes and lounges are back in business. Most of the “parking lots” in Sector V are on main roads. Some are authorised parking lots, leased out by the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) to private agencies to run them. But many areas, where “No Parking” boards have been put up by the Bidhannagar commissionerate, have been illegally converted into parking zones and agents collect exorbitant rates from the owners. The parked cars constrict the carriageways, triggering bottlenecks. The parking rates fixed by the NDITA, which looks after the civic amenities in Sector V, are Rs 10 an hour for four-wheelers and Rs 5 an hour for two-wheelers. People who are commuting to the IT hub in private vehicles said this was far from the case. Metro drove around Sector V on Wednesday and saw parking “agents” take anything from Rs 20 to Rs 50 an hour for cars and between Rs 10 and Rs 20 an hour for two-wheelers. After driving through nearly all major thoroughfares and visiting at least six such “parking lots”, a board announcing the parking charges was spotted opposite the Vocational Rehabilitation Centre for the Handicapped, run by the labour ministry in EN Block. But the section where the rates were written have been covered by patches of paint. “Since there is absolutely no way to figure out what the stipulated rates are, we are at the mercy of the agents. The rates keep increasing as the day progresses and at night, parking attendants — or the ones posing as parking attendants — charge anything between Rs 100 and Rs 300 for two hours,” said Tanima Chowdhury, who works at a Sector V-based company and is working from office twice a week. This newspaper spotted a long line of cars parked on the pavement around the RDB Boulevard in EP-GP Block. On Sunday night, Soham Chakraborty, a resident of EE Block who had gone for a family dinner at a restaurant opposite the RDB Boulevard, was forced to cough up Rs 100 to park his car for an hour. “When I protested and asked the man who claimed to be a parking agent, three more men appeared. One of them was carrying a brick and threatened to shatter my windshield,” said Chakraborty. Avinash Kumar, 27, a Phoolbagan resident who rides a motorbike to his Sector V workplace every day, said parking agents charge him Rs 10 per hour on working days. “On weekends, the charge can be anything,” said Kumar. The chairman of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority said their directives clearly stated that boards depicting rates would have to be put up by the agencies running the parking lots. “We will take stern action against this,” said Debashis Sen. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they would look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav in hospital after discomfort||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly got admitted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on Wednesday after he complained of discomfort and might undergo angioplasty on Thursday to remove two remaining blockages in coronary arteries, hospital sources said. Ganguly, 48, was discharged from Woodlands Hospital 20 days back after undergoing angioplasty to remove a blockage in his right coronary artery. He was admitted to the hospital on January 2 after suffering a heart attack at home. “Sourav Ganguly has come for a check-up for his cardiac condition. There is no change in his parameters since his last hospitalisation (at Woodlands) and his vital parameters are stable,” a spokesperson for Apollo said. Hospital sources said the team of doctors treating the BCCI president, including cardiologists Saroj Mondal and Aftab Khan, were planning to implant two stents. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman and founder of the Narayana Health group, is likely to come to Calcutta from Bangalore and be present during the angioplasty, sources said. “The initial plan was to evaluate his health after January 26…. However, after he felt the discomfort, Ganguly got admitted,” said one of the doctors treating him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal schools seek nod for practical classes ahead of Higher Secondary exams||A number of school heads have sought clarifications from the higher secondary council on whether they could reopen campuses for practical classes to “impart the bare minimum hands-on training” ahead of the HS exams in March. The move comes in the wake of frantic calls from students concerned about how they will take the HS practical tests, set to start on March 10, without any class having been held in the current academic year because of the Covid pandemic. All that the students have had since March, when campuses shut down as a precaution against Covid, are virtual classes on theory papers. The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education had announced the exam dates in December and the topics to be covered by the practical papers on January 18. But it is yet to clarify when campuses can reopen, leaving examinees as well as school heads worried. Parimal Bhattacharya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith, said they were ready with a plan to reopen the institution for practical classes, but could not proceed in the absence of clarity. “I will get in touch with the council this week seeking to know whether we are free to reopen the school. Until the council gives the go-ahead, we cannot execute our plans,” said Bhattacharya. A teacher of the school said they had prepared a plan on how classes could be held from February, but it could not be implemented without the council’s approval. Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur, said he would visit the council’s office on Thursday to find out whether the campus could be reopened for classes. “Students and guardians are requesting me to resume practical classes. I will visit the council's office on Thursday and ask officials whether I can do so,” he told Metro. When the president of the HS council, Mahua Das, was told on Wednesday about the schools seeking clarification, she said: “The council does not have anything to add to what has been stated in the notice.” An official of the council said they could not say anything beyond that until the department gave the go-ahead. Repeated calls to education minister Partha Chatterjee and the school education secretary, Manish Jain, went unanswered. Sources in the department said they were aware about the situation and were in constant touch with Nabanna on what could be done. “The decision on this issue has to be taken at the highest level because the health of students and teachers is at stake,” said a source. This newspaper had last week reported several schools affiliated to other boards were ready with their calendars for on-site rehearsal exams, but were yet to announce the dates because the state government had not given its nod. Minister’s meeting Education minister Chatterjee will meet state university vice-chancellors on February 3 to discuss whether colleges and universities can be reopened, an official in the education department said. The official said the issue of reopening campuses only for practical classes could be taken up at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||67-year-old pedestrian hit by bike on Prince Anwar Shah Road, dies||An elderly woman standing along a road waiting to cross over was fatally hit by a motorcycle on Prince Anwar Shah Road early on Tuesday night. A 19-year-old college student, Harinder Singh, has been arrested for allegedly driving the bike in a rash and negligent manner, leading to the woman’s death. Police said Mira Das, 67, a resident of Vivek Nagar in Garfa, was waiting to cross the road in front of KK Memorial Club when a speeding motorcycle hit her around 8.30pm on Tuesday. Das suffered multiple injuries and was taken to a hospital along EM Bypass, where she died on Wednesday morning. The two-wheeler was intercepted and Singh, a resident of Naskar Para Lane in Garfa, was arrested. “The accused is a BCom first-year student at a city college. Initially, a case of rash and negligent driving was initiated against him. Later, after the death of the victim, he has been charged with causing death due to negligence,” said an officer of Garfa police station. Last year, a 23-year-old youth allegedly driving a Volkswagen Polo in an inebriated state had killed a cyclist and injured a pedestrian on Prince Anwar Shah Road. The accused, booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, is in judicial custody. Officers said Singh was not drunk and his documents were in order. “The offence of driving under the influence of alcohol attracts a greater penalty,” said an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic department. According to records at Lalbazar, two-wheelers are responsible for a large number of fatal accidents. Last year, of the 201 people who had died in road accidents, the death of at least 20 was caused by two-wheelers. As many as 64 two-wheeler riders and pillion riders lost their lives in road accidents last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
