29-01-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2019: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurates Biswa Bangla Gate on January 31. She inaugurates it remotely from the dais of the Kolkata International Book Fair held in Salt Lake’s Central Park. The New Town structure has a hanging restaurant and viewing gallery 25m above the ground and soon becomes a popular tourist destination. 1866: One of the first trains in the country is launched between Calcutta and Delhi on January 1 and is later extended till Kalka, Haryana, in 1891. The train is introduced mainly for British civil servants who move to and from Calcutta to their summer capital in Shimla. In 2021 Kalka Mail is renamed Netaji Express to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Subhash Chandra Bose, who escaped from the British on board the train in 1941. 1966: Nuclear physicist Homi Bhabha dies in a plane crash over Mont Blanc in Europe on January 24. The official reason for the crash is a misunderstanding between Geneva airport and his Air India pilot but conspiracy theories float about the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) having assassinated him to stymie India’s nuclear program. 2001: A massive earthquake takes place in Gujarat on the morning of January 26. Known as the Bhuj earthquake, the calamity claims more than 13,000 lives including those in south Pakistan, and flattens more than 3 lakh buildings. 1911: Pilot Eugene Ely makes the first shipboard aircraft landing on January 18. Ely lands his Curtiss Model D aircraft on board the USS Pennsylvania in San Francisco Bay. Two months back, he had taken off from another ship — also a first — although the aircraft plunged downwards soon after and the wheels dipped in the water before rising. Both were experiments to explore military uses for aviation within the navy. 2000: American actress, film producer and inventor Hedy Lamarr dies on January 19. Born in Vienna, Lamarr starred in European films before moving to Hollywood, where she was promoted as the most beautiful woman in the world. But besides a successful film career comprising the likes of Algiers and Samson and Delilah, Lamarr co-invented a version of frequency-hopping spread spectrum communication for torpedo guidance that is later used in Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technology. 2010: Japanese engineer Tsutomu Yamaguchi, dies on January 4, at the age of 93. Back in 1945 Yamaguchi had travelled to Hiroshima when the atomic bomb exploded. He was at a 3km distance but was blown away by the force, his eardrums ruptured, eyes blinded temporarily and with radiation burns. He received treatment and returned to his hometown, Nagasaki. A few days later he was describing the blast to a colleague when the second bomb exploded, again 3km away. Yamaguchi is believed to be the only person to have survived both atom bombs. 1879: During England’s tour of Australia, Australian bowler fast bowler Frederick Spofforth takes the wickets of Vernon Royle, Francis MacKinnon and Tom Emmett in three successive deliveries. It is the first hat-trick in Test cricket. Nicknamed “The Demon Bowler”, Spofforth claims a total of 13 wickets in that match and Australia wins the Test played between January 2 and 4. 1883: Kahlil Gibran is born on January 6 in what later becomes Lebanon. He grows up there and in the US to become an artist, poet and writer. He is best remembered for his 1923 book The Prophet that becomes one of the best-selling books of all time, to be translated to over a 100 languages. 1978: South Korean actress Choi Eun-hee attends a meeting in Hong Kong to discuss an upcoming film project but is abducted instead. The kidnap is staged by Kim Jong-il, who later becomes the dictator of North Korea. Kim also kidnaps Choi’s ex-husband, director Shin Sang-ok, and forces them to make films for his country. The duo remain captive making films till 1986, when they manage to flee from a film festival in Vienna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Smart Street||A 400m stretch in front of New Town Mela Ground was re-introduced to residents as Smart Street. The service road with two flanks which serves as a parking lot when events are held in the fairground now demonstrates why New Town calls itself a Smart City. “Many people come from other cities or even other municipal areas and ask us what makes us a Smart City. We have 565 CCTVs, we have wi-fi hotspots all along the Major Arterial Road, we have a plastic road near City Centre 2, we have 115 smart streetlights in front of Central Mall... But is it possible to take people everywhere and show them? So we thought of a stretch where all the smart initiatives we have undertaken in various corners of New Town and things that we are planning to do can be showcased together. The first smart benches and solar trees, for instance, have been installed here. If the pilot projects work well, we will introduce them in other parts of the township,” said Hidco and NKDA chief Debashis Sen at the inauguration of the Smart Street on Tuesday evening. The Telegraph Salt Lake takes a tour with him to understand the smart features. Two bins have radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags on them in which their locations have been integrated. RFID is a tracking system that uses smart barcodes in order to identify items. “Our sweepers have a card reader in their mobile phones. When they scan the tag, we get to know that the bin has been cleared and at what time,” said an NKDA official. A person wanting to charge his e-vehicle needs to download the app ElectreeFi from Google Playstore. The app shows the locations where the EV charging stations are — there are 16 in New Town in eight locations, including one on Smart Street. On choosing the location, one needs to choose the type of charger, the Smart Street one being AC, which is slower than DC and takes three to four hours to charge a vehicle fully. An e-vehicle can run 100km on full charge. On typing in the vehicle registration number and the duration for which one wants to charge and pressing the start button, the app deducts payment from a digital wallet or a card. “For now, we are offering the charge free here, as a promotional drive,” said an official of Energy Efficiency Services. Five car parking bays on the street have been fitted with sensors and an electronic board connected to them displays how many parking spaces are still free. One can also prebook parking space on an app called Newtown Smart Parking. Free wifi is available on Smart Street. A hotspot zone has been created through a tree-like structure that provides connectivity to Smart Street. The wifi password is mentioned on a board and will be changed periodically. A drinking water dispensing outlet has two slots — 250ml and 500ml. There is no wastage as the flow stops automatically once the specified quantity is collected. Since it is IoT-enabled, it sends alerts to the start-up company maintaining the facility on the amount of water dispensed and if the quality deteriorates. One has to bring  a bottle to refill. There is no charge involved. The company has installed a similar machine at Eco Park. Two ramps allow wheelchairs to travel from the adjacent smart bus shelter straight to the New Town fair ground or to the senior citizens’ park next to it. The ramp uses paver blocks created out of plastic waste. Asif Khan, a resident of Sunny Fort, was provided 1,700kg of plastic by the solid waste disposal unit of NKDA from which he has generated 2,850 paver blocks, 200mm by 100mm in size and 40mm in thickness. “Each paver block has about 25 per cent plastic. They may be more costly than normal blocks but will last 50 years,” said Khan. “This is the first time paver block using plastic is being used in India,” added Sen. Artefacts made out of waste materials have been recycled and crafted into decorative as also utility items. The shop also collects clothes in good condition and upcycles them after proper cleaning. These are then sold at cheap rates, thus promoting recycling. Three smart benches have been installed with solar panel generating 375kwp of power on their roofs and sensors on the bench. A 12W sensor-based lamp stays lit from 6pm to 11pm, but afterwards the light gets turned on and off automatically depending on when someone sits on the benches or get up. The solar panel provides shade to the bench. The lamp is lit by power from the electricity grid which in turn gets the power that the solar panels generate. It will save Rs 6,000 to 8,000 worth of electricity annually, an engineer explained. One can even charge one’s phone or laptop using the USB ports in each bench. If one is ill or in danger, a panic button can be pressed which would send an alert to the integrated command and control centre which is being set up. Indeed, on the button being pressed, a message flashed on the official laptop screen: “SOS triggered at Mela Ground service road”. These street signs bearing the block name and street number are backlit and hence easy to spot at night as well. A map on the pole shows one’s location in relation to the surroundings. It also has a panic button. The person pressing the button can be seen through a pinhole camera. His location can also be understood at the control centre. A battery stores power through the day and lights up automatically after sunset. It dims after 10pm to save energy but will brighten up if it senses movement below. They can be turned on or off remotely through software also. Smart cycle stand An app cycle docking station has come up at the Swapno Bhor end of the stretch. Five trees have been “planted” on Smart Street. A tree has 20 leaves under each of which there is a solar lamp, connected to sensors, that stays lit automatically from dusk to dawn. The solar panels are so thin and flexible that they have been given shape of banana leaves. They help reduce emission of seven tonnes of carbon dioxide in the air had fossil fuel been burnt to generate an equal amount of electricity. “At 3am, a sprinkler goes off to wash the leaves,” said an official of Agni Power and Electric. Solar road stud The street has 1,886 solar studs embedded in it. These are lighting devices with flashing LED lights that delineate centerlines and edges of roads. Four hours of sun provide enough power to make them blink all night. Each polycarbonated stud can take 20 tonne load. “They help drivers, who might be sleepy at dawn, stay alert. We plan to install them all along the Major Arterial Road,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours’ league||The sixth edition of Uniworld Premier League, held in association with The Telegraph Salt Lake, kicked off at the Harmony Grounds last Friday. The tournament will be on till February 7, and has 21 men’s teams, five women’s teams and 10 junior teams fighting it out for the title. “We decided to go ahead with the tournament as our residents needed a release after months of staying indoors. The Covid situation has also improved. We gained in confidence after we could organise Durga puja without any unfortunate incident, followed by a low-key Uniworld Football League in December,” said Board member of Kolkata Uniworld City Apartment Owners Association Dhrubajyoti Ghosh. The number of teams in the cricket league has remained the same as last year. “Still we curtailed the opening ceremony for the sake of Covid safety. There was no marchpast as that would have meant a gathering of all the team members. Instead, the team captains and their sponsors were felicitated,” said Ghosh. The torch run followed by athlete’s oath, another feature of the ceremony in the Olympic Games tradition, was also dispensed with. Nor did they hold cultural programmes. Since all this meant a part of the evening was free before the first match, we brought the sub-junior match forward to the opening night,” said the captain of Gully Boyz, who was also wielding the microphone. “Since school is shut we didn’t have any sporting tournaments last year. I took part in Uniworld’s football tournament last month but UPL is the real deal,” said Arham Imroz of Class VIII. The thrill was everywhere. Neighbours were meeting after months and one could almost see them smiling from behind the masks. Neelabh Banerjee of Class VII said he can hardly wait for his online classes to get over these days so he can rush to practice from 2 to 5pm. “I’ve been counting the days for UPL to start,” he smiled. There are families in which every member is playing. “My wife Richa is in Queens XI, 10-year-old son Akshaj is in Immortals, six-year old son Aarav is in the sub-junior Gavaskar XI and I’m playing for Unity,” said Brajesh Raman. “It’s going to be a fun-filled fortnight.” In the men’s category, the defending champions are Knights but others are not giving up without a fight. “This is my first year in Uniworld but I used to play cricket in my old neighbourhood,” said Pratik Jaiswal of Amigoes. “In fact, I usually play with leather ball. Here were are playing with tennis balls and the bounce will be different but I’ll do my best!” While many end up practising only beforehand because of the UPL, there are those like Atul Ahuja who exercise round the year. He’s part of the running group Uni Runners, that has floated a cricket team. “We run every day and have stamina but frankly, cricket is a different ball game.” Well, surely their running between the wickets will be fast! And besides, Atul is optimistic. “Actually the Test win in Australia has made me believe anything is possible,” he smiled. Debraj Saha didn’t have a game on the opening night but he and his Strikers teammates came anyway. “We have to watch the others play so we can make notes,” he laughed. “We’ll play them soon and want to know their strengths and weaknessses.” The teams have come up with introductory videos to be shown on the big screen before the matches and Pravin Saraf, of Steel Icons, proudly showed their preview on his tab. It was an intimidating clip, with players not just hitting over-boundaries and taking diving catches but also tearing open coconuts with their bare hands! The background score was suitably that of Baahubali. “Gender has nothing to do with sport. The boys in our team can’t hit sixes but Shyla hits one after another. She’s strong,” said captain Arham about a 10-year-old. The unassuming Shyla Senapati is a tennis player. “I don’t watch cricket and play the sport only during UPL but I look forward to the break from tennis,” smiled the girl. “If I end up hitting a six in the tennis court, however, my coach will be cross!” “I’m playing cricket for the first time but our teammate Sangita aunty (Prasad) taught us the ropes,” said Anuvrinda Anand, a 14-year-old member of Daring Divas. “My inspiration is Renu aunty (Singh), who must be 60. She’s on our team and is rather fit for her age.” “If aunties can find time to play cricket after chores I have no excuse, do I?” said Manya Nimodia, a Class IX student who plays for Queens’ XI. “And with most of us getting limited exercise during the lockdown, this was the least I could do for myself.” Her father Sandeep is playing for Uni Runners, brother Vatsal for Destroyers and her mother said she would join next year. Despite the cheerful gathering at the inauguration, Ghosh said it was a but a third of the crowd last year. “People are not coming out due to the pandemic,” he said. There were food and games stalls too but even these were fewer in number. “Usually I take up a stall selling kebabs and biriyani but this time I’m only here to watch the games,” said resident Nazish Pervez Khan, who herself recovered from Covid last year. The teams too have had to bear the brunt. “Our team Steel Icons is named so as we comprise mostly employees of Tata Steel. But this year due to the pandemic many are working from their hometowns. We have had to take in non-Tata Steel employees this time,” said Saraf. But then Ganesh Singh of Strikers said that after the lockdown everyone was pouncing on any excuse to go out and cricket was something they loved anyway. The first match after the inauguration was a friendly one for kids up to the age of eight. But moments before taking the field, Nora Matthew was in a pool of tears. “I was practising my shot and my bat hit your nose by mistake. I didn’t mean it!” her Border XI teammate Pranay Mishra tried his best to pacify. The sub-junior match had Border XI facing off against Gavaskar XI. “We chose the name keeping the recently concluded Test series in Australia in mind,” smiled Ghosh. The trophy that Ajinkya Rahane’s men brought back from Brisbane is called Border-Gavaskar Trophy, after the two legends from either side. But neither Vir Mishra, 8, nor Pramit Ganguly, 7, the captains of Gavaskar XI and Border XI respectively, who stepped up for the toss, had heard of Sunil Gavaskar and Allan Border. Gavaskar XI won the toss and elected to bat. “We will score 70 runs,” the young captain declared, on being asked. Smitik Kukreja came to the match with a huge reputation. “Watch out for that boy,” said one of the organisers. His mother Ritika was close at hand as he took position behind the stumps, donning his wicket-keeping gloves. “He has full cricket gear, including helmet and leg guard,” she said. And as the second ball sped past the boy as byes, she shouted: “Eyes on the ball, Smitik.” He would later redeem his reputation by taking a fine catch. The boundary line had been drastically reduced for the match and so few balls were connecting with the bat that many a delivery would race to the fence untouched by either bat or keeper’s gloves. Captain Pramit took position behind the keeper but there was still no let-up in the byes. Thankfully, for both sides, umpire Bharabi Kar decided not to count the extras. The occasion fazed some of the kids. While a few jumped about in excitement, others looked overawed. The case might have been the latter with Avigna Das or she simply might have lost sight of the tennis ball which was miscued and skied. Audience shouts of “Catch, catch,” rent the air but the little girl did not move from her fielding position at square leg, leading to an easy boundary. When Nora, who had by now wiped off her tears, came in to bowl to Anaya Pratik, her delieveries kept going haywire and the umpire explained to her where to aim. “The kids are so young they barely understand the rules. I actually sat down my son Sarthak before the match and explained the game to him the best I could. But at the age of eight, it’s enough if he just has fun,” said Ahuja. Harsh Gupta hit the first six of the tournament in the fourth over. And in five overs, Gavaskar XI set the opponent a target of 27 to win, which they would fail to achieve. Other than doubling as scorer, the umpire was also conducting the match, deciding vital issues like the bowling order. “They wanted each player to get a chance to bat and bowl so we broke out of the six balls-per-over rule to accommodate all. Each player is allowed three deliveries,” said Kar, a member of the Umpires Association of North 24-Parganas. Ansh Kandoi, a Class I student, was adjudged  the player of the match. With two sixes, he had scored 13. The fan of Andrew Russell, M.S. Dhoni and Virat Kohli, wore a sad smile. “Wish our team won,” said the boy who came back from out of town just two days earlier and hence walked into the team as a last-minute registration. But little Araddhay Chandra refused to smile for the photographs after the game. “He is sad that he got out for a duck despite being a good player,” said his father Subodh Chandra, who himself is playing for Warriors. “Sports teach us how to deal with losses in life and he has to learn.” “Some of the kids showed great potential,” said Pratik Jaiswal, who is playing for Amigoes and had come to watch the tots. “Just hope they don’t get sucked into PUBG and other mobile games. Potential will amount to naught without practice.” The first official match had defending champion Knights take the field, IPL style, versus Band of Brothers. If matching up to the defending champions was a challenge in itself, losing the toss only made things more complicated. Vikas Rathore and Srijit Aon of Knights started on a positive note. Soon Vikas hit three sixes in a row, hitting the tennis balls out of the park. “After the tournament you can find 200-250 balls on that side of the ground,” one of the organisers quipped. After Srijit got out, Abhishek Ganguly took the field and the flurry of sixes continued. As he hit consecutive sixes, his mates cheered from the dugout: “Good batting, Ganguly!” in a deliberate reference to the more famous Ganguly from Bengal, Sourav. And as Vikas hit three in a row at the other end, all-rounder Touseef Azim was asked if the team was under pressure to defend the title. “No pressure, total domination,” the all-rounder responded with swagger. Knights, the defending champions, had defeated Warriors in the last edition to lift the trophy. “They were four-time finalists, including two-time victors. This tournament has four or five really good teams,” Srijit, the captain, had told The Telegraph Salt Lake before the match. Rohit Kolte’s commentary added life to the evening. When Knights was cruising at 126 for one in seven overs, watching yet another delivery sail overhead he quipped, “Yeh gendh shayed Indigo flight ke andar chali gayi. Ab 200 ka ankra dur nahin hai.” That got the goat of Siddharth Pandey, fielding close by on the boundary. “200 kya bol raha hai! Settle for 150,” he protested. He was doubly committed to the team’s fortunes, being the sponsor as well. But Kolte’s words did prove prophetic. Knights posted 230 in 12 overs. In response, Band of Brothers got whittled out in 11 overs at 103. Other than Piyush Ranjan and Sumit Singh, no one could reach double figures. Among the Knights, Vikas top-scored with a quickfire 76 off 25 and was named Man of the Match. “Uniworld’s Ganguly” Abhishek was a close second with an equally destructive 74 off 21, with 10 sixes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Smart plaza opens by Biswa Bangla Gate||Smart Plaza, adjacent to Biswa Bangla Gate and diagonally opposite Rabindra Tirtha, was declared open on Republic Day. A beautifully landscaped park overlooked by Metro piers with vertical garden welcomes people not just to spend leisure time but also to work. “The space has free wifi. The password would be on display here. It has rounded laptop tables made of granite which can withstand the elements. They will have facility for charging electronic devices too. There is a coffee kiosk and a containerised toilet next door,” pointed out NKDA chairman Debashis Sen at the inauguration, urging people to work in the outdoors rather than from the confines of home. People of New Town, he pointed  out, had all settled from outside. “That is why we are creating community space for them to meet,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Statue unveiled in Sector V||A statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was unveiled near Manikanchan Special Economic Zone in Sector V on Saturday. The 14ft statue is placed on a concrete platform and is located in a patch of green, measuring 126ft x 29ft, that was named Jay Hind Park. In his address, minister Sujit Bose warned the hawkers gathered in the audience against the use of plastic sheets that can pose a fire hazard, citing the Gariahat junction blaze a year ago that had started from a pavement stall. “NDITA has provided you with kiosks. Try to maintain those,” he said. The officials also spoke of a toilet cum cafeteria next door that was inaugurated a few days earlier. “There are at least 200 competitive examinations that take place here round the year. So a waiting area cum toilet was sorely needed for examinees and their companions,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Park in Netaji name||New Town got its 15th park at the onset of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary year. Subhas Chandra Bose Udyan opened in AE Block, opposite New Town Business Club, on Saturday. So far, Action Area 1 had 11 parks and Action Area II had three, which are maintained by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). The park, spread over 60,000sq ft, was inaugurated on Saturday by fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose. It offers a pictorial overview of Netaji’s life through 20 sidelit panels that are aglow after sunset. The panels, at a height of about 5.5ft., are divided into three segments — Subhas in his youth and in leadership on one side and Subhas in his struggles on another. It starts with childhood pictures in Cuttack and highlights phases like expulsion from Presidency College. The second is on his days in active politics. The third and longest segment showcases his military missions abroad, with the formation of Azad Hind Fauj. Another aesthetically pleasing element is a cluster of ceramic tiles that carry photo prints of him in various phases of life, mostly alone but a couple also with wife Emilie Schenkl and Jawaharlal Nehru. They provide  a curved backdrop to a 15 ft fibreglass statue. “The statue is modelled on a photograph of Netaji during his tenure as president of the Indian National Congress,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The ceramic tiles light up in hues of the tricolour in the evening, lending an aura of patriotism to the park. But what catches the eye the most is the riot of colours, thanks to seasonal flowers everywhere. Dahlia, chrysanthemum, calendula, petunia, phlox and marigold greet visitors and flank them as they take pedestrian walkways fitted with anti-skid tiles winding through the park. There is also a stage built against the wall in the central section. This will be the third park in New Town to have a stage after Vivek Tirtha Sishu Udyan in AE Block and Rabindra Tirtha Sishu Udyan in DD Block. Officials said the theme component of the park was developed over barely 15 days with the flower beds prepared in nine. “There must be over a million flowers here,” said one. Residents of nearby houses are delighted with the park. “It was a vacant plot of land. We heard about a month and half back that a park would come up here. Hundreds of workers were deployed over the last few days to get it ready in time. It has turned out to be better than in our dreams. Now we only hope it is maintained equally well,” said Manindra Kumar Singh, who stays in the building right next to the park and goes for morning walk behind Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College. “Now I can walk here,” he said. The chief minister has also announced building a monument named after Azad Hind Fauj in Rajarhat but land for that has not been identified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta|| Whites flies are more dangerous than coronavirus: S.N. Dutta||Others may be living in fear of Covid but S.N. Datta gets sleepless nights over whiteflies. “They are more dangerous than coronavirus,” he says about the pest that attacks plants. An avid gardener, Dutta tries his best to guard his terrace garden from insects and pests, and despite the lockdown and Amphan, has quite a beautiful collection of pots to boast of. My passion for gardening grew out of visiting flower shows where I would be amazed at the size and colours of Dahlias and Chrysanthemums. I hired a gardener who I thought would teach me the ropes but alas! He only knew how to water the plants and sweep off fallen leaves! I realised that most of the so-called gardeners around us are simply unemployed youths with nothing better to do. Last winter, I was blown away by the exhibits at Bidhannagar Horticultural Society show, especially those from Unnayan Bhavan, that won many prizes. I spoke to their gardener and hired him. But then the lockdown happened. I didn’t give up. I searched the internet and taught myself gardening. Others worried themselves sick about the pandemic but I didn’t have a minute to spare. I spent five hours a day on the terrace, in the morning and then in the afternoon till it got dark. I didn’t leave the house so, frankly, I wasn’t worried about coronavirus. I was more worried about whiteflies. Now I have Petunias, Pansies and Salvia but I got late with the Dahlias and Chrysanthemums so they will not bloom before March. I’m using light therapy — keeping them under lit-up bulbs all night — and will have to keep them under the shade once it starts getting warmer. I’m also trying to grow vegetables. Four of my six Cauliflowers have started bearing the vegetable and one of my Cabbages too. There’s also Peyajkoli, Sorse Shak, Palong Shak, Tomatoes and Cherry Tomatoes. These are so tangy and tasty that we use them as substitute for ketchup when having Maggi. The most breath-taking flowers I’ve seen are on Kalyani Expressway. The gardener there handed me a measuring tape and I measured Dahlias 14 inches wide! I took tips from him. I would also follow the late S.K. Maiti, gardening columnist of The Telegraph Salt Lake and have all his write-ups filed neatly. Last year, I participated in the flower show for the first time but didn’t win anything. I have taken it up as a challenge now. I’m preparing hard and next time I shall surely win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Sea of blooms at carnival show||New Town’s second annual flower exhibition took place over the weekend at the clock tower. Held as part of New Town Carnival, the exhibition showcased the best of blooms grown by residents and nurseries of the neighbourhood. There were Dahlias, Chrysanthemums, Petunias and visitors admired them and clicked them aplenty. “I love gardening and visit the flower show at Alipore every winter but had never thought of joining a competition,” said Mita Bhadra. Her friends insisted she join this time and she submitted a pot of Anthuriums and one each of single and bi-coloured Petunias. The Greenwood Sonata resident ended up bagging third place. The second place went to K.P. Saha, a retired eye surgeon. “I have been a member of the horticulture association in Malda and have forwarded my suggestions to the organisers here. For instance, next time they could include fruit and vegetable sections to show visitors that it’s possible to grow them in pots,” said the CE Block resident. His trio of Marigolds, Dahlias and Chrysanthemums won the prize. The first prize was handed over to Mitali Puitandi by Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), that organised the show. “I feel terrible when I see trees being felled to bring up buildings. While I know development is important we can all compensate by growing plants on our terrace — even four or five are a good start,” said Puitandi, a resident of New Town’s CD Block. “Such shows arouse interest in gardening among people.” “Ours wasn’t strictly a flower show as that has several requirements,” said an organiser. “This was an exhibition to offer visitors a soothing sight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav Ganguly stable after angioplasty||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly on Thursday underwent angioplasty to remove blockages in two coronary arteries and had two stents implanted. The condition of Sourav, 48, was stable, said doctors at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where he was admitted on Wednesday after complaining of discomfort in the chest. “The procedure was uneventful. Sourav Ganguly is stable and under close observation,” a spokesperson for Apollo said on Thursday evening. The angioplasty started around 3.30pm and went on for almost two hours, said doctors. He later talked to family members and had a normal diet at night. The BCCI president had his first angioplasty at Woodlands Hospital on January 2. He got admitted to the Alipore hospital after suffering a heart attack at home and investigations revealed he had blockages in three coronary arteries. Sourav was discharged from Woodlands 21 days back and was under medication. “We wanted to see whether the two other blockages reduced with the help of medicine. Angiography done on Thursday showed that there was no improvement in the condition of the blockages and both had increased. So we decided to implant two stents,” said one of the doctors treating Sourav. “We are hoping to discharge him next week.” The doctor said Sourav was expected to go back to his normal life soon. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee called on Sourav in the afternoon and said the former cricketer was doing well. “The procedure was successful. He spoke to me after the procedure. Sourav is fine and doing well. I want to congratulate the team of doctors,” Mamata said. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Narayana Health group, had come from Bangalore and was present during the procedure. Sources said Shetty paid a second visit to Sourav before leaving the city late on Thursday evening. The surgeon had called on Sourav at Woodlands, too. Doctors had deferred implanting stents in the two coronary arteries immediately after the first angioplasty because there could have been small blood clots. "We had kept him under surveillance at home and planned a check-up after January 26," said a doctor. However, Sourav complained of severe chest discomfort and could not sleep on Tuesday night and went to Apollo the next morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Strong northwesterly winds trigger chill||A strong northwesterly wind from places like Kashmir that have received intense snowfall resulted in a chill on Thursday that made Calcuttans put on an extra layer of clothing. The day’s maximum temperature was 24.3 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 13 degrees, both two notches below normal. A week, back, on January 21, the maximum temperature had touched 27.2 and the minimum 19.2. The minimum temperature then was five degrees above normal. The Alipore Met office forecast a slight rise in the temperature on Saturday, followed by another dip that is likely to continue for four or five more days. A few days ago, Calcuttans were lamenting a hasty retreat of winter. “Strong northwesterly winds blowing in from Jammu and Kashmir that experienced intense snowfall for the last few days have brought the temperature down,” said G.K. Das, the director of Indian Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The temperature is likely to rise slightly on Saturday morning because of some local clouding but will drop again. The cold spell is likely to continue till February 4 or 5,” Das said. A resident of Jadavpur said she had to close the window of her room on the northern side because cold air was blowing in around noon. “I did not expect such a cold air to blow around noon. It was pretty cold. So I shut the windows quickly,” she said. The day was not foggy and bright sunlight made the cold pleasant. A Gariahat resident who had stepped out in the afternoon also spoke about an unexpected cold wind. “The wind was hitting me on my head, face and ears. I did not expect such a strong wind in the afternoon. We are used to such strong winds during the Gangasagar Mela,” he said. Das said some parts of eastern India might get rain in a day or two and it may bring down the temperature in Calcutta further for a brief period. “A late but good spell of winter will be experienced for the next few days,” said Das. On Calcutta’s streets, the drop in temperatures meant people were out wearing their bright winter wear. A Sovabazar resident who had gone to New Market on Thursday for shopping said he noticed everyone was wearing a jacket or a sweater. Some were wearing woollen caps, too. “A week back, we did not have to wear a jacket even during the evening. On Thursday, people were wearing woolen caps even during the afternoon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine query: When is our turn?||A senior doctor in the city posted in a WhatsApp group of the residential complex where he stays: “I received the Covid-19 vaccine today.” The response came soon and from many neighbours, known and unknown. One wrote back: “Congratulations Doctor Saab! But when will we get the vaccine?” The others raised the same query, too. Health workers across the country are getting Covid-19 vaccine doses and doctors and health department officials in Calcutta are flooded with queries from people in other professions about when their turn would come. Many are deferring their holiday plans and waiting to get their shots before boarding a flight. But there is no clarity yet in this regard, said health officials. “We are getting a lot of queries every day from people regarding when they will get their shot. There could be some clarity on this after a month,” Bengal home secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Health department officials said they were expecting to vaccinate all 6.6 lakh-odd health workers in Bengal in another one-and-a-half months. Till Thursday, about 1.8 lakh health workers have been vaccinated, said officials. The Covid-19 vaccination drive had started across the country on January 16. Only doctors and other health-care workers will get their doses in the first phase. In the second phase, frontline workers, including police personnel, civic body workers and others involved in dealing with people, will be vaccinated. One health department official said it would take about three-and-a-half months from now before the elderly people and younger people with comorbidities could start getting their doses. The process of identifying elderly people and those with comorbidities is yet to start. “We are yet to receive any guideline from the Centre on how to prepare the list. Once it comes, we’ll immediately start the process,” said Nigam. Doctors and public health experts said that before the vaccine doses had arrived, the confusion among people was about which vaccine would be available in Bengal and whether it was safe to take it. “After the vaccination drive started and people have seen there are only mild adverse actions in a small percentage of recipients, many patients are asking when they could get their doses so that they could step out of their homes without fear,” said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya. Another doctor said he had patients asking him when the Covid vaccines would be available in the market so that they did not have to wait for the government to call them for their doses. Health department officials said there were many younger people with comorbidities and they were worried about how long they would have to wait for a vaccine shot. People suffering from comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are more vulnerable to the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19. “Many cancer patients are getting worried about when they could get a dose. Now they are scared of visiting clinics or hospitals for check-ups,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. Metro had earlier reported that many cancer patients could not consult doctors for months because of the lockdown triggered by Covid pandemic. There are also many who are deferring their travel plans because they want to get vaccinated against Covid first. Calcutta businessman Sanwar Agarwal has to travel frequently to Europe. "I import medical equipment and have to travel to several countries in Europe. I had last visited Europe just before the lockdown was announced. I want to get vaccinated before travelling out of the city again," he said. Tour operators said many people were reluctant to travel because of news of a fresh surge in Covid cases in Europe or America. “Several clients have deferred their holiday plans because they want to get vaccinated first. We are telling them all safety protocols are being followed at the airports and on the flights. There is no clarity yet on when we can get a vaccine but they are not ready to travel,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Tallah block on train tracks for 20 days in February||Trains on the Circular Railway route connecting Majerhat to Dum Dum will be suspended for a few hours daily for around 20 days in February once the railways allows the PWD to start construction of two pillars of the proposed Tallah bridge. The 24.58-km Circular Railway tracks run mostly along the Hooghly and through Calcutta’s central business district, carrying around 36,000 passengers daily. Railway officials said 14 pairs of trains run on this route, of which Tallah is one of the 14 stations. A “traffic block” on the route — leading to partial scuttling of the train services — will be required because the PWD wants to start the foundation work of the two pillars immediately. The state government has appealed to the railways to facilitate the construction of the pillars for the proposed rail-overbridge at Tallah, which will connect Calcutta with the northern fringes. The bridge will replace the one that was pulled down last year after engineers had opined that it had become unstable and could collapse any moment. Six pillars will hold the 230-metre-long deck of the bridge, which will pass over railway tracks on land owned by the railways. The two pillars whose construction will necessitate partial suspension of Circular Railway services will come up between train tracks. “We will try and work out the timings of the traffic block in a manner that would have least impact on movement of trains. The timings will be worked out in consultation with PWD engineers,” said a railway official. “We will require a traffic block from the railway for 10 days each for the foundation work of two pillars,” said an official of the PWD, which is executing the Rs 340-crore Talah bridge project. “Machines will have to be moved in for digging the ground and once the piling work is over, the pile caps will be laid,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Rough rides on Salt Lake cratered roads||Roads across Salt Lake have fallen into disrepair and are full of potholes. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has not undertaken any repairs in the past year apart from some patchwork in the run-up to Durga Puja. On Thursday, Metro drove through the township and found roads in all three sectors in a bad state. Traffic police have placed guardrails and traffic cones ahead of some cratered stretches to ensure motorists and two-wheeler riders don’t drive into them. A huge crater in front of the GD Block island has prompted the police to place a traffic cone in front of it. The surface of the road is broken and the crater is at least one foot deep and four feet across with metal rims of a manhole sticking out. Huge craters have also formed in front of Tank No. 9 near CK Block. The roads in all blocks of Sectors I, II and III, too, are in a rundown state. “It is a big problem riding bikes or driving through these stretches. Craters and potholes make it very risky,” said Subhabrata Karmakar, an EE Block resident. Officials of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said a Rs 140-crore road repair proposal for all its 41 wards in Salt Lake and Rajarhat had been sent to the urban development department for approval. “We are waiting for their clearance,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Elderly man suffers fatal burns while lighting cigarette, dies in Kasba||An elderly man suffered fatal burns while striking a match to light a cigarette at his Kasba home. The 68-year-old man, whose windcheater caught fire, was hospitalised on Tuesday afternoon and he died early on Wednesday. Police said Jayanta Bhattacharjee, the victim, was a retired bank official. He was apparently a chain-smoker. “Family members took him to hospital, where he recorded his statement. He died of the burns the next morning. No foul play is suspected,” said an officer of Kasba police station. Bhattacharjee’s son Subhojit said his father was alone on the first floor of their house on Sarat Ghosh Garden Road when the accident happened. “My wife heard my father’s screams and rushed upstairs. By then his apparel was burning. He was wearing a windcheater that had instantly caught fire,” Subhojit told Metro on Thursday. This was the fifth incident in the city in the last three months of an elderly person dying of burns. A police officer said there had been instances of a room catching fire from a burning cigarette while the person holding it fell asleep. “But what happened at the Kasba home on Tuesday is rare,” the officer said. Bhattacharjee’s family members said they had tried their best to douse the fire by pouring water on him. “My wife and I tried our best to douse the fire with water. My father was in his senses and responding. We called a local doctor, who asked us to take him to SSKM Hospital,” Subhojit said. In October 2020, Dola Mitra, 63, had died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at home. Chaya Nag, 74, has suffered fatal burn injuries while cooking at her daughter’s house in Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane in Beleghata in December 2020. An LPG cylinder leak was suspected to have triggered the fire. Four days after the death of Nag, 60-year-old Manjula Dutta, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, died of burn injuries after her apparel caught fire while lighting the lamp during her morning puja at home. Earlier this month, a 64-year-old woman died of burns while performing the last rites of her husband in Kasba. Pedestrian hit by auto, driver held South Port: A 55-year-old pedestrian was injured after being hit by an autorickshaw on Circular Garden Reach Road on Wednesday evening. Paritosh Mandal, a resident of Kidderpore, was taken  to SSKM Hospital. He was treated and discharged. The offending vehicle was intercepted and seized and the driver arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Traders get back shops at Bonorini market||Shopkeepers who had been operating out of a crumbling market building in Bonhooghly, off BT Road, for years till it was pulled down in 2018 were handed over keys for their shops in a newly built market complex on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee handed over keys to 10 shopkeepers at a programme in Netaji Indoor Stadium in the afternoon. The rest of the shopkeepers got their keys at a programme held in Bonhooghly. The new market complex, which has come up on the plot where the old shops were located, was built in a joint venture between the state government and Eden Realty, a real estate company. The market — named Bonorini — occupies two floors of a three-storey building. Most of the 112 shopkeepers who received the keys are from families who came over from the erstwhile east Bengal during Partition. After they moved out of their old shops in the crumbling building, located in a lane opposite Indian Statistical Institute, most of the traders had been operating from temporary sheds. Partha Sarkar, 46, a tea seller who got a shop in the new market complex, said the new shops would end their hardship of running their business from makeshift sheds. “We handed over the keys to the shop owners today. The new market has been named Bonorini by the chief minister,” said Tapas Roy, the minister of state for parliamentary affairs and the MLA from Baranagar. Pinaki Das, 49, a grocery store owner, said the land where the market complex has come up was part of a large tract of land where families that came over from east Bengal during Partition live. “The flats where the families were rehabilitated were built by the government immediately after the Partition. They were in a dilapidated state. New flats were built and handed over to us in 2017. Work on the market complex began in 2018,” said Das. “We were given a 99-year lease of 17.84 acres (of the refugee rehabilitation colony). We built 540 flats for the families on a portion of the land and gave Rs 11 lakh compensation to each of 260 other families who did not take the new flats. We have built the new market complex in another portion of the land,” said Arya Sumant, the managing director of Eden Realty. “Two floors of the market complex are meant for shopkeepers who have been here for long. Under the agreement, we can use the top floor for other commercial purposes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||ICSE session delinked from Class X and XII board exams||The ICSE council has said schools should start the next academic year any time between the middle of March and the first week of June and delinked the commencement of the new school year from the Class X and XII board exams. A circular issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Thursday does not mention explicitly when the Class XI session will start and gives no indication as to when the Class X board exams will be held. The circular comes in response to a spate of queries from heads of schools about the calendar of the next academic session. The circular by the council's chief executive and secretary, Gerry Arathoon, says: “Academic Year — the beginning of the academic year in Schools affiliated to the Council shall be from the middle of March and the first week of June each year. However, the Hill Schools may begin the academic year from February each year.” It further says: “Heads of Schools are requested to please adhere to the same. This must be maintained to ensure uniformity and parity across all CISCE affiliated schools in India and abroad.” Arathoon in the circular has said the council is in “receipt of several queries from the Heads of Schools regarding the start of the New Academic Session” for the year 2021-22. “This has probably been raised since the ICSE & ISC Examination have not been scheduled yet,” the circular says. “Please be informed that the two matters are unrelated. Without a doubt, the schedule for the ICSE & ISC 2021 Examinations will not take place at the regular time in February/March given the current pandemic situation in the country and notwithstanding the upcoming elections in five States as well. The dates for the Examinations will be announced later, at the appropriate time.” In December, the council had requested the chief election commissioner to share the election dates of the states that are set to go to the polls in April and May, so the council could “finalise” the schedules of the ICSE (Class X) and the ISC (Class XII) exams. The circular on Thursday says: “However, the start of the Academic Year in 2021-22 for all Council affiliated schools will remain the same, as in the previous years.” Usually in Calcutta, the schools begin the new session in April. In many schools, the session for Class XI begins after the end of the Class X board exams, but before the publication of the results. In some schools, Class XI students from other institutions begin classes on the basis of provisional admission granted to them. In some schools, outside students are admitted after the board results are published. Some school heads said they might not be in a position to start Class XI till the time the Class X board exams are held. “The children’s attention will be on clearing the board exams. How can we begin the session for them till the board exams are held,” said a principal of an ICSE school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
