30-01-2021||Calcutta||Police campaign against bank fraud||The city police have launched an awareness campaign against online bank frauds. Around 4,000 cases of online frauds are reported in Calcutta every year. Three other projects were also announced on Friday — an initiative to seek assistance of NGOs in tracing missing persons, setting up of an all-woman help desk at the cyber police station and opening of cyber labs in all nine police divisions to handle the increasing number of cases of cyber frauds. Police commissioner Anuj Sharma launched the projects during the monthly crime conference on Friday. Bank fraud The police said they would contact housing societies and schools, colleges and other institutes and hold awareness campaigns to emphasise the importance of not sharing one-time passwords (OTPs) with any stranger, even if the person claims to be a bank official or says that one’s debit card or e-wallet is about to be blocked. Officers said a large number of online frauds are perpetrated because victims share their OTPs over the phone with people who claim to be bank officials. The police have named the project “Rakshakavach.” Sandhan A project named Sandhan (meaning whereabouts) was launched to trace people who have been missing for years. A large number of people, including women and children, go missing from the city regularly and many remain untraced for years. The police said they would collaborate with NGOs and use their contacts across the country to search for missing people. Help desk for women An all-woman-help desk has been set up at the cyber police station in Lalbazar, where women complainants can seek assistance related to problems of cyber fraud, which they find it difficult to discuss with male officers. “Women and children often fall victim to online frauds. Many of them express their willingness to speak to women officers. The desk has been created to help such victims,” an officer said. Cyber labs A cyber lab has been set up in each of the nine police divisions to reduce the load on the cyber police station at Lalbazar. Till now all online frauds reported at the police stations across the city used to be forwarded to the cyber police station. On an average, around 200 cases of cyber offence are registered with the Calcutta police every year. However, the actual number of cases police receive is almost 20 times more. Many of the cases are solved before an FIR can be registered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Child rights panel calls for school reopening||The state commission for protection of child rights has recommended to the education department that schools be reopened for senior classes and students called to the campuses in a staggered way. The commission fears the inability to reopen schools soon could result in dropouts. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid-19 and classes are being held on digital platforms. “The majority of stakeholders stressed on the importance of reopening the schools immediately (specially Class IX and above) for the benefit of rural children, many of whom are drifting into child labour or are being forced into child marriage by their families,” the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights said in a statement issued on Friday. “Classes are to be held in staggered manner in shifts after taking certain precautions to handle children…,” the statement read. “It is important for schools to reopen, especially in rural areas or for the urban poor, because there is an apprehension that children will drop out or be married off,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Students need to go to school for practical classes,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. The commission has stressed the need for the schools to be “cleaned and sanitised” before reopening. The commission sent the recommendations to the education department on Friday, a day after it held a meeting with school principals, members of the right to education forum, medical professionals and parents. Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools in Calcutta, who was present at the meeting, said staggered timings should be followed for entry and exit, as well as for lunch break. “There has to be a teacher on duty during break to ensure distancing,” she said. “Parents who attended the meeting said they should be told well in advance about reopening,” said Yashabanti Sreemany, a member of the commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Activists hit the streets in solidarity with farmers’ protests||Two demonstrations on Friday, one in the city and another in South 24-Parganas, called out the BJP-led central government for unleashing the state machinery on farmers protesting three contentious farm laws. A few hundred people marched from Moulali to Esplanade via SN Banerjee Road in the afternoon under the banner of “Bengal Against Fascist RSS-BJP”. The protesters shouted slogans in solidarity with the farmers in the capital. “We want to expose the RSS-BJP ploy to malign the farmers’ movement,” said Amitabha Bhattacharya, a convenor of the platform. Around 40km away, in South 24-Parganas’ Bhangar, another demonstration was under way. Over 500 farmers and residents of the area joined the protest against the farm laws and the citizenship thrust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet  inaugurated in Victoria Memorial Hall||Singer Kaushiki Chakraborty performs at the Eastern Quadrangle of the Victoria Memorial on Friday, the inaugural day of the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet in association with Victoria Memorial Hall and The Telegraph. At the inaugural session, poet Srijato shared his thoughts on the poetry of Jibanananda Das. The 10th edition of the festival is being live streamed on the Facebook page and YouTube channel of Kolkata Literary Meet. On Saturday, American naturalist, zookeeper and author Lee Durrell will discuss her husband Gerald Durrell’s Corfu trilogy with Sandip Roy; Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni will discuss her latest book The Last Queen with festival director Malavika Banerjee and Amitav Ghosh will introduce his new book Jungle Nama to the readers. The final day — Sunday — will see author Kevin Kwan discuss his new book Sex and Vanity and Chandril Bhattacharya focus on Satyajit Ray’s adaptation from book to screen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav Ganguly shifted from critical care unit||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty on Thursday and got two stents implanted in coronary arteries, was shifted from the critical care unit to a private room on Friday. Sourav, 48, is likely to be discharged on Saturday or Sunday, officials at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where he is admitted, said. “Sourav Ganguly is doing well. He has been shifted to a private room from the critical care unit,” a spokesperson for Apollo said on Friday. Hospital officials said Ganguly was having a normal diet and speaking to family members. “He is almost fit to go home. Doctors are planning to release him on Saturday or Sunday,” said a hospital official. A doctor said Sourav was expected to resume normal life soon. The BCCI president had complained of severe discomfort in the chest and got admitted to the Bypass hospital on Wednesday. On January 2, he had been admitted to Woodlands Hospital after suffering a heart attack at home. Investigations revealed he had three blockages in coronary arteries. An angioplasty was done to remove the blockage in one of the arteries. On Thursday, an angiography revealed that the blockages in the two other arteries had not reduced even though Sourav is on medication. So, doctors decided to perform angioplasty to remove the blockages. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Narayana Health group, was present during the procedure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira charges reduced fees||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira in Belur has been charging reduced hostel and college fees since November because of the financial constraints students are facing amid the pandemic. The extent of reduction varies from 30 to 40 per cent on an average for undergraduate and postgraduate students. The partial waiver is likely to continue till in-person classes resume. A comparison with the fee structure in effect till October reveals that the monthly college fee for the third-year English (honours) students has been reduced from Rs 700 to Rs 500. The fee for the second-year students has been brought down from Rs 900 to Rs 600. The college fee for economics (honours) students has been reduced from Rs 900 to Rs 600. A second-year chemistry (honours) student has been paying Rs 1,000, instead of Rs 1,400, since November. Those who are in the third year are paying Rs 1,200, instead of Rs 1,800. The reduction has been extended to MA and MSc programmes as well. “The partial waiver was initially in force till January, but it has been extended till February because of the pandemic-induced economic hardship being faced by students and their families,” Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college, said on Friday. “A large number of our students come from economically weaker sections. They have been hit hard by the hardship. Even those from middle-class families have been hit hard. So, we have reduced the fees…. We are periodically reviewing the situation to decide on the continuation of the reduced fee structure.” Vice-principal Swami Mahaprajnananda said they had plans to continue with the reduced fees till the resumption of in-person classes. The monthly hostel fee for the third-year students has been reduced from Rs 1,100 to Rs 800, and for the second-year students from Rs 800 to Rs 600. For the second-year postgraduate students, the fee has been reduced from Rs 1,100 to Rs 800. Vidyamandira is an entirely residential college and the students have been attending classes on digital platforms since the start of lockdown from home. “Since the hostels have to be maintained and this incurs expenses, we are collecting the bare minimum hostel fees,” said Swami Ekachittananda. A number of institutes have reduced their fees in the wake of financial constraint brought on by the pandemic. The students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, are not paying the mess advance and water and electricity charges this semester. The students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Durgapur, too, have been granted some fee relief. An official of Vidyamandira said many of their students depended on scholarships offered by the state government and the Centre and a reduction in fees would enable them to buy data packs for attending online classes. “No one knows when in-person classes will resume. So we thought fee reduction will help them attend classes on digital platforms,” the principal said. Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, reduced the hostel fees by over 50 per cent in April last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Class XI entry based on Class IX marks||Several schools affiliated to the ICSE council and the CBSE have started the admission process for Class XI but heads of the institutions said they were considering the report cards of Class IX and not of Class X. The results of the Class IX exams are “more reliable” because the students wrote the papers in school, a head said. Among the schools that are yet to start the admission process, some have decided to give weightage to Class IX marks or are considering holding tests. Usually, schools consider the Class X and the pre-board marks for provisional admission to Class XI. But pre-board exams are yet to be held in many schools and the online assessments throughout Class X are forcing schools to give more “weightage” to Class IX marks. “We consider the Class X first-term marks but this time we have taken into consideration Class IX marks. In Class X, there has not been any pen-and-paper exam and students may have taken the help of other devices,” said Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School. The school held a qualifying online test for math and conducted viva for the science subjects. At Loreto House, admission forms will be available from February. “We will not be giving much weightage to Class X marks,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Thursday told heads of schools to start the next academic year any time between the middle of March and the first week of June and delin-ked the commencement of the new school year from the Class X and XII board exams. Some of the schools, which interacted with students, have noticed stark differences between the Class IX final-term and Class X results. “We are considering Class IX marks and counselling students,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Don Bosco Park Circus will start the admission process in the end of February or beginning of March. “We will consider the marks of the Class IX exams, which were held in school, and not just the Class X marks,” said principal Father Bikash Mondal. In many schools, the Class XI admission starts after the pre-boards and classes begin after the students finish the board exams. South Point has admitted their own students largely on the basis of their Class IX results and an eligibility test for some. “Every year, we give more weightage to Class X and a slight weightage to Class IX but this year it has been reversed,” said Krishna Dam-ani, a trustee of South Point. At Indus Valley World School, director Amita Prasad said Class IX results are “more reliable”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Covaxin consent form silent on efficacy||The consent form sent by the Centre for recipients of Covaxin does not mention that the data on the efficacy of the homegrown vaccine against Covid-19 is still pending, health department officials said. Recipients of Covaxin, which is still undergoing Phase III trial, have to sign the form before they are administered doses of the vaccine. The state health department will distribute copies of the forms to teaching hospitals where Covaxin shots are likely to be administered from Tuesday. The four venues in Calcutta selected so far are the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, School of Tropical Medicine, SSKM Hospital and the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. The consent form mentions that the recipient has read the Covaxin information sheet or been told about the content and has understood the “benefits and risks of the vaccination”. It says the recipient will be “entitled to medical management and compensation for serious adverse events related to the administration of this vaccine”. “We will send the forms to the venues where Covaxin doses will be administered, mostly likely from Tuesday. Prospective recipients will be given copies of the form on reaching the vaccination site. They will get time to read it. The jab will be given only if one signs the form,” an official of the health department said. The form, the official said, does not mention that efficacy data of Covaxin is still not available. An immunologist attached to a research institute under the central government told Metro that the form should clearly mention that Phase III trial results of Covaxin are pending. “The Phase III trial data, still unavailable, will show whether the vaccine will work against the disease for a considerable point of time. If consent is being taken before administering the vaccine, the recipients should be told clearly that the Phase III trial results are pending. The form should also mention phone numbers which a recipient can call if some serious adverse events develop after getting the jab,” said the immunologist, who did not want to be named. The fact sheet supplied with Covaxin mentions that the vaccine is undergoing efficacy trials. “A Phase III efficacy study is ongoing in 25,800 participants and administered with first dose of vaccination with Covaxin, no vaccine related adverse events were observed,” the document states. An official of the state health department said that the form, in English, was recently sent by the Centre. The state government will translate it into Bengali and other languages. Metro had on January 24 reported that the Centre had told state health department officials in a video conference that Covaxin recipients would have to sign a consent form before they are administered the doses. Recipients of Covishield, the other Covid vaccine granted emergency use approval in India, do not have to sign any consent form. Bengal has received 1.6 lakh Covaxin doses so far. The department has decided to conduct extensive awareness campaigns so that refusal to get Covaxin doses does not become a worrying point for them. “There are plans to run awareness campaigns through seminars, WhatsApp messages, and by involving different professional organisations, prior to the initiation of and during the Covaxin vaccination programme. The purpose is to remove the misconceptions and to allay anxiety surrounding Covaxin,” said Santanu Kumar Tripathi, former head of clinical pharmacology at the School of Tropical Medicine, who is a member of a committee formed by the state health department for Covid-19 vaccination. Frontline workers The health department also decided on Friday to begin vaccination of frontline workers from next week. So far only healthcare workers have been inoculated. “Among the frontline workers, police, municipal workers and revenue officials in the district magistrate’s office will be given priority,” said an official of the state health department. The inoculation of frontline workers will continue simultaneously with that of healthcare workers. “We will not wait for all healthcare workers to be vaccinated before we begin to vaccinate frontline workers. Frontline workers too will be called to the sites to receive doses from next week,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
