31-01-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcuttans lose money without sharing OTP||At least two Calcuttans have reported to police that they have lost money from their bank accounts despite not sharing OTPs with any stranger. Both of them had received a text message or a call saying that their mobile phone connection was about to be suspended if they did not call back or click on a link shared to them. Both had clicked on the link and downloaded an application to transfer Rs 10. After some time, one of them, an elderly Calcuttan, realised she had lost more than Rs 3 lakh from her account while the other victim, a schoolteacher in Jadavpur, learned that Rs 1 lakh had been withdrawn from her account. The police said the application they had downloaded on their phone was a malware that had captured the Internet banking details of the victims when they had made a transaction of Rs 10. Then the registered mobile number was changed so that the next OTP was generated on the new mobile number, the police said. “This is a new modus operandi that fraudsters have started because the majority of the people are now aware that they should not share any OTP with any stranger. Citizens feel Rs 10 is too small an amount and that they are anyway not sharing any OTP. This makes them fall into the trap,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Police sources said they have been receiving similar complaints where people have lost money without sharing any OTP. “I received a text message from my mobile phone service provider saying my phone number would expire in 24 hours. There was a number mentioned as the customer care number in the same text message. It was different from the number that I have. So, I called at the registered number but no one responded. Then I called at the number shared in the text message,” said Susmita Ghose, a 65-year-old Calcuttan, who is one of the victims. She was asked to click on a link sent to her and download an application before making a payment of Rs 10. Later, she received a call from the telecom service provider from where she learned that the earlier call was a hoax call. By the time she contacted her bank, she found that more than Rs 3 lakh had been deducted from her account minutes earlier. In an almost similar incident, a resident of Jadavpur received a purported text message from her mobile number service provider saying the KYC of her mobile number was incomplete without which her number would be suspended. She, too, followed the same steps to make a transaction of Rs 10 and later lost Rs 1 lakh. The police said several Calcuttans have reported that they have received purported text messages from their telecom service providers claiming that the phone service would be suspended if they did not call the number mentioned in the text message or click on a link shared in the message. “We are going to take it up with the telecom service providers to create more awareness from their side so that their customers cannot be duped with such fraudulent messages,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
31-01-2021||Calcutta||Students bring wetlands to the city||A great view from apartment balconies and a source of cheap vegetables, the wetlands to the east of Calcutta occupy a limited space in the minds of its people. An exhibition set up by students wants to change that. It wants to “forge new connections, to dismantle the invisible walls that separate the city from the wetlands”. A “waste map” is one of the displays at the two-day exhibition that started on Saturday. It tracks the journey of sewage from a visitor’s home to a natural wastewater treatment plant. Another exhibit asks a visitor to pick ingredients for a Bengali dish and then trace their source to the same ecosystem. Titled “Jolabhumi’r Kotha o Kahini (Tales from the wetlands): an anthology of encounters”, the exhibition at Currency Building in Dalhousie is centred on the East Calcutta Wetlands. The wetlands receive and treat a bulk of Calcutta’s sewage every day and has saved crores of rupees for the administration by sparing the need to build several sewage treatment plants. The wetlands, declared a Ramsar site in 2002, provide livelihood opportunities to a large number of people in and around Calcutta through the production of fish and vegetables. Over 10,000 tonnes of fish is produced there every year and around 150 tonnes of vegetables every day. The sewage-fed aquaculture is also a massive carbon sink that removes carbon dioxide and protects climate at a regional scale. “We want to take the wetlands to the people of Calcutta. The city should know where a bulk of its food comes from; what is the destination of its filth beyond the canals that slither through its neighbourhoods,” said Rishith Sinha, a student of economics in Reed College in the US. The exhibition, curated by an artists’ collective that works closely with children, also shows how rapid changes are taking place at the 12,500-hectare of water bodies known as the city’s kidneys at the cost of the rich biodiversity there. Human settlements have come up after filling the water bodies. The threat of construction and dumping of waste looms large over the wetlands. On December 22, the National Green Tribunal asked an expert committee to complete the assessment of environmental damage within the East Calcutta Wetlands because of the “unauthorised and indiscriminate disposal of solid waste” by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation within another two months. On the inaugural day of the exhibition, the “What’s Cooking” installation drew many visitors. Each one was asked to pick raw materials to rustle up a dish. A fish curry with seasonal vegetables was a common dish that many opted for. Each visitor was shown which of the ingredients had been sourced from the wetlands. Another installation showed glimpses of the daily haat, an integral part of the wetland landscape. Photos of shop layouts and the people selling their wares adorned a wall made of bamboo and woven mats. A bunch of 10 students, including Sinha have set up the installations. Mentored by members of Disappearing Dialogues, “a dynamic platform for creative engagement and cultural expression”, the students went to the wetlands many times for a ground experience and to prepare for the exhibition. “We want to stoke responses and trigger conversations about the wetlands,” said Nabina Gupta, founder of Disappearing Dialogues. The collective has partnered with the German Consulate to organise the exhibition. A seminar with international speakers is underway along with the exhibition. “The exhibition is a call to look at the wetlands as they are — neither paradise, nor wasteland, but an evolving socio-spatial, sonic, and geographic landscape. Its people are diverse, its practices myriad and mutative. The exhibits are meant to prompt thoughts and questions, to ignite our curiosity about the wetlands,” says the curatorial note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||Two city schools announce pre-board dates||Two city schools announced dates for pre-board exams in a notice sent to parents of class X and XII students on Saturday, but did not specify the mode of exams in the absence of any directive from the state government on bringing students back to campus. St Xavier’s Collegiate School and Loreto House have sent notices to classes X and XII with dates for pre-board exams “to keep them prepared”. A notice from the principal of Loreto House to the parents says: “Keeping in mind the present unprecedented situation, the Pre-Board Examination could either be online or physical. The possibility for a (physical) examination in school will be notified to you closer to the Pre-Board Examinations.” St Xavier’s Collegiate School has also announced the dates without specifying whether the exams will be online or on-campus, the school’s principal said. Some others schools, too, want to hold pre-board exams on the campus but are waiting for the government’s nod to make a formal announcement. If allowed, this will be the first exam that the board examinees will write in school this academic year. Since board exams will be pen-and-paper, several schools are keen on conduc-ting the pre-boards on campus. All campuses have been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid. “We are waiting for the directive from the state government to allow classes on campus. Teachers and also a large section of students want to come to the school because they need the practice for two or three hours of writing to be well-prepared for the board exams,” said Loreto House principal Aruna Gomes. “But we are ready either way, online or offline,” she said. Father M. Thamacin Arulappan, principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, has announced the dates to “prepare students well in advance”. “We have not said anything regarding how the pre-boards will be conducted. If we get any confirmation (from the government), we can have it in school and in that case, the connectivity and uploading issues can be avoided. But the only concern will be of the coronavirus and that has to be taken into account,” said Father Arulappan. The uncertainty regarding the reopening of campuses has landed schools in a “fix” and some school heads said it is difficult for them to plan the exam schedule. St James’ School and Calcutta Girls’ High School plan to hold pre-boards for classes X and XII on campus. “We will be able to conduct the exams by maintaining proper distance because all other classrooms are empty and can be used,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’. “We would want to call the students of classes IX and XI also for on-campus exams but haven’t yet decided because we are waiting for a clearer picture,” she said. St James’ School that had initially planned to call classes IX and XI might not do so anymore. “We have planned the pre-board for X and XII in the middle of March subject to permission from the government,” said principal Terence Ireland. “It will be difficult to call the IX and XI students around that time and then begin the session by mid-April,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||This Earth: Its axis is your conscience||We are mistaken if we believe that human beings are destroying the earth; the planet will continue to spin and revolve irrespective of injury inflicted by human avarice. The last one year has proven that the living world is motioning us to listen, take note, rethink and rework our presence. It is from this deep sense of unease that Paribesher Sahaj Path, an Internet-based radio programme, was born in December 2020. Paribesh means environment and sahaj path, the A-B-C or the basics. It is aired every Sunday on Radio Quarantine, a community station that was launched from Calcutta during the coronavirus-induced lockdown and Amphan ravages last year. It is no coincidence that actor Dhritiman Chaterji, along with his friends Ronodeb Paul and Abeer Chakravarty — all “communications professionals” — pooled in their resources to start this. Paul is a filmmaker, while Chakravarty is the actor’s colleague from his advertising days. “All three of us had happened to read Amitava Ghosh’s The Great Derangement around the time we were hit by the double whammy last year,” Chaterji tells The Telegraph. “Essentially, we wanted to communicate three things — that occurrences such as super cyclones and pandemics are inter-connected; that they are not going to go away and are perhaps going to repeat with greater intensity; and that we, as individuals and communities, have to take responsibility and act now. We wanted to put all this across not in abstract or academic terms but in down-to-earth, intelligible ways that could motivate a general audience.” As the name suggests, Paribesher Sahaj Path is in Bengali; the collaboration with Radio Quarantine needed the medium to be thus. “Which is not at all a problem... because of the Internet, a Bangla audience does not necessarily mean a Calcutta or Bengal audience; it is the diaspora all over the world,” says Chaterji, who anchors the programme. The format is simple. Roughly an hour long, it features a detailed discussion with one person who has domain knowledge in the environmental sciences. The manner of conversation is easy, informed and interesting. There is also a conscious effort by discussants not to lapse into English words or phrases. “If you listen to similar podcasts from Bangladesh — I have recently been part of one such programme — they don’t use English at all,” adds Chaterji. The veteran actor sometimes thinks aloud, sometimes probes, and at other times voices layperson questions. The refrain: the devastating Amphan and the continuing coronavirus pandemic, are these two isolated events or are they linked in some functional manner? Also, the crisis of global warming, do these occurrences have any bearing on our political, economic, health and education systems? Are we, the human race, absolutely helpless or do we have some role to play to help the situation? “It is said that the ocean, the cradle of the first life forms on earth, flows through our veins...,” muses Chaterji philosophically in one episode. Professor of oceanographic studies Sugata Hazra, a member of the 16th Indian Antarctic Expedition in 1996-97 who has had an opportunity to “shake hands with penguins”, goes on to explain why the danger of extinction by sea is real. “Because it has happened five times so far,” he says, “albeit before human beings came into existence”. Scientists have long been warning of a sixth extinction. “There are certain marine crabs, snails and worms that are found near the deep sea hydrothermal vents. These creatures can live in super heated seawater near 250 degree Celsius — impossible conditions for human life. This only means that the seas have started preparing for life forms that will survive should such extreme conditions become a reality,” says Hazra. Now that’s information that will turn the blood cold. In another episode, historian Dipesh Chakrabarty talks about ancient civilisations, the virus-human cell connect and Wuhan, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak. The earth, he says, is indeed in the midst of a mass extinction of life. Studies estimate that about 150 species are dying every day. We also hear from the University of Chicago professor why monkeys have learnt to live in city spaces, happily too. And which bird has the largest population on earth. It’s the broiler chicken, by the way. Does that make one think hard? And this — the number of deaths due to air pollution in Bengal in 2019 was 13 times more than the number of Covid-19 deaths in 2020. Poushali Maji, an MIT researcher, elaborates on the aspects of the air pollution problem, almost always explaining a “combination of factors”. So we get in a nutshell the big picture — the higher prevalence of mechanised farming in northern India, especially Punjab and Haryana, the Green Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s, why the average income of farmers in these two states is higher than elsewhere in the country, the Government of India’s procurement plan regarding rice and wheat, the farmers’ market risk in case of other crops such as pulses, and how a water conservation act passed in 2009 has adversely impacted air pollution via stubble burning. Clarifications are sought, assumptions sounded out loud. Asks Chaterji, “Air pollution in cities is mainly due to vehicular emission, eta ki thik… is this correct?” Maji replies, “Among the sources of emission in cities, transport is significant. But if we look at the concentration of air pollutants, trans-boundary sources — biomass burning, brick kilns, coal power plants, etc. — play a much bigger role. In Delhi, for example, transport accounts for less than 5 per cent of the total pollutant concentration… Many may not believe it but the largest source of air pollution in India is biomass burning.” The podcasts are available on YouTube. Some of the other experts who have shared their knowledge and understanding are Sujit Sinha, who teaches sustainable development, Gandhi and Tagore at Azim Premji University; the bicycle mayor of Calcutta, Satanjib Gupta; and wildlife photographer and conservation activist Hirak Nandi. It is a voluntary effort and there is a perennial need for volunteers. Understanding the issues at hand may not shield us from the common fate of the grave, but the programme grants the listener illumination and compassion. “We are a small team and although we are stretching our resources to the utmost, we intend to go into other media, move forward as momentum gathers,” says Chaterji. “The idea is to go on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||A ‘virtual epitaph’ for those who died of Covid-19 ||An online memorial dedicated to the memory of those who died of Covid-19 was launched on Saturday, creating a space where a kin of the deceased can write a tribute for the departed. The website, www.nationalcovidmemorial.in, began with tributes to 31 people. The creators of the National Covid Memorial urged the kin of those who died to send tributes for their loved ones. In India, 1,54,147 people died from Covid-19 India till 6pm on January 30, 2021, according to the website of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The tribute, within 200 words, and photograph will be published on the site. The idea to build the online memorial came to its creators after seeing the helplessness of the families of the deceased who could neither visit the hospital during the person’s illness nor could go for the funeral in the first months of the pandemic. Things changed from mid-September, when the state government started handing bodies to the family. The memorial would be a “virtual epitaph” for the dead, said a member of the team that created the website. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and a brain behind the memorial, said it added that the memorial would document for posterity the cost of the pandemic. “We need to preserve for posterity what enormous suffering humankind had to go through because of the pandemic,” said Chowdhury, also a volunteer of Covid Care Network (CCN), an organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid. CCN is also involved in creating the memorial. Partha Mukherjee, of the network, said the online memorial would also provide stories and clues to public health planners in future about how the entire world, was caught unprepared. Ushasie Chakraborty, daughter of veteran CPM leader Shyamal Chakra-borty, told Metro that the pain of not being able to go on the last journey of someone could go on to haunt family members for many days. “It was kind of disrespecting the dead,” she said. The veteran leader passed away on August 6. In May 2020, The New York Times in its front page carried the names of 1,000 people who died from Covid-19 in the US, as the country approached nearly 1 lakh deaths till then. Relatives can email their tributes to nationalcovidmemorial@gmail.com or WhatsApp 9886002630. They can also visit the website and click on the ‘submit memorial’ menu. “We are asking for a death certificate and a photo,” said Chowdhury. Amik Mukhopadhyay, a Beleghata resident, has written a tribute in memory of his brother, who died on November 6. “I wrote to pay my respect to my brother, so that he lives among his known and even those who did not know him.” He also lost his 83-year-old mother to Covid on November 11. “I have also written a tribute for my mother,” he said. Among those who had written tributes about their loved ones was Bratati Bhattacharya, wife of Pradip Bhattacharya, who was a doctor in North 24-Parganas’ Shyamnagar. He was so loved that the local people contributed money to pay a portion of the bill of the doctor’s treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||Mumbai-based company to dismantle partially fallen Vivekananda Road flyover||A Mumbai-based company has been selected to dismantle the partially fallen Vivekananda Road flyover. While the formal order has yet to be released, senior officials in the urban development department said the company will be asked to start its operations by February after bagging necessary clearances from Lalbazar. “The demolition of the Vivekananda Road flyover would be carried out in phases,” said a senior official of the urban development department. A 41m-long deck slab of the flyover under construction had collapsed on March 31, 2016, killing 26 people. Before starting the demolition work of the structure, the company would have to submit a report detailing how it wants to go about dismantling different portions. This report, spelling out the details of the methodology of demolition, would be vetted by consulting agency RITES. A committee appointed to decide the fate of the Vivekananda Road flyover had recommended its demolition in September. V.K. Raina, a bridge engineer and the external expert on the committee, had made a presentation to a team of senior officials in Nabanna explaining the need to pull down the structure. Over the next few months as the urban development department scouted for a demolition squad, the CMDA set up a team of engineers to keep a vigil on the structure. That exercise is still on. Senior officials of the urban development department said in the first phase around seven pillars of the flyover, which don’t have a deck slab on its top and have shown signs of slight deviation from their original alignment, would be selected for demolition. The flyover has 48 pillars with some already bearing the weight of the concrete deck slabs on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
