01-10-2021||West Bengal||Another BJP MLA bites the dust, joins Trinamul||The BJP’s Raigunj MLA Krishna Kalyani on Friday quit the party to join the Trinamul, taking the tally of defectors to five in the state  Assembly at  time when a legal battle is on between the two parties in Bengal on implementing the anti-defection law. Kalyani’s tale of changing parties is like that of his other colleagues who have made careers out of jumping political ships in Bengal. Son of a former Congress leader close to the late PCC president Somen Mitra, Kalyani was among the two MLAs elected from North Dinajpur on a BJP ticket. Both have now defected to the Trinamul. Kalyani was served a showcause notice by the BJP state leadership for his repeated verbal attacks on the district leadership and Raigunj MP Debashree Chowdhury. “The party has an internal discipline. He would not follow any rules. Sometimes he would speak against the district leadership, sometimes against the national vice president Dilip Ghosh (who was till recently the state president of the BJP). He was show-caused. Instead of replying to it, he has fled from the party,” said leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikary, welcoming Kalyani’s decision to quit. Adhikary who has filed a petition in the Calcutta high court seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy, however, had a warning for Kalyani. “He must resign as MLA. Mukul Roy’s fate will be decided on October 7. Others like Tanmoy (Ghosh, Bishnupur MLA), Biswajit (Das, Bagda MLA) will meet with the same fate. That is why I am requesting him to resign as MLA or he will be disqualified,” said Adhikary. Like  former BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who joined Trinamul some days ago, Kalyani had on September 5 announced his decision to severe ties with the BJP. He had accused the local MP and former junior Union minister Debashree Chowdhury of sabotage during the polls to prevent himnfrom getting elected. He had also accused  district president Basudeb Sarkar of running the party unilaterally. “The district BJP president is running the party with a handful of followers on his whims. I raised a number of issues which the party should have addressed but nothing was dome. I also apprised the state leaders of these issues but surprisingly they too are silent. That is why from today, I will not maintain any links with the district unit,” Kalyani said on September 5. Sources said he was in touch with Trinamul leaders in Raigunj as well as Calcutta to secure his return to the Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Why we voted ||Here’s what some of them said Husband and wife now, the two were born and have lived all their life on Moira Street. And they have never missed a vote. A businessman, Kkushh had kept his business closed on Thursday. Stepping out of the booth at La Martiniere for Girls, Kkushh said: “As citizens, it is our right as well as duty to vote. It’s only if we vote that the city will be what we want it to be. Besides, this is a very important seat as the chief minister herself is a contestant.” Ejaz was distressed at how the “most senior leaders of the party in power at the Centre were spreading communal hatred in the country”. He was also “disgusted” at how the Prime Minister had catcalled Mamata Banerjee “Being a Muslim, I am concerned about the plight of the minorities in this country. What is shocking is how the highest leaders of the party in power at the Centre are spreading hatred. I feel that even non-Muslims should be worried and they, too, should speak out against such hatred,” he said after stepping out of the booth at St Paul’s School on Diamond Harbour Road around 11am. A software developer for a multinational, he said his work-from-home schedule helped him vote as it allowed him to finish the task assigned to him without fixed log-in hours. Prime Minister Modi’s “Didi O Didi” calls during the Assembly elections in May had “shocked” Ejaz. “It gives anti-woman vibes. The most shocking part is that it came from the Prime Minister. I felt it was borderline teasing,” he said. For her, unemployment was the top concern. “Our city has very few good jobs. Unemployment is a big problem here. I want the government to create more jobs,” she said. Banani has appeared in some exams conducted by the state public service commission. She said the results of these exams were published two or three years after the preliminary test was held. “Ideally, the entire process should be completed within a year,” she said. “Exams conducted by the school service commission are also held after a gap of many years. Many aspirants are not able to take the test because they cross the upper age limit when exams are held after such long gaps.” She had come with her cousin Ankita Sen, 21, a first-time voter. When the Assembly elections took place earlier this year, she had not voted. This time, she did at South Suburban School in Bhowanipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Pujas: Packed day for artisans||Bengal has rarely seen a high-voltage electoral battle ahead of Durga Puja. This year, however, is different. With only 10 days left before the Puja, Bhowanipore went to the polls on Thursday. While for the rest of the constituency it was yet another election, for the artisans of Kalighat’s patuapara (artisans’ hub), the poll meant much more. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s house is a stone’s throw from the hub. “I went to cast my vote around 11.30,” said 47-year-old Mousumi Pal, an artisan herself. “I’d get busy later in the day, so I went as early as I could to cast my vote.” Pal was widowed a few years ago. She lives with son Rahul, 25, who manages the studio for her. She is one of the thousands of beneficiaries of the state government’s health scheme Swasthyasathi and has recently applied for the widow pension. For Pal and many others like her — patuapara is home to around 150 artisans — Thursday was one of the busiest days of the year. Durga Puja is just 10 days away and most idols have to be delivered by Mahalaya, October 6. Most hands are busy bringing the clay idols to life. “There has been incessant rain in the last few days. We had to use blue lamps to dry the idols,” said Gopal Chitrakar, 65. All artisans at the hub, he said, are under tremendous rush. “Still there was no question of not going to vote. I took my wife and daughter early in the morning to cast our votes,” he said. Mamata used to frequently visit the artisans’ hub before she became chief minister. Now, the social welfare schemes touch almost  every household of the hub in some way or the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Rhino and jumbo thrills for tourists in Dooars||A rhinoceros and a herd of elephants turned out to be the points of attraction for tourists and residents in two different places in the Dooars on Thursday. Around 7am, residents of Ajgarpara, a locality under Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district, spotted a rhino. The animal had come out of the Gorumara National Park, one of the two rhino habitats of Bengal, and was drinking water from a stream near an agricultural field when it was spotted. As the news of the rhino spread, hundreds assembled to watch the animal and to click its photographs and record videos. Also, tourists staying in nearby areas like Lataguri, Batabari and Chalsa reached the spot in vehicles to watch the rhino. “It was the experience of a lifetime. I have never seen a wild rhino up so close. It was interesting to see its relaxed attitude. It went on devouring water and grass even though so many people had gathered nearby,” said Sushanta Dutta, a tourist from Calcutta who is touring the Dooars with his family. He added that he was “simply thrilled”. After a while, a team of foresters from the Khunia forest range reached the spot. They burst crackers which made the rhino go back to the forest. According to local residents, this rhino often moves out of the forest area and roams between Gorumara and the Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary. “Earlier, the animal was also sighted on the banks of the Murti river that is on the fringes of Gorumara,” said a resident. Raj Kumar Layak, the range officer, said they had managed to steer the rhino to Gorumara. “We will keep the rhino under watch for the next few days,” he said. A herd of wild elephants was also sighted at Kanthalguri tea estate in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri on Thursday morning. The herd, a forester said, was heading towards the Reti forest from the Moraghat forest and got stranded in the plantations of the tea estate in the morning. The elephants drew a large crowd from the garden and its adjoining areas. Hundreds of people were seen rushing to Kanthalguri on motorcycles to catch a glimpse of the herd. People clicked pictures of the herd. Local residents informed foresters about the herd and a team from the wildlife squad stationed in Binnaguri went to the spot. “Foresters are keeping watch on the herd and also controlling the crowd. Once the evening falls, they will try to steer the herd to Reti forest,” said a forest officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati seeks IIT aid on marks probe||Visva-Bharati on Thursday requested IIT-Kharagpur for help from its IT experts to probe into a recent blunder in its recent admission merit list, where four candidates scored more than the total, including one who scored 200 out of 100. The appeal to IIT-Kharagpur came following instructions from the Union education ministry to the central varsity. “The ministry, including minister Dharmendra Pradhan, had been very annoyed with the blunder in the merit list and directed a probe by members from outside the university. Officials in the ministry suggested that help in this matter be sought from IIT-Kharagpur, as the entire (admission test) process had been done online,” said a senior varsity official. Ministry officials reportedly said that the error had not only tarnished the image of Visva-Bharati, but also proved its negligence in matters such as admission.  The merit list of two MEd courses on the varsity website on Monday evening showed the first two candidates in the social sciences group with 196 and 151 marks, respectively, and their counterparts in the language group with 200 and 198 marks out of 100. Vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, in Delhi this week, directed varsity officials from there about how to follow the suggestions from the ministry. On Thursday morning, Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar posted a press statement on WhatsApp on the decision to form a committee on the merit list gaffe. The statement was signed by coordinator of the admission coordination cell, Nimai Chand Saha. “The university is in the process of setting up an enquiry committee to find out reasons behind the errors that occurred in the merit list for admission to the M.Ed course of Vinaya Bhavana and also to fix responsibility for the same. Appropriate actions are being taken to make the admission process error free,” the statement read. Senior officials said the press statement stated the committee was under process, as IIT-Kharagpur was yet to send names of the experts. However, late on Thursday, a varsity official said IIT-Kharagpur had sent three names. “The ministry also informed IIT-Kharagpur to send officials to look into the probe. The varsity will punish whoever is responsible for making such a gaffe,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Plastic unit gutted in Jalpaiguri||A godown stacked with plastic carry bags, paper cups and plates and styrofoam items was gutted in a blaze in Jalpaguri town early on Thursday. Sources said no casualty or injury had been reported so far. The fire has led to questions whether the godown owner had permission from authorities to store such inflammable items at the unit located in Silpasamitipara, one the densely populated areas of the town. Locals said they spotted the fire around 1:30am and informed Jalpaiguri Fire Station. It took seven hours for four fire engines to douse the flames. “The blaze was so intense that glass window panes of a number of adjoining houses have been damaged. The firemen initially used water available with them but eventually, they had to draw water from the Karala river flowing nearby,” said Ram Singh, a local resident. Dipak Kumar Goyal, the godown owner, reached the spot and claimed that goods worth around Rs 3-4 lakh were stored at the unit. “There is no power connection at the godown. I fail to understand how the fire broke out,” he said. Fire officials have asked Goyal to produce documents like fire license and other permissions required to run such a storage facility. “If he fails to furnish appropriate documents, we will take legal steps against him,” said Pradip Sarkar, the divisional fire officer of Jalpaiguri. Tablets seized Two suspected smugglers were arrested with around 8,000 yaba tablets from Imamjagir area in Malda on Wednesday. Police said Ahidur Rahaman and Mehelu Sheikh were held while trying to smuggle the tablets, which are a combination of methamphetamine and caffeine, to Bangladesh. Charges under NDPS Act have been brought against them, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds walk from Cooch Behar to nearby Assam for a jab||Hundreds from Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district are walking across the interstate border to enter Assam to get the Covid-19 vaccine at camps set up by the state government of the neighbouring state in areas close to the border. The reason for this is that in Tufanganj, like in most other places of Bengal, queues for vaccination are long. Also, on a number of occasions, residents had to return home disappointed as the stock of vaccines at a specific centre had exhausted. “I have tried thrice to get vaccinated at a camp that is running near my village and in every case, as soon as I was about to enter the camp, I was told that not a single dose of vaccine is left and I need to come again on some other day. With such being the situation, I found an alternative and walked into a camp in nearby Assam. In all, it took me an hour to get the first dose,” said Aiyub Ali, a resident of Madhya Balabhut village of Tufanganj. Ali, who is a migrant worker by occupation, said many others like him want to return to their workplaces as the number of Covid cases has considerably declined now. He  said many like him are going to the vaccination camps set up in Chagalia, a locality under Dhubri district of Assam located just after Baxirhat, the interstate border. According to the health staff posted at the camps in Chagalia, over 1,000 residents of Bengal have been vaccinated at the camps during the past couple of days. “We are just checking the identity proofs of people such as the Aadhaar card and providing the vaccine. It does not matter whether the person is from Bengal or Assam,” said Gangabala Roy, a health worker who has been deputed at a camp in Chagalia. On Wednesday, around 400  residents hailing from areas such as Balakuti, Baxirhat, Bhanukumari and Saldanga, all under Tufanganj subdivision in Cooch Behar, were seen standing in queues at the camps in Assam. “Back in our place, one has to go and stand in the queue for the vaccine at midnight or by dawn to get jabbed. There is an unprecedented rush and for senior citizens like us, it is very inconvenient. Here in Assam, the queues are small and also there are more counters for the vaccine,” said Nirbala Barman, an elderly woman from Jorai More of Baxirhat who was found standing in a queue at Chagalia in Assam. According to the data available with the central government, of the total population of Assam which is around 3.50 crore, around 2.39 crore people have already been vaccinated and among them, around 55 lakhs have received the second dose. On the other hand, in Bengal, where the total population is around 10 crores, around 5.72 crores have been vaccinated, and among them, 1.65 crores have received the second dose. A senior official of the Cooch Behar district health department said the pressure in Assam is much less as its population is one-third of Bengal. “We are trying to vaccinate the maximum possible number of people every day depending on the stock of vaccine we have with us. These days, close to five lakh people are getting jabbed every day in our state. Even so, if some people near the interstate border find it convenient to walk to the neighbouring camp of Assam to get vaccinated, it is their choice,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Priyanka active, but not BJP, on polling day||Priyanka Tibrewal, BJP’s Bhowanipore bypoll candidate, cut a lonely figure on Thursday as the young lawyer was seen running across the length and breadth of the South Calcutta constituency all alone when the voting was underway. The absence of any organisational backup for the BJP nominee proved that the outcome of the bypoll became a forgone conclusion for the party. Although Tibrewal — and scores of state and central BJP leaders — had campaigned in the run up to the byelection claiming that people of Bhowanipore would spring a surprise in the EVMs, the ground reports on the poll day told a different story. Even the BJP’s chief spokesperson changed the narrative at the end of the polling. “We are not talking about winning or losing. What we are saying is that Trinamul had fought this poll with all its might. They made a mere bypoll look like a national election as Mamata Banerjee herself urged that not a single vote should be wasted. Yet, voters didn’t come out to vote,” Samik Bhattacharya said as the poll process was nearing its end. According to BJP sources, Bhattacharya’s reaction summed up that the party had left the field even before the polling was over. The fact that the BJP was not in the fight was evident across Bhowanipore with Tibrewal alone — the absence of party machinery around her was striking — running around accusing the ruling party of using the administration to vitiate the poll process. Although she kept levelling the same allegation through the day during her interactions with the media, what struck even ordinary voters was the absence of even BJP camp offices, which parties set up near polling booths, across Bhowanipore. “Many areas were unmanned today. Where do we get people from to sit in our camps?” a BJP office-bearer asked. This person added that even the CPM — which is often mocked by the saffron camp for being reduced to zero representation in the Bengal Assembly — had set up camps at most places. Another state BJP leader said the party’s poll war room set up in its Hastings office also cut a deserted look. “Today (Thursday), most leaders came late and spent little time…. I understand it is a bypoll, but it is an important one nonetheless. The lack of interest among our leaders was so apparent and that was why Priyanka looked all alone in an unequal fight,” the BJP functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore byelection turnout ticks up after stupor||A relative improvement in the weather resulted in the voter turnout picking up in Bhowanipore and soothed the Trinamul Congress’s nerves on Thursday. The turnout had touched 53.32 per cent by 5pm, with the likelihood of it climbing closer to the 61.79 per cent clocked in the April 26 election in the Assembly constituency from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting now. Mobilisation on the ground by a battery of senior Trinamul leaders contributed significantly to the by-election turnout, especially from the slum and colony areas of the socio-economically diverse constituency. “Victory for Mamata here is a foregone conclusion, but a drastically reduced turnout because of inclement weather was a real fear. That could’ve lowered her victory margin considerably,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member in the evening. Mamata contested from the seat after her cabinet colleague Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated it for her in May. Agriculture minister Chattopadhyay had secured 73,505 votes – 57.71 per cent of the vote share – defeating the BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh, who got 44,786 votes or 35.16 per cent of the vote share. The constituency has over 2.06 lakh voters. “The main challenge here was to ensure her margin was higher than the 28,719 secured by Chattopadhyay, despite this being a by-election in a very urban constituency,” the Trinamul MP said. Since delimitation resurrected the constituency before the Assembly elections of 2011, Trinamul has remained undefeated there. “We are looking to replicate the 2011 by-election performance by Mamata in Bhowanipore, when she won by a margin of 54,213 even when the turnout was just 44.73 per cent,” the MP added. Trinamul had deployed some of Mamata’s most trusted lieutenants -– such as Subrata Bakshi, Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra – to steer the mobilisation on polling day. Sources said these leaders ensured healthy turnouts from several densely populated slums in the constituency. Mamata, sworn in as chief minister on May 5, has till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House her party swept. She had unsuccessfully contested from the Nandigram seat, losing by 1,956 votes to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP. Mamata has challenged the result in court. In the Assembly election this summer, the BJP had fared well from only two wards in Bhowanipore -- 70 (Jadu Babu’s Bazaar) and 74 (Alipore). “Today, the turnout was low from those two wards, which can only mean an even more favourable mandate in the chief minister’s favour,” said one of Trinamul’s ward-level coordinators deployed in Ward 70. The BJP and its candidate Priyanka Tibrewal alleged several instances of malpractice. The party lodged some 13 complaints, around twice the number in the summer election. “The rain gods failed us today, and the overall turnout was not as low as we would’ve liked,” said a BJP state unit functionary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul daily mocks Congress and Kanhaiya Kumar||The Trinamul Congress mounted yet another offensive on the Congress when the mouthpiece of Bengal’s ruling party carried an editorial on Thursday, spewing scorn on the Congress and Kanhaiya Kumar over the young Leftist leader’s induction overseen by Rahul Gandhi. “Had they fallen short of poster-boys?” asked the short but stinging editorial in Jago Bangla. “At a time realistic steps are necessary to strengthen the foundations of the alternative force, instead of doing that, the Congress is spoiling the situation by taking immature, myopic, cheap steps craving publicity. At the risk of offending some, we are compelled to state that this is called a circus,” it added. Apparently referring to the criticism of Trinamul over the recent induction of the likes of Sushmita Dev and Luizinho Faleiro, the editorial questioned the holier-than-thou approach the Congress had been taking on such matters, accusing Mamata’s party of weakening the fight against the BJP. “Why then did the Congress take Kanhaiya Kumar from the CPI, or the Left camp? The Left, too, are anti-BJP. Then why did the Congress take him from there?” asked the editorial, mocking the Congress over the induction of Kanhaiya amid “elaborate fanfare” and his defeat in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 from Begusarai by over 4.22 lakh votes to the BJP. “Such great dreams of the Left around Kanhaiya, such a noble leader! Before leaving, he even took away the party office’s air-conditioner, because it was bought with his own money,” the editorial added, referring to the purported incident at the CPI’s Patna office. “Politics, with such narrow-mindedness?” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, has called Mamata the BJP’s Trojan horse, accusing her of acting as an agent of the saffron camp to weaken the pan-India unity of non-BJP forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Marathon organiser cons Darjeeling residents||A person reportedly from Nepal came to Darjeeling, made hundreds run marathons and before the events ended, he allegedly fled with lakhs of rupees collected from sponsors and participants. Since Thursday morning, the phone of Prakash Adhikari a.k.a. Daniel Saint has been switched off. He is missing. When some people went to his rented place, the landlord gave them the photocopy of a passport of “Prakash Adhikari” of Kathmandu. Some participants filed a general diary with Darjeeling Sadar police station. Information from multiple sources suggests Adhikari came to Darjeeling as Daniel Saint over a month back, rented a place at Bokshi Jhora and started contacting hill runners by claiming to be an event manager from Mumbai with a company, Club Seven Wonders. He proposed three marathons on September 27 and 29 and October 1 in Darjeeling. For promotional items, he used logos of the tourism department of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. “He took Rs 1,000 each from 250 runners as registration fees, and Rs 5,000 each from 22 participants for a beauty pageant on October 3,” said a source. The September 27 and 29 runs were held, but he did not give prizes to winners, which raised doubts, said a participant. GTA officials denied any involvement with the events. “Our only event on September 27 (tourism day) was at Lal Khoti (GTA headquarters) where we launched our website,” said a GTA tourism  official. The official said Adhikari met them. “He asked for permission to host the events but we told them the police department could give it. He wanted the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan for free but we told him the information and cultural affairs department looked after it,” the tourism official said. Sources in the GTA I&CA department said Adhikari booked the auditorium. “We asked him to pay Rs 15,000 as rent by September 22. He did not pay, so we cancelled his booking,” an I&CA official said. “Since it was a sports event, we handed him Rs 5,000, but despite repeated reminders he did not give us a receipt. Last evening (Wednesday), I had sternly told him to provide the receipt as early as possible,” said Vikram Rai, founder, Vik-Run Foundation. Participants in the beauty pageant said the proposed grooming and photoshoot didn’t take place. “He kept postponing them,” said a participant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 749 new cases, 744 recoveries and 15 deaths||Bengal on Thursday recorded 749 new Covid-19 infections, 744 recoveries and 15 deaths. The state saw a fall again in its active Covid-19 cases, that dropped by 10 to reach 7,570. “There have been two days of rise and three days of fall in five days. We do not find it too worrisome yet,” said a minister. On Sunday, Bengal broke a 97-day streak of fall in the total of active cases. Calcutta logged 149 new infections and three deaths. North 24-Parganas reported 123 new infections and four deaths, These were only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths. The state now has 2.8 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still ahead of the national rate of 97.83 per cent. Its daily positive confirmation rate, once almost 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.9 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.69 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.43 lakh recoveries and 18,793 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||5 lakh people from flood-prone areas to be evacuated in south Bengal districts||The state government has asked south Bengal districts to evacuate 5 lakh people from lower Damodar areas by Friday morning, fearing floods in the next 24 hours amid downpour in the catchment area of Durgapur Barrage since Wednesday. As much as 350mm rainfall occurred in 12 hours in Durgapur Barrage’s catchment area. “Durgapur Barrage released 2.6 lakh cusecs of water on Thursday evening. This is huge and could inundate a large part of East and West Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah (lower Damodar areas). In August, when parts of Hooghly and Howrah were inundated, 1.53 lakh cusec water had been released from Durgapur Barrage,” said a government official. “So far, 3.5 lakh people have been evacuated in Howrah, Hooghly, East and West Burdwan,” added an official. The state government also decided to deploy the army in the lower Damodar areas. Bankura district, including the town, was cut off from Durgapur, Jhargram and Ranibandh. Durgapur’s link with Bankura snapped as Bankura-Durgapur state highway went under water with river Shali crossing danger level. Bankura-Jhargram state highway was submerged as river Shilabati flowed over the bridge. Several wards of Bankura town were inundated after water from river Gandheswari flooded those pockets. District magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar issued a red alert for people in the Damodar basin areas like Mejia, Barjora, Sonamukhi and Saltora. Aiyar said around 10,000 people had to be evacuated and sent to 125 relief centres. At least 10 teams of the SDRF have been deployed in Bankura. A severe flood would harm kharif cultivation, said an official. Sowing of paddy has been completed in the state. The districts along the lower Damodar area are farm belts. “If kharif crop is hit in Hooghly and East Burdwan, the state’s rice production would be hit badly. This is worrying in the backdrop of the pandemic as nearly 72 lakh families depend on kharif cultivation,” said a senior official. Heavy rain in Jharkhand may force Massanjore dam to release water by Friday, compounding Bengal’s problems. “As Jharkhand saw heavy rain, water level in Ajay and other rivers like Hinglo and Mayurakshi in Birbhum rose. We have evacuated 12,000 people from riverside areas of five blocks,” said Bidhan Roy, the Birbhum district magistrate. Tree shelter In East Burdwan’s Ausgram, three persons climbed a tree in the middle of Ajay’s riverbed on Thursday afternoon when water level of the river increased suddenly after 1.56 cusec water was released from Shikatia dam in Jharkhand. They could not be rescued till late on Thursday. The administration planned to send a team of NDRF to rescue them when this report was filed. “A boat of the disaster management team returned following a failed rescue bid. We are sending an NDRF team,” said Arindam Mukherjee, block development officer of Ausgram I.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Five children test positive for Covid-19 in Malda||Five children, aged between one and 12 years, tested positive for Covid-19 in different parts of Malda district in the past 48 hours. “All five children are in a stable condition and none has been hospitalised so far. But as they have not received vaccines, we are in touch with their families regularly to ensure that they are being provided with proper treatment,” said Amitava Mondal, the deputy chief medical officer of health – II of Malda, on Thursday. Sources in the health department said although the number of Covid-19 cases had declined in the district, the fresh infections among children made them draw up plans to ensure that such affected kids received required treatment. “We have installed oxygen supply systems at hospitals in all 15 blocks. So, patients need not come to the Malda Medical College and Hospital,” Saibal Banerjee, the chief medical officer of health of Malda, said. “We are developing new wards which will have 12 to 20 beds at some rural and block health centres.” Senior government doctors have said right now, not a single Covid patient is under treatment at the MMCH. “We are, however, continuing our surveillance and carrying out random tests. It has been found that a number of patients who have been tested positive are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Even then, all of us should be on alert,” said Partha Pratim Mukherjee, the MMCH principal. On Thursday, Suhrita Pal, the vice-chancellor of West Bengal University of Health Sciences, reached the MMCH. She held a meeting with officials and faculty members and visited the health establishment. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department, was with her. Roy told newspersons that the state health department had decided to open Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) at subdivisional and super-specialty hospitals. “The PICU we have at the MMCH will be developed into a centre of excellence. Also, those who will work at the PICUs will be trained at the MMCH and the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Three persons killed as heavy rain lashes south Bengal||Three persons were killed on Thursday in accidents triggered by heavy rain in West Burdwan. Police said the body of Nasim Ansari, 25, a resident of Railpar in Asansol was found floating inside his single-storey house on Thursday morning. Sources said Nasim was sleeping alone when water entered his home. Police took the youth to Asansol district hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Anil Keora, 50, a resident of a riverside road in Burnpur, and Sukurmani Besra, 65, of Barabani block were killed when a mud wall fell on them while they were asleep early on Thursday. Both were declared dead on arrival at the Asansol district hospital. Homes and property suffered heavy damage as almost entire Asansol and its adjoining areas, as well as Bankura, were inundated with consistent rain since Wednesday. The Met office in Calcutta recorded 434mm rainfall till 6am on Thursday only in Asansol. It is the highest that the town has seen in four years. Water entered almost every household and the town's sole railway hospital. Water also flooded the Delhi-bound NH2, prompting the administration to restrict the movement of vehicles on the busy highway. West Burdwan district administration had to call in the army from Panagarh Military Station to rescue people in some waterlogged areas in Asansol after the local disaster management team failed. “We had to call one company of army jawans from Panagarh to help us rescue people from waterlogged areas. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) also has joined us in rescue operations,” said a district official. Some residents of Railpar and Kalla of Asansol protested against the alleged delay in rescue operations when district magistrate Arun Prasad and police commissioner Sudhir Kumar Nilakantam came to inspect the areas. Many residents also said they could not recall such rain-induced danger in recent memory. “Half of my two-storey house in Railpar area got flooded. I had to stay on the terrace till nearby residents rescued me in the morning,” said Mohammad Iqbal. Officials of Asansol Municipal Corporation said water started ebbing by afternoon after rain stopped. “We have rescued people from waterlogged areas and also given them medicines and food. We have set up relief camps in schools,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad assembly segments record high voter turnout||Polling in Samserganj and Jangipur Assembly seats in Murshidabad on Thursday turned out to be a peaceful affair and recorded high turnout of voters, mostly migrant labourers who had come home to exercise their franchise. As of 5pm, Samserganj recorded a voter turnout of 78.60 per cent and Jangipur 76.12 per cent. Unofficial estimates put the number of migrant workers in the two constituencies at around 50,000, who were seen queuing up outside polling booths since early morning. The migrants said they had arrived in large numbers “to support their parties” even though the results would not make any impact on the fate of the Trinamul Congress government. “I knew I would be coming home and had planned this trip months in advance. I am happy to pay out of my own pocket if it means progress for my party,” said Raghunandanpur resident Mostaq Ansari, 42, who works for a distribution company in Bihar. A known Trinamul supporter in the area, he had reached his home on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
