02-10-2021||West Bengal||In Cong nominee's demand for repoll, whiff of Greek sibling rivalry?||The Theban brothers Eteocles and Polynices in the Greek plays penned by Aeschylus and later Sophocles were mortal enemies, whose lives and deaths gave the world tragedies for the stage. More than 2,400 years later in modern Bengal’s Murshidabad, two brothers pitted against each other divided by political ideology are playing on a similar theme, though not as gruesome as the Theban plays. Zaidur Rahman, the Congress nominee for the Shamshergunj Assembly constituency which went to polls on September 30, along with Bhowanipore and Jangipur, is the younger brother of the Jangipur MP from Trinamul Khalilur Rahman. Khalilur is also the president of the local Trinamul unit and man in-charge of all matters political on behalf of the ruling party, which has uprooted the Congress from its traditional stronghold in the last decade or so. On the day of polling, Zaidur wrote two letters, one to the returning officer and the other to the police observer for the by-election in the constituency. In the letter to the returning officer, Zaidur alleged that Congress polling agents were forced to leave the polling premises in booths 174 and 175 and with the alleged active connivance of  presiding officers, the Trinamul agents ensured all votes went to the, Trinamul nominee Amirul Islam. On polling day Islam was heard reminding women voters queued outside the booth about Lakshmir Bhandar, the Mamata Banerjee government scheme that provides women with cash-in-hand. The second letter from Zaidur, while demanding repolling in booths 162, 163, 168, 169, 170, 171, 174, 175 and 180, warned the police observer about the possibility of electronic voting machines being “snatched by Trinamul goons” while on transit to the counting centres. So far, no such incident has been reported. Counting in all the three constituencies, along with one in Odisha, will be held on Sunday, October 3. “We have brought the issue to the notice of the Election Commission,” said Adhir Chowdhury, state Congress president and Berhampore MP. While Jangipur remained largely peaceful, in South Calcutta’s Bhowanipore, from where Mamata Banerjee is seeking re-election to continue as CM for the third straight term, there were instances of outsiders coming to vote and vehicles of Opposition leaders coming under attack. The reason behind the Trinamul’s going the whole hog in Shamshergunj, a part of the Maldah South Lok Sabha constituency, is that even in its worst days, the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Congress voters had outnumbered both the Trinamul and the BJP by 7,939 votes. Though Shamshergunj is in Murshidabad district, it comes under the Maldah South Lok Sabha seat. The Congress nominee had received 73,054 votes in the previous Lok Sabha polls, while Trinamul managed 65,115 votes. Maldah South was among the few seats from Bengal that went to the Congress. “I have stopped thinking (about counting). The only thing I got from the authorities is assurance. I have left it on the people of Shamshergunj,” said Zaidur. The Congress nominee said he hadn’t discussed the issue with his MP brother who is in the rival camp. "I have not spoken with him,” said Zaidur. The Jangipur MP dismissed his brother’s claim. “This is not about brothers. Didi made me an MP, party comes first,” said Khalilur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges Centre, Jharkhand to help Bengal make a flood prevention plan||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she would urge Jharkhand to prepare a plan in consultation with her government to mitigate floods in the region. Speaking to reporters at a flood relief camp in Arambagh in the Hooghly district, Mamata said she will request the Centre to prepare a master plan to prevent floods. "This is a man-made flood. I will request Jharkhand to prepare a plan in consultation with us. Will request the Centre to prepare a master plan to prevent recurrence of floods. Had the dams in Jharkhand been dredged, Bengal would not have faced such a situation," she said. After an aerial survey of a few flood-hit areas, Mamata said discharge of more than 5 lakh cusec water by PSU DVC over the past two days without informing the Bengal government has caused the flood in the state. The situation in parts of East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Hooghly, Birbhum, Howrah and East and West Burdwan was grim due to excessive discharge of water by DVC, following rains in Jharkhand, the chief minister said. Four lakh people of the state have been affected by the floods and the state government was providing them relief, she said. Fifty rescue and relief teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF were working in the affected areas, Mamata said. "Hope the water will recede quickly," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Three of family killed in road accident near Singur||Three members of a family from Rajarhat were killed in a car accident near Singur, in Hooghly district, early on Friday. The fourth member of the family, a 65-year-old man who was driving the car, has been admitted to Chinsurah Imambara Hospital with injuries. Around 6am, as the car approached Khasherbheri, it veered to one side of Durgapur Expressway and fell into a ditch. Police said Kajal Kumar Deb, a retired railway employee, was returning with wife Monika, daughter Kamolika Sadhu and Shibang, his four-year-old grandson, from Rajarhat to his Burdwan house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Eleven people die in floods in southern districts||At least 11 people have died in south Bengal districts, including Birbhum and Hooghly, that are witnessing floods of a severity unmatched since 2000. A six-year-old boy, Soumyadip Chanak, and two others have died in West Midnapore’s Ghatal since Thursday night. The boy was swept away by floodwaters while going for a bath with his father in Ghatal town. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee called the floods “manmade” and appeared to hold the Centre responsible. “I would have accepted it had the floods been caused by heavy rainfall in the state. But this was only because the dams of the DVC in Jharkhand released excessive water without consulting us.... This is a man-made flood,” she said. “I have been talking about the need for de-siltation of the dams for the past several years, but they are not doing anything,” Mamata added. Minister Manas Ranjan Bhuniya too alleged that the West Midnapore floods had been caused by the release of copious amounts of water by the DVC. “There has not been much rain in Midnapore but Ghatal and at least three other blocks went under water only because the DVC discharged huge amounts of water. Despite the chief minister’s appeal, the DVC released so much water at the same time, causing major floods for the third time in three months,” Bhuniya, water resources investigation and development minister and Trinamul MLA from Sabang in West Midnapore, said. Bhuniya has been assigned by Mamata to monitor the situation in West Midnapore, while a few other ministers have been tasked with overseeing the other flood-affected districts. Kamala Das, a 76-year-old widow, was killed in Goghat when her mud house collapsed on her as river water entered the village early on Friday morning. Police recovered the body of Sibu Das, 17, who had been reported missing during the floods in the same area on Thursday night. The police have also recovered the body of an unknown middle-aged person from the Dwarakeswar river in Goghat on Friday morning. Five people have died in Bankura since Thursday night. The police recovered the body of Subhas Majhi, 40, who was reported missing in the floodwaters in Simlapal on Thursday night. The body of a yet-to-be-identified person was found floating in the Kansabati river in Sarenga. Two women were killed when a mud wall collapsed on them in two villages of Bankura, while a youth died from snakebite while he was crossing a waterlogged road in Bankura’s Bamira village. “Five people were killed because of flood and rain. Many areas like Sonamukhi and Barjora are also submerged. We have visited several affected areas,” K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate, said. Sources said the flood situation in south Bengal had worsened after the discharge of water from DVC barrages following heavy rainfall in Jharkhand. This left vast areas in Hooghly, West Midnapore, Howrah and Birbhum flooded. Construction of new dams upstream of the Maithan and Panchet dams of the DVC network, rather than de-silting the existing dams, could be the solution to the regular floods in south Bengal caused by the release of water, sources in the central utility and the Bengal irrigation department said. Several government officials said they had not witnessed such devastating floods in 20 years. A large part of Nanoor in Birbhum went under water after the Ajay breached a part of the embankment near Sundarpur village. At least two dozen villages in Nanoor’s Basapara and Thupsura were inundated. “It was in 2000 that such floods had last happened. At least two villages, including Sundarpur, have been washed away with hundreds of concrete houses collapsing there because of the heavy rush of water,” said Karim Khan, a functionary of the Birbhum zilla parishad and resident of Basapara. Sources said at least 500 families had spent the night atop an embankment in Nanoor. Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Ray and police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi on Friday visited the affected areas by boat. “We had to evacuate at least 15,000 people and relocate them to relief centres in school buildings. We are providing relief materials to them. The flood was the result of the release of water into the Ajay from Jharkhand’s Shikatia dam. Less water was discharged from that dam on Friday,” Ray said. The waters of the Ajay have also inundated vast areas of Mangalkot, Ketugram and Ausgram in East Burdwan. Several villages and Arambagh town in Hooghly were submerged along with neighbouring Goghat, Khanakul and Pursurah as water from the Mundeswari, Dwarakeshwar and Shilabati rivers entered these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Four East Midnapore blocks submerged for two weeks||Residents of four blocks in East Midnapore, including Patashpur and Bhagabanpur, continued to remain flooded for almost 15 days after the Keleghai broke several of its dykes on the night of September 16 following heavy rains. As residents cry for alleviation of their situation and immediate repairs of the breached embankments, officials of the irrigation department and the district administration have pleaded helplessness in the face of a challenge that has emerged in the form of several wooden bridges spanning the river in the vicinity of areas where the worst flooding has taken place. “We are only waiting for the water level to abate further because our only way to bring repair materials in now is by the river. We are prevented from doing that because of the wooden supports that these two dozen-odd bridges stand on. The wooden stilts are coming in the way of  boats that are used to ferry lengthy items such as wood and bamboo poles,” said a district official, referring to the Amgechhia area where river water was as far as 200m inland as of Friday. The situation is the same in four blocks of Patashpur 1 and 2, and Bhagabanpur 1 and 2, where over four lakh homeowners suffered damage and 65,000 persons were displaced. The district officials are also manning at least 383 relief camps in the area. “The flooding last week was so severe that the river is taking too long to return to its former level. Till then, roads are unusable and we have to rely on rivers for ferrying supplies,” Patashpur 1 block development officer Parijar Roy said. “An additional problem is that the Keleghai is a quick-flowing river as we are lower-lying than West Midnapore and Jhargram,” he added. Irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra concurred with the district officials, saying repairs could be commenced in a week “if good weather holds up”. “Once we found boats large enough to carry repair materials, we learned that the vessels had no way into Amgechhia owing to the bridge pillars. But we should be able to start remedial work as soon as the water level becomes normal,” he said. Sources cited an additional hurdle in the way of the Bhupatinagar police station, which has been operating out of a local school building. The police station remained marooned even on Friday. “The panchayat cannot coordinate with them for relief materials as a result,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||New DVC dams only solution to regular flood problem: Experts||Construction of new dams upstream Maithan and Panchet dams of the Damodar Valley Corporation network rather than de-silting the existing dams is the only solution to the problem of regular floods in south Bengal caused by water released from the DVC, sources in the central utility and state irrigation department said. “Undoubtedly, the water holding capacity of the DVC dams has decreased since those were constructed in the 1950s. But de-silting the dams is not a practical solution. New dams upstream appear to be the only solution,” said a senior DVC official. According to sources, there are four dams in the DVC network — Maithan and Tilaiya on the Barakar river and Panchet and Konar on the Damodar river — from where water reaches Durgapur Barrage. Once water is released from the Durgapur Barrage, there is no other dam to hold the water — while it passes through East Burdwan and Hooghly — till it meets the Hooghly in Howrah. “So, if the DVC dams release more water, it is almost certain that parts of East Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah would get inundated.Parts of Hooghly and Howrah went under water in August as the Durgapur Barrage was forced to release 1.53 lakh cusec water. The barrage released 2.36 lakh cusec water last night and that is why the floods are more devastating,” said a senior irrigation department official. In 2012, the DVC and the Central Water Commission (CWC) had carried out a survey to find out a solution to the long standing problem. The survey revealed that water holding capacity of all the four dams of the DVC network — Maithan, Panchet, Tilaiya and Konar, all in Jharkhand — had reduced significantly because of siltation. But it was also found that de-siltation of the four dams would cost nearly Rs 5,000 crore. It would also require a huge tract of land to stockpile the silt, which was not readily available. “Furthermore, such de-siltation in the dams would require high end technology and the work is a time consuming one,” said a source. The officials conducting the survey felt that constructing two new dams upstream the Maithan and Panchet dams — from where water reaches Durgapur Barrage — would be a better solution. Construction of new dams, however, will be easier said than done, said a DVC source. “Not only will it require huge investments from the Centre, there would also be a need for land... These are the two factors which is the biggest hurdle to building new dams,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||NFR to do interlocking works, traffic blocks await trains||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to go ahead with a major traffic block for five days starting from Saturday to carry out track interlocking works at four stations of north Bengal as a part of a double-lining and electrification project. During the block which will continue till October 7, the NFR has decided to cancel as many as 64 long distance trains and divert 21 other long distance trains, including two pairs of Rajdhani Express, through another route. According to sources, the work would be carried out along a 37km- stretch between Dhupguri (in Jalpaiguri district) and Ghokshadanga (in Cooch Behar district) stations which are along the principal rail route that connects northeast with rest of the country. A number of trains connecting Calcutta with north Bengal and Northeast like the Kamrup Express, Kanchenjungha Express, Saraighat Express, Teesta Torsha Express and Uttarbanga Express — which run as daily special trains these days — will remain cancelled during the period. “Once this work is over, trains will run on double tracks along the stretch which will also be electrified. This block might cause some inconvenience to people but in the days to come, they will have to spend less time in their travel,” said an official of NFR. The decision to cancel so many long-distance trains on the eve of the festive season has left stakeholders of the tourism industry — particularly those in eastern Dooars (or Alipurduar district — worried. “Tourists have already started pouring in and we have a number of reservations during the period when the trains have been cancelled. The situation had just started becoming favourable and now this five days’ traffic block has come as a fresh poser for us. We fail to understand why the railway authorities did not carry out this task last month,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||BSF seizes 2.6kg silver, arrests youth in North Dinajpur ||The Border Security Force (BSF) intercepted a 16-year-old youth while he was allegedly trying to cross the border at Phulbari in North Dinajpur on Thursday and seized 2.6 kilos of silver granules from his possession. BSF sources said the youth, a resident of a village under Goaklpokhor police station, was trying to smuggle the silver granules to Bangladesh. Later, the BSF handed over him to the local police. The BSF troops, sources said, carried out anti-smuggling drives in different areas of north Bengal on Thursday and Friday and have seized different items worth around Rs 8.22 lakh. Among the seized items include cattle, cough syrups and some other contraband items, BSF officials said. In another incident, a resident of Chharkatola in Malda  was arrested after fake notes amounting to Rs 3 lakh were allegedly recovered from his house on Thursday evening. Police said 600 pieces of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) all in denomination of Rs 500, Rs 42,500 original Indian currency and Rs 642 in Bangladeshi Taka was seized from Anisur Rahaman’s house. “It seems he is associated with a racket involved in smuggling of FICN. We need to interrogate him to gather more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||This is a man-made flood: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Friday indirectly held the Centre responsible for the large-scale inundation in at least 20 blocks in south Bengal districts before calling the flood situation in the state “man-made”. “I would have accepted had the floods been because of heavy rainfall in the state. But this was only because the dams of the DVC in Jharkhand released excessive water without consulting us.... This is a man-made flood,” the chief minister told a private news channel on Friday morning. The DVC is a central government power utility and it was clear that Mamata was pointing fingers at the Centre. Mamata said she would undertake an aerial survey of the affected districts on Saturday. Sources close to the chief minister said she would make the repeated instances of flooding of south Bengal districts — because of release of water by DVC from its dams — a political issue to sharpen her attack on the BJP-led Centre. The top brass of the Bengal government are of the opinion that lackadaisical attitude of the Centre in restoring and renovating the dams of the central power utility is the main reason behind regular inundation in the state. “The chief minister had repeatedly written letters urging the Centre to take some concrete measures to renovate the DVC dams, but nothing has been done so far. This is why she is terming the floods man-made,” said a senior state government official. Mamata, during an interview with the channel over the phone, said though several places in the state, like Asasnsol, had recorded heavy rainfall, the situation would not have turned “grave” had the DVC dams could hold more water. “I have been talking about the need for de-siltation of the dams for the past several years, but they are not doing anything,” she said. “You see... Bankura has been inundated. Asansol was under water yesterday. East Burdwan, Howrah, Hooghly all are flooded because of this release of large quantities of water from Jharkhand,” said Mamata. A source in the state irrigation department said, in her last letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this year, she had specifically mentioned the need to de-silt Maithan and Panchet dams as successive surveys had pointed out how water holding capacity at the two dams was going down over the years. “The chief minister had clearly mentioned that the DVC dams have a catchment area of about 1,000sqkm and that’s why a moderate rainfall in Jharkhand creates trouble for Bengal. Similar letters were sent in 2015, 2017, and 2019, but no action was taken,” said an irrigation department official. Although Mamata sounded worried with the flood situation, she made it clear that her government would take all possible steps to minimise the miseries of marooned people. Besides instructing district officials to carry out relief and rescue work on war footing, she also deputed several  senior cabinet ministers — like Firhad Hakim, Aroop Biswas, Subrata Mukherjee and Becharam Manna — to monitor the situation in the districts. “We will take stock of the damage that the flood has done to the people and try to compensate those affected,” she said. The army was deployed in West Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah. Sources said that 25 NDRF teams were deployed in the flood-affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Dam water floods 20 blocks in south Bengal||Over 10 lakh people were marooned after at least 20 blocks in south Bengal were submerged following heavy rain in the state in the past 48 hours and release of water from DVC dams in Jharkhand, which forced the Durgapur Barrage authorities to release water since Thursday. The affected blocks are in West Midnapore, Birbhum, East Burdwan, Bankura, West Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah districts. Reason: The Damodar has already crossed the danger level of 12.89 meters Majority of the areas were submerged because of excessive rainfall in the catchment areas of the Maithan and Panchet dams maintained by the DVC in Jharkhand, which resulted in release of water that submerged downstream areas in Bengal. For example, Asansol which falls in the catchment area of the Durgapur Barrage had recorded over 350 mm rainfall between Wednesday night and Thursday morning, which was highest in the recorded history. Moreover, the Maithan and Panchet dams had released 1 lakh cusec of water since Thursday morning. With water gushing in from Jharkhand and heavy rain in its catchment area, the Durgapur Barrage released 2.36 lakh cusec water on Thursday afternoon, which submerged large parts of East Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah. Rivers like the Ajay, Kansabati and the Darakeswar in Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia, which carry water from the dams like Shikatia in Jharkhand, also crossed danger levels. This has caused inundation in several blocks in Birbhum and Bankura. “Such inundation in these districts is a rarer phenomenon,” said a senior official. . More than 5 lakh people have already been evacuated. In view of the grave situation, the Bengal government has sought help from the army to carry our both relief and rescue operations. More than 1,000 relief camps are being operated across the state. The government has asked district authorities to open more camps as and when required. The extent of damage can be assessed only after water levels recede, but preliminary reports suggest the following: nTens of thousands of mud houses have collapsed because of the inundation||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 708 cases, 694 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases rose for the third day in the past six days as the state logged 708 infections, 694 recoveries and 13 deaths on Friday. The total of active cases climbed by one to reach 7,571. Bengal has 2.8 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such patients. Calcutta on Friday logged 146 infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 116. These are the only two districts in Bengal to log three-digit figures of new infections on Friday. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.8. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged four each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.79 per cent on Friday. Bengal now has nearly 15.7 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.43 lakh recoveries and 18,806 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani quits saffron party||Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani quit the BJP on Friday. In North Dinajpur, the BJP had won two of nine seats — Raiganj and Kaliaganj. Last month, Kaliaganj MLA Soumen Roy had defected to the Trinamul Congress. Kalyani is the second BJP MLA from north Bengal and the fifth in the state to walk out of the party after the Assembly elections. North Dinajpur is the first district without a BJP MLA in north Bengal. Kalyani didn’t say if he would join any other party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
