03-10-2021||West Bengal||EC writes to Bengal chief secretary to ensure no celebrations take place over poll results||The Election Commission on Sunday afternoon directed Bengal Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi to ensure that no celebrations take place over poll results amid fears of violence. In a letter, the EC said the state government must ensure that adequate steps are taken so that no post-poll violence happens. "... no victory celebrations/ procession during/after the counting shall be allowed in the ongoing elections in West Bengal, for which counting is being taken place on October 3, 2021," EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said in the letter. "All necessary actions must be taken to ensure the strict compliance of Commission's direction where in all such activities have already been prohibited in view of pandemic. Further, state government must ensure that adequate steps are taken so that no post poll violence takes place," he added. The EC asked Dwivedi to ensure strict compliance with the directions. The letter came as TMC workers across the state hit the streets to celebrate the massive lead Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee received in the Bhowanipore by-election. The party's candidates in Jangipur and Samserganj assembly were also ahead of their rivals, adding to the revelry. BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal, Banerjee's rival in the Bhowanipore seat, had on Saturday night written to the Acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Rajesh Bindal, urging him to give orders to the police to take preventive steps to avoid incidents of violence after the results are declared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata wins by a record margin, bolsters Trinamul's national ambitions||A lazy, relaxed, bright Sunday turned brighter for Mamata Banerjee as she sealed her claim to the chair of Bengal’s chief minister cruising to a smooth victory over her nearest opponent from the BJP, while the CPM nominee was always out of the frame. Mamata's final victory margin was 58,832, surpassing her  2011 margin of 54,213. Earlier, at the end of counting for round 21, she was leading by 58,389 votes,  breaking former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s record of a 58,128-vote victory margin as a sitting chief minister in 2006. There of course lies a difference between Mamata and her former bete noire Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. Mamata also happens to be the only chief minister to have continued as CM despite facing a loss while her party romped home in the summer of 2021. Around 2.30 pm, just before  fresh downpour lashed south Calcutta, Mamata stepped out in the open to greet party workers who had assembled at her Kalighat  residence. "I am grateful to the people of Bhowanipore. Despite  Covid and rains they came out to vote. I have received the highest votes in all the wards. Bhowanipore has shown the country, who Bengal's favourite is," said Mamata. She also announced candidates for the coming October 30 bypolls _ Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay will contest  from Khardah, Brajakishore Goswami from Santipur, Udayan Guha from Dinhata. For Gosaba Trinamul would  either field  Bappaditya Mandal or Subrata Naskar.  "We will announce the Gosaba candidate later," she said. Around 1 pm, as Mamata was gradually cementing her position, a poster claiming her as "ModiShahsurmardini", a clever play  on "Mahishasurmardini",  the name given to Bengal’s favourite Goddess Durga, the slayer of the Buffalo Demon. It’s another matter that Trinamul fanboys and the RSS pracharaks have viewed Mamata through the same prism. Sunday’s emphatic win cements Mamata’s claims at the national level for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The Trinamul mouthpiece, Jago Bangla, has already staked her claim to the space of the leaderless Congress and positioned itself as the main challenger to the Modi-Shah combine. Mamata has a distinctive advantage over three other chief ministers who have kept the BJP in abeyance in their respective states. Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra, M.K. Stalin in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala. A fourth chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, has largely been ambivalent in his stance towards the BJP. Both Stalin and Thackeray have the disadvantage of being successors of parties which were born with a distinct identity, the Dravidian movement of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham in Tamil Nadu and the Maratha Manoos for the Shiv Sena. Vijayan on the other hand is leading a party which is facing an existential crisis in parliamentary democracy and is largely restricted to agitprop. The emergence of Mamata and the Trinamul was only to dislodge the Left from power in Bengal, and not to protect the Bengali identity. That is the reason why Mamata’s first cabinet even had a Sikh minister. While she projected herself as the protector of Bengal from the alleged atrocities of the Left, she extended the same privilege to members of other communities, religious or linguistic, keeping true Calcutta’s cosmopolitan identity. She has been careful to address the individual needs of linguistic and social minorities in the hills of Darjeeling or the tribals of Jhargram. That is one of her biggest advantages, which is why she can think of extending her party to distant parts of India like Manipur and Goa, which have little in common with Bengal. Mamata’s claim for a bigger role in national politics will only get louder in the coming days and one can expect more defections, not just in Bengal, where dissidents and disgruntled political elements rally around the three-time Bengal chief minister. One of the factors behind Mamata’s success is her reliance on cash-driven politics providing short-term benefits to the needy through  various schemes launched by her government. Mamata is likely to turn more aggressive in pursuing the same policies, which have paid her rich dividends in these 10 years and will continue to do so for the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Fisherman rescued from tiger’s jaws in Gosaba ||A 37-year-old fisherman was severely injured by a royal Bengal tiger in Gosaba area of the Sunderbans in South 24Parganas when he, along with four others, went to collect crabs from a restricted area of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR) early on Saturday. Fisherman Gour Mistri was rescued from the jaws of the tiger by his companions who fought with the tiger with bamboo sticks for around 10 minutes. Gour was admitted to the Canning subdivisional hospital with critical injuries on his head, shoulders and neck and was struggling for his life. “The group of fishermen went inside the restricted zone illegally to collect crabs from the wetlands when the tiger attacked one of them. Though they had made illegal entry into the forest we arranged treatment of the fisherman on humanitarian grounds,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of STR. Foresters said the trend of going to the forests without permission has increased in recent days following job losses during lockdown. As a result, incidents of tiger attacks have also increased in recent times. On September 3 another fisherman was injured by a tiger as his coworkers battled with the big cat with oars of their boat to save his life On August 24, a group of fishermen were ambushed in Gosaba's Satjelia by a tiger, who dragged one of them off the boat. That incident had taken place on the heels of another incident in Jhila, where a lone fisherman had been killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Three persons sentenced to life imprisonment for murder of minor||Three persons were on Friday sentenced to life imprisonment for killing a 16-year-old migrant worker 10 years ago. Five others, also linked to the crime, have been jailed for three years and a fine of Rs 10,000 has been imposed on each of them. Sources said Rakesh Singha was hacked to death over an advance of Rs 4,000 at Niyoginagar in Malda on June 26, 2011. Police held 19 persons following a complaint by the victim’s family. Among them, 11 were released in due course. On Friday, the additional district and sessions judge (fourth court) here ordered life imprisonment for Nikhil Singha, Ashim Singha and Gautam Singha. Also, a fine of Rs 50,000 has been imposed on each. “Finally, we got justice after 10 years,” said Ajay Singha, a relative of the deceased. Five others — Akhil Singha, Sujit Singha, Madhab Singha, Tarapada Singha and Pankaj Singha — jailed for three years will have to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 each. Arms and explosives A Malda resident was arrested after an improvised firearm, two rounds of live cartridges, around 1.9 kilos of explosives used to make crude bombs and 40 small canisters apparently used to make the bombs were recovered from his house on Friday night. Sources said Chandu Sheikh had been remanded in police custody for seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal flood situation is man-made, claims Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday explained why she called the floods “man-made” as she rolled out data on the quantum of water released by the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) over the past 48 hours. The chief minister said the manner in which huge quantities of water was released from the DVC dams within a short period was a “crime” as it caused havoc in several south Bengal districts leaving over 22 lakh people marooned. “You have to listen to me to understand why such a flood occurred this time. The DVC’s Panchet and Maithon dams released 49,000 cusec water at noon on September 30, the day of polls (Bhowanipore and two segments in Murshidabad) here. Within an hour, they started releasing again and 1 lakh cusec was released till the evening. From 8.30pm, they (the DVC) started releasing 1.25 lakh cusec. Which means they released around 3 lakh cusec water only on September 30,” Mamata said after visiting flood-hit areas of Arambagh’s Kalipur in Hooghly. She reached Arambagh by a chopper at around 1pm, and after landing at Pallishree helipad, went to visit flood-affected areas in Kalipur where she also spoke to people and enquired about their well-being. Then she made an aerial survey of flooded areas in Bankura, West Burdwan, Hooghly, Howrah and West Midnapore. Later in the day, she held a review meeting at Nabanna and a news briefing. “They released water at midnight too without informing us.... So I am saying it is a crime and the flood is a man-made one,” she said. The chief minister, reading out from sheafs of papers,  said at Nabanna that instead of allowing the water released on September 30 to recede, the DVC released a huge quantity of water on October 1, which aggravated the situation. The chief minister said 1.5 lakh cusec water was released from 8.15am on October 1 till 5.30pm. From 5.30pm, they released 1.25 lakh cusec of water. In the evening, the DVC started releasing nearly 2 lakh cusec from its dams. “A total of nearly 10 lakh cusec water was released from the DVC in a span of two days. Release of such a huge quantity of water in a span of 48 hours is unprecedented,” said Mamata after holding a review meeting with senior government officials at Nabanna. She compared the release of water by the DVC in July with that now to explain why the flood was completely man-made. “In July when many areas were inundated, DVC released only 1.12 lakh cusec of water. But now they have released around 10 lakh cusec of water. There was heavy rain on one side and on the other side there was no information for us,” she said. She said heavy rainfall in Asansol on Wednesday night inundated parts of the town, but the water receded within hours. “We have dug up 3.5 lakh water bodies and constructed check dams worth Rs 500 crore. This is why we could tackle heavy rainfall this year. The problem occurred only because the DVC released excess water without prior information,” said the chief minister. She also criticised DVC’s failure to hike water storage capacity of its dams and blamed its inaction despite reminders from the state. The chief minister said that DVC’s dams could store more 2 lakh cusec water if they could desilt and dredge them. “DVC could store more than 2 lakh cusec water in their dams if they dredged them. If they did so, our Bengal would not be submerged repeatedly,” she said. The chief minister said that more than 4 lakh people were evacuated and 1 lakh houses were damaged due to the heavy floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Water release protocol followed, says Damodar Valley Corporation||The DVC on Saturday said that there were no procedural lapses in warning Bengal state officials before releasing water from its dams in response to the Bengal government narrative that floods were caused by indiscriminate release of water by the DVC without information. The DVC releases water from its dams on advice of the Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee headed by a member from Central Water Commission and includes representation from Bengal, Jharkhand governments and the DVC, said the statement. It said a warning is sent to Bengal’s irrigation department if it releases more than 23,000 cusec water from its dams. The first warning is sent six hours before release. “Before the release of water, flood warning messages are communicated well in advance to chief engineers of West Bengal government, district magistrates of Purba Bardhaman and Paschim Bardhaman, Purulia, Bankura, and superintending engineer and executive engineer, Durgapur. The executive engineer, Durgapur, further communicates the messages to district magistrates of Hooghly and Howrah, SDOs, ADMs, BDOs and others...,” DVC said in a statement on Saturday. State sources said the irrigation department had received a warning from the DVC that its dams would be forced to release more than 1.5 lakh cusec water from Maithon and Panchet on September 30. A source said the first mail from the DVC does not cite how much water will be released as it updates on its website the amount after the first warning is sent. “The warning mail is forwarded to all DMs of districts concerned, the disaster management and top brass of Nabanna. It is advised the DVC website is monitored... This time too the process was followed,” said a Nabanna source. Two hours before release, the CWC chairman mails the irrigation department on the amount of water, and this is forwarded to the ADM of Asansol and West Burdwan authorities so that they can monitor the DVC Barrage, a protocol followed this time too, the state official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata requests ‘friendly state’ to desilt dams to prevent flooding||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she would request the “friendly” Jharkhand government to desilt dams in the neighbouring state to prevent flooding in several Bengal districts that annually bear the brunt of water released by power utility DVC during monsoon. Mamata made this remark shortly after the Birbhum administration decided to reconstruct village Sundarpur in Nanoor that got almost washed away by waters released by a dam in Jharkhand’s Shikatia. “Jharkhand is our neighbouring and friendly state. We will request the Jharkhand government if they kindly renovate (desilt) their dams. We will request the Jharkhand government that they can do joint planning with us. We will also request them (the Jharkhand government) to talk to the DVC,” said Mamata after visiting flood-hit Arambagh in Hooghly on Saturday afternoon. She explained how “uninformed” release of water from Shikatia dam in Jharkhand flooded areas of Birbhum and East Burdwan on the banks of river Ajay. “Apart from DVC, 80,000 cusec water was released on September 30 and 1,20,000 cusec water was released the next day from Shikatia dam in Jharkhand. The water from the dam flooded Ajay that overflowed its banks and flooded eight districts, including East Burdwan and Birbhum,” said Mamata. The Birbhum district administration on Saturday held meetings to plan how to get back normalcy at Sundarpur, including livelihoods of around 160 families of the farming village. Sundarpur village is Birbhum’s worst affected where almost all 160 houses, including concrete and mud buildings, have been completely washed away and at least 300 acres of farmland covered with silt and sand. “The devastation of Sundarpur is unimaginable. We need to do everything to reconstruct not only the houses but to reconstruct the village. The government will help reconstruct homes and dredge sand and silt from fields as cultivation is the main profession of villagers. We have already held meetings and will allot funds to help them,” said Bidhan Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate. “For the first time I witnessed such devastation. Concrete houses have been washed away, including our two-storey home,” said Bharat Majhi, 45, the deputy chief of Nanoor panchayat samity and resident of this village. Sources said around 3am on Friday morning a stretch of 150 metres of an embankment was suddenly swept away by floodwater. Government officials said though they were yet to receive the final survey reports about the quantum of loss to property, farmland and livestock, they decided to reconstruct the village after repairing the embankment. The release of over 2,00,000 cusec of water from Shikatia dam into river Ajay submerged several pockets of East Burdwan and Birbhum. The situation worsened earlier this week when the Ajay overflowed its banks and breached embankments at several places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee backs TV channel that received showcause notice from I&B ministry||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday backed Kolkata TV, a Bengali news channel that recently received a showcause notice from the information and broadcasting ministry asking it to explain why permission granted to it under uplinking guidelines should not be scrapped following the home ministry’s denial of “security clearance” to it. “I’m very sorry to hear that Kolkata TV is facing such an assault... I think which TV will support whom, which journalist will support whom and which media will support whom are their personal decisions…. I will appeal to the central government that they shouldn’t try to shut Kolkata TV because of vendetta politics,” the chief minister said at Nabanna, adding it had become the Centre’s practice to shut dissenters. BJP Bengal chief Sukanta Majumdar later said he did not consider Kolkata TV to be a news channel but the mouthpiece of one particular party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||BSF cop arrested for murder in Raiganj||A team of Raiganj police district of North Dinajpur on Friday arrested from a Meghalaya motel Sital Roy, a BSF constable and main accused in the firing here this week, which killed a woman. Sital, his wife and brother-in-law were produced at a court here on Saturday. The court sent them to police custody for 14 days. On September 27, Sital, and some others went to the house of Nikhil Krishna Majumdar, a retired police officer, at Sukanta More. Sital used to be his tenant once, and seemed to have had a grouse. He allegedly shot at all three children of Majumdar, and one of them, a woman, died. “Preliminary probe suggests the accused had problems with his former landlord and wanted to settle scores. He got into a quarrel with Rupa, Majumdar’s daughter who first came out, prompting her to call her brother and sister who were inside. When they came out, the accused whipped out a gun, fired at them, and fled,” said a police officer. All three siblings were hit by bullets and Debi Sanyal, one of the two sisters, died. Sujoy Krishna, the brother and also a police officer, and Rupa, are still hospitalised. “We need to interrogate them to find out the motive behind the attack,” said Sana Akhtar, SP, Raiganj police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to write to PM Modi on DVC water release||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that she would write a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to look into the problem of regular floods in Bengal owing to excessive release of water from the dams of the Damodar Valley Corporation, a central power utility. “I will write a letter to the Prime Minister urging him to take serious care (about Bengal). I would also say that don’t deprive Bengal,” said the chief minister during a news meet at Nabanna on Saturday after a review meeting on the  flood situation. Nearly 22 lakh people in Bengal have been hit by the floods, which the state government termed “man-made”. “The chief minister has made it clear that she would blame the Centre for the misery of lakhs of people in the state... If the PM cares about the people of Bengal, he should take steps to ensure they don’t suffer because of floods every year,” said a Trinamul insider. Mamata on Saturday made it clear that this time she would urge Modi to take up the issue of sudden release of water with the DVC in addition to the existing demands of renovation and restoration of the DVC dams. She also said her government could claim compensation from the DVC. “The DVC is responsible for the floods in Bengal. I condemn this and we would claim compensation from the DVC for the damages. I will draw the attention of the Prime Minister in this regard,” she said. She added that she would ask Union home minister Amit Shah for assistance too. “I will ask the Union home minister to allot funds for the disaster. We don’t get central funds after any kind of disaster...,” Mamata said. “We did not get anything after Amphan, Phani or Yaas. This time, I will request (the Centre) to release funds for the people who are struggling amid the floods,” she added.” In the past few years, the chief minister had written several letters to the Prime Minister urging him to initiate measures to restore and renovate the DVC dams. On August 4, she wrote the last one on desilting the DVC dams to ensure they hold more water. “However, nothing was despite the chief minister’s appeals since 2015. But this time, the chief minister’s letter is likely to put pressure on the Centre... It is clear she will make it a political issue against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls," said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 761 new infections, 743 recoveries and 9 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded a rise for the fourth day since last Sunday in active Covid-19 cases, as the number rose by nine to 7,580. The state saw 761 new infections, 743 recoveries and nine deaths. It now has 2.8 per cent of India’s active cases and is seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 149 new infections and North 24-Parganas 124, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Both districts logged two deaths each on Saturday. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.8 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.81 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.7 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.44 lakh recoveries and 18,815 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Timber worth Rs 40 lakh seized, 2 held||The foresters of Baikunthapur forest division seized illegal Burmese teak estimated around Rs 40 lakh from Fulbari, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Saturday afternoon and arrested two residents of Haryana in this connection. Sources said Burmese teak is used to make costly furniture and has a huge demand in India and in West Asia. “The timber was loaded in Assam and headed to Nagpur in Maharashtra. It seems a racket is using the Siliguri corridor to send the teak to different parts of the country from the Northeast,” said a forester. Those arrested have been identified as Samedeen and Israil, both residents of Haryana. “We need to interrogate them to gather more information about the racket,” the forester added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
