04-10-2021||West Bengal||SC defers hearing on Bengal's suit against CBI probe to October 22 ||The Supreme Court Monday deferred to October 22 the hearing of West Bengal government's lawsuit alleging that CBI is pressing ahead with investigation into the post-poll violence cases in the state without securing its nod as per the law. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao clarified it would not grant any more adjournments in the matter and said it would hear the plea after the Dussehra holidays. "Notice has been served on the Union of India before September 20, 2021 as per the office report. There is no appearance on behalf of the Union of India. List this matter on October 22. Any objections by the respondent may be filed in the meanwhile," said the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the West Bengal government in the matter. The West Bengal government, in its original civil suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, referred to the provisions of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946 and said that the Central Bureau of Investigation has been proceeding with the probe and filing FIRs without getting the nod from the state government as mandated under the statute. Under Article 131 the apex court has original jurisdiction to deal with disputes between the Centre and states. The CBI recently lodged multiple FIRs in cases of post-poll violence in West Bengal. The state government sought a stay of investigations into the FIRs lodged into post-poll violence cases by CBI in pursuance of the Calcutta High Court order. The plea said that as the general consent given to the central agency by the Trinamool Congress government has been withdrawn, the FIRs lodged cannot be proceeded with. The suit filed through advocate Suhaan Mukerji also sought to stay for any such FIR in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Early celebrations, no-rally advice ||Barely three hours after the counting for the Bhowanipore bypoll started, a Sikh man in his 60s was distributing sweets and playing with green abir at the Chakraberia crossing around noon on Sunday. He had started celebrating the victory of Mamata Banerjee from the seat, though the official results would come later. “We are confident that Didi is going to win, which is why we had ordered sweets, singaras and flower petals yesterday to celebrate the victory. We are only keen to know the margin of victory,” said Ajit Singh, a resident of Puddapukur Road. Long before the results were officially declared, Bhowanipore had started to celebrate Mamata’s victory. About 50 Trinamul supporters — mostly Sikh men — were smearing each other with abir, distributing sweets and dancing to the beat of drums. Chakraberia was, however, not the only place where Trinamul supporters had assembled early. A large group had gathered at Jadu Babur Bazar, near transport minister Firhad Hakim’s home in Chetla and at the crossing of Harish Chatterjee Street and Hazra Road, which leads to Mamata’s home. The supporters had kept an eye on the results after every round of counting, which began at Sakhawat Memorial Girls’ School on Lord Sinha Road at 9am. At the end of the first round, Mamata was leading by 2,799 votes. By the end of round 10, the lead was 31,645. Altogether, there were 21 rounds. Known for its cosmopolitan character, Bhowanipore has Bengalis, Gujaratis, Sikhs and Marwaris among the voters, a sizeable number of whom are Muslims. By 2pm, rallies from all across the constituency started to arrive near Mamata’s home on Harish Chatterjee Street. Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee arrived at her home, left and returned in the afternoon. Every time Abhishek’s car got out of Harish Chatterjee Street, the supporters swarmed around it. The police had a tough time creating a passage for the car through the crowd. Amid the celebrations, a couple of men came and checked the change in lead from a paint shop that had a computer and whose employees were following the updates. Naresh Chandra Das, a resident of Ballygunge, was among those who gathered near Mamata's home. Das wore a hat that had a picture of Mamata and that of a tiger. “It was known to everyone that Didi will win. I couldn't sit at home and enjoy this victory. I am a party worker and I have come here to be in the middle of everyone and celebrate this win,” he said. Mamata finally won by 58,835 votes. She asked supporters not to organise any victory rallies. Trinamul leaders said Mamata’s decision on victory rallies would serve two ends — stop the spread of Covid and nip in the bud any attempt by the BJP to allege post-poll violence. “The BJP’s candidate from Bhowanipore has already written to the acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court requesting directions to the police to prevent any post-poll violence. If there are no rallies, the chances of skirmishes reduce and the attempt by the BJP to malign us is also nipped in the bud,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Mamata Banerjee breaks her own record||Mamata Banerjee of 2021 defeated Mamata Banerjee of 2011 on Sunday. The Election Commission declared the Bengal chief minister victorious by a margin of 58,835 votes in the Bhowanipore Assembly seat. The margin broke the constituency’s previous record of 54,213 votes set by Mamata herself in a 2011 bypoll. Mamata’s victory was widely deemed a foregone conclusion, and a prestigious margin was her party’s chief goal. Although only 1.18 lakh votes (57.09 per cent) were cast, the Trinamul Congress chief bagged 85,263 votes or 71.9 per cent of the votes polled. In the April 26 election — when the turnout was 61.79 per cent — Trinamul’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay had secured 73,505 votes or 57.7 per cent of the vote share. On Sunday, for the first time since 2014, the Trinamul candidate led in each of the eight Calcutta Municipal Corporation wards in the Assembly seat. Around 2.30pm, shortly after formally being declared the winner from Bhowanipore, Mamata stepped out of her residence with several members of her family to greet supporters gathered there. Thanking the electorate, her party colleagues and the people of not only Bengal but also all of India, the chief minister pointed out that the margin was a landmark despite the low turnout. “My heart is full today because the people of Bhowanipore showed them (the BJP). All of Bengal was watching Bhowanipore,” Mamata said. “All of Bengal was very hurt when, although we swept the state, we lost in Nandigram. That matter is sub judice. A lot of conspiracies there…. I will not say anything more on that now,” she said. Sworn in as chief minister for the third consecutive term on May 5, Mamata had till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House. She had unsuccessfully contested from the Nandigram seat, losing by 1,956 votes to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP. She has challenged the result in court. Underscoring how she broke her own record, Mamata said the victory in Bhowanipore was comprehensive, having won leads in all the eight wards — 63, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 77 and 82 — that make up the diverse constituency spread over a part of Chowringhee in the north to Kalighat in the south. “Each and every ward in this very cosmopolitan constituency, we won… in a first (since the Lok Sabha election of 2014). It was a challenge for us,” she said. After delimitation resurrected the constituency in 2009, Mamata had secured leads from all eight wards in the Lok Sabha polls that year as the candidate of Calcutta South. In the civic polls a year later, her party won all the wards. In the Assembly election of 2011 and the bypoll she contested that same year, Trinamul had got leads from every ward. However, in the Lok Sabha polls of 2014, the BJP’s Calcutta South candidate led from 63 (parts of Chowringhee, Taltala, Park Street, Shakespeare Sarani, the Maidan and Hastings), 70 (Jadu Babu’s Bazaar), 71 (Bhowanipore), 72 (Chakraberia, Padmapukur and Bakulbagan) and 74 (Alipore). In fact, the BJP’s Tathagata Roy led the Bhowanipore Assembly segment by 176 votes that summer. In the civic polls of 2015, the BJP’s Ashim Bose won from ward 70, only to defect to Trinamul shortly after. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP led from Ward 70, again. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul trailed the BJP in six wards, barring 77 (Kidderpore) and 82 (Chetla). Despite considerable recovery in 2021, Trinamul’s Chattopadhyay — who vacated the seat for Mamata in May — trailed the BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh in the April election in wards 70 and 74, prompting Mamata to assign trusted lieutenants Subrata Bakshi and Firhad Hakim to personally oversee campaign in the two. “Our initial estimates suggest leads between 1,500 and 22,000 in all eight wards. Ward 70 gave us a lead of 1,700-odd, and ward 74, a lead of around 1,500. That’s as good as it gets,” said a Trinamul ward coordinator from the south of the city. That Mamata too considers this momentous was clear from her brief speech. “Even in 2016, I got relatively fewer votes in one of the wards. But this time, not one. Not a single one. This must be remembered,” she said. “Bhowanipore has 46 per cent non-Bengalis. There are Bengalis, Punjabis, Gujaratis, Biharis, Marathis, Odiyas, Marwaris, people from Uttar Pradesh,” she added. Bhowanipore, a socio-economically diverse constituency with around 80 per cent non-Muslim votes, has Hindus, Sikhs and Jains in large numbers. “Everybody contributed to our victory together in peace, despite the weather.” Mamata expressed happiness, not only for herself but also for her victorious candidates in Samserganj and Jangipur, which took the September 30 scoreline to 3-0. “Many were asking me to flash the V sign. I will not do so. I will show the three sign instead. Because I am not selfish. Two of my colleagues are also on the verge of winning in Samserganj and Jangipur. It’s a 3-0 score for us. Ek, dui, tin… Ma, Mati, Manush ke dhonyobad din (One, two, three… thank the mothers, the soil and the people),” she said, holding up three fingers of her right hand for the cameras. “We will win the other four too,” she asserted with confidence, referring to the scheduled bypolls in four seats on October 30. Mamata thanked the poll panel for having the by-elections conducted within the six-month window. “I am grateful to the Election Commission of India for doing the right thing, getting the bypolls conducted within the stipulated six-month window…. The entire central government had conspired to have us removed (in the summer election),” she said. “I will forever be indebted to the people of Bhowanipore,” Mamata said, adding that she has forbidden victory rallies by her party, asking everyone to celebrate by helping out the flood-affected. Bypoll nominees Trinamul will field for the October 30 bypolls Udayan Guha in Dinhata, Brajakishore Goswami in Santipur, agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in Khardah and Subrata Mondal in Gosaba. Mamata said her party would appeal to the poll panel against allowing any outdoor campaign by any party from October 10 to 20 in view of Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 701 new cases, 684 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded a rise by seven in its total of active Covid-19 cases to 7,587 in all, in the fifth such instance since last Sunday. The state logged 701 new infections, 684 recoveries and 10 deaths on Sunday. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in its active cases last Sunday. The state now has 2.87 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 145 new infections while North 24-Parganas reported 116, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta logged two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.86 per cent. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.95 per cent on Sunday. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the country is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.71 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first in March last year. It  includes nearly 15.45 lakh recoveries and 18,825 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Vistadome coach ride 6 days a week for Puja||Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to run the vistadome coach for six days a week, except Thursdays, instead of three days a week during the upcoming Puja period owing to an overwhelming response to the ride introduced a month back. The ride between New Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar junctions covers around 168km through picturesque forests and tea gardens of the Dooars. Guneet Kaur, chief public relations officer of NFR, said: “From October 6, vistadome coaches will run six days a week till October 18. We will take a call further depending on the unfolding situation.” The service, which started from August 29, was available on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays till date. “From October 6, it will run on all days, except Thursdays. The decision has been taken because of the good response received for the service,” said a railway source. Vistadome coaches allows a 360-degree view of the landscape. The ride through the Dooars as it passes through the Mahananda Sanctuary, the Gorumara National Park, the Jaldapara National Park and the Buxa Tiger Reserve. A selfie-zone has also been accommodated in the coaches. Biswajit Saha, vice-president, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association, said the introduction of the coaches had brought about a “new dimension” to Dooars tourism. “We are thrilled with the announcement as tourism has taken a new dimension after the introduction of the vistadome coaches. People are visiting the Dooars just to take the train ride,” said Saha. Toufique Hasan, the deputy Bangladesh high commissioner in Calcutta had also taken a 40km ride from Madarihat to Rajabhatkhawa (both in Alipurduar) on September 10 and was spellbound to the extent that he wanted the coaches to be introduced in his country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress bags two more seats from Murshidabad||The Trinamul Congress on Monday improved its tally in the Assembly as the party bagged two more seats from Murshidabad — Samserganj and Jangipur — that had gone to polls on September 30. The Election Commission of India had called off the polls in the two constituencies this summer as Congress candidate from Samserganj, Rezaul Haque, and the Revolutionary Socialist Party nominee from Jangipur, Pradip Nandi, had died of Covid-19 in April this year. “We have won both the seats with handsome margins.… Our party’s victory makes it clear that Tinamul is the only major political force in Murshidabad,” said Mohammed Ali, Trinamul MLA from Lalgola. In Calcutta, chief minister Mamata Banerjee congratulated the two winners — Amirul Islam and Zakir Hossain — for their victory. Amirul won Samserganj by a margin of 26,111 votes defeating the Congress’s Zaidur Rahaman. Hossain, a former MLA and a minister who had been injured in a bomb explosion at Nitmtita railway station in February this year, won by 92,365 votes defeating the BJP’s Sujit Das in Jangipur. “This is the first time that Trinamul will be sending 20 MLAs out of 22 from this district.... This is very significant,” said Ali. Two seats — Berhampore and Murshidabad — in the district went to the BJP in the March-April polls. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Trinamul had won only four seats in the district. The party’s tally was just one in the 2011 Assembly polls, which it fought in an alliance with the Congress. Trinamul sources have said the victory in the two seats in Murshidabad is very significant as the district, which has over around 70 per cent Muslim voters, has always been regarded as a Congress bastion. “The BJP’s divisive policy helped us significantly in the district as Muslim voters rallied around us realising that only Mamata Banerjee could effectively resist the BJP,” said a Trinamul insider. Although the twin victories came as good news for the ruling party, sources said the Trinamul leadership was unhappy with the margin in Samserganj. “Zakir’s victory was stupendous as he won by 92,365 votes, but the margin at Samserganj could have been better.… We have decided to probe the reasons behind lower than expected margin in these two seats,” said a senior Trinamul leader. The Congress had an alliance with the Left Front in Jangipur and the RSP candidate Jane Alam Mia was fielded there but the party fought separately in Samserganj. In Samserganj, the Congress fielded Zaidur Rahaman, brother of Trinamul MP Khalilur Rahaman. “The Congress fielded a candidate in Samserganj. But the candidate was confused primarily whether he would contest the polls and we lagged behind in campaigning there. We got only a week’s time to campaign, and we are happy with our performance,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Bengal Congress chief. However, a section of Congress leaders said it was a defeat for the old-party in Murshidabad as the district failed to send a single Congress MLA.“We know there would be no Congress MLA in the Assembly but it is more hurting for us that there would be no party MLA from Murshidabad, which was once the bastion of the Congress,” said a senior Congress leader in Murshidabad. After the Bhowanipore bypoll victory, Mamata Banerjee said: “I will forever be indebted to the people of Bhowanipore.” She added she had forbidden victory rallies by her party, asking everyone to celebrate by helping out the flood-affected. Bypoll nominees The Trinamul Congress will field for the October 30 bypolls Udayan Guha in Dinhata, Brajakishore Goswami in Santipur, agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in Khardah and Subrata Mondal in Gosaba. Mamata said her party would appeal to the poll panel against allowing any outdoor campaign by any party from October 10 to 20 in view of Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Upbeat Trinamul Congress eyes last district Darjeeling ||Buoyed by Trinamul’s electoral victories on Sunday, party leaders have started preparing the ground in Darjeeling, the only district in Bengal where it has repeatedly drawn a blank. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Sunday won the Bhowanipore bypoll with a victory margin of 58,832, bettering her 2011 margin of 54,213. Her party candidates from Jangipur and Samserganj seats also won comfortably. Darjeeling is the only district where Trinamul failed to win a single Assembly seat in the 2021 polls. Since 2011, the party has neither been able to form a civic board nor take control of the rural body in the district, except Mirik municipality in 2018. Mirik is set for polls in the next six months. Elections to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the Siliguri Mahukama Parishad (rural polls) are due as the tenure of these two bodies expired more than a year ago. However, Darjeeling Trinamul leaders are hopeful that the party will see a turnaround. “We are working to turn the tide this time round. We are confident that today’s victories will rub off in the upcoming elections in the district,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Trinamul leaders maintained leaders and supporters from other parties are making a beeline to join the party but they were treading cautiously. Papiya Ghosh, the president of Darjeeling district Trinamul, said they received applications from over 10,000 people wanting to join Trinamul. “We have received application from over 10,000 people from different political parties wanting to join us but we have decided not to induct anyone without  scrutiny from the grassroots,” said Ghosh. Last month, the party started scrutinising the antecedents of those wanting to join Trinamul from the block level. A policy decision has also been taken not to induct new members for at least a month during which time a thorough scrutiny of applications will be done. Sources in Trinamul said that in the past four months, five former SMC councillors from the Left and two from the Congress joined the party. “We have received requests from other councillors in the Left, but have received instructions from the highest level that without the consent of workers of the respective ward or block, no one will be inducted,” a Trinamul insider said. Sources said the decision has been taken not to anger hardworking grassroots supporters and avoid people who seek to join the ruling party for personal interest. Also, apart from district president, chairperson and spokesperson, no other leader will be allowed to speak to the media or host induction programmes for the sake of “party discipline”. “The decision has been taken to carry out party activities in a disciplined manner,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: BJP sulks after Mamata’s win with huge margin||The Bengal unit leaders of the BJP went into hiding on a day Mamata Banerjee won the Bhowanipore bypoll with a historic margin of 58,832 votes. The handful of BJP leaders seen after election results proved they were bad losers. The fact that the BJP camp was clueless on how to react was evident when party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya was missing in action. Sources in the party said its co-minder for Bengal Amit Malviya — currently the state unit’s only link to its central leadership — asked Bhattacharya and other empanelled spokespersons to refrain from commenting on the party’s defeat. At least two-and-a-half hours after the final results were announced, the party’s media cell shared a release —signed by state vice-president Pratap Banerjee — which said  the outcome of the three polls “are not in line with our expectation but we accept it gracefully”. It went on to level allegations of post-poll violence and the partisan role of the chief secretary for advising the Election Commission to hold the bypoll in Bhowanipore. Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar said: “I congratulate chief minister Mamata Banerjee and gracefully accept the people’s mandate… However, there is a doubt on how much of people’s mandate has actually been reflected in this result. Only 57 per cent of people came to vote. A large section, a huge section in terms of democracy, either didn’t come to vote or couldn’t come to vote.” Majumdar had campaigned in Bhowanipore and claimed Mamata was afraid of losing to his party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari had said that Tibrewal would surely defeat Mamata the same way he had in Nandigram in the Assembly polls.. In view of the demography of Bhowanipore constituency with 46 per cent non-Bengali voters, the BJP had flown in Union ministers Smriti Irani, Hardeep Singh Puri and MP Manoj Tiwari from Delhi to campaign. The result, which showed the BJP lost in all eight wards of the constituency, proved the party’s attempts of playing the identity card flopped. The BJP also lost in two wards — 70 and 71 — where it had a lead in the Assembly polls this summer. Rudranil Ghosh who had contested for the BJP from Bhowanipore in the Assembly polls had secured 18,466 more votes than the 26,320 votes Tibrewal got in the bypoll. Tibrewal, after the result, spoke about false voting and lack of party organisation. “If we look at the picture of ward 82 we would see that most of the votes cast there are fake. I myself had caught hold of such fake voters…I’m 101 per cent sure about false voting,” Tibrewal alleged. She  added her party’s organisation needs to be worked on. Her comments were in sharp contrast to what she had been saying earlier. She had  claimed she was born in Bhowanipore and so people will vote for her. The two main BJP offices in the state — its state headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen lane and its election office at Hastings — wore a deserted look on Sunday morning. “It was a lost game from the very beginning, but we didn't expect the margin to be this high... The results have proved that we don’t have the organisational might to take on the Trinamul,” a BJP source said. Left Front’s Bhowanipore candidate Shrijeeb Biswas failed to save his deposit with just 4,201 votes. Biswas, also an advocate like Tibrewal, said his party CPIM wasn’t in politics only for poll results. “We are in politics for 365 days a year,” he said. “We have been able to prevent further erosion in our vote share. Also in a bypoll it is natural that the electorate will vote for the party in power. These and a few other issues have led to this result. However, we will keep our fight on,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Lowlands of south Bengal choked with water||The misery of people marooned by floods is likely to continue in the lowlands of south Bengal such as Hooghly’s Khanakul and West Midnapore’s Ghatal for another week at least as district officials said floodwaters from the highlands can’t exit through swollen rivers and canals. After the rain gods relented on Saturday and the DVC reduced the quantity of water it had been releasing from its dams, water level in flooded areas of Bankura, East and West Burdwan receded, but this water has been flowing towards the lowlands. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who visited Hooghly’s Arambagh after an aerial survey on Saturday, had alerted people that water from the highlands would come down to the lowlands. “Water takes time to flow down to the low lands. Sometimes it takes 48 hours... as a result the people have to suffer (for long),” Mamata had said. Senior officials and ministers in Howrah, West Midnapore and Hooghly said they are realising the impact from Sunday as water started flowing downwards. “A vast area of West Midnapore is under water and there is no way of releasing water because all rivers are flowing in full capacity. The district is like a bowl and water from all south Bengal districts are now flowing towards it. We don’t know how much time it would take to normalise pockets of West Midnapore like Ghatal or Pingla. We are not sure if it would take a month,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, state water resources development and investigation minister and Trinamul MLA from Sabang. “We have heard that a dam in Jharkhand on river Subarnarekha may release water now. If such things happen, the situation will worsen. It is our good luck that apart from government relief we are getting help from Ramakrishna Mission too,” Bhunia added. At least a lakh in West Midnapore and Hooghly are living in waterlogged conditions. West Midnapore has 120 relief camps as on Sunday. “In a few places, floodwater is flowing out but the rate is so slow that it could take at least seven days to be stable,” said Rashmi Kamal, West Midnapore district magistrate. Khanakul in Hooghly is facing the same nightmare as water from highlands has started flowing through most areas of the block. Army personnel have been deployed to distribute relief materials. “We have to evacuate 32,000 people and at least seven of 11 gram panchayats are facing the wrath of floods. All rivers and canals are full and my office is also inundated since Sunday,” said Shankha Bandopadhyay, the BDO of Khanakul-II block. The state government had sent a nine-member team to Delhi seeking funds for Ghatal master plan in August for a lasting solution to floods. Officials said every time areas are inundated, they realise how much the implementation of Ghatal master plan is needed. Mamata had also said on Saturday that she would again write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking funds to combat the back-to-back floods in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
