05-10-2021||West Bengal||Weapons and bullets seized in Malda, two arrested||Two suspected smugglers were arrested with firearms and bullets from Baishnabnagar in Malda on Monday. According to police sources, three disassembled rifled muskets, two improvised pipe guns and some rounds of live cartridges were seized from Alim and Azabul Sheikh during a raid at Natunsikosti area in Shahaban Chowk of Baishnabnagar. Alok Rajoria, the district police chief of Malda, said: “We suspect that the duo are associated with an illegal arms smuggling racket and also make improvised firearms. We will interrogate them to obtain more information. We also need to know whether they had any plans to carry out any criminal activity during the ensuing festivities.” In Malda, the police have been conducting raids ahead of the festivities across the district. On Monday, raids were conducted in localities like Baishnabnagar, Kaliachak, Mothabari, Englishbazar, Manikchak, Ratua, Chanchal, Pukhuria and Harischandrapur police stations, said sources. It may be mentioned that a couple of days back, the police had seized 1.9kg of explosives and 40 small canisters used to make crude bombs, along with a firearm and some bullets from Kaliachak. “We have intensified the vigil and are taking all steps to curb criminal activities across the district. Along with firearms, narcotic and fake currency rackets are also under scanner as these rackets become active during festive seasons,” said a police officer. The sources said more police personnel, including women, in plainclothes have been deployed at marketplaces across the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal University campus installs air quality monitoring station||The campus of North Bengal University (NBU) at Rajarammohanpur, on the outskirts of Siliguri, has installed a continuous air quality monitoring station in collaboration with the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB). A similar station, with a display board that shows the air pollution level and some other data of the NBU area and its surrounding areas, has also been installed on the Jalpaiguri campus of the varsity. Sources in the NBU said that in November last year, the WBPCB chairman was in NBU when a proposal was mooted for installation of such stations. With the approval of the vice-chancellor, the proposal was sent to WBPCB. “Recently, they approved the proposal, and accordingly, the stations were installed. This station, which continuously monitors air quality, will help students be more aware of issues related to pollution,” said Pranab Ghosh, the NBU registrar. Anjan Chakrabarti, a professor and director of UGC’s Human Resource Development Centre at the varsity, said it was useful for climate change research scholars. “The application of the WBPCB updates air pollution level of the area and shows it on the display board. This will help researchers working on climate change,” he said. NBU authorities, sources said, have also drawn up another plan to address the issue of solid wastes, also with the help of the WBPCB. Every day, biomedical and chemical wastes are collected at the labs as well as wastes from the hostels and residential quarters on the premises. “The idea is to introduce a comprehensive solid waste management (SWM) system at the varsity itself. We have adequate space for the project. Officials of WBPCB are aware of it and soon, a team will visit the varsity to check the proposed site. We plan to install equipment which can dispose waste and we can make biogas out of it,” the registrar said, adding it will also keep the university clean and hygienic. Sources in WBPCB agreed a SWM system will help the varsity. “It will help neutralise different wastes and make them less hazardous. Fuel, biogas or fertiliser can be made from the waste through this system,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul decide to bridge ‘language gap’, speaks in tea belt tongues ||Trinamul leaders in Alipurduar district have decided to bridge the “language gap” in the tea estates of the Dooars. Prakash Chik Baraik, the district Trinamul president who hails from a tea estate, visited a number of tea estates during the past few weeks and found that most workers and their families do not understand Bengali. Even if they understand it and speak it a little, they cannot read Bengali. “It is because of this communication gap that they have no idea about the array of schemes prepared by the state government for their socio-economic uplift. Although most are getting benefits of these schemes, they don’t know if these are central or state schemes,” said Baraik. Hence, the district Trinamul leadership has decided to come up with publicity materials in different languages for  tea gardens. They have already started putting posters, banners and hoardings in these languages at estates to apprise people about the array of initiatives taken up by the Mamata Banerjee government, including Cha Sundari free housing scheme. Trinamul insiders said they have started printing the publicity materials in Hindi, Nepali and Sadri. “Majority of the tea population converse in one or more of these languages,” said a source. A senior Trinamul leader  in the district said language was one of the main reasons for the party lagging behind the saffron camp in the tea belt In the past three-four years, the BJP has  established itself as a major political force in the tea belt. In the Assembly polls held  this summer, Trinamul won only one seat (Malbazar) in the tea belt. “So far, most Trinamul publicity materials in  tea gardens were in Bengali. That is why workers and their families do not know about the state government schemes. BJP leaders on the other hand, communicate mostly in Hindi. This seems to be an important factor for the BJP consolidating support in the tea belt,” the leader said. In north Bengal, this is the first time that the ruling party of the state has decided to use  languages other than Bengali. “In the hills, some local Trinamul leaders speak in Nepali with the Gorkha population. But elsewhere, Trinamul leaders use Bengali. This (using other languages) is a new initiative,” said a political observer. The initiative, Baraik said, is a part of the party’s plan to revive support of the tea population ahead of the three-tier panchayat election in 2023. “We have also instructed our party leaders to use any of these three languages while communicating with the tea population,” said Baraik. The party has also started workshops at the block level where educated youths who are party workers from tea estates can learn about state government’s initiatives and in turn convey the same to the tea population. “These youths can speak in any of these three languages. After the workshop, they will reach out to every family in their respective tea estate and brief them about the state government schemes for them,” said Baraik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Left Front in Malda to stage blockade on NH12 over erosion||The Left Front in Malda has decided to stage a blockade on NH12 on October 7, demanding immediate rehabilitation and adequate relief for erosion victims in Malda and Murshidabad districts. The decision was made a few days after a three-member delegation of the CPM comprising politburo member Mohammad Salim had visited some erosion-affected areas of both the districts. According to Malda district LF convener Ambar Mitra, the blockade would be raised on NH 12 at Chamagram in Kaliachak 3 block — one of the erosion affected blocks in the district. “Hundreds of affected people who have become homeless will join the protest,” said Mitra. “Altogether, eight-and-a-half lakh people living in 67 mouzas across the district have been directly or indirectly affected by the erosion. The number of such erosion victims is increasing every day as rivers are constantly gobbling land and anything that stands on it. Thousands of them are living under open sky or are crammed at flood shelters. We hardly find any initiative by the state or the central government to rehabilitate them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Small in size, big on faith: Miniature artist carves 2mm tall Durga idol||Manash Roy, a resident of Birnagar in Raiganj, has made a miniature Durga idol ahead of the autumnal festivity, which is just 2mm tall and needs to be viewed through a magnifying glass. Roy, who runs a spectacles shop in Karandighi of North Dinajpur, had earlier made another 6mm Durga idol. Since a young age, Roy has been making “micro paintings” and had sketched portraits of prominent personalities on rice grains. “My aim is recognition from the Guinness Book of World Records,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||UP incident: Farmers’ butchery a shame for democracy, says Mamata ||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she was “very sad” that farmers had been “brutally butchered” at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday and termed the incident as a “shame for democracy” and the BJP. “I am very sad…. The farmers were brutally butchered. This is a very bad, very sad incident. I am at a loss for words in trying to condemn this unequivocally…. It is a shame for democracy. It is a shame for the BJP party,” the Bengal chief minister told journalists outside the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya in Bhowanipore here on Monday evening. She had sent a delegation of five Trinamul Congress MPs — Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar of Barasat, Pratima Mondal of Joynagar, Rajya Sabha members Dola Sen, Abir Ranjan Biswas and Sushmita Dev — to Lakhimpur earlier in the day, but they were denied access by the UP government. “My team may not have been allowed there today. But in the future, we will surely meet,” said Mamata. On Sunday, four farmers protesting with black flags had been mowed down by a car linked to junior Union minister for home Ajay Misra “Teni” at his village in Lakhimpur Kheri, days after he had warned that the agitators would be fixed in “two minutes” if they did not mend their ways. Four more people had died by the end of the day. “(These are) our farmer brothers and sisters, the movement they have been sustaining on the streets for a year, for the rescinding of the contentious farm laws…. There, the deputy (Union) home minister, his car, did this. Many people died, many others injured…. Section 144, everywhere today. After the farmers were brutally butchered,” said Mamata. Trinamul on Monday issued a statement calling out the “barbaric” act, underscoring that the cars involved in the incident were part of a convoy owned by Teni and his son Ashish Mishra was purportedly leading the fleet. “According to Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, the convoy even opened fire at the farmers!” the party said. “The apathy of BJP towards our farmer brethren pains me deeply. It’s a matter of national shame that under Mr. Modi’s watch, our farmers had to see such a day!” the statement quoted Mamata as saying. In the evening, she demanded answers on the BJP’s accountability in the context of alleged attempts to malign Bengal despite the absence of such incidents here. “Bengal runs so peacefully. Yet they send human rights panels and whatnot, making up fake stories, to malign Bengal outside. When so many people are killed under the wheels of his car, or by opening fire… simply because he is a minister’s son?” she asked. However, asked to respond to questions on the administrative action in UP against Congress’s Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, Mamata said: “I am going to speak for myself, not about anybody else.” In response to a question on whether the BJP’s UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath should resign, Mamata asked: “Who will give resignation?” “They talk about the Ram raj… is this Ram raj? This is a killing raj,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Forced to be at home at a relief shelter||Flood-hit Panchali Mondal, 27, a homemaker from Mandirtala of Ghoramara Island, glumly sat on the floor of a school converted into a safe shelter at Bamankhali of Sagar in South 24-Parganas. As it rained without a break last week, the young homemaker had to shift to this shelter. Trying to feed her five-year-old son, she wondered anxiously how long she would have to stay at the government-run shelter. It is for a third time since 2019 that Panchali has been forced to stay in a shelter. It started with Cyclone Fani in 2019 that tore into Panchali’s home. Then came Amphan, which damaged her home beyond repair and rendered her husband Parimal, a farmer, unemployed. Saline water affected the fertility of their land. A couple of months ago, Parimal was compelled to move to Kerala to work as a construction labourer. Panchali is one of the many residents of South 24-Parganas whose lives have been changed amid recurring natural calamities. People living at vulnerable locations such as Ghoramara Island, Gosaba, Kakdwip in coastal areas of South 24-Parganas district are financially crippled as natural calamities like cyclones, high tides or heavy rain keep coming. This time, it was the deluge. . Cyclones like Fani, Bulbul, Amphan, Yaas or the recent downpours have turned  people like her into refugees. Rendered homeless without warning, months go by with people living at relief shelters. Livelihoods have been wiped out. “The cyclones have robbed me of everything... I lost my house totally in Amphan. Whatever I managed to rebuild was further damaged in Yaas. Again, I managed to repair it somehow with the paltry amount paid by the government. But the recent spell of heavy rain has damaged it again. I don’t know how to repair it this time. I am just penniless,” Panchali broke down while holding on to her two small sons at the Bamankhali High School shelter in Sagar. Panchali is one of the 35 families of the shrinking island Ghoramara who had been shifted to the school-turned-safe shelter by the Sagar block administration. Is this the way to live, she wonders, looking at her sons. “Natural calamities have become an unavoidable part of our lives. We live in fear of cyclones and high tides and floods throughout the year. Every time dark clouds gather in the sky we prepare to pack and move to a shelter. Our two sons are suffering. Their studies get affected every time there is a natural calamity,” said Panchali. Every new crisis breaks her a little, she feels. “Even now, the worst is not over as our home is badly damaged. We also lose our farming income as saline water decreases the fertility of our land. My husband could not farm here. Repeated loss of income prompted him to go to Kerala to work as a labourer,” the young woman added. “When will this end?” Rama Mondal, her neighbour, and now in the same relief camp, shares her plight. Rama’s husband has no job for months because salinity of their land has left it unsuitable for farming. “Despite the calamity we are hopeful of returning to our homes. Still, there is a big worry. The administration will offer us ration but who will give us cash?” Rama said. During the past few years, the weather alert and the evacuation procedure undertaken by the state administration have largely helped minimise deaths. As a result, even in the devastating cyclones like Amphan and Yaas, the toll remained low. But economic loss has been heavy. Biswambhar Mandal, a professor of Kalyani University’s commerce department, said that technological advancement has helped society to get weather alerts and plan timely evacuation drives but at the same time a mechanism and infrastructure to minimise the economic loss of people living in the coastal belts must come up. “People should have an alternative means to survive,” he added. Sagar’s block development officer Sudipto Mondal acknowledged the economic impact of repeated evacuations. “The problem is genuine. But saving lives is the priority. Apart from giving food, we do support people to revive their livelihoods. But it is true, much of it is not sufficient.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||A pregnant woman travels for 9 hours in flood-hit Hooghly||Sabina Begum’s newborn son will have quite a story to tell of his birth when he grows up. The 24-year-old pregnant woman had to travel for over three-and-a-half hours on two boats, an autorickshaw and a battery-run vehicle to reach the nearest hospital in Hooghly’s flooded Khanakul, a 6km journey from her village Dharapara that would have normally taken 15 minutes. Her ordeal that started late on Sunday did not end here. Sabina reached the block hospital in the small hours of Monday only to find out that she needed a Caesarean-section delivery but the hospital did not have the facility. It meant another ride of 17km through flooded stretches to a private facility in Howrah’s Amta. On the way, the car in which she was being taken even broke down on a flooded stretch of the road for about 30 minutes. She finally reached Amta at 8am on Monday. Her son was born at 10am. “My wife was to deliver our first child and the whole process of getting her to a hospital became a challenge for us throughout the night. We started on a boat from our inundated village at around 11.30pm (Sunday) and reached the local block hospital at around 3am (Monday). From there, I had to take my wife to Amta as she needed a Caesarean operation that was not possible at the local hospital. We could not travel to the Arambagh government hospital because the flood has left the area out of bounds,” said Rejaul Haque, 32, Sabina's husband and an employee in a private firm in Calcutta. He thanked the local block medical officers, police and panchayat representatives but added that a “permanent” solution was needed for the yearly floods that plagues lakhs like them. “They helped arrange a boat for us in the dead of the night. Though the mother and child are doing fine, my wife’s plight  proves that we need a permanent solution from yearly floods.” Family members said Sabina’s labour pains started at around 11pm on Sunday. Relatives called up the block hospital in Latibpur for help. The block medical officer of health in Khanakul II block, Raktim Chatterjee, immediately contacted the chief of local Sabalsinghapur gram panchayat Iqbal Khan for help to the family. “There was no speed boat, so we rowed the tin boat to reach nearest dry land. From there we took an auto-rickshaw and reached Gayeshpur ghat to cross the swollen river Mundeshwari as all roads were completely inundated. Local police arranged a motorised boat to take us to the block hospital in Latibpur,” said a family member. Local health officials said the journey of Sabina, who was writhing in pain and bleeding, was an imperative. “The to-be mother’s condition was critical. We gave her first-aid to stabilise her. Later, she was taken by her family to a private hospital (in Amta by car),” said Chatterjee. “Sabina is one of many women who face such a crisis during floods every year in low-lying areas of Bengal like Hooghly’s Khanakul, Pursurah and West Midnapore’s Ghatal. We need a permanent solution as the release of water from dams of the DVC and rain cannot be stopped,” said a senior official in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||After Calcutta high court’s advice and shield, CBI goes to Bengal Assembly Speaker||Calcutta High Court on Monday advised CBI officials to meet Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay in his chamber at 4pm during the day after the investigating agency had moved a petition challenging the legality of the Speaker summoning them in connection with the Narada case. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha asked the agency to send the officers to the Speaker but directed him not to take any coercive measure against them as their case was pending for disposal before the court. Accordingly, the CBI sleuths met the Speaker on Monday. Bandyopadhyay scheduled another hearing on October 7. The judge said he would hear the case filed by the CBI at 2pm on Tuesday. Earlier, the Speaker had summoned CBI and ED officials to his chamber on September 22 to seek their explanation as to what law prompted them to take action against members of the House without obtaining his consent. The ED also filed a petition on Monday challenging the Speaker’s action. Justice Mantha said both the cases would be heard together on Tuesday. Suvendu case Calcutta High Court on Monday issued an interim stay till the last week of November on all types of investigations against Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari on charges of allegedly stealing tarpaulins from Contai municipality godown on May 29. The court will hear the case again on November 29. Seeking quashing of the charges brought against him, Suvendu had moved the high court. Post-results violence Calcutta High Court on Monday expressed dissatisfaction with the role of the special investigation team set up by it for probing cases of post-poll results violence. A bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal made some adverse remarks on the SIT after the investigating team placed its status report before the court. “Had the team consulted Justice Manjula Chellur before submitting this report before the court? It seems that team members are not really conducting the probe seriously,” the Acting CJ said. The court had appointed Justice Chellur, who is a former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, as the chairperson of the SIT to monitor the investigation. The bench asked the SIT to file a fresh report before the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Silver Fir to reopen with 22-seater cafe||Silver Fir, one of the easiest targets for agitators in Darjeeling and that has been gutted twice during Gorkhaland movements, will rise like a phoenix from the ashes on Tuesday evening. Designed like a chalet, the tourism office of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration located at Chowrasta in Darjeeling had been razed to the ground during the statehood agitation first on February 8, 2011, and then again on June 13, 2017. Soon after both the movements fizzled, GTA authorities renovated the three-storied building, sticking to its original design. “The renovation was immediately taken up on both the occasions as it was a big eyesore at Chowrasta,” a former GTA official had said. In fact, the building was gutted in 2017 just a few months after the renovation had been completed. Come Tuesday evening and Silver Fir will open its door to a larger audience. “We have decided to convert the top-floor, which opens onto the Chowrasta road as a café that will be inaugurated tomorrow evening,” said Suraj Sharma, assistant director of tourism, GTA. Earlier, the building used to house the GTA’s tourist information centre, along with the office of the assistant director of tourism and the state regional tourism office (which is under the GTA). “The tourist information centre will be accommodated at the café. Since a large part of the top-floor was under-utilised, we decided to make better use of the space,” said Sharma. The office of the assistant director of tourism and the state regional tourism office will operate from the other floors. The 22-seater café, which also has an outdoor seating arrangement, is looking at being different. “We will serve Darjeeling tea, which is manufactured not by big gardens but by small growers in the Darjeeling hills,” said Sharma. Even coffee will be served from beans grown in Kalimpong. “We are trying to introduce orange pastries freshly baked with the pulp from Darjeeling orchards,” said Sharma. A souvenir desk will also be set up to sell local handicrafts sourced from self-help groups. “We also plan to sell tea and coffee packets that we serve at the café, along with other local products like avocado jams,” said Sharma. Other food items like cookies, cake, sandwich, burger, pakora and momos will also feature on the menu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s biggest oxygen plant opens in Siliguri||Bengal’s largest oxygen plant was opened on Monday at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Susrutanagar, on the outskirts of Siliguri. The second wave of Covid-19 led to an urgent demand for a state-of-the-art oxygen plant at the NBMCH. Funds were allocated by the Centre for a pressure swing absorption (PSA) plant in July this year, with the involvement of the National Highways Authority of India and Defence Research & Development Organisation in its setting up. “This plant has a capacity to generate 2,000 LPM (litres per minute) of oxygen. As of now, there is no other government or private hospital in the state that has a plant of this capacity,” said a source in the NBMCH. Sushanta Roy, officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal, said this plant will ensure piped medical oxygen supply to patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Sukanta Majumdar green-lights BJP's Durga Puja this year||The BJP has decided after much deliberation to organise Durga Puja this year with the move being seen as one of the first signs of the party’s new Bengal president Sukanta Majumdar changing his predecessor Dilip Ghosh’s decision. “The party will hold Durga Puja this year. Sukantada has agreed to our proposal,” a BJP youth wing leader told The Telegraph on Monday. The Puja — like last year — will be held at the Union government’s Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex in Salt Lake near Calcutta. Majumdar is said to have put his strength behind the pro-Puja lobby in the BJP even though Ghosh had categorically rejected the idea saying “it isn’t a political party’s job to organise a Puja”. Ghosh and the lobby led by him had vehemently opposed the idea of the BJP organising a Durga Puja last year as well. However, the Puja happened anyway under the patronage of the party’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya. In August, the state youth and women’s wings of the BJP had approached Ghosh yet again seeking permission to organise Puja. Sources said Ghosh had clearly stated his disagreement with the plan. Although state BJP functionaries had publicly said over the past few weeks that the idea was still being considered, sources in the party had confirmed that the likes of Ghosh had rejected the proposal. However, in the evening of October 2 when BJP leaders, including Ghosh and Majumdar, met, the state chief had sought the opinion of others on organising the Puja, a source said. The source added that the state youth wing chief and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan had pressed on the “inevitability” of organising the Puja this year as well. “Saumitrada told Sukantada that we should be serious about Durga Puja since our scriptures mandate one to hold any Puja consecutively for four years once it is started,” the source said. Later, Majumdar gave his consent to the puja. The leaders considered close to Ghosh are, however, still unhappy with the decision. They said the very idea of a political party organising a Puja was flawed at multiple levels. “Political leaders get an opportunity to connect with local people at these social events. That can be done in several ways. How does it help if the party is busy with its own Puja which will not have any public participation?” a BJP leader asked. The leader added that even if last year’s Puja was considered as a political event — since it was done with an eye on the Bengal Assembly polls — organising the Puja again this year was pointless. However, these reservations about Puja will remain unheard since the centre of power within the party has shifted and Majumdar is clearly trying to come out of Ghosh’s shadow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Sanjukta Kisan Morcha protest against ‘murder’ of farmers||The Sanjukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) staged a demonstration at Moulali crossing in Calcutta on Monday afternoon to protest against the “murder” of farmers who were allegedly run over by a car driven by junior Union home minister Ajay Mishra’s son at Lekhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. Similar protest rallies were taken out across Bengal. In Calcutta, the agitators burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “The fascist BJP government has changed its ways to stop our movement. They are treading the path of elimination. (They) did it in Haryana, in Assam and now in UP. But we won’t be cowed down by fascist forces,” said CPM politburo member and SKM leader Hannan Mollah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 601 new Covid-19 cases, 12 more deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded a rise again, for the sixth day in the past nine days, in its total of active Covid-19 cases. Active cases in Bengal rose by 17 to 7,604, with 601 new infections, 572 recoveries and 12 deaths. Bengal had snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. The state has 3.08 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 135 new infections and North 24Parganas 120, the only two of the state's 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Six districts reported a singledigit figure. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24Parganas reported five. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. The state's recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.9. Daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.27 per cent on Monday. The state's mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.72 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.45 lakh recoveries and 18,837 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
