06-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata emphasises wearing of masks during Durga Puja pandal hopping||Emphasising the necessity of wearing face masks to keep the spread of Covid-19 in check, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday urged everyone to be careful while pandal hopping as the pandemic is still around. The chief minister appealed to people while inaugurating two Durga Puja pandals in south Calcutta on Wednesday. "I request people visiting the pandals during the festival to wear masks even if they are fully vaccinated. Some people are testing positive for Covid-19, even after being administered both doses of the vaccine," she said while inaugurating the Naktala Udayan Sangha puja pandal. At the Salimpur Pally puja inauguration, the chief minister asked the organisers to keep sufficient masks at their disposal for distributing them among visitors who come without them. Mamata chanted shlokas' to pay obeisance to the goddess and uttered Jai Bangla' while concluding her speech. Amid the beats of dhak, a traditional instrument played during Durga puja festivities, Mamata drew the eyes of the deity, a ritual known as chokhudaan', at Chetla Agrani puja patronised by her cabinet colleague Firhad Hakim. She also urged people to be on guard as the rainy season triggers an outbreak of dengue. The chief minister, on a Durga puja inauguration spree from Mahalaya' marking the beginning of Devi Paksha', unveiled the pandals at Jodhpur Park, 95 Pally, and Babubagan in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal coal scam case: Rujira Banerjee challenges ED complaint in Delhi HC||Rujira Banerjee, wife of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, has approached the Delhi High Court challenging the Enforcement Directorate's complaint against her before a trial court here in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in Bengal. Rujira has also challenged the trial court order taking cognizance of the complaint and the subsequent issuance of summons for physical appearance in the case. The matter, which was listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna on Wednesday but could not be taken up for hearing on account of the non-availability of the judge, will be heard on October 8. Rujira has contended in her petition that the ED's complaint against her is arbitrary, false, vexatious and an abuse of the process of law. The complaint has been filed to harass and cause prejudice to Rujira and her family, the petition claims. A bare perusal of the Impugned Complaint confirms that the Respondent Agency (ED) falsely averred that Petitioner had not complied with its illegal summonses (issued by ED)... "Owing to the fact that she is a mother of two young children and a resident of Kolkata, the Petitioner has repeatedly requested that she be examined at her residence in Kolkata. The fact that the Petitioner was in constant dialogue with the Respondent in relation to the aforementioned summons clearly shows that there was no intention on the part of the Petitioner to disobey the same," says the petition. It further argues that the trial court took cognizance and issued summons on the complaint in a mechanical manner and without application of mind. The CMM "failed to appreciate that not only were the notices in question illegal and in excess of jurisdiction, but furthermore the mode of service i.e., email to a third party, of summons dated 18.08.2021 at the first instance is contrary to law and cannot be held against the Petitioner , states the plea. On September 30, after Rujira appeared virtually in relation to the complaint filed by the ED, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed her physical presence on October 12, while granting her exemption from the personal appearance for the day. The couple has already approached the high court for quashing of summons issued to them by the ED for questioning in the case. On September 21, the court had refused to grant any interim relief in relation to the summons. The 33-year-old MP, who is the nephew of Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee, represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The ED lodged a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to PM, seeks permanent solution to 'man-made' Bengal floods||With several districts of West Bengal getting flooded by water discharged from dams and barrages in Jharkhand and those maintained by the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a permanent solution to the recurring problem. In a four-page letter sent on Tuesday, the chief minister alleged that the floods were "man-made" and caused by "uncontrolled and unplanned" discharge of water from DVC dams in Jharkhand's Panchet and Maithon. Referring to an earlier letter she had written on August 4 in this connection, Banerjee said, " I had highlighted the structural factors that give birth to grave man-made flood situation in southern Bengal, repeatedly, pitifully and tragically. Unless the Government of India addresses the basic underlying structural and managerial issues, both on a short term and on a long-term basis, the disasters will continue unmitigated in our lower riparian state." The TMC chief said she hasn't received any reply to her previous letter. "The issues that I raised affect millions of lives, and I request that the Government of India should get into some serious actions without further delay," the letter read. Banerjee also alleged that the DVC authorities did not pay heed to IMD warnings of heavy rainfall, and "kept the water discharge from the dams at a low level and when there was heavy rainfall, it discharged about 10 lakh acre-feet of water between September 30 and October 2, which caused serious devastation in lower Damodar region before the festive season". She has also given a date-wise list of water discharged from Maithon and Panchet dams. "This annual problem requires immediate short-term and long-term measures so that the sufferings of the people are mitigated and the national loss in terms of loss of life and property is avoided. "I seek your kind immediate intervention so that the Ministry concerned of the Government of India is requested to engage with the Governments of West Bengal and Jharkhand and the authorities of the DVC, to help in arriving at a permanent solution to this problem of our state occurring year after year," she said. Incidentally, parts of south Bengal were flooded in early August, and Banerjee had alleged that the "man-made" disaster was caused due to excessive release of water by the DVC, claiming 16 lives and affecting lakhs of farmers. Last week, Banerjee had held the Jharkhand government and the DVC responsible for the current flood situation in the southern part of West Bengal. She contended that it was caused due to unplanned and enhanced discharge of water from dams and barrages in Jharkhand without prior information to her administration. Banerjee claimed that the reservoirs in Jharkhand have not been cleaned for the last 50 years, and warned of "massive protests" if dredging of dams and barrages was not done on an urgent basis to prevent the recurring floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah calls talks on ‘issues’ related to Gorkhas ||Union home minister Amit Shah has convened a meeting in New Delhi on October 12 “for resolution of issues related to Gorkhas”. But the plan for the meeting hasn’t evoked much interest in the Darjeeling hills in the absence of confirmation of the number and the names of the invitees. The invitation letter issued by Paritosh Yadav, assistant section officer, Union home ministry (Centre-State division), said the “Union Home minister is taking a meeting on 12.10.2021 at 4.00 PM in R.No. 119, North Block for resolution of issues related to Gorkhas”. “We don’t know who all are invited to the meeting and what will be discussed with reference to ‘issues related to Gorkhas’.... For months, the BJP and its allies have been talking about a ‘tripartite meeting’ to be held in Delhi and it is expected that they will be happy. We will have to reserve our comments till we have specifics about the participation and the agenda of the meeting,” said a prominent Darjeeling politician who didn’t wish to be named. The BJP has been using different expressions with regard to the Darjeeling issue since 2009, raising questions about the party’s capability or interest in discussing the demand for Gorkhaland state, which is the aspiration of a majority of Gorkhas. In the Lok Sabha election manifestos of 2009 and 2014, the BJP had said it “will sympathetically examine and appropriately consider the long pending demands of Gorkha, Adivasis and other people of Darjeeling district and Dooars region…”. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, the BJP said it was “committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issues of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri Terai and Dooars region”. The Centre had called a tripartite meeting on August 7, 2020, on “issues related to Gorkhaland” but within days, the agenda was changed to “issues pertaining to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which was then an ally of the BJP, had said the agenda had been changed following pressure from the Bengal BJP. The meeting did take place on October 7, 2020, but the GTA and the state did not send representatives. At a time when the hills were using the phrase “permanent political solution”, “issues related to Gorkhas” has become the agenda of the October 12 meeting. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, however, claimed that for his party, the “issue of Gorkhas” means “Gorkhaland.” Quoting “sources”, the Darjeeling MLA said an invitation had also been sent to the state government. “It is a different matter whether the state will attend the talks or not,” said Zimba. The Telegraph couldn’t confirm independently if the state government had received the invitation letter. With regard to the Darjeeling stakeholders, Zimba said invitations had been sent to individual emails. “As far as I know public representatives, including Raju Bista (Darjeeling MP), John Barla (Alipurduar MP), Bishal Lama (Kalchini MLA) and B.P. Bajgain (Kurseong MLA) have been invited to the meeting,” said Zimba. All these legislators belong to the BJP. “My party president (Mann Ghisingh) has been invited, as has been R.B. Rai (president, CPRM, which is an ally of BJP),” said Zimba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Kiren Rijiju takes aim at state||Union minister Kiren Rijiju has alleged that successive governments in Bengal deprived north Bengal of development projects though the region is resourceful and strategically important. “Over decades, north Bengal has been deprived of development by the governments which have been formed in the state. It is disappointing that the governments do not understand the strategic importance of the region which is in the chicken’s neck (the stretch where the width of the Indian sub-continent is so narrow) and is the gateway to the Northeast. The region used to be prosperous but over the years, economic activities have declined in north Bengal because of the apathy on the part of the state government,” Rijiju, the central minister of law and justice, said on Tuesday. He was on a short visit to Siliguri and Jalpaiguri to attend a number of events hosted by the BJP. Rijiju said the BJP would continue to focus on north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to hold ‘Ananda Mela’ in Santiniketan||The Trinamul Congress has decided to replicate Ananda Mela — a fair that Rabindranath Tagore had started during his times in Santiniketan on the occasion of Mahalaya — on Wednesday to keep alive a tradition associated with Visva-Bharati and register its protest against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s alleged attitude of doing away with events started by the varsity founder. “The present vice-chancellor is intentionally doing away with traditional Visva-Bharati events like Ananda Mela and Pous Mela. Since his arrival on the campus, long held traditions of Tagore are being neglected. We will be organising the festival in Bolpur to pay homage to Tagore and his tradition,” said Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum district chief of Trinamul. Mondal, along with minister Chandranath Sinha and other senior party leaders, will be present at the inaugural ceremony of the event in ward 6 of Bolpur on Wednesday. Tagore had started Ananda Mela, which many say was also known as Ananda Bazar, for students to sell their produce, including food and crafts, among teachers and employees of Santiniketan. The earnings from the fair used to be deposited in the account of Visva-Bharati’s social service wing Seba Sakha to help poor people during Bengal’s biggest festival, Durga Puja. Although the exact year when Tagore started the tradition is not known, old-timers associated with the varsity said it had always been held on the occasion of Mahalaya, the day when believers in the Hindu faith pay obeisance to their departed ancestors. Unlike the varsity event where the show was run by students, the Trinamul event will have students, local artisans and women self-help groups selling their produce. “Our main goal is to keep Tagore’s tradition alive. His idea was to collect funds and help the poor. We also follow that tradition and deposit the earnings in the chief minister’s relief fund to help flood-affected people,” said Tapas Mondal, fair organiser and municipal coordinator of Bolpur’s ward 6. Asked about Trinamul’s move, newly appointed officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Atig Ghosh said: “I have nothing to comment. As for us, we are not holding Ananda Mela because of Covid restrictions put in place by both state and central governments.” Trinamul leaders, however, are not willing to buy the varsity’s argument. “Covid is nothing but an alibi only. If they had any respect for Tagore’s legacy, they could have organised it by adhering to Covid protocol like us,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Govt sanctions funds to repair schools damaged in cyclones||The Bengal government has sanctioned Rs 109.42 crore to undertake immediate repair of 6,468 affiliated primary, secondary and higher secondary schools that suffered serious damage because of back-to-back cyclones, including Amphan and Yaas. Besides, maintenance eluded the buildings as the institutions remained shut for the past 18 months following the outbreak of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown. Responding to an appeal made by the commissioner of school education, the school education department on Monday allotted funds to begin the repairs as early as possible. The department has been planing to reopen academic institutions after Diwali. The education department also directed the sub-allotment of the funds through district magistrates. “We hope the Covid situation will improve further leading to a conducive situation to reopen schools by the middle of November. So, our objective is to finish maintenance and repairs by then,” said a senior official of the school education department. Within a couple of months after the pandemic had broken out and the nationwide lockdown had been clamped from March last year, Cyclone Amphan devastated large stretches of Bengal’s Gangetic and coastal areas of North and South 24-Parganas and East and West Midnapore districts. A year later, people in the state experienced Cyclone Yaas, which also caused serious damage to the lives and properties of people. Several school buildings suffered serious damage in the two cyclones. But none of the school authorities could undertake necessary repairs primarily for restrictions on normal activities imposed by the state government because of  Covid and lack of funds. “Several schools have suffered damage and on the basis of inputs provided by the local administration, we have prepared a list of such schools and appealed for financial support for their repairs. The state government has considered our appeal and allotted funds,” an official of commissioner of school education at Bikash Bhawan said. Sources in the commissioner’s office said of the 6,468 schools, a large number of them are in East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas where the two cyclones had wreaked havoc. Large number of schools were damaged with big trees falling on the buildings during the cyclones. While some had their walls and roofs damaged, the cyclone also blew away tin sheds of several schools. Punam Goswami, head teacher of Sodial Basic School at Raidighi in South 24-Parganas, said: “Cyclone Yaas ravaged my school. The building was severely damaged after a huge tree fell on it. We could not take up repairs because of lack of funds and also the prevailing Covid situation. We made an assessment of the loss and asked the higher authorities for help.” “It now appears that the much-awaited repairs will be taken up. Otherwise, resuming normal classes after Puja vacation will be difficult.” Most of the school authorities have welcomed the state government's initiative, but at the same time raised doubts as to how the required job could be carried out in a month with the festive season already setting in. "The festive season has almost begun. Puja vacation is barely four days away. I doubt when work will actually begin," a headmaster of a school in North 24-Parganas said. Chandan Maiti, state general secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters' and Headmistresses, has demanded that the school education department should ensure immediate allotment of estimated funds in favour of the schools. "Unless funds are sent to schools immediately, the necessary repair and reconstruction would be delayed and it would affect resumption of classes after the Puja vacation," Maiti told The Telegraph. Maiti’s comment carries significance as chief minister Mamata Banerjee had in August hinted at reopening schools after Puja but the ground realities do present a daunting task for the authorities. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 619 cases, 637 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded a fall in total active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 619 infections, 637 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 29 to reach 7,575. This is the fourth day in the past 10 days that a fall was recorded. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. The state has over three per cent of the national total of active cases and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number on that count. Calcutta on Tuesday logged 126 infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 115, the only two districts with three-digit figures of fresh cases. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.9. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.75 per cent on Tuesday. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Calcutta logged three and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.72 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.46 lakh recoveries and 18,848 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal tiger drags away fisherman in Gosaba||In the third attack in four days, a royal Bengal tiger dragged away a fisherman inside the dense forest early on Tuesday, leading the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR) authorities to issue a ban on fishing in creeks and rivers of Jhila forest. Asit Sarkar, 50, a fisherman from Gosaba, was taken away by a big cat when he went to catch crabs in creeks and rivers of Jhila. His co-workers said they tried to save him from the tiger but they were unsuccessful. The fisherman is still missing. “It is the third attack by tigers in four consecutive days and all incidents happened in the Jhila zone of the STR. So, we have issued a ban on fishing in an area covering 58sqkm of Jhila forest. We will keep an eye on the tigers to understand the reason for their aggressive behaviour,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of STR. The foresters said as per their survey there were two tigers who we suspect of attacking fishermen. The 2020-21 census shared by the Bengal administration on Wednesday, on the eve of the International Tiger Day, counted at least 96 tigers in the Indian territory of the Sunderbans. On Monday, the victim, Samad Mollah, 31, died in the tiger attack when he was catching crabs in Chilamari Khal, a creek in the delta. On Saturday, A 37-year-old fisherman Gour Mistri was severely injured by a Royal Bengal tiger in Gosaba of the Sunderbans and his co-workers were able to rescue him from the jaw of the big cat after fighting with bamboo sticks and oars. “It is really a reason to worry as we have never witnessed such recurrent attacks. After the pandemic several people lost their jobs in other sectors and have taken to collecting crabs and fish from restricted forest areas of the Sunderbans,” said Umashankar Mondal, a geography teacher who runs mangrove plantation movement in the largest tiger reserve. Sources in forest departments said apart from fishermen with official permission from the STR, many people illegally entered the restricted areas and risked their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Bodies of school girl and man recovered in Hooghly district||Bodies of a school girl and a 50-year-old man, who had gone missing in flood waters in Hooghly district, were found on Tuesday morning. Disha Maity, 14, a Class VII student, had slipped into a canal in the inundated Dhanyagheri area of Khanakul on Monday evening. The NDRF started a search and her body was spotted on Tuesday around 200 meters from where she had gone missing. Jiten Porel, 50, a marginal farmer from Hati village of Pursurah, had been traceless since Saturday. Villagers found his body in a paddy field on Tuesday morning after flood waters receded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Two minor boys injured in bomb explosion in Malda||Two minor boys suffered injuries after a crude bomb exploded while they were collecting firewood at a litchi plantation in Malda district’s Old Baburhat village on Tuesday. Sources said Nur Islam, 12, and Jasim Sheikh, 14, were scouting for firewood at the plantation. “As they were making piles of firewood, one of the wood pieces fell on a crude bomb and it exploded. Locals reached the spot and took the boys to a local hospital for treatment. Their condition is stable,” said a source. During a search at the plantation, police found a plastic canister full of crude bombs and also recovered a bucket with at least six crude bombs. All the bombs were later defused. Alok Rajoria, Malda police chief said: “We suspect some  miscreants had kept the  bombs at the plantation. A probe is on.” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||SMC launches drive to clear encroached pavements||The board of administrators (BoA) at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation has launched a drive against encroachers, especially those traders who illegally block portions of streets and footpaths by stacking different items in front of their shops every day. Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA who led a drive at some locations in the city on Tuesday, said the SMC had decided to take stern steps against those who keep their items on the roads and footpaths every day. ‘ “This drive is necessary to reduce traffic congestion and create space for pedestrians,” said Sarkar. In Siliguri, it is a common practice in most commercial areas for traders to spread wares on roads. Every day, thousands of shopowners stack their materials on footpaths and roads in front of their stalls. The piling of goods throughout the day narrows roads and footpaths. Sarkar, along with a team of civic officials, conducted the drive at Bagha Jatin Park and adjacent areas of Collegepara and Hakimpara. During the drive, they asked the vendors to remove their materials from the roads and footpaths. Also, a number of house owners were asked to clear the construction materials and debris which they had kept on the road. “In due course, we will start imposing fines on such violators. A person can be fined even Rs 1 lakh for such encroachment,” said an SMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
06-10-2021||West Bengal||New PG course launched at North Bengal University||The North Bengal University, the oldest varsity in north Bengal, has introduced bioinformatics at the post-graduation level from the current academic year. Earlier, a diploma course was taught in bioinformatics, a subject that is fast gaining popularity among science students, at the varsity. But now, students can do MSc in the subject. According to senior faculty members, bioinformatics is an interdisciplinary field of science that deals with biological information. Pranab Ghosh, the NBU registrar, said the four-semester course offers a new opportunity for students of the region. “This emerging interdisciplinary field is often considered a junction between biology and computational sciences. This is a first of its kind course in north Bengal,” he added. Varsity sources said that after doing BSc in any subject related to life science, students can apply for the two-year PG course in bioinformatics. “The department has three faculty members and 15 seats available for the post-graduation course,” said a source. The sources said that in the syllabus of the two-year course, emphasis has been given on understanding the fundamentals of cell biology and genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, basic bioinformatics and computer application. An NBU official said: “For the PG course in bioinformatics, students have to pay Rs 15,000 — which will include admission and first semester fee. The fee from the second semester will be Rs 10,000 per semester.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt takes initiatives to float tenders for civic projects||The Mamata Banerjee government has taken initiatives to float tenders to execute projects, which were demanded by common citizens through the Paray Samadhan (Solution at Neighbourhood), without any delay. The sense of urgency, officials said, indicated the government’s intention to hold civic polls early next year. “Projects which were demanded by common people during Paray Samadhan would be carried out soon by floating tenders.… Projects worth less than Rs 5 lakh would be taken care of by district magistrates and the departments concerned would float tenders for projects worth more than Rs 5 lakh,” said a senior government official. According to sources, nearly 3,000 applications were submitted under the Paray Samadhan outreach initiative, held alongside the Duare Sarkar camps between August 16 and September 15. Under this particular programme, common people could demand small projects — like installation of water sources, improvement of road condition or drainage facility — in their areas. After the success of the Duare Sarkar programme, on 28 December 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the new initiative called Paray Samadhan, under which the government promised to address complaints of neighbourhoods. “The programme was first launched ahead of the Assembly polls and nearly 7,000 small projects were carried out subsequently. It is believed that the programme had played a role in the Trinamul Congress’s success in the Assembly polls,” said a senior official. According to sources, the manner in which the state government is taking initiatives to implement nearly 3,000 schemes, mainly small ones, despite the stressed financial condition shows that Nabanna is all set to hold pending civic elections early next year. “As the projects are small ones, these could be completed latest by December if tenders are floated before Puja. It is being considered that the civic elections could be held in January next year,” said a senior government official. According to a rough estimate by officials at Nabanna, about 115 civic bodies across the state, including the municipal corporations in Calcutta, Howrah and Siliguri, are being run by boards of administrators as elections could not be held on time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. During a news conference at Nabanna recently, the chief minister had hinted that the state would start preparations for pending civic polls after the byelections to four Assembly segments are held on October 30. “The way the state government has pushed the departments to float tenders for projects of Paray Samadhan, it is clear that civic polls will be held soon. The small civic issues hold immense importance in local body elections,” said a source. It was evident the state government was pushing the departments for Paray Samadhan projects when engineers of the PWD received a message from the top brass of the department asking them to send the projects to be taken up at the earliest. The message also pointed out that bids for schemes worth above Rs 5 lakh would be invited immediately. “Similar efforts were being made by departments like urban development and municipal affairs, PHE, health and irrigation departments,” said a source. “The activities clearly hint that civic polls are round the corner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
