07-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta comes back to TMC||BJP state secretary and the former mayor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Sabyasachi Dutta, who had quit the TMC to join the saffron camp two years ago, returned to the Mamata Banerjee-led party on Thursday. He joined the state's ruling party at TMC secretary-general and cabinet minister Partha Chatterjee's room in the Assembly, in the presence of other leaders. "We inducted Dutta in the party, as per his request, on the very day our leader Mamata Banerjee took oath as an MLA. She has approved Dutta's induction into the party," Chatterjee said. Dutta, on his part, claimed that some misunderstanding had prompted his exit from the TMC, but that has now been resolved. He asserted that he would humbly take up any role offered to him by the TMC. "From 2011 to 2021, I was an MLA. I held the post of BMC mayor for several terms. There was some misunderstanding within the party. But that has been cleared. My new journey with the TMC begins from today," he added. Dutta lost the Bidhannagar seat to TMC's Sujit Bose in the April-May Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee, two other MLAs take oath as members of Bengal Assembly||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was on Thursday administered the oath as a member of the state assembly by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Mamata, who won the Bhowanipore by-poll by a margin of 58,835 votes, a record for the seat, took the oath in Bengali. She needed to win the election to retain the chief minister's chair after her defeat at the hands of protege-turned-rival BJP's Suvendu Adhikari in the March-April assembly elections. Two other newly elected TMC legislators Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam also took oath soon afterward. Jakir Hossain was declared victorious by a huge margin of 92,480 votes from Jangipur, Amirul Islam won from Samserganj by 26,379 votes. Dhankhar had on Tuesday said he will administer the oath to Mamata and others, in a departure from the practice of the governor authorising the speaker of the assembly to conduct the exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government to focus on jobs in shut tea estates of north Bengal districts||The Mamata Banerjee government has instructed the administrations of tea districts of north Bengal, especially Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar that have shut tea estates, to explore options for creating employment for the jobless workers of these gardens as well as hundreds of migrant workers from these tea estates. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said they have taken up the task to create additional employment opportunities for workers of closed gardens. Also, those who had migrated from these closed gardens earlier for jobs elsewhere but had to return during the pandemic, would be considered as prospective beneficiaries of the employment plan so that they too can earn. “Instructions have been given to increase the scale of work under the 100-days work scheme. Also, projects like pisciculture, horticulture and floriculture would be promoted in these tea estates for the local population. The idea is to create avenues for people to earn from alternative sources,” she said. As of now, at least 13 tea estates are closed in these three districts. Administrative officials said along with these, some more tea estates are considered “sick”. People in the latter could also gain from the alternative options of employment. “In sick gardens, hardly any casual worker lands a job. They are in dire straits. We feel it is important to extend the opportunity of an alternative income to workers of sick tea estates as well,” said an official. For now, officials in the blocks concerned have been asked to find out the number of unemployed youths in each of these closed and sick tea gardens. “We also want feedback from these youths on whether they have a plan of their own on how earn. If required, arrangements to train them  in  skills will be made in consultation with the department concerned under the state’s Utkarsha Bangla scheme,” the official added. The administration, sources said, will also see if any youth intends to open a shop or any other trade facility in the tea estate or nearby. “In such cases, arrangements will be made so that he can avail finance under the various state-run schemes. For women in these tea estates, emphasis would be put on forming self-help groups which can collectively get into different activities and earn money,” said an official of Alipurduar district. In the Dooars, a number of women’s self-help groups based in the tea estates are making items such as detergent, sanitiser, masks, brooms as well as decorative products. The initiative, political observers said, is yet another move by Trinamul to revive its support base in the tea belt. Over the past few years, Bengal’s ruling party has lagged behind the BJP in the tea estates, both in the hills and the plains, despite performing well in other parts of the state. “So far, BJP leaders and central ministers have made tall talks on reopening tea estates and creating employment opportunities in the tea estates. Now if the state government can create some opportunities for around 20,000-odd jobless workers of these gardens and for the local youths, it would create goodwill and will definitely help the ruling party in the upcoming rural elections as well as the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a political observer. Health and PHE department officials have also been asked to work on some other issues. “The health department has been asked to ensure that no child or woman suffers from malnourishment. If required, screening camps will be set up in these gardens. Also, the PHE department has been asked to expedite the process of setting up drinking water supply in all these gardens,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||3 killed as bus rams into standing truck in Murshidabad||Three persons were killed and 10 injured in Murshidabad’s Sagardighi around 3am on Wednesday, when an NBSTC bus from Calcutta to Cooch Behar rammed into a stationary truck that had broken down a little while before. The accident occurred on an active flank of NH12 near Ratanpur village. The truck, which had been standing on the highway after its brakes failed, had no occupants when the accident occurred. Sagardighi police said their patrol team rushed to the spot on being informed about the accident. The patrol team had anyway been approaching the truck stranded on the highway, but the accident occurred before they could tow the truck away. “Our team had been approaching the area to respond to the safety hazard posed by the goods truck,” said district police chief Y. Raghuvamshi. The deceased were identified as bus driver Nandan Dey, 50, from Cooch Behar, conductor Krishanu Pal, 52, from Madhyamgram, and passenger Ashok Mandal, 51, from Assam. All the injured were either attendants or passengers of the bus. Police rushed them to Jangipur subdivisional hospital, where the three were declared dead on arrival. Five critically injured were referred to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital for intensive treatment. “We concur that the bus driver could not estimate that the truck was motionless and that caused the crash,” added SP Raghuvamshi. At 3am, visibility would have also been poor. Police have conducted post-mortems and handed over the three bodies to their respective families. Cases of unnatural death have been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||More room for tourists as Bhorer Alo adds 18 cottages||Mamata Banerjee will on Thursday virtually inaugurate from Calcutta more cottages at tourism complex Bhorer Alo in Jalpaiguri’s Gajoldoba, which means rooms for those looking forward to a getaway at the birders’ paradise on the Teesta’ banks. “The chief minister will inaugurate 18 new cottages at Bhorer Alo tomorrow (Thursday), along with a number of other projects in different districts,” said a source in the state tourism department. The tourism hub so far had six cottages. But as the destination is gaining popularity, the tourism department decided to add more cottages. “We have come up with five two-storey cottages which have one double-bed room with a toilet and balcony on each floor (10 units). Also, eight new single-storey cottages, with one room in each, are ready,” the source added. In all, Bhorer Alo will now have 24 cottages, 18 new and six existing ones. “As of now, Rs 2,500 is the daily tariff for the six existing cottages with other charges. The tariff of the new cottages will be fixed soon. For reservations, go to the official of West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation,” said an official of state tourism. “Bhorer Alo is becoming one of the most sought-after destinations in this region, so we are happy that more cottages are ready,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. For the inauguration programme, decorations have started at the hub. On Wednesday, a team of government officials, along with some representatives of the Gajoldoba Development Authority, visited the new cottages. “A small event will be held here on Thursday during the inauguration,” said Khageswar Roy, local MLA and vice-chairman of the Gajoldoba Development Authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 786 Covid cases and 15 deaths||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases rose by 16 to reach 7,591 as the state on Wednesday recorded 786 infections, besides 755 recoveries and 15 deaths. This is for the seventh day in the past 11 days that the number of total patients under treatment rose. Calcutta logged 159 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 134. These are the two districts which logged three-digit figures of new infections in the state on Wednesday. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged four each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.73 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes close to 15.47 lakh recoveries and 18,863 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Governor to administer MLA oath to Mamata Banerjee on Thursday||Mamata Banerjee will take oath as MLA at the Assembly at 2pm on Thursday. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will administer the oath to Mamata and two other newly elected MLAs, Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam. Rules mandate that governors administer oath to MLAs, but the power is generally delegated to Speakers. This time, sources said, Dhankhar insisted on administering the oath to the chief minister and the other two MLAs. Mamata became an MLA after winning the Bhowanipore bypoll. Hossain and Amirul were elected from Jangipur and Samserganj, respectively. The chief minister had been defeated by Suvendu Adhikari — the one-time protege of Mamata who had defected to the BJP just before the Assembly elections — in Nandigram. However, the Trinamul Congress swept the Assembly polls and Mamata became the chief minister. Mamata had till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House. The Bhowanipore seat was vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won with a margin of over 28,000 votes, on May 21 to enable Mamata to be elected to the Assembly. In the bypoll, the Trinamul supremo bagged 85,263 votes or 71.9 per cent of the votes polled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Fields and fisheries flooded in south Bengal, prices rise ahead of Durga puja||Inundation of vast swathes of south Bengal has led to a shortage in the supply of vegetables and fish in the market and the resultant price rise ahead of Durga puja. Sources said more than 1 lakh hectares, where seasonal vegetables were cultivated, got submerged because of the record rain last week and subsequently, the release of water from the Damodar Valley Corporation’s dams in Jharkhand worsened the situation. Fish were also swept away from overflowing ponds and fisheries in East Midnapore and North and South 24-Parganas. “Rohu fish, which is a common item on the Bengali platter, is now sold at around Rs 350-Rs 400 per kilo, almost double the regular price,” said Gopal Das, a fish trader in Durgapur. One kilogram of brinjal, which was sold at Rs 40 before the flood, costs Rs 80 per kilo now in the state. Similarly, okra, which was earlier Rs 20 per kilo, is now sold at Rs 60. Many people are already struggling over the loss of income and jobs because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and now the price pinch of the daily need has made the situation worse. In West Burdwan, which is known as an industrial hub, a major portion of vegetables like pumpkin, cabbage, brinjal, and ridge gourd is supplied from neighbouring Bankura and West Midnapore districts. Low-lying areas along the Damodar and Gandheswari rivers in Bankura’s Mejia, Borjora, Sonakukhi, Onda, Indus and Patrashayar blocks are known for vegetable growers. West Midnapore’s Ghatal and a large part of Hooghly – also a major producer of vegetables – feed many south Bengal districts as well as Calcutta and have been severely affected by the flood. “Most of the fields where we grew vegetables were submerged. All our crops were destroyed in the water,” said a farmer in Bankura’s Onda. The area was inundated because of the overflowing of the Damodar, Gandheswari and Dwarakeswar rivers. “I have cultivated bitter gourd and pumpkin on my one bigha plot but the inundation has ruined everything,” said Bholanath Gorai, a farmer at Patrashayar. A stockist of cabbage and pumpkin in Durgapur said he had not been receiving vegetables for the past three days. “I supply cabbage and pumpkin on four trucks to Durgapur, Asansol and Burdwan retail markets, but I have not been able to send a single truck for the past two days. The supply of vegetables from Bankura has stopped because of the flood,” said the stockist. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar in TamlukFields & fisheries flooded, prices rise||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee urges Narendra Modi to end deluge woes||Mamata Banerjee has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging his immediate intervention to find out a permanent solution to the problem of regular deluge in Bengal because of “uncontrolled and unplanned” discharge of water from the dams of the Damodar Valley Corporation in Jharkhand. “The crux of the matter is that, yet again on 30 th September, 2021, there was uncontrolled and unplanned discharge of water from DVC dams at Panchet and Maithan which led to unprecedented deluge in many districts of the state. The quantum of release during 30 th September, 2021 to 2nd Oct. 2021 will bring out the scale and enormity of discharge into Damodar and Ajoy rivers and the resultant devastation and havoc it brought in its wake,” the chief minister wrote in her letter dated October 5. Mamata described in detail how water released by the DVC had led to deluge in large parts of Bengal. The letter categorically explained the reasons why she was terming the heavy release of water as “uncontrolled and unplanned”. The chief minister said Bengal was forced to bear the brunt of the unplanned water discharge by the DVC and pay for the inefficiency of the DVC management. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata had written a series of letters in the past pointing out the need to enhance structural ability of the DVC dams by way of desilting and dredging the dams, but no initiative was taken by the Centre so far. The chief minister urged Modi to intervene and bring together the governments of Bengal and Jharkhand and the DVC to get a permanent solution in this regard. “I seek your kind immediate intervention so that the concerned ministry of the Government of India is requested to engage with governments of West Bengal and Jharkhand and the authorities of DVC, to help in arriving at a permanent solution to this problem,” the chief minister wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Malda lotus to brighten Durga Puja in Bangladesh||A consignment of lotus will be exported to Bangladesh from Malda ahead of Durga Puja for the first time. Preparations are on to pack the lotuses in specially designed containers so that the flowers remain fresh. Every year, hundreds of Durga Pujas are held in Bangladesh. In capital Dhaka alone, over 200 Durga Pujas are organised, said sources. Although this export is being made privately, officials of the state horticulture department have hailed it and said it would boost floriculture in Malda and nearby districts. Uzzal Saha, convener of Malda Cold Storage Owners’ Association and general secretary of a state-level exporters’ association, said some importers from Dhaka expressed interest in high quality lotus flowers for Durga Puja. “We received an export order of around 4 lakhs lotuses for now,” Saha said. Sources said the lotuses will be sent to Bangladesh by road via Malda’s Mahadipur land port. “The consignment will be sent to Dhaka and from there to other places,” an exporter said. Hundreds of people have been engaged to pack the lotus in special containers. “These containers will be preserved at cold storages till October 10, then loaded in trucks that will head for Bangladesh the next day,” Saha said. The lotuses, he said, are being sold at Rs 20 apiece to Bangladesh importers. The flower grows in Bangladesh but this time its production was low there, necessitating their import from Bengal ahead of Durga Puja. Krishnendu Nandan, a deputy director of the state horticulture department, said so far Malda mangoes were exported to Bangladesh, but now flowers can also be exported. “So far, the most prominent product of Malda that was exported to Bangladesh was the mango. Now it seems that flowers can be exported too,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government to focus on jobs in shut tea estates of north Bengal districts||The Mamata Banerjee government has instructed the administrations of tea districts of north Bengal, especially Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar that have shut tea estates, to explore options for creating employment for the jobless workers of these gardens as well as hundreds of migrant workers from these tea estates. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said they have taken up the task to create additional employment opportunities for workers of closed gardens. Also, those who had migrated from these closed gardens earlier for jobs elsewhere but had to return during the pandemic, would be considered as prospective beneficiaries of the employment plan so that they too can earn. “Instructions have been given to increase the scale of work under the 100-days work scheme. Also, projects like pisciculture, horticulture and floriculture would be promoted in these tea estates for the local population. The idea is to create avenues for people to earn from alternative sources,” she said. As of now, at least 13 tea estates are closed in these three districts. Administrative officials said along with these, some more tea estates are considered “sick”. People in the latter could also gain from the alternative options of employment. “In sick gardens, hardly any casual worker lands a job. They are in dire straits. We feel it is important to extend the opportunity of an alternative income to workers of sick tea estates as well,” said an official. For now, officials in the blocks concerned have been asked to find out the number of unemployed youths in each of these closed and sick tea gardens. “We also want feedback from these youths on whether they have a plan of their own on how earn. If required, arrangements to train them  in  skills will be made in consultation with the department concerned under the state’s Utkarsha Bangla scheme,” the official added. The administration, sources said, will also see if any youth intends to open a shop or any other trade facility in the tea estate or nearby. “In such cases, arrangements will be made so that he can avail finance under the various state-run schemes. For women in these tea estates, emphasis would be put on forming self-help groups which can collectively get into different activities and earn money,” said an official of Alipurduar district. In the Dooars, a number of women’s self-help groups based in the tea estates are making items such as detergent, sanitiser, masks, brooms as well as decorative products. The initiative, political observers said, is yet another move by Trinamul to revive its support base in the tea belt. Over the past few years, Bengal’s ruling party has lagged behind the BJP in the tea estates, both in the hills and the plains, despite performing well in other parts of the state. “So far, BJP leaders and central ministers have made tall talks on reopening tea estates and creating employment opportunities in the tea estates. Now if the state government can create some opportunities for around 20,000-odd jobless workers of these gardens and for the local youths, it would create goodwill and will definitely help the ruling party in the upcoming rural elections as well as the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a political observer. Health and PHE department officials have also been asked to work on some other issues. “The health department has been asked to ensure that no child or woman suffers from malnourishment. If required, screening camps will be set up in these gardens. Also, the PHE department has been asked to expedite the process of setting up drinking water supply in all these gardens,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Border Security Force nabs 3 suspected smugglers ||The Border Security Force (BSF) has arrested three suspected smugglers, including a Bangladeshi, from different parts of north Bengal in the past four days. Also from October 4 to October 6, the BSF seized a number of items, including cattle, cough syrup and other contraband items worth over Rs 9 lakh, said sources. On Wednesday, the BSF arrested one Mominul Haque, a resident of Haldibari in Cooch Behar district, at the Indo-Bangla border of the district. On Tuesday, the 61 battalion intercepted Mohammad Rashid, resident of Hasimara in Alipurduar district, at Hilli in South Dinajpur district. On Sunday, the 72 battalion of the BSF posted at Kadirganj in North District apprehended Sobur, a resident of Thakurgaon district in Bangladesh, while he was allegedly trying to cross the International boundary illegally. In another incident, three youths were held from Kaliachak in Malda district on Tuesday night after 20 stolen smartphones and a stolen two-wheeler were allegedly seized from their possession. “Mohammad Israil Sheikh, Mohammad Golam Mostafa and Mohammad Hasem Sheikh were sent to police custody by a local court on Wednesday. We will interrogate them for more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal State Transport Corporation introduces double-decker bus in Cooch Behar||The North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) introduced the double-decker bus in Cooch Behar town on Wednesday after a gap of six years. Sources in NBSTC said it has been decided at the board meeting of the state-run transport corporation that the double-decker service would be launched for tourists and residents interested in visiting prominent attractions of the town with a royal heritage. “The fare is Rs 25. The 80-seater bus will move through a specific route and will cover 14km,” said an official, adding that an organisation can book the bus for Rs 2,000. On Wednesday, Cooch Behar Sanskritik Mancha, a local cultural group, booked the bus, which attracted curious onlookers on the way. “From now on, the double-decker bus will run on holidays when people can enjoy a ride,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the chairman of NBSTC. Around 35 years back, the NBSTC had launched three double-decker buses in Cooch Behar. Among these, one got damaged around 21 years back, one was auctioned in 2015 and the third, introduced for tourists, stopped running owing to paucity of passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Gorkhaland Territorial Administration dithers on use of funds for tea hands||A sum of more than Rs 2 crore is lying in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s kitty but the hill body is hard-pressed to decide on its utilisation as different opinions have cropped up on the fund. The GTA chairman relief fund had been set up on March 24, 2020, purportedly to take up the gigantic task of “paying tea garden workers during the lockdown”. Anit Thapa was the chairman then. The 87 tea gardens in the hills have together around 55,000 permanent workers and 15,000 temporary labourers. However, unlike other sectors in the country, the tea industry remained closed only from March 25 to April 9 in 2020. Contributions to the relief fund continued to pour in and over 11,000 people donated a sum of Rs 2.12 crore. Thapa had announced that the GTA would contribute a matching amount to the relief fund. With the tea gardens operating during the Covid-19 pandemic, the fund’s express purpose was defeated leading to a tug-of-war over its utilisation. As the chairman of the GTA, Thapa constituted a 15-member committee comprising trade union leaders of different political parties among others. The committee did sit for a meeting on January 28, 2021, but consensus eluded the panel. “Some wanted the GTA to distribute cash to the workers, while others wanted to utilise the fund for infrastructure development. There was also a demand to set up a bhavan (guesthouse) in Siliguri with the fund so that tea garden workers can utilise the place when they go down for medical emergencies,” said a GTA source. During this Puja period and at a time when annual bonus to the tea estate workers is being paid in two instalments of 15 per cent and 5 per cent, the demand for the utilisation of the fund has been raised from different quarters in the hills. “I, too, have contributed to the fund. As a contributor, I demand that the workers be paid in cash before Pujas,” said Binay Tamang, former GTA chairman who recently quit as the head of a Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction he had helmed since 2017. A senior GTA official said the hill body would “soon convene a meeting” to decide on the fund utilisation. “However, given the sensitivity and complexity surrounding the fund because of the involvement of so many leaders from different political parties, it would be tough a task to come up with a decision that would satisfy all,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Duo held for ‘paying’ fake court employees in Bankura||Bankura police on Wednesday arrested two persons, including a former accountant of the office of the district’s chief judicial magistrate, for allegedly embezzling government funds worth Rs 2.33 crore. The money was withdrawn to pay the salaries or bills of at least 20 fictitious staff and judicial magistrates for a year. “We have arrested the two persons following a complaint lodged by the chief judicial magistrate. We have taken them in custody for interrogation to know their modus operandi. We will also arrest others if we find more involved,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, Bankura SP. Police said arrested were former CJM court accountant Pritam Bhakat and his associate Avik Mitra. The duo were produced before Bankura court on Wednesday that remanded them to five days of police custody. They were arrested after the CJM of Bankura Mayukh Mukherjee lodged a complaint with Bankura police on Tuesday, accusing Bhakat of misappropriating government money. The duo have been charged with cheating, misappropriation of government money and under sections of the Information Technology Act. Sources said the present accountant of the CJM office, Giridhari Karmakar, while reviewing bills found some payments under the head of salaries of fictitious employees between April 2019 and September 2020. It was also found that the money had been routed to fictitious bank accounts. Court sources alleged Bhakat, between April 2019 and September 2020, registered these fake employees to make the dubious payments. “So far, we have received names of around 20 such fictitious employees. There may be more. The total amount of fraud is over Rs 2.33 crore and it was done by manipulating the human resource management system (HRMS). As the accountant (Bhakat) had access to the HRMS portal in his capacity of a senior judicial officer, he apparently misused it,” said a senior police officer. Police officers said the way Bhakat operated the scam raises suspicion that more people are involved. “We will interrogate him in police custody to get to the bottom of the fraud,” the office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Purulia’s Mahalaya gift to Covid orphans: Long-term aid||Purulia district administration, with help from the state government, on Wednesday pledged long-term social and economic support to 46 minors who lost both parents to the pandemic, and to six other children who lost one parent each but were extremely needy, at an event at the district headquarters. All the 52 children received a festive kit of new clothes, shoes, books, colouring materials and stationery at the Rabindra Bhavana auditorium of Purulia on Wednesday afternoon, as Durga Puja gifts on the day of Mahalaya. A cultural programme was also held for them. “After a vast survey and virtual interviews of around 1,800 children, we chose these 52 children who are helpless and have no support system. The child welfare department has already granted funds of Rs 2,000 per month to each. We have formed several committees to look after health, education, nutrition and other needs of these children,” said Rahul Majumdar, Purulia district magistrate. “It is Mahalaya after all, and we have vowed to take care of all 52 children till they become self-reliant,” the district magistrate said. Majumdar added that they hosted a cultural programme for the children and gave them gifts as they had nobody left to wish them joy during the upcoming festival. Purulia, one of the remotest districts in Bengal, is part of the Jungle Mahal belt. Sources said all the districts of the state started a survey in their respective areas, to find out children who had lost both or either of their parents to Covid-19 since the pandemic was first reported in Bengal in March last year. Sources in the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights have said that according to the survey over 3,000 such children were found. Ananya Chakraborti, chairperson of the Commission, on Wednesday welcomed the gesture by the Purulia administration. “It is our duty to keep these children happy during festivals. It is very good that the administration has decided to take care of all of such children on a long-term basis,” she said. Officials in Purulia said after the state government directed them to identify the children who lost their parents, the district administration asked panchayats and collected names of around 1,800 such children. “Our district child protection officers did a videoconference with help of local block officials and found out these 52 need the most support,” said an official. According to government norms, these are entitled to Rs 2,000 a month for three years. But the district magistrate can extend the period on a need-based assessment. In Santuri of Purulia, three siblings aged between 12 and 16 years lost both parents during the first wave of Covid-19 and have been living in a room of a local club in the village. “There was no place for those three to go. Their relatives stay in Madhya Pradesh as migrant workers. Their father, a migrant worker, and mother died of Covid-19 last year. We sheltered them at our club,” said Padma Lochan Show, a trader who is their current guardian. “I took the trio to Purulia town for the government event today (Wednesday), where they got Puja gifts. Their bank accounts have been opened and they will get money for their survival every month. All three are very studious, good students,” he added. The Purulia administration has also assigned a self-help group for each such orphaned child to see to it that they are doing well and getting government benefits. “This surveillance will be on, to see whether the money or other support from the government is being used only for the child, as we have to deposit the money in accounts of their immediate kin. If any irregularity is found, women of the self-help group will report to us,” said district magistrate Majumdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong MLA not invited to talks to be held for ‘resolution of issues related to Gorkhas’||The fledgling Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM) has demanded that its MLA from Kalimpong be invited to the October 12 talks convened by the Centre for “resolution of issues related to Gorkhas”. The demand comes in the wake of allegations levelled by some hill parties that the list of “stakeholders” prepared by the Union home ministry for the talks is tilted towards the BJP. Amar Lama, the general secretary of the BGPM, said: “We demand that our Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha be invited to the meeting as he is an elected public representative. So far, he has not received the invitation.” Invitation letters were issued by Paritosh Yadav, assistant section office, Union home ministry (Centre-State division), on Tuesday evening. The invitation has been sent to personal emails of various leaders and according to information received from multiple sources, the invitees are mostly public representatives from the BJP and its allies in the Darjeeling hills. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, Alipurduar MP John Barla and MLAs of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalchini, Neeraj Zimba, B.P. Bajgain and Bishal Lama, respectively, have been invited to the meeting in New Delhi. All the invitees belong to the BJP. Among political leaders called to the talks to be chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah are Gorkha National Liberation Front president Mann Ghisingh and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists president R.B. Rai. The GNLF and the CPRM are allies of the BJP in the hills. The omission of Lepcha from the list of the invitees has surprised the BGPM. “How can the Centre call their two MLAs from the hills and ignore our MLA? It is absolutely unfair,” said Lama. “We demand that talks be on Gorkhaland and nothing else,” said Lama, whose party is in alliance with the Trinamul Congress which is opposed to the statehood demand. The BJP has not categorically stated either that it supports Gorkhaland. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha hasn’t been invited to the talks either. Its president Bimal Gurung said: “We have no faith on the Delhi meeting. The BJP has ditched the people of the hills repeatedly. Even if we are invited, we won’t attend the talks.” The Morcha is an ally of Trinamul. The Centre had called a tripartite meeting on August 7, 2020, on “issues related to Gorkhaland” but within days, the agenda was changed to "issues pertaining to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration". Adivasi-Gorkha Sanyukta Samity (Dooars) president Sagan Moktan on Wednesday said people of the Dooars would keenly follow the talks. “If the talks are fruitful, we will welcome them. But if the meeting fails to fulfil our hopes, we will hit the streets against the participants in the meeting,” said Moktan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
