09-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP targets Durga Puja pandal, which potrays farmers' protest, over use of shoes||The BJP on Saturday objected to the use of shoes for "decorating" a Durga puja pandal here, alleging that it would hurt religious sentiments of people. Organisers of the puja pandal in Dumdum, however, rejected the assertion and said that the shoe installation on the sidewalk leading to the marquee depicts farmers' movement in the country, and the Durga idol, set up at a considerable distance from it, is surrounded by paddy stacks. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said in a tweet on Saturday that the organisers have committed a "heinous act" by adorning the pandal wall with shoes, and urged the chief secretary and home secretary to look into the matter. "A Durga Puja pandal in Dumdum Park has been decorated with shoes. This heinous act of insulting Maa Durga in the name of 'Artistic liberty' won't be tolerated. I urge the Chief & Home Secretary @egiye_bangla to intervene and compel the organizers to remove the shoes before Shashti," he added. Echoing him, former Meghalaya governor and veteran BJP leader Tathagata Roy told reporters that "everything cannot be tolerated in the name of artistic freedom. This is a grave insult to goddess Durga and hurts our religious sentiment". An office-bearer of Dumdum Park Bharat Chakra puja committee, on his part, clarified that the shoe installation was at a distance from the pandal. "Our theme, this year, is farmers' agitation. As part of the theme, the path leading to the pandal has shoe installations to symbolise a scene after a police lathicharge on agitating farmers, which forced them to run helter skelter. Such scenes were witnessed recently. "Inside the marquee, Devi Durga and her progeny are surrounded by paddy stacks," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Rivalry whiff in attack on Trinamul duo, 1 dead on spot||A Trinamul activist died after he and his aide were hacked and shot by unidentified assailants in North 24-Parganas late on Thursday night. Police sources said Mofazzel Haque, owner of a prawn culture farm and a booth-level organiser, was returning home with a close aide Hafizur Gazi on a bike when a group of about eight goons waylaid them near Rajapur market in Champapukur area of Matia. “The gang stabbed the duo with sharp weapons and to ensure that they are dead, the assailants fired at them from close range and fled. Haque, 51, died on the spot and Gazi is admitted to Basirhat super-speciality hospital in a critical condition,” said a source. The police said Haque had pending criminal cases against him and was out on bail. After preliminary probe, the police claimed that the murder was a fallout of old business rivalry. “We are looking into all possible aspects behind the murder. We have got some leads and will arrest the culprits soon,” said an officer. The sources informed that two years ago, Haque escaped an attempt on his life. Some goons had tried to hack him and opened fire at him. The attack was allegedly led by a rival gang with whom Haque had developed animosity over his prawn culture business. Local Trinamul leader Abu Ishaq Mondal blamed the BJP for the murder. “The local BJP leadership with the help of goons have unleashed terror in the area ever since they lost the Assembly polls,” he said. The BJP, however, refuted the allegation. BJP Basirhat district organising committee president Tarak Ghosh said: “We don’t have any organisation in the area. The murder is an outcome of a rivalry between Trinamul-backed goons. They are blaming us to divert attention.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Elephants spoil Durga Puja leave of forest officials ||The forest department in Bankura has cancelled Durga Puja leave for all employees, including senior officers, from Friday in a move aimed at managing 80-odd elephants that entered the district in herds from Dalma forest in Jharkhand. The elephants have most recently been spotted in the Beliatore and Barjora regions of Bankura’s north forest division. “It is not a cakewalk to manage 80 elephants at a time. We have to drive them away. We have cancelled Durga Puja leave of all our employees for better handling of the animals,” said Kalyan Rai, the divisional forest officer of Bankura (North). Sources said DFO Rai, who was scheduled to be on Puja leave, had to cancel his plan. Officials said there was also another herd of around 20 elephants on the way to Bankura and may enter the district any time. Apart from the challenge to drive away such a huge number of elephants, foresters are worried about possible reasons that could have led such a large number of elephants to enter in small groups. Officials said there were at least four herds that had come from Jharkhand and interestingly, they chose Bankura in place of other Jungle Mahal districts like Jhargram, Purulia and pockets of West Midnapore. A senior forest official said they suspected the reason behind the movement being recent flooding and heavy rains in terrains that elephants frequent. “Usually, elephants from Jharkhand move to several parts of four Jungle Mahal districts. But this time, West Midnapore and Jhargram received the most rainfall during the rainy season. Elephants can’t move easily through silt or muddy land owing to their weight. This may have led them to turn towards Bankura,” said a forester. All elephants entered Bankura through West Midnapore and Jhargram districts but proceeded directly to Bankura by crossing the Rupnarayan and Dwarakeswar rivers. “Despite Bankura having received heavy rainfall a few days back, the water has fully drained owing to the laterite soil of the district,” he added. The other theory is that the elephants had to wait to cross into Bengal as the rivers in Jungle Mahal were flowing above the danger-level due to heavy rain and release of water from several dams. "The elephants always come by crossing rivers from Jharkhand. It is tough for them to cross the rivers if they are in spate. It may be that several herds had been waiting on the bank of a river in Jharkhand and crossed together as soon as the water level dropped," said a forester. The forest department in Bankura has already issued a red-alert in pockets of Bankura’s Beliatore, where the elephants are residing now. Villagers in those pockets said that they are very worried as the elephants are raiding paddy fields and destroying crops. “The paddy will ripen soon and green paddy is the favourite food for elephants. Earlier, there were one or two elephants that used to destroy small amounts of crops. We don’t know what happens if fields are raided by 80 elephants at a time,” said Biswarup Nayak, a villager from Jambedia village in Bankura’s Beliatore. “It is another threat for us before the Pujas as it would be a threat for us to use the road through the forest to visit pandals in Barjora or Bankura town,” said Nayak. “We have already formed teams and are trying to drive away the animals. We have to drive the herd away through the same route through which they came here. However, it is a time-consuming process as the number of elephants is high,” said Rai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Rajasthan resident arrested for  Rs 1crore fraud in Siliguri||A Rajasthan resident has been arrested for allegedly cheating a number of Siliguri residents over Rs 1 crore while promising them earning opportunity by making “velvet pencils”. Velvet pencils are made from the scrap of recycled plastic and are used for drawing. According to police sources, a case was registered at the Siliguri police station on July 9 against a firm of conning various residents of Siliguri and surrounding areas. “The representatives of the company had promised these residents that they would help them in setting velvet pencil making units and collected money from them. However, instead of meeting the promise, Hemant Sharma, the principal accused and some others, fled with around Rs 1.50 crore which they had collected from people,” said a police officer. The police finally managed to trace Sharma in Jaipur of Rajasthan on October 4. “Our team arrested Sharma and produced him in a local court in Jaipur. The court then ordered a transit remand for seven days. On Thursday, the team reached Siliguri with the prime accused. We will interrogate him to know about his accomplices and the money,” the officer added. In another incident, the Border Security Force (BSF) posted at the India-Bangladesh border in Pathanpara of Jalpaiguri district intercepted two suspected Indian smugglers from near the border on Thursday. Sources said one kilo of cannabis and a two-wheeler were seized from Parimal Roy and Bishu Roy. The duo are residents of Manikganj in Jalpaiguri. Both have been handed over to the police. Timber seizure The foresters of Sarugarah range under Baikunthapur forest division has seized teak logs worth around Rs 20 lakh from Fulbari, located on the southern end of Siliguri. The foresters said they searched a truck loaded with old furniture and found the logs concealed beneath the furniture. “The illegal timber was loaded in the vehicle somewhere in Arunachal Pradesh and it was on its way to Bihar. The truck driver managed to escape before the raid. We are in search of him,” said a forest officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Rural trade registration to go online in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to introduce an online system at the panchayat level for issuing registration certificates or trade licenses. The shift to the online system to carry out any commercial activity in panchayat areas is part of an attempt to improve ease of doing business in the state. On Thursday, the state panchayat and rural development department issued an order, mentioning that from now on, such certificates would be issued online and on a real time mode. “Under the new system, new registration certificates as well renewal of old certificates would be issued from panchayat offices immediately after online submission of application and payment of necessary fees. Those would be generated by the system and no physical signature would be required for it,” said a source in the department. The decision, which will come into effect from November 4 according to the order, is aimed at encouraging commercial activities across Bengal so that jobs are created even in remote areas. Ahead of the Assembly polls, the chief minister had time and again promised that 1.5 crore jobs would be created in the next five years. "Hasslefree dealings with the government will encourage youths to come forward and set up their ventures even in rural areas... And if small commercial ventures come up in rural areas, it will generate employment for local people... That in turn will ease the pressure on big cities like Calcutta as unemployed people tend to migrate from rural areas to urban areas in search of jobs," said a senior government official. This is the reason why the state government has recently relaxed criteria for setting up of private industrial parks and announced incentives for them. “The state is focusing on small industries which are labour intensive to create more jobs,” said a source. In the order, the process of application has also been simplified. Earlier, any applicant, for a new certificate or for renewal of his existing certificate, had to submit a series of documents at the panchayat office. “However, from now on, the applicant will have to submit only two documents, an identity proof and another document which would prove occupancy or ownership of his business address would be required. Added to it, the applicant will have to submit a declaration that he has obtained certificates of statutory compliances from appropriate authorities. This would largely expedite the process of issuing new certificates from the panchayat offices,” said a state government official. Among the statutory compliances include certificates from different departments and agencies like fire services, pollution control board, excise, customs, RBI and SEBI. In the order, it has also been mentioned that not a single registration certificate would be issued offline by any panchayat. The certificates issued online will be valid for three years. Representatives of trade bodies, who have time and again mentioned that it takes time to get the certificate which in many occasions discourages a private entrepreneur from making investments, have lauded the decision. “It is an important move that can boost private investment in rural areas. In towns and cities, there is not much space left to open industrial units. Now that the process has been made online at the panchayat level, we expect it would bring fresh investments in the MSME sector across north Bengal and in the state as a whole,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, chairman of the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Tri-Services Expedition team receives a warm reception ||The Mount Khangchengyao Tri-Services Expedition team received a warm reception at Sukna, the headquarters of 33 Corps of the Indian Army located on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Friday. Lt Gen AK Singh, the GOC of 33 Corps, also known as the Trishakti Corps, congratulated the team — including two women officers in addition to officers and jawans from army, Indian Air Force and Indian navy — on accomplishment of the expedition under very challenging conditions. On September 20, the expedition to Mount Khangchengyao, located in north Sikkim, was flagged off from Gurudongmar Lake and the team made it to the summit on October 2. Situated at a height of 6,889 metres, Mt Khangchengyao is considered as one of the most challenging peaks because of steep climbs, vertical ice walls, freezing temperatures and rarefied atmosphere. Army sources said that the expedition was planned as part of the celebrations to commemorate the golden jubilee of the 1971 war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC insulted House by handing over party flag to Dutta: BJP||BJP MLAs led by Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari demonstrated in front of the statue of Dr B.R. Ambedkar on the campus of the Assembly on Friday, alleging that the Trinamul Congress had insulted the Constitution and the House by handing over the party flag to Sabyasachi Dutta. Dutta had switched to the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls and he rejoined Trinamul on Thursday. Trinamul secretary general and state’s parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee, along with transport minister Firhad Hakim, handed over the party’s flag to Dutta. The opposition MLAs have alleged that such activities are against constitutional norms. “The lamentable act of the parliamentary affairs minister conducting party affairs inside the Assembly is an attack on the constitutional norms. We are protesting against this vitiation,” said Adhikari. Speaking to journalists, Adhikari said the BJP would lodge complaints with Speaker Biman Banerjee and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. He also said once the courts open after the Puja vacation, his party would file a PIL over the matter. CPM MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya also took a dig at Trinamul. Trinamul leader and minister Subrata Mukherjee said that there is nothing wrong in what happened on Thursday. “Nothing is written anywhere against it,” Mukherjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases inch up again in Bengal||Bengal on Friday recorded a rise again, for the ninth day in the past 13 days, in total active Covid-19 cases, as it increased by 32 to 7,625, with 784 new infections, 746 recoveries and six deaths. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. The state has 3.2 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 158 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 128. These are the two districts in the state to record three-digit figures of new infections. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.06 per cent on Friday. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta logged one, while North 24-Parganas reported two. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.9. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.75 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.48 lakh recoveries and 18,882 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Hogol river devours 29 homes in South 24-Parganas||Around 200 persons were rendered homeless as 29 houses caved in owing to a sudden erosion of the Hogol river banks at Radhaballabhpur village of Basanti in South 24-Parganas since early on Friday. Local sources said a breach in the dyke along the river had caused the erosion that eventually led to residential houses collapsing like a pack of cards barely within two hours from 4.30am. Although several people lost their properties ahead of the festive season, no loss of life has been reported. The loss of human lives was averted as the administration had apprehended the vulnerable condition of the dyke and arranged for timely evacuation of at least 15 families from their houses on Thursday night. After the houses were lost to the erosion, officials of the district administrations, irrigation officials and local MLA Shyamal Mondal rushed to the spot and shifted the victims to Chandrakona free school and provided them with relief materials and food.  South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “We managed to evacuate 15 families apprehending a threat on Thursday night. The victims have been provided with necessary disaster relief and the irrigation department has begun the repair of the bank.” The district administration has also identified around 50 more vulnerable houses located on a 250m-stretch along the dyke. “They will be shifted to safer zones by Friday night,” Mondal told The Telegraph, adding that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had been informed and all necessary support and rehabilitation initiatives would be taken up as per her advice. A team of engineers of the irrigation department as well as the officials of Canning subdivision examined the damaged dyke so that the repair could be taken up fast. The officials later held meetings to chalk out a rehabilitation plan for the victims since they would not be allowed to stay adjacent to the dyke. The loss of property has angered local residents who blamed the irrigation department and the district administration for negligence in repairing the dam on time. Local residents claimed they had sensed danger as the water level of Hogol increased alarmingly following the recent spell of incessant rain. “The dyke lacked maintenance for a long time. We feared a breach and had alerted the panchayat authorities about the poor condition of the dyke. But they did not pay heed to our appeal. Only last night when the water level began to rise further that officials came and asked us to evacuate our houses. Some people managed to shift their valuables, while saw everything disappear into the water in front of their eyes,” said a local resident. Local residents said the erosion started at around 4.30am when most villagers were asleep and woke up when neighbours raised an alarm. “I woke up suddenly with a tremor and rushed out of the house fearing an earthquake. A while later my house disappeared into the river. I could save nothing. I was preparing for daughter’s marriage, now everything is gone,” said an inconsolable Runu Seikh, who was surrounded by Ansar Seikh, Feroz Khan, Iman Khan, Mainuddin Ansari, Sahajada Seikh and Anwar Hossain who too have lost their homes. “I woke up to a crushing sound and rushed outside. I stood helpless as my home was eaten up by the river. I could not save anything," said Anwar and questioned the failure of the government machinery to act on time. While DM Ulaganathan said that a rehabilitation plan for the victims would be finalised soon, MLA Shyamal Mandal said: "We are planning to shift all people living on the vulnerable stretch adjacent to the dyke. We will not allow them to live there risking their lives and properties."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Leopard traced and caged near zoo in Jhargram||Forest department officers found the leopard, which had slipped out of the mini zoo in the town, inside the Jhargram forest reserve on Friday morning and managed to bring the animal back to the enclosure 17 hours after the escape. The officers had initially feared the leopard was roaming free and that led to panic among Jhargram residents. The zoo is on the outskirts of Jhargram town from where the forest starts. “We had to target it with some sedative shots in order to cage it,” said a zoo official. He added that the zoo would “remain closed for a few days”. The forest officers and police had put the town on high alert on Thursday afternoon after the leopard’s escape. Market areas and stores were abruptly shut around 7pm after the police began public announcements asking people to be on alert. Officials from Calcutta were called in late on Thursday in order to assist in the search operation. The animal was sighted within a few hours after the officers traced its footprints, following which the team set up a cage to lure it back into its enclosure. However, when that did not work, the leopard was sedated. “We think he had successfully escaped from the zoo, but could not make her way too far in the dark and got disoriented,” said a Jhargram forest officer. On Thursday, the residents had raised their voices before the officials regarding how a big cat could have escaped its enclosure in the midst of purported high security and low footfall owing to Covid-19. On Friday, forest minister and Jhargram MLA Birbaha Hansda confirmed that the leopard had been found.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Nepal relaxes protocols for Indians travelling through land||The Nepal gate is barricaded with bamboo scaffold while the Indian check-post has not been raised since March last year. But in the festive season, a small “chor-bato (a short-cut pathway)” has turned into a lifeline for citizens to enter each other’s territory. After Nepal’s cabinet had decided on September 21 to allow in Indian vehicles, the first overland Indian tourists had entered Nepal through the Raxaul-Birgunj border from Bihar on October 1 The Nepal government has also relaxed travel protocols for Indians travelling through land. Indians need to submit a Covid-19 report obtained within 72 hours of departure from the first port of embarkation or within 72 hours of entering Nepal by land. They are also required to produce a printed copy of the international traveller arrival form obtained after online registration on www.ccmc.gov.np. On the Pashupatinagar border, which is 30km from Darjeeling town, the cabinet decision has not reached in writing but people are visiting the country without producing any documents. “We have heard that a decision has been taken to allow Indians to enter Nepal in vehicles but we have not received the instruction in writing and hence, are not issuing any permit,” said a Nepalese official at the border town. Indian officials, who also downed the gate, too, said they had not received any specific instruction to open the gates from the Indian government. “At the local level, Nepalese officials did approach us to allow vehicles to move but we have told them to take up the matter with embassy officials,” said a senior district official. However, through the lockdown, Indian commercial vehicles carrying essential items have been allowed to enter the country. Such entry is, however, allowed only from Naxal-Kakarivitta border near Siliguri and not through Pashupatinagar border. At a time when the “official” movement of people is tied up in red-tapism, a “short-cut” near the border posts has become the thoroughfare. Officials from both sides are overlooking the “chor-bato” movement. Of late, tourists are even allowed to enter the heart of Pashupatinagar bazar in Nepal, which is a kilometre away from the Nepal gate. “Earlier, Indian tourists were not allowed beyond the Nepal gate (which is 50 meters from India’s post) but now they allow the tourists to visit their town,” said an Indian official posted at the border. Many tourists visiting Darjeeling do go to Pashupatinagar “to get a feel of visiting a foreign country” and also for shopping. For many local people, the decision by officials of both the countries has come as a major relief. “There are relatives on both sides of the borders and for many, it has come as a major relief during Pujas. Many locals also go to Pashupatinagar for shopping,” said a local. The entry of Indian citizens at Pashupatinagar has brought some relief to the Nepalese businessman. “My shop would be chock-a-block during this period but not this time around. Nevertheless, the steady trickle from across the border has ensured some business,” said a Nepalese businesswoman who deals in “foreign clothes”. According to a report in Kathmandu Post, a leading English newspaper of Nepal, travel and tourism businesses account for around 8 per cent of Nepal’s gross domestic product and provided more than 1.05 million jobs directly and indirectly in pre-Covid times. Indians account for the largest number of travellers to Nepal. In the first eight months of 2021, Nepal received 33,680 Indian tourists by air, the paper reported. There were, however, no data of Indians crossing land border points. India and Nepal share a 1,800km-long border which is largely porous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Union ministry orders probe into job scheme fund fraud||The Union ministry of rural development has ordered an inquiry into alleged misappropriation of funds worth Rs 200 crore in the 100-day work scheme in five districts of Bengal. But the Bengal government withheld permission for the probe, while the Centre said such a nod was not needed to conduct the investigation. According to a source aware of the developments, the ministry has set up five teams to conduct the inquiry into a complaint — forwarded to the cabinet secretary — that alleged that Rs 200 crore had been embezzled while purchasing materials for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Bankura, Alipurduar, North Dinajpur, Jhargram and South 24-Parganas. Even as New Delhi informed Nabanna about its plan to conduct the probe, the Bengal administration has withheld permission for the inquiry citing that all expenditures were uploaded on the portal of the ministry on a daily basis and there was no need for the investigation by visiting gram panchayats. “The ministry has written to district administrations and the panchayat department that a total of four days would be required to complete the inquiry and reports need to be submitted by October 10. But as the state was yet to give permission to the teams to conduct an inquiry, the process has not yet started,” said a senior state government official. He added that the top brass of Nabanna would take a final call and a decision would be taken after Durga Puja whether to allow the teams to conduct the inquiry. According to sources, the gram panchayats, the implementing agency of the MGNREGA, buy materials for constructing roads or carrying out afforestation projects. “So far, the state government has spent nearly Rs 1,400 crore in procuring materials under the scheme in the 2021-22 fiscal. If there is an allegation that Rs 200 crore was misappropriated from the funds already spent, it is a serious charge,” said a bureaucrat. Each central investigating team, a source said, comprises members of five NGOs, registered as national-level monitors under the scheme, and one internal audit officer. “One NGO led by an internal audit officer would visit one district. But unless the permission is given from Calcutta, the teams cannot visit the districts,” said a state government official. One of the internal audit officers, who is supposed to come to Bengal, said the Centre didn’t require any nod from the state government to conduct a probe. “But according to the standard practice, permission has been sought from the additional chief secretary and panchayat and rural development department before initiating the inquiry. If the permission is not given, we would wait for the ministry’s instruction,” said the officer. Sources said the formal inquiry had been ordered after an additional secretary had visited the state to look into the progress of the MGNREGA in July-August and apparently found some irregularities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
