10-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP remembers activists killed during Durga Puja: Dilip Ghosh||Senior BJP leader Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said that the party remembers its activists who were killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal even more during Durga Puja and will always remain by the side of their family members. Claiming that at least 53 BJP workers were brutally killed by ruling Trinamool Congress activists since results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2, the saffron party's national vice president said that many of its slain members had actively participated in Durga Puja celebrations in their respective areas. Ghosh visited a Durga Puja in the locality of Abhijit Sarkar, a BJP worker who was killed in Beleghata area of Kolkata on May 2, and said that even last year, the murdered party member had taken part in the festivities. "I have visited his parar pujo (neighbourhood Durga Puja) to be with his family and friends. I have assured them that Abhijit will get justice" he said. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari had visited the marquee on Saturday and later tweeted, "Overwhelmed by the grief at this Durga Puja in Beleghata, Kolkata. The organisers, in remembrance of the slain local lad Abhijit Sarkar; post poll violence victim, has refrained from playing any joyous sound, to honour his memory. Drumbeats of the 'dhaak' has also fallen silent." BJP leader Priyanka Tibrewal, who lost to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the recent Bhabanipur by-election, also visited the puja and said that the party will continue to support Sarkar's family. A TMC leader said that the ruling party in the state does not want to do politics over Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Thankful to Mamata Banerjee, say owners of Calcutta restaurants||Owners of fine dining restaurants in the city on Sunday welcomed the decision of the Bengal government to allow them to function as per normal working hours. The state government said in a notification that relaxations were being granted to restaurants, shops to be open as per "normal functioning hours" from October 10 to 20. "We wholeheartedly welcome the decision. All eateries will function accordingly beyond the earlier stipulated time of 10:30 pm from today or tomorrow till October 20," President of Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India, Sudesh Poddar told PTI. Asked if the association will seek any clarity on the words normal functioning hours, Poddar said "the order is clear enough. The members will open their outlets as they used to in normal times for the 10 days. The owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo on Park Street, Nitin Kothari said "we are thankful to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for granting our wish to allow us open our outlets beyond the 10:30 cap on festival days." "I will keep the doors of my eateries open till 12 midnight today (Sunday). From tomorrow it will be extended to 1 am," he added. Due to easing of night curfew during the festival season and declaration of all puja pandals as no entry zones, owners of eateries on Friday urged the Bengal Chief Secretary to extend the closing hour by another hour from 10:30 pm during the Durga Puja. They had stated more people will be opting for dine out experiences on puja days this year as options for pandal hopping has lessened while a section of people want to celebrate the festivities out of the confines of their homes and they will be disappointed if eateries closed by 11 pm. The night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am, as per COVID-19 restriction, has been withdrawn by the government in view of Durga Puja which begins on October 11. The owner of 'Oudh 1590' restaurant chain Shiladitya Chowdhury told PTI, "We had requested the government if the deadline can be extended by some more time. We are delighted with the response."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Tea estate offers attractive bouquet of six teas in one pack||A tea estate located just outside Alipurduar town has come up with a new way to merchandise its tea attractively with a combination pack of assorted flavours. Majherdabri tea estate, known for its excellent quality of CTC brew, has launched an assorted package of six premium teas, including the famous Darjeeling tea. “For quite some time now, we had been mulling how tea lovers can be offered a variety of flavours in one pack. So now, we have come up with a special package of six types of teas. All, except Darjeeling tea, are produced in our garden. We have launched the package for sale in one of our outlets and the response has been good,” said Chinmoy Dhar, the garden’s manager. Dhar said the attractive package has six sealed containers, each with 40 grams of tea, along with a small bottle of local honey. Darjeeling tea apart, the five other flavours are rose, hibiscus, masala, organic CTC tea and organic CTC tea produced in Majherdabri. The pack has been priced at Rs 2,000 and is available for sale at an outlet in Jainti and at the company’s own outlet in Alipurduar. Soon, the pack of six teas will be available near Jaldapara National Park (in Alipurduar district) and in Lataguri (on the fringes of Gorumara National Park in the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district), said gardens sources. This initiative, Dhar said, will help the garden make extra earnings and create avenues to explore domestic and overseas markets for specialised teas. He added that in recent times, tourists to north Bengal have spoken about their love for different varieties of teas, especially rose and hibiscus which are great favourites. A senior tea planter based in Siliguri appreciated the initiative. He said that CTC teas are produced in bulk across north Bengal, and such value additions to tea can help estates get new buyers from other states and abroad. “Such new initiatives can help a garden be financially stable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP's Raju Bista focus on hill talks, not ‘snub’||Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, on Saturday replied to the charge hurled by some hill parties that they had not been invited to the tripartite talks on October 12. Bista slammed parties like the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and Anit Thapa’s Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), saying these were satisfied with the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and were eyeing its chairs. “Let us be clear that it is not a meeting on the GTA or on selecting any of its office bearers… it is about the solution of the demand that the Gorkhas here have raised for years. Those clamouring over the issue of invitation should assert if they want the solution and if they have confidence in the Narendra Modi government. This is because on several occasions we have heard them emphasising on the GTA,” Bista told the media after arriving at the Bagdogra airport. The BGPM, especially, had questioned the Centre for not inviting them  for the October 12 talks. The party has an MLA in Kalimpong and yet he was not called unlike the BJP MLAs of Darjeeling and Kurseong, BGPM leaders said. Bista’s emphasis on the topic of the meeting is a part of the saffron camp’s strategy to galvanise support in the hills, said political observers. “He tried to drive home the point that parties like the GJM and BGPM, which are with Trinamul, are focusing more on the GTA and not on the issue of permanent political solution. It is nothing but a political move to try and drum up support for the BJP and simultaneously gain the confidence of its allies in the hills,” said a veteran in hill politics. The MP, who ascended to Darjeeling, also held a meeting with leaders of its allied parties later in the day. Senior leaders of a number of parties, including the GNLF, CPRM, Gorkhaland Rashtriya Nirman Morcha, a faction of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League and the Sumeti Mukti Morcha, were present at the meeting. “We discussed among ourselves what our submissions would be at the meeting. There will be representatives of Gorkhas and also representatives from the Dooars. Officials of the home ministry led by the Union home minister will attend the meeting that will commence at 4pm. Also, the state government has been invited at the meeting and we are hopeful that there would be some positive developments,” said Bista, who is also a national spokesperson of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Cop, three others hurt in TMC infighting in Jalpaiguri ||A minor accident  in Indira Colony on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town late on Friday night snowballed into violence as two groups of Trinamul supporters clashed all through the night. At least four persons, including the chief of a local panchayat and a police officer, have been injured. The administration had to imposed prohibitory orders in the area. Police have also filed a suo motu case against 12 persons for perpetrating violence. An embarrassed district Trinamul leadership asked local leaders to restore normality in the area, insiders said. Trouble begun at 10pm on Friday, when Trinamul worker Uttam Das had parked his bike at BDO office More in Indira Colony and was chatting with friends when an e-rickshaw rammed into his vehicle. Allegedly, one of Uttam’s friends slapped the driver. Uttam is an aide of Krishna Das, a leader of Trinamul SC & ST cell in the district. Rustam Khan, an acquaintance of the e-rickshaw driver and a Trinamul worker, reached the spot with others. Khan allegedly beat up Uttam.. Uttam told Krishna. As news spread, Krishna and others from Trinamul joined the fight. Pradhan Hembram, another follower of Krishna and the pradhan of neighbouring Patkata panchayat, reached Indira Colony with his supporters. Residents alleged that Hembram and his associates had sharp weapons, sticks and firearms, and they attacked local youth Abdul Mannan, alleging that he had beaten up Uttam, and also Abdul's father. Others then clashed with Hembram, who was beaten up. Police controlled the situation. Hembram and two others were hospitalised. Krishna then got into a fight with the policemen on duty and suddenly, Mukul Ishore, an assistant sub-inspector of police, was attacked by some unidentified people in the dark. Ishore sustained serious injuries on his face and is hospitalised. Senior police officers had to bring the situation under control. Prohibitory orders were clamped in Indira Colony and in adjoining areas like Gosala More, Patakata Colony and Kaliyaganj. “A few hours before the incident, around 200 of us had been to a party meeting convened by Krishna Das. It is disappointing that his followers assaulted our neighbours. For decades, we have been with Trinamul and yet, the incident happened. We want the district leaders to look into the issue,” said Amina Khatun, a Trinamul supporter of Indira Colony. Krishna was brief in his reaction. “A minor accident had led to the incident. There was a misunderstanding among two groups of Trinamul supporters. We have resolved it through talks,” he said. Debarshi Dutta, the district police chief, said the situation was under control in the area. “We have posted out men who are keeping a watch over the situation. Also, a suo motu case has been filed at Kotwali police station against 12 persons for perpetrating violence,” he said. “It is disappointing that our workers clashed over a trivial issue. District leaders should look into it and take steps against all those involved in it. Such incidents affect the party’s image,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid safety curbs on Ichhamati immersions||The traditional Vijaya Dashami boat ride on the river Ichhamati, to bid farewell to Goddess Durga, will be a restricted affair for the second pandemic year in a row. Taki civic administration has announced that only Durga Puja organisers will be allowed to sail on the river for immersion and that too for a limited time. The decision was taken in a flag meeting held a few days ago on the Ichhamati, in which officials of the Taki and Satkhira civic authorities, as well as the BSF, BGB (of Bangladesh), and police from India and Bangladesh were present. Krishnendu Ghosh, the officer in charge of Hansnabad police station, told the media that the decision had been “unanimous”. “A maximum of eight persons in each boat will be allowed to complete the immersion rites. The entire immersion process will be restricted between 1pm and 4.30pm and no one will be allowed to sail on the river beyond this time,” said Ghosh, adding the same protocol will be followed by Bangladeshi Puja organisers. Civic authorities have made it clear that no traditional joyrides for visitors  on the river will be allowed and any violation of the prohibition would be dealt with strongly. “Border Guards Bangladesh and Border Security Force personnel will be keeping surveillance from speed boats along the middle of the river and be creating a line of control with ropes so that no boat from either side can sneak into the other’s territory,” said an official. The administration, in consultation with the BSF and BGB, had imposed similar restrictions last year too. On the Indian side of the river, the deities are immersed at Taki. Deities from Satkhira in Bangladesh are immersed on the other side of the river bank. On Vijaya Dashami day before the onset of the pandemic, thousands used  gather on either side of the river to witness the spectacular immersion of Durga idols. Many people also used to hire boats to enjoy a ride on the river alongside the deities. A BSF official, who was present in the meeting, said people would have to view the immersion standing on the river bank and maintaining Covid protocol. “We have mutually agreed to ensure that Covid protocol is strictly followed in the greater interest of public health owing to the Covid situation,” the BSF official said. The traditional immersion boat ride on the Ichhamati goes back a few centuries, when it is believed to have been introduced by local zamindar families. “There were at least seven zamindars in undivided Bengal, who introduced the boat ride before the immersion. In the course of time, the villagers under their rule also joined the celebration. The tradition continued even though Bengal got divided thereafter,” said a local resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||1 lakh in West Burdwan’s Jamuria hit by water crisis ||Over 1 lakh residents of a dozen municipal areas and adjoining villages in West Burdwan’s Jamuria are grappling with severe water crisis for over a week now, because the water treatment plant in Raniganj’s Damalia developed a snag last week and could be partially repaired. Sources said the plant got almost submerged when the region saw record rainfall of 434mm between September 28 and 29 and subsequent release of water from two DVC dams in Jharkhand. The civic authority and public health engineering department are supplying water in tankers in Jamuria, which wasn’t enough, residents said. People in Akhalpur and Chanda in Jamuria blocked a road connecting NH2 for over an hour on Friday demanding normal water supply. “We have to fetch water from  dirty sources far from home,” said Sukho Hansda of Akhalpur. The situation in and around Raniganj town, which also get water from this plant, was as bad till Thursday. But water supply was partially restored here on Thursday after people led by former CPM MLA from Raniganj Runu Dutta blocked NH60 for hours. Khursheed Ali Qadri, municipal commissioner of AMC, said that the plant had been “partially repaired” and claimed “there was no major complaint now”. However, Manoj Dutta, a CPM district secretariat member and Jamuria resident, disagreed. “The administration is sending 1,000 tankers of water where at least one lakh people stay. People in eight municipal wards, as well as six gram panchayat areas, are suffering.” SFI leader Aishe Ghosh on Saturday posted pictures of the people’s protest in Jamuria on her Facebook wall. She slammed the government for not doing enough to resolve the water crisis. Trinamul MLA from Jamuria Hareram Singh said: “It is a combined impact of heavy rain and DVC’s conspiracy… However, the situation has improved now…. The CPM need not worry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s active Covid cases rise for 10th day||Bengal on Saturday logged a rise for the 10th day in two weeks in its active Covid-19 cases, as the number rose by nine to 7,634, with 776 new infections, 755 recoveries and 12 deaths. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases on September 26. The state has 3.3 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 162 new infections and North 24-Parganas 127, the only two districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the nation’s is 97.9 per cent. Its daily positive confirmation rate is 2.13 per cent now. Its Covid mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while the nation’s is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.75 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.49 lakh recoveries and 18,894 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||BSF rescues ibises in Nadia, smugglers escape||The Border Security Force rescued five straw-necked ibises, which are Australian migratory birds, from near India-Bangladesh border in Nadia’s Hridaypur on Friday night. According to BSF sources, the birds were being smuggled to India from Bangladesh and the officials could not ascertain how the smugglers got the birds as they managed to flee. The exotic birds were later handed over to foresters of Bethuadahari forest. “The birds have been given an oral rehydration solution and are currently under observation,” said a forest official. The BSF sources claimed that a mature ibis draws high demand for private zoos and as pets. It is usually sold at Rs 50,000 by smugglers. A BSF spokesperson of the South Bengal Frontier said a patrolling team attached to the 82 battalion spotted mysterious movement of persons close to the border around 8.30pm on Friday. They challenged the group, but the smugglers fled leaving a cage with the birds. “Smuggling of exotic birds is not new, but newer and rarer varieties of birds are being smuggled and this is quite surprising,” the BSF spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Covid vaccination drive before Puja pause ||The state health department has increased its Covid vaccination numbers in Bengal with four mega drives ahead of Durga Puja as the process will remain suspended at over 12,000 grassroots health centres on four days of the festival, starting Saptami. Officials said the decision to provide relief to thousands of health workers during the festive days had been taken in view of their tireless service  since the outbreak of the pandemic in early 2020. However, though grassroots-level centres will take a vaccination break on four days of the puja, the jab will be available at all medical colleges, district and sub-divisional hospitals like usual. Sources said they were also trying to keep the vaccination process on at the 341 block hospitals across the state during the festive days. “Our colleagues at the grassroot levels need a break to be with their families during the festival days. All the health workers serve us in emergencies and they have been working tirelessly since the outbreak of the pandemic. So, we opted to organise four mega camps this month (before Durga Puja) to counter the holiday effect,” said a senior state health official. The state vaccinated over 22 lakh people in two days of its mega drives on October 5 and 7. The third mega drive was on Saturday in which around 13 lakh people were vaccinated till 6pm. On usual days, the number of vaccination hovers around 4 lakh. The last mega drive will be held on October 11. “We are discussing if the vaccination process can be continued at block-level facilities during puja. It is also a fact that footfall for vaccination will be low during puja. We have vaccinated people in a large number to compensate the break during the festival,” said Jayanta Sukul, an additional director of health services who looks after Covid vaccination for Bengal. Health officials said the rate of vaccination was lower  in September-end because of floods in six Bengal districts. That’s why four mega drives were helping them shore up the  vaccination count. Covid vaccinations started in January. However, grassroots health workers were involved from early last year to identify the people with fever and collecting samples of those with suspected Covid symptoms. “No health worker was allowed leave during puja last year because of the threat of the second wave and everyone knows the situation in the country, including Bengal. It is not that all grassroots health workers will get leaves on all four days but the pressure will be less if vaccination is suspended,” said an official. “Apart from the vaccination, there is the scheduled work of immunisation of children and other regular health-related work, including taking care of the pregnant women,”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||EC decides on central forces for Bengal Assembly bypolls ||The Election Commission has decided to deploy 27 companies of central forces for the upcoming October 30 bypolls in four Assembly segments in Bengal, poll panel sources said on Saturday. The commission has scheduled bypolls for the Dinhata, Santipur, Gosaba and Khardah constituencies on October 30. “Central forces will start reaching the state by next week, October 13 in all probability,” the EC source said. The 27 companies will have eight companies of the CRPF, nine companies of the BSF and five companies each of the CISF and the SSB. The poll panel had deployed 52 companies of central forces for the three September 30 elections, including the Bhowanipore seat, which elected chief minister Mamata Banerjee as a legislator. Many officers at the chief electoral office of Bengal said that to conduct peaceful polls on October 30 would be a challenge for them. For instance, they cited multiple post-poll atrocities that were reported from Dinhata since this summer. That’s why the EC is extra cautious about this seat, a source from the chief electoral office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
