11-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Delhi wants 100 crore dose celebration||The Union health ministry has asked every state, including Bengal, to send proposals for country-wide celebrations in “a big way” of the 100 crore landmark in the number of total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered. The 100-crore mark is likely to be achieved over the next few days as 95 crore jabs, including 26.75 crore second doses, have already been given. In a videoconference on Saturday evening with senior officials handling Covid-19 vaccination in each state, the top brass in the Union health ministry informed that the country would touch the 100 crore mark either on October 14 or the following day. “The Centre asked each state to send a detailed proposal for the celebration,” said a senior state health department official. October 14 is Mahanavami and October 15 is Vijaya Dashami. “It is a very good idea to celebrate the 100 crore milestone, but the timing isn’t great for us as it coincides with Durga Puja. We have already informed the Centre about the biggest festival of the state, in which vaccination is to be suspended. However, we are trying to arrange for a few things at selected places. It is yet to be finalised,” said the senior health official. “Celebration of the vaccination in a big way is not possible during Durga Puja in Bengal,” he added. Besides the celebration, the Centre also asked Bengal to ensure vaccination of as many people as possible to hike the numbers. Delhi informed the state health department on Sunday that it would send over 17 lakh doses before Tuesday to help that cause. Health officials said it was a challenge for them as vaccination programmes would be suspended at over 12,000 centres for four days next week. It would be big relief to the healthcare workers who have been continuously fighting against the pandemic since the outbreak in March 2020. More importantly, estimates suggest people are not likely to visit vaccination centres during the four days of Puja. “We have already held four mega vaccination drives to meet the gap of four days during Puja. It is a pressure situation for us, if we are to considerably increase the numbers before October 15. However, our last mega drive for vaccination would be conducted on Monday,” said a senior official. In the past three days of the mega drive, the state government vaccinated around 35 lakh people, which is considered outstanding. In terms of at least one dose administered, with over 4.64 crore doses, Bengal is the fifth state after Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. In terms of both doses administered, Bengal, with nearly 1.8 crore doses (18 per cent of the population), is fifth after Maharashtra, UP, Gujarat and Karnataka. “Only 2.03 lakh people were vaccinated across the state on Sunday, as of 8pm. You can guess what would be the rate of vaccination over the four days of the festival. Only those awaiting their second dose are coming now,” said an official. Close to 3.3 crore doses were administered to males, while over 3.14 crore doses were administered to females. The 18-44 age group has received around 3.3 crore doses, the 45-60 age group has received 1.94 crore doses, while the 60-plus age group has received 1.21 crore doses. Calcutta leads the districts with nearly 74 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas with nearly 67 lakh doses. At the bottom of the pile is the smallest district of Kalimpong, with 2.86 lakh doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal flyovers mooted to avert animal accidents||The state forest department will send a proposal to the Union ministry of road transport and highways for three flyovers along the stretches of two highways to avert the collision of wild animals, especially elephants, with vehicles. The proposal, to be forwarded to the Centre via the state government, has been drawn up because a number of accidents have been reported in north Bengal where wild animals have died after being hit by vehicles. “We have identified three stretches, one in the Terai and two others in the Dooars, which are elephant-crossing zones. That is why it has been decided to send a proposal to the Centre so that flyovers are built on these stretches. Animals can safely cross the road while vehicles move on flyovers,” said a source in the forest department. According to him, one of the stretches identified is on Asian Highway 2 between Bagdogra and Naxalbari of Siliguri subdivision in Darjeeling district. The second is near Lataguri on NH31 on the fringes of Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri. The third is on Asian Highway 48 near Madarihat close to Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district. Divisional forest officers (DFOs) concerned have been asked to provide details to the department to be added with the proposal to substantiate the need for flyovers, the source said. These include forest villages and tea gardens, elephant population and the intensity of vehicles. The department has also sought from Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) two railway overpasses in two stretches of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary so that elephants safely cross the stretches. Around 80 elephants have died on tracks in the past 17 years when the stretch was converted to broad gauge from metre gauge. The sanctuary is located on the outskirts of Siliguri and stretches on till Sevoke, 25km away. The Dooars rail tracks that connects Siliguri Junction with Alipurduar Junction passes through this sanctuary. “We had submitted the proposal to the NFR which was sent to the National Board for Wildlife in due course for approval. The board recently approved the project and we hope it will be taken up soon,” said a forest officer. The elevated railway tracks, sources said, will come up in two stretches between Gulma and Sevoke stations at two ends of the sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 760 new cases, 734 recoveries, 15 deaths||The number of active Covid-19 cases shot up again on Sunday with the state logging 760 new infections, 734 recoveries and 15 deaths. This is for the 11th day in the past 15 days that the number of patients under treatment has increased. The number of active cases now stands at 7,649, which is a rise of 15 compared to Saturday, Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. Calcutta logged 166 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 123, the only two districts to record three-digit figures of new infections on Sunday. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported two, while North 24-Parganas logged four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.76 lakh Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling hotels brim with tourists ||Dashain (Puja) has arrived and so have tourists in Darjeeling after months of lull induced by the Covid-19 pandemic. Samir Singhal, the treasurer of the Darjeeling Hotel Owners’ Association, said almost all hotel rooms in the hill town were booked at least for the next 10 days. “Starting from today (Sunday), most hotels are fully booked. However, this tourism season is a short one and the flow is expected to taper off after October 22,” he said. There are around 370 hotels in the Darjeeling town. Since May, tourism had been badly hit with many hotels completely shutting down their business until recently following a surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. The industry had suffered through the first wave in 2020. “However, after the number of positive cases went down at the end of 2020, Darjeeling had a record footfall of tourists in January and February,” said Singhal. It was a clear sign that people cooped up at their homes for months were looking for a getaway. Even though the tourist arrival went down drastically after the second wave swept the country, tourism stakeholders hope the industry has left its worst behind. “We have also started getting corporate enquiries for bookings right till January. Most of the people working in the corporate sector seem to have received their second dose of Covid vaccine. In fact, we already had a few corporate meetings at our hotel,” said Rajesh Rajak, general manager, Pinetree Spa and Resort. Travellers are required to produce either a two-dose vaccination certificate or a 72-hour-old RTPCR negative test report. Not only hotels but even homestays have received good bookings. “My bookings are good till October 24. Ninety per cent of the travellers are from Bengal,” said Shoyeta Chatterjee, owner of Pahari Soul homestay at Dali, Darjeeling. Homestays have mushroomed across the hills over the past few years. Kalimpong district has the maximum number of registered homestays in Bengal at 337, way ahead of South 24 Parganas’s 78 and Darjeeling’s 63, which come second and third on the list of Bengal districts with registered homestays. The state tourism department has allocated Rs 1.64 crore for disbursal of Rs 50,000 to each of the 328 homestays in Kalimpong district. Nine homestays in the district didn’t receive the benefit because of some technical reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Eight new police stations in Barrackpore soon||The Barrackpore police commissionerate has proposed to restructure its existing policing units by forming eight new police stations and appointing as many new assistant commissioners. “Police commissioner Manoj Verma sent a proposal to state home department in this regard and has claimed these measures are necessary for effective policing here,” said an official. Sources in Nabanna said  the state government “on principle” had accepted the proposal, and expected a formal announcement soon on them because the crime graph in the industrial zone had in recent times had “become an embarrassment”. Formed in January 2012, Barrackpore commissionerate at present has 17 police stations under its jurisdiction spanning 269.5sqkm. Once the new police stations get the nod from Nabanna, the commissionerate will have 25 in all. According to the proposal made by police commissioner Verma, the police stations would come up at Halisahar, Jethia, Sibdaspur, Basudebpur, Mohanpur, Kamarhati, Dakshineswar and Nagerbazar. The police stations will all come up close to the Kalyani expressway owing to criminal activities and accidents in the area, an official said. Sources in the Barrackpore commissionerate explained that a major part of the jurisdiction, particularly the industrial belt from Naihati to Ichhapur, had become a source of serious concern for the administration amid increasing criminal activities. “The objective behind sending a proposal for these new police stations is to quell criminal activities in the area and change its dubious reputation as a crime zone that it has earned. This image needs to change so that citizens can once again repose their faith in the police”, a senior commissionerate official said. Speaking to reporters earlier this week at the launch of the Puja guide, police commissioner Verma said, “Our aim is to ensure better service to people and to build up their confidence. In this endeavour, we have proposed to constitute the new police stations, which we expect will materialise soon.” According to the proposal, the jurisdiction under Bijpur police station will be restructured into two new police stations at Halisahar and Jethia in addition to retaining Bijpur police station in its present form. Sources said Naihati police station would be restructured, resulting in one new police station at Sibdaspur. “The jurisdictions of Bhatpara and Jagaddal police stations will also be restructured for a new police station in Basudevpur,” said a source. Titagarh police station will be restructured to form a new police station in Mohanpur area. Belgharia police station will be restructured into two more police stations in Kamarhati and Daskhineswar, where population growth has been notable along with increasing footfall at the Dakshineswar temple after the extension of the Metro service. “Increasing traffic and population in Dum Dum has also compelled police authorities to set up a new police station in Nagerbazar, restructuring the jurisdiction of the existing police station,” said an official. The commissioner has also stated that in order to ensure law and order during Puja week, 15 naka checking points had been set up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader hit with rod on head amid infighting in West Burdwan||Two factions of Trinamul clashed with iron rods and bamboo sticks in West Burdwan’s Laodoha block on Saturday night reportedly over the party’s clothes-distribution drive ahead of Durga Puja. Police said Nazimuddin Middya, general secretary of Trinamul minority cell in Laodoha, was hit with an iron rod on his head. He is getting treated at the critical care unit of Durgapur subdivisional hospital. Trouble started on Saturday morning when the two factions, one owing allegiance to Middya and another to block president Sujit Mukherjee, purportedly locked horns over the gifting of clothes at Lobnapara village. “Each claimed he organised the event... a scuffle ensued,” said a police officer. Police pacified the duo. But at night, sparring factions gathered at Mukherjee’s home in Durgapur town where the quarrel snowballed into a clash. “Both sides clashed with rods and sticks. Middya was hit on his head,” said an eyewitness. Police controlled the situation. Mukherjee on Sunday alleged some new party workers, all BJP turncoats, had created misunderstandings. “The incident was a result of a misunderstanding between the party’s old-timers and newcomers. Some party workers recently inducted to the Trinamul from the BJP sparked the trouble, unfortunately. However, it was a minor issue and was resolved,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Temple of Bankim's characters rebuilt, to reopen soon||The temple of Devi Choudhurani and Bhawani Pathak, characters penned by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee in his 1884 novel Devi Choudhurani, which was gutted in 2018, has been rebuilt and will reopen its gates to people at Sikarpur of Rajganj block in Jalpaiguri district next month. For decades now, denizens of Sikarpur have been worshipping Devi Choudhurani and her associates as divinities in the temple located on a serene tea estate. However, on the night of February 16, 2018, the temple, which resembled a pagoda, as well as its idols made of wood, were gutted in a blaze. Then tourism minister Gautam Deb had taken up the task to rebuild the temple and make new idols from wood. The parks and gardens wing of the state forest department was assigned the job. Since then, a team of sculptors has been making the idols. A new temple building has come up on the same site. “We have set November 4 as the target to reopen the temple, Kali Puja day. Sculptors have confirmed that idols will be ready then. I will visit Calcutta and request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate the temple,” said Khageswar Roy, Trinamul MLA of Rajganj. On Friday, officials of tourism and forest departments visited the workshop of Biswajit Ghosh, the sculptor, along with the MLA. “If everything goes right, we will host a puja at the temple that day (November 4). People of Sikarpur and nearby have been eagerly waiting (for the temple) for over three years,” Roy said. The sculptor said they had almost finished the job. He also added that along with Devi Choudhurani and Bhawani Pathak, idols of Rangalal (one of Devi’s associates), Ganga Devi and Teesta Buri (local deities venerated in the region) would be reinstated in the new temple. “In all, we are readying 10 idols,” said sculptor Ghosh. A researcher in Jalpaiguri said the temple, because of the uniqueness of idols, would also draw several visitors, both researchers and pilgrims, from across north Bengal and other parts of the state. “This is a one-of-its-kind temple where one can find characters from Bankim Chandra Chatterjee’s novel worshipped as gods. Devi Choudhurani was written soon after Ananda Math in 1882, a narrative of sanyasi vidroh (the uprising of monks against British rule),” the researcher added. The reopening of this temple would boost religious tourism in Jalpaiguri district, said officials of state tourism department. “We are trying to develop a religious circuit here. Once this temple is opened, it will surely help us to draw more visitors as people are interested because of religious as well as historical reasons,” said Jyoti Ghosh, a joint director of tourism posted in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||IIT students in Sunderbans to plant mangroves||A group of students from IIT-Kharagpur planted 10,000 saplings of mangroves at a village in Satjelia island of the Sunderbans, which had suffered damage during Cyclone Yaas this year in May. For this venture, the students raised money through crowdfunding online. The students, mostly research scholars of various departments of the IIT, said they chose a place in a remote island of Gosaba in the Sunderbans as the area was severely affected by Yaas, which hit the Bengal coast. Sources said around 30 students of the IIT had formed a platform named Vision-Prabaha to focus on the environment and help people hit by natural calamities. In the aftermath of Yaas, the group of  students also helped out people in two affected islands, Ghoramari and Kumirmari of South 24-Parganas. “During our visit to this region after Yaas, we understood that we have to work towards a permanent solution. Then we came to know about Umashankar Mondal, geography teacher and activist who has been planting mangroves since Cyclone Aila (in 2009), and we were inspired by him. We planted 10,000 saplings for now and want to ramp it up in the future,” said Biswarup Mondal, a research scholar in chemical engineering  of IIT-Kharagpur. Biswarup, accompanied by three other research scholars Saptarshi Kumar Lahiri of civil engineering, Bijan Kumar Das of the Centre for Ocean, River, Atmosphere and Land (CORAL) sciences and Atanuka Paul of chemistry went to the Sunderbans on Friday for the task with the help of local people, mainly women, in and around Parashmani village under Lahiripur gram panchayat of Gosaba. This region falls under Satjelia island. The students planted three types of mangroves, locally known as byne (Avicennia alba), kankra (Bruguiera gymnorrhiza), and garan (Ceriops decandra), over a stretch of two hectares by the banks of the Garal river in the area. The students said they had purchased the 10,000 saplings for around Rs 70,000 from a nursery and carried them on a hired boat to reach the remote village of Satjelia. “We took help of a crowd-funding platform online, besides contributions from our friends and well-wishers. We have plans to continue the drive. We are the four who went physically to participate in the plantation, but the rest are with us, always,” said one of the four students. Umashankar, a geography teacher and mangrove activist who earned the soubriquet “Mangrove Man” for his contribution of 12 years in mangrove plantation, guided the group to get people for plantation and arrange the saplings. He also raised funds from various organisations to distribute new clothes among over 1,000women and children in the Sunderbans, who had actively participated in the mangrove plantation with him after Yaas. “I thought we should give some gifts to those who planted mangroves voluntarily with me the entire year. I am happy that students from institutions like IIT-Kharagpur came up to participate in mangrove plantation to save the habitat of these remotest pockets of the Sunderbans,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar municipality initiative to increase earnings||The Alipurduar municipality is exploring new avenues to increase earnings of the civic body. While on one hand the authorities of the civic body have installed a processing unit and making manure from the waste collected from across the town, they have also planned to introduce a public address system in the town which would be offered on rent for advertisement. Prasenjit Kar, the chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) of the Alipurduar municipality, on Thursday had said that a garbage processing unit had been launched in ward IV of the town. “On an experimental basis, we produced around 26 quintals of manure from wet garbage and could earn over Rs 32,000. We now want to expand the scale of operations at the unit which will help us to make additional earning. Also through this initiative, we gave employment to a number of  people. We have employed 76 people at the unit,” added Kar. The initiative has also earned appreciation from the state municipal affairs and urban development department. “We have made a PowerPoint presentation of the project. It will be sent to 125 civic bodies across the state so that they too, can replicate the process,” he added. The BoA has also decided to install a public address system across the town. The idea is to install a network of sound boxes along Buxa Feeder Road and along Alipurduar-Kumargram Road — two prominent thoroughfares of the town — and in some major crossings which would be controlled by the civic body. It would be used by the civic body to make public announcements on various issues and services and during festivities and songs would also be played. Altogether, 80 sound boxes will be installed in the town and around Rs 7 lakh would be spent. “We have also come with a plan to let out the public address system for advertisements. People can pay us a fee and run their advertisements. This will also contribute in additional earning for the civic body,” said Kar. The civic body has also decided to open a musical fountain in Rabindra Sishu Udyan, a popular park of the town, ahead of the Diwali, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation takes initiative to beautify Lalmohan Moulik Ghat||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation has taken an initiative to beautify Lalmohan Moulik Ghat, the principal ghat for immersion of Durga idols, on the left bank of Mahananda river. The board of administrators (BoA) at the SMC engaged a group of artists from Calcutta and Siliguri to paint different stretches of the ghat, depicting important and popular installations and destinations in and around Siliguri. With myriad colours, the artists painted the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway’s iconic toy train, the famous Coronation Bridge over the Teesta river at Sevoke, the Bengal Safari Park (in picture) and the Siliguri Gate on NH31. “People are tired of watching commercial hoardings across the city. These paintings, we believe, can soothe their eyes. The paintings have also changed the ambience of the ghat ahead of the festival,” said Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA at the SMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
