12-10-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: 36 families homeless amid erosion||Some 36 families in Dhulian, a municipal town in Murshidabad’s Samserganj, turned homeless owing to erosion in the Ganga on Monday. Six houses so far have been swept away by the erosion that started three days ago. Apart from the six houses lost, 30 more are endangered. A 300-metre-long road made by the municipality is also gone. Lalpur and Raiganj, in the municipality, are the worst affected. The administration has sheltered homeless residents  at a local primary school. Those whose houses are on the verge of being swept away have moved to safer places with whatever they could salvage. People dismantled their houses to take away doors, window panes and bricks with the hope that they would need them to build new homes. Asharul Seikh, who lost his house,  said he had built his home only three years ago. He jas no hope of building another. “I’d toiled hard to build this house. Now all of it is gone. I’ll never be able to make another. I don’t even have any land left. My family will have to live on the streets now,” Seikh said. For erosion victim Badal Singha, Durga Puja is ruined. “Saving our lives is most important now. The erosion started three days before Durga Puja. Festivities for us have become a joke,” Singha said. He added he had been living in the area for around 40 years and seen erosion earlier as well, but nothing of this sort. Local sources said this was the first time in years that the Samserganj area had seen such devastating erosion. At present, two of the most endangered buildings are a mosque and the government-aided Amanat Memorial Primary School. “I’ve asked the BDO to provide temporary assistance like tarpaulin and food to people who have lost homes. The irrigation department has also been asked to arrange temporary prevention against erosion,” said Sharad Kumar Dwivedi, district magistrate, Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 606 new cases, 597 recoveries, nine deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 606 new Covid-19 infections, 597 recoveries and nine deaths, as the number of active cases stayed put at 7,649. This occurred as the number of recoveries and deaths put together equalled the number of new infections. In 16 days, Bengal recorded a rise in its total of active cases on 11 days, a fall on four days and status quo on Monday. It had snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in the active cases, or Covid patients under treatment, on September 26. Bengal now has 3.67 per cent of India’s active cases, and is sixth among states with the most number of such cases. Calcutta logged 145 new infections and North 24-Parganas 109, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one and North 24-Parganas two. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.02. Its daily positive confirmation rate was 2.32 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.77 lakh Covid-19 cases since March last year, including over 15.5 lakh recoveries and 18,914 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Intra-party clash kills 2 of Trinamul in Cooch Behar||Two persons died and five others got injured as two Trinamul factions clashed at Gitaldaha under Dinhata police station of Cooch Behar district on Sunday night. Both had bullet injuries, police said. Local Trinamul leaders admitted that the dead and the injured were party supporters who had clashed to gain control over the area. “They clashed over some local issue and two persons lost their lives. Five were injured. Four persons have been detained so far in this connection,” said SP Sumit Kumar. Gitaldaha, under Dinhata police station, comes under Sitai Assembly seat. But the clash has perturbed Trinamul’s district party leaders as internal rifts were again bared ahead of the October 30 bypoll in the Dinhata Assembly seat. Sources said around 10pm on Sunday, supporters of Jagadish Burma Basunia, the Trinamul MLA of Sitai and rivals of another lobby of district leaders including former district president Partha Pratim Roy had an altercation at Marakuti village under Gitaldaha-II panchayat. Deceased Mannan Haque and Muzaffar Hussain have been identified as MLA Basuria’s followers. The MLA on Sunday demanded a comprehensive probe. “All I can say that those who lost their lives and those injured are Trinamul supporters. Police should find out what led to the incident,” he said. Trinamul insiders pointed out that in Cooch Behar, infighting among different lobbies of the party has been one of the major reasons for the party’s miserable results at the elections held during the past few years. “Even Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee have time and again alerted those who head these lobbies to refrain from clashing. But violence seems to be far from ending,” said a senior leader. Girindranath Barman, the district Trinamul chief, tried to downplay the issue. “As far I know, the clash was over differences among two families. There is no political issue,” Barman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Muslim outfit gifts new clothes to villagers in Bankura ||A group of Muslim youths at remote Lodda village in Bankura district on Sunday gifted new clothes to around 400 poor Hindu families after they held a survey on how many villagers could not buy any for Bengal’s biggest festival. The 20 youths, mostly farmers and small traders, held a meeting a fortnight ago to survey how many among the Hindu community in their locality needed new clothes. “Most of the Hindu families in our area are poor. We visited the homes to see if they were able to buy new clothes for their family members. Many could not. So we took details like age and gender of the family members, including children, as these were important before purchasing dresses. We distributed the clothes on Sunday,” said Sheikh Bapi, a member of the Lodda Muslim Yuva Sampradai that organised this event. On Sunday, during a cultural programme at the village grounds,  the members handed over new clothes to those who had enlisted their names. “We believe in amity and here both Hindus and Muslims live like brothers. We also celebrate our festivals together. For us, religion is a personal affair but festivity is for all,” said Sheikh Mojammel, a member. The youths said that to buy the new clothes they pooled their own money and from other philanthropic villagers to raise Rs 1 lakh. With this, they brought new clothes for the 400 families, including around 50 children and 200 women. Bablu Bauri, whose elderly parents, wife and child received new clothes from the Lodda Muslim Yuva Sampradai, said he was in deep financial crisis and was in no position to buy clothes. “I am a daily wage earner and used to work as a mason’s helper here. I have not been earning regularly since the pandemic started. I had no money to buy new clothes for my family during Durga Puja this year,” Bablu said, thanking organisers for the gesture. Lodda is a village in Khalagram gram panchayat in Taldangra block area of Bankura. The village is the only one in the area with a sizeable Muslim population. The village has around 400 Muslim families, most relatively better-off. In Bankura district, the Muslim population is only 8.08 per cent as per 2011 census. This is not the first time that the Muslim youths have come forward to help needy Hindu families. During the lockdown, they helped villagers who had lost their jobs with dry ration like riceand pulses. “When there was partial lockdown or curbs during the second wave of the pandemic we used to serve cooked food to the needy families,” added one of the youths of the group. The organisers said they will continue similar drives in the future too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Faith no bar for Durga Puja festivities in Cooch Behar ||Residents of Suktabari, a tiny village on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town, have been hosting a community Durga Puja for around 55 years now. A homely affair, it doesn’t have the glamour of the major pujas in the district. But it stands out because of the feeling of amity. In Suktabari, Hindus are a minority and this puja is held with the help of hundreds of Muslim families of the area. The village on the banks of the Torsha has a market where thousands visit every day. The puja is held at a temple in the market near the mosque and madrasa. In all, there are 400 shops at the market and only five are owned by Hindus. “For decades now, Durga Puja has been held at the local temple. We join hands together to celebrate the occasion. In Suktabari, we have never seen any religious differences cropping up,” said Abul Hossain, president of the Suktabari Bazaar Byabsayee Samiti. Traders like Harinath Saha and Manoj Saha, whose families have been staying at the village for generations, said they never felt “different.” “We often hear people giving tall talks on amity but doing things that create differences among communities. They should visit Suktabari. We can organise the puja only because we get immense help from all the Muslims here,” said Harinath. Beauty, his wife, the secretary of the puja committee this year, echoed him. “Muslims are the majority here and their enthusiasm for Durga Puja encourages us. We went to collect chanda and no one denied us,” she said. The Durga Puja organised at a taxi stand in Malda town since 2007 tells a similar story. Known as Gazole Taxi Stand Sarbojanin Durgotsab, it unites Muslims and Hindus. Bobby Ahmed, secretary of the puja committee, said they felt the need to organise the puja as they found some lower caste Hindus were aloof from the festivities. “Their deprivation and humiliation prompted me to start this puja. Thankfully, some well-to-do residents of the locality stood by me,” he said. Sankar Dutta, the puja committee president, said it was only because of Ahmed’s endeavour that they could host the puja at the taxi stand. “Ahmed is very scrupulous about holding the rituals minutely. He has set an example for us,” said Dutta. Ahmed, a trader, also bears the cost of a Kali Puja at his ancestral village in Englishbazar block near the India-Bangladesh border. “If one practises religion truly, one can’t resort to violence or any form of disharmony,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Bus injures teen, mob ire erupts on NH2||Angry residents ransacked several vehicles and blocked two service lanes of NH2 in Durgapur town for over three hours after an Asansol-bound Volvo bus knocked down and injured a 19-year-old at 10.30am Monday. The mob also manhandled policemen who had gone to the spot to control the situation. The incident happened at busy Muchipara crossing when the market on both sides of the service lanes was crowded on the first day of Durga Puja. Witnesses said the bus that usually uses the overbridge of the highway was on the Asansol-bound service lane as the bridge was closed for repairs. “The Volvo overtook a bus at Muchipara crossing and suddenly took the wrong route. The youth, Amit Prasad, standing beside the Calcutta-bound service lane, was hit,” said Chandan Gorai, an eyewitness. As Amit slumped, the bus driver and helper fled. Angry residents, who blocked the crossing and hurled stones at vehicles, alleged that most of the time no traffic policeman stayed on the accident-prone crossing. Traffic on the busy Calcutta-Delhi highway was held up till at least 2pm . Protesters finally dispersed after police promised to bear the cost of Amit’s treatment and deploy traffic police on the crossing. Rushed to Durgapur subdivisional hospital, Amit was shifted by police to a private hospital. The protesters also demanded compensation and money for the treatment of the injured and compulsory police posting at the crossing. The police said the NHAI was repairing cracks on the overbridge and had closed the bridge for traffic. That’s why vehicles, including trucks and buses, are using narrow service lanes to negotiate the busy crossing. “The closure of the bridge has made it difficult for us to manage the traffic bottleneck on both sides of the service lanes. Sometimes buses and other small vehicles take the wrong route to avoid the snarl,” said a police officer. “We will bear the entire cost of the treatment of the injured youth and ensure police posting here. We will also urge the national highway authorities to finish repair work fast,” said Dhrubajyoti Mukherjee, assistant commissioner of police (Durgapur).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s Khardah bypoll candidate ‘attacked’||The BJP’s Khardah bypoll candidate, Joy Saha, was allegedly attacked, along with others, by suspected Trinamul supporters during a clash over putting up banners near Girja More in Khardah on Sunday night. Allegedly, ruling party supporters forced BJP supporters to leave. Three injured BJP supporters are in hospital. Saha has lodged a complaint with Khardah police. But no one was arrested in this connection till Monday night. Saha termed the incident as a planned attack to kill him and terrorise party workers. The party has told the Election Commission about the attack. Police and local sources said trouble broke out at Girja More around 10pm on Sunday when some Trinamul supporters allegedly removed BJP  banners and set them on fire. “Our party workers were putting up banners when a group of  20 Trinamul activists backed by goons attacked them. They removed our banners, flags and buntings and began beating our people. I rushed to the spot,”  Saha said. “I was checking the gutted flex when they began to hurl stones at me and ransacked my car. I alerted police, but they were mute spectators.” Local Trinamul leaders denied the charge. “None of our party workers was involved. I learnt it was a fallout of BJP’s internal bickering,” a Trinamul leader in Khardah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Centre calls tripartite meet to discuss ST status in hills||The demand to grant Scheduled Tribe status to 11 communities in the Darjeeling hills and Sikkim is likely to be discussed at the tripartite meeting that the Centre has convened in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss “issues related to Gorkhas”. The hills were on Monday abuzz with murmurs that the Narendra Modi government would finally take up the ST demand after Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista said the registrar general of India (RGI) and the secretary of the Union tribal ministry would attend the meeting. “The registrar general of India and the secretary of the Union tribal ministry have been asked to attend the tripartite meeting, which means the issue of granting tribal status to 11 communities will be discussed tomorrow,” said Bista. The meeting will be chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah. Even though both the Bengal and Sikkim governments and the BJP, which is in power at the Centre, have agreed to the demand of granting the ST status to 11 communities, no concrete action has been taken about it as yet. The 11 communities are Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal. “There is an understanding that bureaucrats are not in favour of according the ST tag to the 11 hill communities as they believe certain modalities are not fulfilled by many communities,” said an observer. The Union ministry of tribal affairs had formed a committee in 2016 to examine the demand for the ST tag. “The determination has to be done as per the modalities of the government. ORGI is the competent authority to determine if a community is as per its yardstick for listing as Schedule Tribe,” read the report filed by the panel. Interestingly, even before the report was submitted by the committee, the ORGI had rejected twice on various grounds the proposal sent by the Bengal and Sikkim governments to bestow the ST tag on the 11 communities. An RTI reply in 2019 had said the ORGI was of the opinion that there would be similar demand from people of Nepalese origin from other states, apart from Bengal and Sikkim, in the country. A letter had also been written by the additional registrar general to joint secretary in the ministry of tribal status on March 24, 2017 stating “inflow of Nepalese immigrants will further increase if the said communities are granted ST status”. Another important observation of the ORGI read: “The consequences of specifying all these (Gorkha )communities as STs will be, that almost all the permanent residents of Sikkim will be Schedule Tribes, and the more backward communities like Lepcha and Bhutia (who are Schedule Tribes) would be disadvantaged and deprived.” The list of attendees at the meeting remained hazy as there was no confirmation from the state government that it had been invited to the talks. Bista has, however, said Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi has been invited to the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
