13-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja fervour at peak on ‘Mahaashtami’||Devotees across West Bengal offered 'pushpanjali' on Wednesday morning, on the occasion of Mahaastami, and rituals such as 'Kumari puja' got underway, as priests chanted mantras over loudspeakers and organisers tried their best to manage crowds at the Durga puja pandals. Thousands of revellers descended on the streets to visit the big-ticket puja marquees in the city and elsewhere, with festivities reaching a crescendo on the eighth day of the ten-day festival. Unlike last year, several people, having taken double doses of Covid-19 vaccine, also queued up outside restaurants and roadside food stalls. Many were seen removing masks to take selfies or simply to breathe easy amid the humid weather conditions. “People needed some respite from the restrictions that were imposed on their movements over the past one-and-a-half years,” said Partha Ghosh, a founding member of Forum for Durgotsab -- the apex body for the city's community puja organisers. "The number of visitors to pandals is definitely more this time when compared with last year, as people, after taking their vaccine doses, no longer fear COVID-19 the way they did in 2020," Ghosh, who is also an office-bearer of Shiv Mandir Puja committee, stated. Organisers and police personnel, however, were in some places seen urging revellers to avoid crowding, and wear masks at all times, amid speculation that COVID cases might rise after the festival. "Please follow COVID-19 protocols for your own safety. You need not see all pandals this year. Try keeping celebrations low-key. Don't be out of home all day," an organiser of Baghbazar Sarbojonin Durga Puja Committee, one of the most popular marquees in north Kolkata, was heard telling people over microphones, even as individuals jostled for space as they tried to catch a glimpse of the traditional 'ek-chala pratima' (idols of deities mounted on one frame). Similar scenes were also witnessed at Sreebhumi Sporting, this year's big draw, despite the suspension of the laser show at the pandal, which is a replica of Dubai's Burj Khalifa. Authorities at Belur Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Mission (RKM), did not allow any visitor on its premises, quite like last year, as monks performed 'Kumari puja' (a girl child is worshipped as goddess). RKM units in Jayrambati and Kamarpukur also followed suit. The step-by-step rituals were streamed live on the official website of Belur Math. Women, during the day, were seen making preparations for 'Sandhi puja' (prayers offered at the juncture of Mahastami and Mahanabami). Mahastami puja was also observed with fanfare at the iconic Sovabazar Rajbari and other aristocratic households in the city, but visitor entry was barred at many such places. Cricket icon Sourav Ganguly offered 'pushpanjali' at Barisha Players Corner marquee. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari visited a community pandal at Kanthi in Purba Medinipur district to offer prayers, while TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh gave 'pushpanjali' at the Rammohan Sammilani puja pandal in north Kolkata. The Maddox Square Puja, a favourite meet-and-chat point for pandal hoppers, wore a forlorn look for the second year in a row, as organisers allowed people inside the complex only in batches. The Calcutta High Court has ordered that all Durga Puja pandals in West Bengal be made no-entry zones for the public, as was directed last year, to curb the spread of COVID-19. The court has this year permitted puja rituals like 'Anjali', 'Arati' and 'Sindur Khela' inside the marquees, while directing that the relaxation will be subjected to a cap on the maximum number of persons allowed, and compliance with conditions like double vaccination and wearing of masks. Most Durga Puja organisers had planned their marquees keeping in mind last year's high court order, thus allowing visitors to view the idols and the artwork from a distance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||‘Bengal CPM did not see BJP threat or communalism’ ||The Left, primarily the CPM, is passing through an ideological and practical crisis. Can it overcome this crisis and add to the strength of a united Opposition challenging the BJP? Political scientist Sobhanlal Dattagupta explores the subject in this interview. The Bengal CPM has taken a 360-degree somersault. It’s not equating Trinamul with the BJP any longer and has said its main enemy is the BJP and it will cooperate with Trinamul at the Centre to oust the BJP. What provoked this change? That the West Bengal CPM’s stand on BJP and Trinamul was at variance with the line of the central committee was made unambiguously clear by Sitaram Yechury in his recent statement and in the stand taken by the central leadership of the party. While these criticisms have led the West Bengal CPM to admit it was wrong to coin the “Bijemul” slogan and, thereby, virtually equate the TMC with the BJP, I’m not sure whether this necessarily is a sign of a serious rethinking within the party in West Bengal. In fact, this is related to a larger question. The West Bengal Left, in general, has been prone to believe that the virus of communalism has been predominantly absent from the Bengali psyche and that this is explained by Bengal’s cultural heritage. Consequently, it has never taken into consideration the apparently invisible undercurrent of communalism that flows through the veins of the average Bengali. This led to a feeling of complacence in regard to the threat of the BJP and its consequent underestimation. In other words, there is no use in simply admitting that a mistake was committed unless appropriate corrective measures are adopted. As regards the possibility of an all-India anti-BJP alliance where the TMC and the Left can join hands, there is nothing unusual about it. This can certainly happen because of the situational compulsion. The process has already started at the central level although there are many knotty issues to be resolved involving Congress-TMC-Left equations. Does this mean that the CPM has, after a baffling delay, accepted the political position of the CPIML whose leader, Dipankar Bhattacharya, has said everything possible should be done to unseat the fascist BJP? The question is a bit misconstrued. Dipankar Bhattacharya’s interviews on the eve of the Assembly elections gave the impression as if he was pleading for a tie-up with the TMC, the main consideration behind being “no vote to BJP”. The CPM, obviously, was sharply critical of this position. In the post-poll situation, however, a careful reading of Deshabrati (the CPIML mouthpiece) shows that it is taking a critical position on a number of misdeeds of the TMC. So I would rather suggest that if the West Bengal CPM considers the BJP the main danger and the CPIML does not spare the undemocratic and authoritarian practices of the TMC, a new chemistry involving the Left Front and the CPIML may unfold in West Bengal. Will the CPI, RSP and the Forward Bloc follow the changed policy of the CPM and try to build a cohesive Leftist block that would cooperate with other secular parties that also profess socialism? The CPI, RSP and the Forward Bloc harboured sharp differences with the CPM on the stand the West Bengal CPM took on the issue of the BJP and Trinamul. But for the sake of Left unity they accepted it. While I agree that all of them should cooperate with other secular forces to ensure the successful functioning of such a front, what is more important is the coming together of all Left forces, at least in West Bengal, for two reasons. One, the ideological position of the non-Left-yet-secular parties on socialism is rather vague and ill-defined. Two, the Left parties alone, despite their many differences, have the necessary resources to challenge the BJP ideologically. This is especially explained by the fact that it is the non-Left parties from where the maximum migration to the BJP has taken place. In West Bengal, on the eve of the Assembly elections, the migration from the TMC to the BJP reached almost the height of absurdity and thereafter a reverse flow has started. In West Bengal, the Left has to constitute the core and show the road ahead. What are the specific areas in which the Left can engage itself powerfully to retrieve the space it has lost? I would very specifically focus on four such areas: (a) to build up a leadership that would command respect at the central as well as regional level, because the leadership vacuum is being fully utilised by the BJP; (b) to build a truly meaningful communication network that would forge a real tie-up between the party and the masses and abjure bureaucratic practices in realising this objective; (c) to present an alternative model of governance, shunning populism and bureaucratism, that would reach out to the masses; and (d) to work out an alternative cultural strategy to fight the BJP ideologically. The battle lines are drawn. We have the fascist BJP which, many say, is keen to sell the country to corporate bigwigs, and on the other hand we have the Opposition, which should think in terms of a progressive, united and vibrant social democracy. This fundamental cleavage prompts the last question: why don’t the CPM and other Leftist parties call themselves social democratic rather than communists? While I certainly agree that the battle lines are clearly drawn, I do not think that for the survival of the Left the road ahead is the acceptance of a robust social democracy and rejection of communism. Let me briefly state three explanatory factors. One, the vision of social democracy and that of communism are entirely different in the sense that social democracy does not call for any fundamental alternative to capitalism. Two, one model of socialism has been practised in history and despite some of its positive elements it has ultimately proved a failure, the basic reason being its adherence to an authoritarian style of functioning. Three, an altogether different model of socialism is called for, the constituents of which would be humanism and self-rule of the labouring masses as the highest manifestation of revolutionary democracy. This was the projected vision of Marx, and its echoes are to be found in the ideas of Rosa Luxemburg, Antonio Gramsci and Nikolai Bukharin, to name a few. In the intellectual history of Marxism, one comes across these alternative visions but the history of socialism did not provide any opportunity to test them in practice. History is yet to give its verdict on this unexplored understanding of socialism. The problem with the mainstream Left across the world is that, while at the theoretical/ intellectual level these alternative possibilities are subjects of animated discussion, at the level of political practice there is hardly any effort to incorporate them in political struggles. This involves a larger strategic question, namely, revisioning the Left rather than a renewal of the Left, which envisages a break with the past in many respects. This understanding demands a new reading of the legacy of Marxism from the basics. In India this is the need of the hour if the Left has to move ahead, for the simple reason that in the absence of any projected alternative it would be impossible to draw the younger generation ideologically towards the cause of socialism. The Left has to clearly state that it does not endorse the authoritarian model of socialism which, though it prevailed for a long time, was ultimately proved wrong. Further, that it is prepared to harbour a better, alternative vision the resources of which have remained unexplored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||New mobile women police squad for Siliguri||A new mobile women police squad was launched by Siliguri Metropolitan Police in association with the Siliguri Municipal Corporation here on Tuesday. The squad, which will be engaged in patrolling, will move in two-member groups on two-wheelers to curb crimes against women. “We want to enhance women’s safety in and around Siliguri. That is why the squad has been launched. All members of the squad are combat trained and will carry sophisticated equipment of communication, body cameras and some other gadgets to ensure that they do not face any problem in discharging their duties,” said Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of police. The SMC provided 11 two-wheelers to the police. “We had approached the chairman of the board of administrators at the SMC and he readily agreed to provide this help to us. It is because of this help that we could launch the squad so early. The squad members will patrol the city, especially during festive days,” added Sharma. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators at the SMC, said such a squad was necessary for the city. Every day, millions of people visit Siliguri on different errands, along with tourists. “Also, during Durga Puja and Kali Puja, we find lakhs of people visiting the city from neighbouring districts and states. This squad would be effective to prevent crimes against women,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 768 cases, 735 recoveries, 10 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 768 Covid-19 cases, 735 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total of active cases rose by 23 to 7,672. In the past 17 days, Bengal recorded a rise in the total of active cases on 12 days and a fall on four days. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total active cases on September 26. The state now has 3.7 per cent of the national total of active cases and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of Covid patients under treatment at present. Calcutta logged 180 infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 126 on Tuesday. These are the only two districts with three-digit figures of new infections in Bengal. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, while the national rate is 98. The daily positive confirmation rate, which had been nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.56 per cent on Tuesday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported no death from Covid on Tuesday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged two deaths each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.78 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.51 lakh recoveries and 18,924 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||Freight train overturns near Raghunathbari station ||Tourists and residents bound for East Midnapore’s Digha on the first day of the Puja were halted on the tracks on Tuesday morning when a freight train overturned near Raghunathbari station and stalled the movement of Howrah-Digha Tamralipta Express. The South Eastern Railway had to cancel all trains between Digha and Haldia for Tuesday. According to railway police, a coal-laden freight train from Haldia to Jharkhand overturned around 8am between Tamluk and Panskura. “The Tikiapara-Haldia special local train also got stuck near Panskura station and the Asansol-Haldia Intercity Express was left stranded near Kharagpur station,” said a source. Passengers on the Tamralipta waited expectantly for almost four hours before being informed that the train would be returning to Howrah, leaving holidaymakers with no alternatives given that the closest town, Mechheda, is poorly connected by road. Kaustab Mukherjee, 42, a businessman from Ballygunge in Kolkata, said his two-year-old child and elderly parents were all going to Digha for a holiday. “As the train was cancelled midway, we had to call off the tour and return home. It was not possible for us to walk on the road with children and the elderly,” he said, adding that the area had no bus services. Other passengers tried to reach Digha by road. But the extra fare charged by private cars as well as the lack of seats on buses forced many to return to Howrah. Navneeta Roy, a homemaker from Behala in Calcutta, said: “My husband and wife were going to visit Mandarmoni. As the train stopped in the middle, I tried to get into the long-distance bus from Mechheda. But the bus was so crowded that it was not possible to board. Private cars were asking for Rs 5,000-6,000. It was not possible for us to spend this money. So, we came back home. Saptami’s joy turned to dust,” she exclaimed. Bipradas Chakraborty, joint secretary of the Digha Shankarpur Hoteliers Association, termed the situation “unfortunate”. “The railways didn’t give us a special Puja train. Instead, the freight train overturned and our only train service on the long route was completely stopped,” he said. A railway official said the freight train had overturned and had damaged the railway line and electricity poles as a result. “Once the line is repaired, train movement will be restored,” said an official who could not give a time-frame for the return of normality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||Several Puja committees choose Lakshmir Bhandar as theme||Several Durga Puja committees across Bengal have chosen the theme of Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi’s treasure) — the flagship scheme of the state government that envisages to empower women through direct cash transfer — to attract pandal-hoppers as the project has gained popularity since its launch on July 1. The scheme was promised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her campaign rallies in the run up to the Assembly polls this year. A section of political scientists and Trinamul Congress leaders believe the promise for Lakshmir Bhandar had played a significant role in bringing back the party to power for the third consecutive time. According to the proposed scheme, the state government is providing a monthly aid of Rs 1,000 to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 to those belonging to the general categories. Officials said around two crore women across the state had already started receiving the monthly dole from this month. The government has estimated that Rs 11,000 will have to be spent from the state exchequer annually to run the scheme. Sources said in most of the districts in both north and south Bengal, there were at least one Puja pandal where the theme of Lakshmir Bhandar was adopted. Puja organisers said they chose the Lakshmir Bhandar theme mainly for two reasons. First it was a huge hit with women and second, it reflected the Mamata Banerjee’s wish to have women at the centre stage of government schemes. “Women from all the tiers of the society have responded to the scheme in great numbers. So, we decided to make Lakshmir Bhandar as the theme of our Puja this year,” said Bishal Kahar, secretary of Azad Hind Club of Hooghly’s Chinsurah. Most of the Puja committees used clay idols to showcase the scheme as it happened in real-life at Duare Sarkar camps. At a few places, organisers highlighted several other schemes of the state government. Some pandals used a giant “Lakshmir ghot” (traditional earthen pot used to save money) as a prop to uphold the scheme. Some have used Lakshmir Bhandar scheme to showcase women empowerment. “Durga Puja celebrates women’s empowerment. If you look at the scheme, it is nothing but a way to empower women through direct financial benefit. When we witnessed the response of women to the scheme, we chose it as our theme,” said Moloy Paul, joint secretary of Ghourdourchatti Sarbajanin Durga Puja committee in Burdwan town. In Malda, the Baluchar Kalyan Samiti has raised the pandal on the theme and has been drawing large crowds since Sunday. A giant “ghot” (traditional earthen pot used for cash savings), along with hundreds of smaller pots, adorn the pandal. Also, 13 other popular social welfare schemes run by the state government have also found place at the pandal. When pointed out that the theme was being criticised for being overtly political, Amitava Seth, the secretary of the Puja committee, said: “This has nothing to do with politics. Seeing the response of the people, we thought of taking it up as our Puja theme.” Opposition leaders said most of the Puja where the theme of Lakshmir Bhandar had been adopted had direct involvement of local Trinamul leaders and accused them of using the festival to influence people. CPM central committee member, Ram Chandra Dom, said: “Puja committees are getting money from the state exchequer and that has led them to use the festival to campaign for government scheme. This should not have happened. The present government is bringing politics into festivities as well.” Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson for Bengal BJP, said: “The Trinamul Congress is an all-devouring group of people. It isn’t even a political party. For Trinamul Congress religion, culture and politics are all the same. They have made Bengal a society of puppet politics." Jayatu Subhas Ghosthi, which organises Durga Puja in Birbhum’s Sainthia, had also made Lakshmir Bhandar the theme and the secretary of the group is Trinamul leader Debasish Saha. The Trinamul leader’s wife Nilabati Saha is the party MLA from Sainthia. “The response of the women showed how the scheme has been successful and people have benefited. We thought such a move would help rural women know more about the scheme. The Assembly elections have also proved how people trust and support our chief minister,” said Debasish. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Dutta Majumdar, Soumya De Sarkar and Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||No decision at Delhi talks on Gorkhaland issues||The much-awaited meeting involving Gorkha stakeholders and central and Bengal governments was convened in New Delhi on Tuesday but no concrete decision was taken. The Centre had invited the Bengal chief secretary but the state was represented at the talks by its resident commissioner in Delhi Krishna Gupta. The meeting “to resolve issues related to the Gorkhas and of the region” was chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah. “The home minister said that another rounds of talks would be held in November after Diwali and a decision would be taken after hearing the Bengal representative,” Bista said. The Gorkha stakeholders in the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai were represented mostly by BJP law-makers and leaders of its allies even though these regions have elected representatives from other parties, too. Bista, who spoke on behalf of the region’s “representatives”, said the Bengal government did not send a senior official because of Durga Puja. The statement of Darjeeling MP indicated that the Centre did not want to take a unilateral decision regarding Darjeeling, probably fearing repercussions in the rest of Bengal, an observer said. The ruling Trinamul Congress in Bengal is opposed to Gorkhaland, the main demand of Gorkhas. Bista said the meeting was called to discuss “permanent political solution” for the region and the demand of granting tribal status to 11 hill communities. Both had been promised by the BJP in its manifesto for the 2019 general election. “… Amit Shah said that the Central Government under the leadership of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi is constantly making efforts to resolve issues related to the Gorkhas and of the region. The Union Home Minister listened to all the parties concerned and has decided to call for the second round of talks in the presence of the senior officials of the Government of West Bengal in November 2021. The West Bengal Government has been specifically asked to send their senior officials for the next round of talks…,” reads a press statement issued by the Union home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
