14-10-2021||West Bengal||ACKO brings moving pandals to Kolkata for ease and safety of Darshan||Hey Kolkata, this Durga Pujo, you don’t need to step out for the darshan. ACKO Insurance is bringing a unique pandal experience to Kolkata. Traditionally during Durga Puja Kolkata comes alive with many puja pandals across the city and devotees, natives and tourists go pandal hopping, visiting each for the goddess’s blessing, and the visual treat it has to offer. With the on-going COVID-19 pandemic however, the culture of visiting pandals and celebrating these auspicious days outside with family and friends will be more restricted this year. Hence ACKO Insurance has launched a special initiative, 'Baadi Ashlo Maa' with the intent of bringing the pandals closer to people for ease and safety of worship. These 2 Pandals are set up on a moving truck with an idol of the goddess, a priest and dhakee (traditional Bengali drummers) and are moving through the city of Kolkata availing darshan. This activation is being done in partnership with various Resident Welfare Associations and Housing societies. Two moving pandals are visiting 10+ RWAs and 12+ housing societies daily,  inviting residents to participate in fun activities and take blessings. The moving pandal will cover many neighbourhoods in South and East Kolkata, visiting 15+ residential societies. Further updates about the pandal’s location and movement are being given on radio Big FM 92.7. In addition to the RWAs and Housing societies, the pandals will also visit old age homes. At the old age homes, ACKO Insurance is hosting an array of activities and providing giveaways to all those living at the venue. This campaign will be carried out through various channels and platforms, i.e. On ground (RWAs and Housing Societies),  Radio Channel Big FM 92.7 and engagement on Digital Platforms. ACKO Insurance is one of India’s leading digital insurance policy providers with its entire operations offered through the digital platform. Founded in 2016 by Varun Dua and Ruchi Deepak, ACKO’s entire process is designed to provide a better customer experience. ACKO executes primarily through a digital platform with no offline hassles - zero paperwork from purchase, claims to renewals. ACKO’s innovative products and smart technology offerings make it stand out. The company uses a direct-to-consumer approach for distributing traditional products, allowing for favorable risk selection and underwriting. ACKO also offers innovative and bite-sized insurance products such as rider insurance, mobile and appliance protection, ticket cancellation etc in  partnership with 35+ leading players in the internet ecosystem such as Ola, Oyo, redBus, Zomato, HDB Financial Services and Urban Company. In a span of 3 years of operations, the company has distributed insurance policies to over 68+ Mn unique customers and issued 1 Bn+ insurance policies. For more information, visit www.acko.com or follow us on Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC hits out at Centre for extending BSF's jurisdiction||Hitting out at the Centre over its decision to extend the jurisdiction of the BSF, the Trinamool Congress on Thursday said it was an "infringement" on the rights of the state and an attack on the federal structure of the country. The Centre has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Demanding its withdrawal, the TMC claimed the decision was taken without consulting the West Bengal government. "We oppose this decision. This is an infringement on the rights of the state. What was the sudden need to enhance the BSF's jurisdiction without informing the state government?" TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. "If the BSF has to conduct any search, they can always do it along with the state police. This has been the practice for years. It is an attack on the federal structure," he added. Senior TMC MP Sougata Roy alleged that the BSF doesn't have a good track record on human rights in border villages. "The Centre and Home Minister Amit Shah are trying to weaken the states. BSF doesn't have a good track record when it comes to human rights in border villages," he said. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury warned the Union Home Ministry of "consequences" over the move. "The expansion of #BSF area of jurisdiction upto 50 km from border of some states amounts to brazen infringement upon the territory of states. @HMOIndia (Home Ministry), you should not indulge any 'Chherkhani' (meddling) else will face the consequences," he said in a tweet. The state BJP slammed the TMC for its criticism, saying that its Opposition to the changes is aimed at appeasing its vote bank. "The TMC government has failed to check cross-border infiltration and smuggling. The TMC's opposition is aimed at appeasing its vote bank," said Sayantan Basu, the BJP's state general secretary. Yesterday, Punjab’s Congress chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, condemned the decision as “a direct attack on federalism” and his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa underlined that the Centre had not secured the state’s consent. Channi tweeted: “I strongly condemn the GoI’s unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision.” The Shiromani Akali Dal too had slammed the move “to hand over almost half of the state to the BSF” as “the imposition of the President’s rule through the back door in nearly half of Punjab”. The Union Home Ministry issued a notification in this context on October 11, amending a July 2014 enabling provision for the BSF personnel and officers while they operate in the border areas. BSF officials said the amendment will help them in effectively curbing trans-border crimes and the new amendment brings in "uniformity" for its operations in the borders states of Punjab, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Assam where it can now operate within 50 km area from the border. In Gujarat, which shares border with Pakistan, the same limit has been reduced from 80 km to 50 km, while in Rajasthan, it has been kept unchanged at 50 km.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||Probe into Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s ‘absence’||The Centre has set up an inquiry committee to find out whether Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now chief advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, had violated norms by “not attending a meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi” at Kalaikunda on May 28 sources said. The committee, sources said, asked Bandyopadhyay to appear before it in Delhi on October 18. Bandyopadhyay was not available for comment as he could not be contacted, but sources in the administration said the former chief secretary had the liberty to move to the central administrative tribunal against the order issued by the department of personnel and training (DoPT). “A decision on moving the CAT would be taken by Bandyopadhyay soon,” said a source. Earlier, the Centre had issued a showcause to Bandyopadhyay, asking him to reply why charges would not be framed against him for not attending a review meeting of the Prime Minister at Kalaikunda on May 28, which was considered as violation of the service rules of all India service officers. Modi had come to Bengal to assess the destruction caused by Cyclone Yaas. Bandyopadhyay, who was the chief secretary then, had reached the meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and he had left along with her to visit Digha to attend a review meeting after the cyclone had hit three coastal districts. “In a reply to the showcause, Bandyopadhyay had said he had attended the meeting along with the chief minister but he had to leave the meeting with the CM after taking permission of the PM. But the Centre is clearly not happy with the reply,” said a source. Mamata had said the state government had asked for two packages of Rs 10,000 crore each, for the development of Digha and the Sundarbans, two areas that were devastated extensively by the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||771 fresh Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported 771 Covid-19 cases, 775 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 15 to 7,657. Out of the past 18 days, Bengal recorded a rise in the total active cases on 12 days and a fall on five days. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total active cases on September 26. Calcutta logged 203 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 128, the only two districts to record three-digit figures on Wednesday. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta reported three and North 24-Parganas reported four. The state now has 3.8 per cent of the national total of active cases and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of patients under treatment at present. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.74 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.78 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.52 lakh recoveries and 18,935 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||Three die in separate accidents in south Bengal||Three persons, including a five-year-old, died in separate mishaps in the past 24 hours in south Bengal. An electrician died because of electrocution when he was busy ensuring power supply to a microphone set at a Durga Puja venue in Sauli Battala, Chandernagore, on Wednesday morning. Shyamal Ganguly, 59, a resident of Kantapukur area of the town, got entangled with a live wire of the main power supply. Some local residents disconnected the power supply to rescue him and rushed him to a Chandernagore hospital where he was declared brought-dead. Chandernagore police started a case of unnatural death. His cousin Soumen Ganguly said: “My brother was the only bread-earner of the family and had been trying hard to earn a few extra bucks during the festive season. He had been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns.” Earlier on Tuesday evening, a five-year-old boy died at Barasat in North 24-Parganas when a piece of mangled metal container that some boys used to burst crackers pierced his neck. The bizarre incident occurred at Baropole. The deceased Sayan Sen was standing at a distance when boys were bursting crackers. Police and local sources said some children were bursting crackers in the area and playfully placed a cracker inside a metal container and lit it. “The mangled parts of the container went off like splinters as the cracker exploded and a metal part pierced Sayan’s neck injuring him fatally,” an eyewitness said. He was rushed to Barasat district hospital, where he succumbed to the injury. In another incident, a helper of a Calcutta-bound state government bus coming from Cooch Behar died as he slipped off the vehicle on NH12 on Tuesday afternoon. The incident occurred at Awalsiddhi in Amdanga police station limits in North 24-Parganas district. Kartick Gosail, 43, was taken to Amdanga rural hospital, but succumbed to the injuries on the way. Conductor of the bus Susanta Mitra said: “It is not clear how he slipped off the footboard while crossing the congested area of Amdanga. I was inside the bus and suddenly heard a hue and cry that someone had slipped off the bus. The bus stopped and I rushed out to find Kartick lying unconscious in a pool of blood. With the help of local residents, we took him to the Amdanga rural hospital, but he died on the way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||Venkaiah Naidu to visit Darjeeling on October 22 ||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will visit Darjeeling on October 22. “A programme has been scheduled at the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute the same day. The Vice-President will leave Darjeeling the following day,” said a senior district official. HMI officials couldn’t be contacted to know which programme Naidu would attend. Initially, there were plans that Naidu would hold talks with Tea Board of India officials but the same has not been finalised. “In all probability, the Tea Board meeting will not take place,” said a source. Naidu will arrive in Sikkim on October 20. Sources said he would inaugurate the Bhaichung Bhutia Football Stadium at Namchi in South Sikkim. Namchi is from where the legendary footballer started his successful soccer journey. The place is 20km from Bhutia’s birthplace of Tinkitam. The Vice-President’s visit has become public close on the heels of a meeting the Centre convened in New Delhi on Tuesday with Gorkha stakeholders. It wasn’t, however, clear if any political leaders from the hills would meet Naidu in Darjeeling. “We are yet to receive the final minute-to-minute itinerary from the Vice-President secretariat,” said an official. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar reached Darjeeling on Tuesday for a two-week stay in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
