15-10-2021||West Bengal||After two years, Hindu and Muslim families celebrate Puja together||After a two-year gap, some 300 Hindu and Muslim families have come together in Mominpara of Barrackpore’s Jagaddal to celebrate the golden jubilee year of the local Sri Durga Sati Sangha puja. This puja is special for them, because they were able to bridge the rift following communal unrest fomented in the area by alleged outsiders, in the wake of the victory of  BJP’s Arjun Singh in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019. Residents of Mominpara, in ward 17 of Bhatpara Municipality, which is Singh’s backyard, have unanimously chosen private tutor Birju Prasad Lal, 47, as the president of the puja committee, and mechanic Mohammed Raja Ansari, 28, as its secretary. “Hindus and Muslims have been living for ages here in harmony and peace. There was never any suspicion in either against the other. People here, for decades, have jointly organised Durga Puja and the Tazia of Muharram,” said Ansari. “Unfortunately, this pluralist ethos was disrupted two years ago when some outsiders attacked the area with vested political interests, which rendered many from both communities homeless. Many people had to flee the area in fear. But people gradually understood that their neighbours were not their enemies,” he added. Bhatpara of Jagaddal, under the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat, comprises pockets such as Kankinara, Titagarh, Kanchrapara, Garulia, Bijpur, and Amdanga, which had been volatile since May 23 of 2019, when the results of the general election came out. At least seven lives were lost in a violent turf war between Trinamul and BJP, allegedly energised by MP Singh. Puja committee president Lal said people have learnt to trust again. “People have understood that politicians had vested interests in keeping the Hindus and Muslims divided. It took some time, but the initial mistrust that marred the puja and Id celebrations of the past two years is now a thing of the past. Last year, Covid-19 was also a major factor (behind the muted celebrations),” said Lal. “Hence, people in the area, irrespective of faith, wanted to make this Durga Puja memorable while adhering to Covid-19 protocols.” On Thursday, Ansari was seen beating the dhaak while Lal was ringing the ceremonial bell, as members of both communities were busy preparing for Mahanavami rituals. Around 1,500 people who live in the area are mostly daily wage earners. A large part of the population works in the jute mills of the area, some of which have suspended work. Many people of the area also work as construction workers and small-time traders. All have suffered serious losses in the pandemic. “We had big plans for the celebrations this year. But, the economic impact of Covid-19 forced us to rationalise costs. People here do not have much spare money. So we had to scale down the celebrations with whatever small donations that people could give,” said Ansari. However, despite the modest pandal, people are happy, said Lal. “For all of us, this is more of a reunion. Residents have vowed against getting influenced by others and are firm about resisting divisive attempts in the future,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
15-10-2021||West Bengal||Hope of CT scan machine for Darjeeling||Tourist hotspot Darjeeling will finally have a CT scan machine. Sources said the state government has floated a tender to select a private partner for the establishment, operation, maintenance and management of a 16-slice CT scan machine at the Darjeeling District Hospital under public-private partnership (PPP) mode. The date of opening of the technical bid has been scheduled for December 2, 2021. During the first and second wave of the pandemic, Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling earlier had no access to a CT scan facility, which is one of the basic diagnostic tools for the treatment of the infection. “A CT (computerised tomography) scan is the main diagnostic tool to see the severity of infection in the lungs but unfortunately we don’t have a CT scan facility in Darjeeling,” a doctor had said during the peak of the second wave. Not just the district hospital but even the three private hospitals in Darjeeling town do not have a CT scan machine, forcing residents of Darjeeling town and adjoining areas to travel to Siliguri for tests and further treatment. In May this year, Ajit Kumar Agarwala, a tea garden owner, had proposed to donate a CT scan machine to the Darjeeling district hospital at an approximate price of Rs 1.1 crore. But the government did not take his proposal up. Amar Singh Rai, the chairman of Rogi Kalyan Samiti, Darjeeling District Hospital, had also flagged the lack of a CT scan machine and the problems faced by patients with chief minister Mamata Banerjee earlier this year. “The CT scan machine in Darjeeling and a digital X-ray machine were approved in 2019 and the civil work and electrical work for the installation of the CT scan machine have been completed at the Darjeeling District Hospital,” Rai, former Darjeeling MLA and former civic chairman, had written to Mamata. Earlier this year, Covid-19 patients at the Darjeeling District Hospital initially had no access to X-rays and ventilators as well. Subsequently, the X-ray and ventilator issues were resolved by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
15-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja: Musical fundraiser for tribal kids’ clothes||A group of six students, including three school-goers, visited Sonajhurir Haat over five weekends to collect donations from tourists by entertaining them with their music, in order to celebrate a different Durga Puja this year. The students raised around Rs 20,000 to give puja clothes to 78 children of two tribal hamlets of Santiniketan, Diganta Pally and Fuldanga. Sonajhurir Haat, also known as Shonibareyr (Saturday’s) Haat, is a rural market in Santiniketan where around a hundred local artisans sell their produce, and is deemed a must-visit spot for tourists. Although the footfall has declined considerably since the Covid-19 outbreak, the rural market remains fairly crowded on weekends. “During our musical adda on the outskirts of Santiniketan, we saw a lot of children who would have otherwise had no new clothes during Durga Puja because their parents are unemployed right now. So we chalked out this plan to perform for tourists to raise funds,” said Suranjana Das, a team member who is a third-year undergraduate student of rural studies in Visva-Bharati. Her classmate Shreya Banerjee, second-year student of masters in Burdwan University Suparna Paddhan, Class XII student Aishi Ray and Class XI students Bhaswati Bhandari and Pousham Chakraborty are the other teammates, Suranjana said. The youngsters said they initially tried to pool in their own money, but saw that they couldn’t manage enough to buy gifts for more than five children. They tried asking people they knew for funds, but without much success. “Then we thought that because we can sing or strum the guitar well, we could move to Sonajhurir Haat to target tourists for funds. We received a fabulous response. People were generous. We are happy that our gifts will put a smile on the faces of 78 children,” said Suranjana. Aishi was the only member of the group with past experience of raising funds and had provided dry food to the needy during the lockdown last year with her friends. “It is not easy to sing or play an instrument in the open for hours (to raise funds). But we plan to continue it in future,” said Aishi. The group purchased clothes for 78 children from Diganta Pally and Phooldanga after taking details such as their size and age. They distributed the clothes among the children, aged between three and 13, over three days before Durga Puja. Rabin Soren, secretary of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, a tribal outfit in Birbhum district, praised the group. “All six are very young, but they did a great job.... It is really heartening to see students coming forward to help the children.” Tanushree Banerjee, a state government employee from Calcutta who visited Santiniketan in the first weekend of October, had seen the performance of the six students. “It was really nice to see a set of young girls and a boy put up a performance to raise funds for poor kids.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
15-10-2021||West Bengal||Husband, co-worker set on fire in Siliguri||A homemaker in a tea estate under Naxalbari block of Siliguri subdivision allegedly set her husband and his co-worker on fire on Wednesday evening, suspecting them of having an affair. Rupa Das, wife of Sudipta Das, the head clerk of Kiranchandra tea estate located some 20km from here, accosted Sujata Chik Baraik when the latter was on her way to office. While Rupa is in her late 30s, Sudipta is in his mid-40s and Sujata in her mid-30s. Rupa allegedly doused Sujata with petrol and set her on fire with a lighter. As Sujata started screaming, bystanders rushed to help her. Rupa managed to flee from the spot and reached her residential quarters where she allegedly locked her husband in a room and set him on fire. Tea workers and others took both the victims to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital from where they were shifted to a private nursing home. Sujata is reportedly critical. Sujata’s family filed a complaint with Naxalbari police against Rupa. She was arrested on Thursday. “Preliminary probe reveals Rupa Das used to suspect her husband and his co-worker of an affair,” said a police officer. Colleagues of both Sudipta and Sujata, however, said Rupa’s suspicions were unfounded. “The woman resorted to such an act out of a baseless suspicion that left two families shattered,” said an employee of the garden. Fake shampoo A Siliguri Metropolitan Police team raided a hotel in Siliguri Junction area on Wednesday night to bust a fake shampoo-making racket. Eleven people, all residents of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, have been arrested. Police said the group used to collect empty shampoo bottles and refill them with fake shampoo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
15-10-2021||West Bengal||530 more Covid infections  in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported 530 new Covid-19 infections, 601 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total number of active cases, or people being treated for Covid-19, fell by 81 to 7,576 on Mahanavami, the penultimate day of Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest festival. The state had snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in its total of active cases on September 26. Since then, in the past 19 days, Bengal recorded a rise in its active cases for 12 days and a fall for six days. The state now has 3.76 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 102 new infections on Thursday and was the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nine more districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections on Thursday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported two deaths each. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.93 per cent on Thursday. As of now, the state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.04 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. “These are statistics of people who got infected around October 5 to 9. There were apprehensions of things going out of hand at that stage because of people’s general disregard for safety protocols. But figures now suggest otherwise,” said a minister. Bengal now has over 15.79 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.52 lakh recoveries and 18,945 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
