16-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC expresses concern on reports of communal tension in Bangladesh||The Trinamul Congress, through an editorial in its Bengali mouthpiece Jago Bangla, on Friday expressed concern on  reports of communal tension around Durga Puja in neighbouring Bangladesh, appreciated the Sheikh Hasina government’s role against it and urged the Narendra Modi government to “speak up”. In the short editorial titled “Bangladeshey shanti thakuk (May peace prevail in Bangladesh), chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s party championed the cause of minorities everywhere. The article condemned attempts to divide people on the basis of faith and warned against the Bangladesh incidents being misused to polarise people in India. “We are in favour of integrity and amity in India. We are in favour of protection of minorities. That applies to Bangladesh as well. There too, minorities should be protected,” the editorial said. This is the first reaction from Bengal’s ruling party, a day after Bangladesh premier Hasina said neighbouring countries like India should also be vigilant to ensure that religion is not used to divide people in the backdrop of clashes in several parts of her country during puja. Hasina had also urged Hindus in Bangladesh not to consider themselves minorities. Hasina’s observations came at a time when there is a growing perception in Muslim-majority Bangladesh that the condition of Muslims in India has worsened since the change of guard in Delhi in 2014. “The Bangladesh government and the administration should take appropriate measures. That is what they have been doing, according to reports. The government of India should speak up without delay,” read the Jago Bangla editorial. “Our appeal to citizens, do not spread acrid, biased comments over this. All that needs to be done with the aim of peace, let that be done. It should be seen that there is no inadvertent provocation ...Nobody’s feelings should get hurt. We want a responsible resolution,” it added. “When allegations come from Bangladesh, it is natural for us to feel bad. We have to be vigilant so that these allegations are... not misused as opportunities by fake champions of religion to spread venom ....” The Hasina government initiated quick administrative action — Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) troops were deployed in 22 districts to provide security to puja pandals and temples and 43 people were arrested — after attacks in Cumilla and other places in Chittagong range. “The saffron ecosystem thrives on the misuse of such opportunities to foment tension and further the RSS’s divisive agenda. Bangladesh is often used as an excuse by the BJP and its sister outfits to encourage hatred between communities in Bengal. We have been on alert to keep things from taking an untoward turn here,” said a senior Rajya Sabha member of Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
16-10-2021||West Bengal||Jumbo awareness drive in Jhargram Durga Puja pandal ||The death of a young tourist in an elephant attack this July prompted a Durga Puja committee in Jhargram to change its theme to one on awareness of the challenges facing wild animals, especially elephants, and people of Jungle Mahal. The Nedabahara Sarbojanin Durga Puja Committee, around 5km from Jhargram town, had earlier thought of something traditional, but changed plans after Devesh Agrawal, 26, was killed by an elephant when he went too close to the animal in Jhargram’s Keudishol forest on July 26. Devesh, a resident of Harish Mukherjee Road in Calcutta, had gone to visit the forest with two of his friends. “Deaths in elephant attacks are commonplace in our area. The latest incident was in July, when the young tourist from Calcutta was killed. That incident prompted us to draw up the new plan for our puja pandal,” said Rabindra Baske, treasurer of the puja committee. Puja organisers said they  contacted local artisan Santu Mahato and reworked the plans for the theme. The new theme became Nirupaay (helpless), as the organisers believe that both humans and elephants are helpless in the situation. “It has been a longstanding problem for us… elephants come and enter our villages. We have to compromise, as they have as much of a right as we do to survive in these forests,” said Baske. Jute bags, paperboards, clay, clothes and gum have been used to decorate the pandal, with sculptures of two elephants and a calf eating paddy from a field while a group of farmers watch the damage. “People living in this area often confront elephants, to drive them away… it is fatal for many. We know that this desperation (to confront elephants) is on account of the potential damage to crops. But it’s best to let go, as one would during a natural disaster,” said an organiser. Several senior forest officials said the theme of the puja was significant for Jungle Mahal, where human-animal conflict is a major challenge for many in the villages. “If there is a human-tiger conflict in the Sunderbans, the conflict in Jungle Mahal is between elephants and humans. So it is good if the local people bring awareness through the festival,” said a senior state forest official. In the four Jungle Mahal districts of Jhargram, West Midnapore, Purulia and Bankura, elephants from the Dalma forest range of Jharkhand enter those districts mainly for food. Recently, the Bankura forest department had to cancel puja leaves for all their staff members after 80 elephants entered the district, raising the threat perception that normal human life in the zone would be hampered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
16-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 451 new cases, 506 recoveries, eight deaths||Bengal on Friday, Vijaya Dashami, reported 451 new Covid-19 infections, 506 recoveries and eight deaths. The total of active Covid-19 cases fell by 63 to 7,513. Last year, Bengal’s total number of active cases on Dashami was 37,190. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26 this year. Since then, in the past 20 days, Bengal recorded a rise in its active cases for 12 days, a fall for seven days and no change on one day. “These are data of people  infected in the October 6 to 10 window. There were adverse estimates of things worsening exponentially from around that time because of general disregard for safety protocols in the run-up to the festival. But these figures increasingly suggest that things were not so bad,” said a minister. The state now has 3.84 per cent of India’s active cases, and is sixth among states with the most such cases. With 127 new infections, Calcutta was only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eleven districts reported a single-digit figure. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.05 per cent now. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year, was 2.13 per cent on Friday. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.79 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first in March last year, which includes nearly 15.53 lakh recoveries and 18,953 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
16-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja: Low-key immersions||Immersions of the idols of Goddess Durga and her children in the Ichhamati in Taki, North 24-Parganas, were held on Friday under the watchful eyes of the state police, administration, the BSF and their Bangladeshi counterparts BGB so that Covid-19 safety protocols were maintained. As announced earlier by the civic administration, only eight persons on each boat of puja organisers were allowed to sail with the deities for immersion. No joyride on boats for tourists was allowed. Few people watched the immersions from the banks. The BSF and the BGB monitored the proceedings on speed boats along the middle of the river, creating a line of control with ropes so as to ensure no boat from either side could sneak into the other’s territory. The immersion began with the deities of Taki Rajbari (royal house). After the traditional farewell rituals by women, the deities was taken to the Rajbari ghat and immersed in the river with the support of police and civic volunteers. Immersions that began with the idols of Rajbari at 1pm were completed by 4.30pm, maintaining the time schedule announced earlier to prevent overcrowding for a prolonged period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
