17-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 443 new cases, 10 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 443 new Covid-19 infections, 501 recoveries and 10 deaths. Active cases fell by 68 to 7,445. Bengal  snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in its active cases on September 26. Since then, active cases have seen 12 days of rise and eight days of fall. “These are data of people who got infected during October 7 to 11. There were a lot of adverse estimates... but figures suggest that things were not that bad,” said a minister. With 108 new infections, Calcutta was the only one of the state’s 23 districts to report a three-digit figure. Twelve districts logged single-digit figures. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta logged one death and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.1 per cent now. Its daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.33 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.8 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. It includes over 15.53 lakh recoveries and 18,963 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Mob ‘rescues’ suspected peddler from cops in Malda||Police nabbed an alleged fake currency peddler at a village in Malda on Saturday but were attacked by residents who managed to take away the accused. Two policemen and a civic volunteer were injured in the incident. The police have detained five persons so far for organising the attack on the force. Sources said around noon, the team, led by officer in charge of Kumbhiara police outpost, Baishnabnagar, Tanvir Azad, went to Daulatpur village in Malda to nab suspected fake currency peddler Esarul Sheikh. As soon as the police arrested Sheikh, some 20 people attacked the team. Azad, ASI Samir Singha and a civic volunteer were assaulted. The police had to retreat and the injured were taken to a hospital. The mob took away Sheikh. Additional forces, deputed to the village, detained five persons. “We are in search of some others. Attacks on the police won’t be tolerated,” said Alok Rajoria, SP. Feared drowned Schoolboys Mrinal Mondal, 18, and Soumyajit Mondal, 17, bathing in the Ganga at Baishnabnagar in Malda, are feared drowned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Birthday party? Charter a toy train||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) , in a bid to popularise the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) toy train, is offering chartered rides for corporate and social celebrations. “Any individual, corporate house, private tour operator or hotelier or even groups of foreigners can charter toy trains for events like birthdays or anniversary celebrations, corporate get-togethers and meetings. It would be a unique experience for all those who come on board as they can enjoy a ride on the world heritage railway service,” said Guneet Kaur, the chief public relations officer of NFR. According to railway sources, steam or diesel loco hauled trains can be chartered with one or two first class coaches or according to demand on pre-defined circuits. Circuits include New Jalpaiguri and Rongtong, Siliguri Junction-Tindharia, Tindharia-Kurseong, Darjeeling-Kurseong and Siliguri Junction-Kurseong. “Anybody interested can book the train either for a single trip or a round trip,” Kaur added. With DHR resuming toy trains services in August after a pandemic-induced gap of eight months, many new services and events have been planned to draw more passengers. On Saturday, NFR authorities launched “Red Panda”, a special round trip train service between Kurseong and Mahanadi, lasting for 90 minutes for 36 passengers in first -class coaches. There is steady demand for the joy ride and the evening jungle ride “Steam-Jungle-Tea Safari” from Siliguri Junction to Rongtong. “It seems that railway officials have taken the initiative to increase revenue of this mountain railway,” said a DHR enthusiast in Siliguri. DHR sources said they received good response with all seats in the regular service from NJP to Darjeeling booked for the entire month of October. “Two years back, before the pandemic, more than one lakh people had taken the toy train service in a single year for the first time in its history. That is why we are putting all efforts to popularise the heritage railway. Next month, we have planned a festival at Ghoom,” said an official, adding it would be from November 13 to December 5 where tourists can enjoy a guided tour to the heritage railway museum, witness sunrise and sunset from Tiger Hill, enjoy the performances of local bands and folk dance troupes, participate in trekathon and mountain biking, visit tea gardens and exhibitions of local cuisines and handicraft. The Narendra Modi government’s plan to monetise public assets includes in its list the DHR toy train, a Unesco recognised world heritage site.  But this has evoked protests from several quarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Elephant carcass found in Jalpaiguri||A 10-year-old sub-adult female elephant was found dead in an agricultural field at a village under Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri on Saturday morning. The carcass was recovered by foresters and police. They are waiting for the autopsy report and suspect death due to poisoning or electrocution. According to locals, during the past few days, a herd of wild elephants was regularly entering the Bhandarkura village from the adjoining Khuttimari forest for fodder. “On Friday night also, a herd entered the village. We suspect the elephant was its member and died owing to illness,” said Ayub Ali, a villager. Foresters, however, are not ready to buy the theory. In north Bengal, a number of elephants have died after coming in contact with a livewire that are illegally laid around agricultural fields to prevent damaging of crops. “Also, pesticides are extensively used in brinjal cultivation. The location where the carcass was found is next to such a field,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Funds for Bengal hospitals to treat children and adults||The state health department has sanctioned over Rs 21 crore for equipment  in government-run hospitals to treat children and adults  infected with Covid-19. “The state has allotted Rs 21.36 crore for equipment to be supplied by the West Bengal Medical Services Corporation Limited. These include 1,500 syringe pumps, 100 non-invasive BiPAP ventilators, 200 bubble CPAP machines, 25 blood gas analysers and 20 echocardiography machines,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the department in north Bengal. These will be sent to districts on the basis of requisition. “We should be prepared for the third wave, especially when there are apprehensions regarding children,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Young homemaker from Hooghly molested, robbed on Digha beach||A young homemaker from Hooghly was allegedly molested and robbed of her gold chain by seven youths on a beach in Digha on Saturday morning in front of her husband and 10-year-old son. Her son’s presence of mind led to the detention of two of the suspects and the recovery of her ornament. The woman, 32, and her husband, 36, were bathing in the sea when seven youths accosted them and pretended to repeatedly stumble into her. According to her husband, they then molested her and beat him up for protesting. A  civic volunteer said they came to know about this when the couple’s son ran up to them. “The panting child came up to us and pointed to a fleeing group of youths,” the civic volunteer said. Civic volunteers gave chase, following which two of the youths were nabbed and detained by police. The traumatised woman said she has been a frequent visitor to Digha but will never visit it again. “The (East Midnapore district) administration needs to address this problem in a strict way, otherwise the reputation of Digha will be forever tainted,” said her husband, a government contractor. Digha reportedly received an average daily footfall of over 20,000 during the Pujas. A district official said that they had in the past been informed about youths recording on smartphones bathing couples in Digha. Hoteliers’ association joint secretary Bipradas Chakraborty said police should post plainclothes officers on beaches to keep such incidents at bay. “Tourism is the mainstay of this town,” he said. Subdivisional police officer (Contai), Somnath Saha, said police were “ever vigilant” on women’s safety. He confirmed the detention of  the two suspects but added that no complaint had been formally made as of Saturday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Erosion brings South 24-Parganas school on brink of collapse||The state government has decided to relocate a primary school in Ghoramara island of South 24-Parganas as its two-storey building cannot be used any further with erosion slowly devouring the structure that stands on the banks of the Hooghly in an area ravaged by Cyclone Yaas. Khasimara Nimno Buniyadi School, on the verge of being swept away by the river, is one of the four primary education facilities on the island, with 55 students and three teachers. “We will relocate the school very soon. As a first step we are trying to shift it to any available government or private building. Later, we will construct a building for it,” said Ajit Nayek, chairman of district primary school council in South 24-Parganas. Teachers of Khasimara Nimno Buniyadi School said they did not have space to store dry ration for midday meals or preserve documents. “We have shifted key documents to another primary school. We distribute dry ration the same day we receive it,” said Shankar Prasad Panda, its headmaster. Sources said the need to relocate the school assumed urgency as the state government is working on a schedule to open schools in November on alternative days. “The state government is yet to decide on a date to reopen schools but expect things to happen soon,” said an official of the district’s education department. “The situation in Khasimara is the worst. But I know of two more schools in Gosaba and Patharpratima where school buildings are likely to collapse into the river. So, we have to chalk out relocation plans for those two schools too,” Nayek added. According to Nayek, at least 150 schools in the district had become risky for use after they bore the brunt of Cyclone Yaas in May this year. Sources said Ghoramara was also badly affected by Cyclone Amphan in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja loses sheen||The Durga Puja organised by BJP’s Bengal unit, in its second year, proved to be a major failure as most party leaders gave it a miss, the turnout baring once again the  factionalism in the party. Apart from state unit chief and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar and Nandigram MLA and leader of the Opposition in th Assembly Suvendu Adhikari, most BJP leaders steered clear of the puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex, Salt Lake. Even Majumdar and Adhikari visited EZCC only once, on October 11 during the inauguration. Last year, the puja was inaugurated through a virtual address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This year, organisers requested BJP national president J.P. Nadda to do the honours, but in vain. To hold it or not had triggered a major debate in the party both last year and this year. The faction owing allegiance to former state unit chief and current national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was against the idea. The fact that the puja could be held this time was owing to the new state president, who gave his consent as late as on October 2. Its preparations got a jolt when Sabyasachi Dutta, a Trinamul turncoat, went back to his old party on October 7. Dutta, a resident of Salt Lake and former mayor of the area, had been given the onus by the BJP to organise the puja. Like last year, Ghosh was absent from the puja. Sources said he left for Uttarakhand on a pilgrimage on October 12, which was a “protest” against the party's decision of holding the puja. MP and state general secretary Locket Chattopadhyay was in Delhi for most of the puja. Though she came back to the state and attended a family event on Friday, she didn’t visit EZCC. MP and state youth wing chief Saumitra Khan spent his Puja at his native place Bankura. While sources said Khan helped the party get permission to use the EZCC compound at very short notice, he stayed away. None of the four Union ministers of state from Bengal, Nisith Pramanik, John Barla, Shantanu Thakur and Subhash Sarkar, were seen at the event. Another notable absence was that of MP Debasree Chaudhuri, former Union minister of state, who lost her ministerial berth in July. She attended the puja at a party worker’s home at Dum Dum on Wednesday, but gave EZCC a miss. “Such a poor turnout at an event inaugurated by the PM last year reveals the situation of the party in Bengal,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga returns in another form in north Bengal||Durga Puja may be over, but in several parts of north Bengal, the festivities continue. A day after Dashami, the Rajbanshi community of north Bengal celebrates Bhandani Puja. Bhandani is believed to be a form of Durga. In all, over 100 such puja are held. Ar Barnish of Maynaguri block in Jalpaiguri and in Kedarhat of Mathabhana-I block of Cooch Behar, the puja is being held for over a century now. Some other prominent pujas held a day after Dashami are Dakshin Ulladabri in Maynaguri and Purba Bholardabri in Alipurduar district. According to Rajbanshi researchers, Bhandani is considered a goddess of prosperity. “It is believed that the Devi, while returning to her abode, had stayed here for a day and blessed the residents. That is why she is worshipped a day after Dashami. However, at a number of places, her mount is the tiger and not the lion and the demon is absent. The goddess is seen here with her children,” said Umesh Sharma, a researcher in Jalpaiguri. After Bhandani Puja, Rajbanshis in Burirpat in Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar, host the Buri Mata  (old mother) puja.  Here too, the goddess is seen as a form of Durga. The Buri Mata puja, to be held for the 137th time this year, is due on October 18. “It started in 1884 and is yet another example of amity among Hindus and Muslims,” said Mohammad Pyar Ali, president of the puja committee. Samanta Kumar Roy, the secretary, said three friends, Asmat Ali Mian, Srinath Roy Burma and Hemananda Bakshi, had started the puja in Burirpat. Since then, it is a celebration common to both communities. Here, the goddess is an old woman seen cradling a child while seated on a lion and holding a stick. “The state gives Rs 50,000 each to clubs which organise Durga Puja. We too face financial challenges  due to the pandemic. It will be great if the state can gives us similar aid,” said a representative of a puja committee of Maynaguri. Sources said that the Kamtapur Progressive Party, a political party that has considerable clout among Rajbanshis, has approached the state government on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Violence over puja funds row in Alipurduar tea estate||An altercation over the use of money collected for a community Durga puja sparked violence at a tea estate in Alipurduar late on Friday. At least two houses were torched and 12 policemen were injured. Sources said around 11pm, a group from Demdima tea estate under Birpara were returning after immersing the Durga idol of their estate, when one of them, Birju Panna, hinted that a part of the money collected for the puja had been swindled. Provoked, some in the group slashed Birju with a dagger. His screams prompted residents to rush out. Tempers flared and homes of two youths who had reportedly slashed Birju were burnt down. When a police team reached the spot, they were attacked with bricks, stones and sticks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||IMD issues alert for 'enhanced rainfall activity' over south Bengal ||The India Meteorological Department office in Alipore has issued an alert for “enhanced rainfall activity” over south Bengal for three days starting Sunday morning. According to the alert issued on Friday, heavy rain and wind are predicted for parts of Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and East and West Midnapore on Sunday and Monday. On Tuesday, the same pattern is expected mostly in East and West Midnapore, and South 24-Parganas. The bulletin has reportedly been circulated on an emergency basis to boatmen and fishery associations in coastal south Bengal. Boatmen have been advised to return to shore latest by Saturday night. “The low-pressure formation from the time of puja has shifted... and is predicted to deliver sustained wind and rain in south Bengal. It may paralyse normal life for three days,” said a Met official, explaining 7-11cm of rain is expected till Monday, following which cyclonic wind could persist for another day. He added gusty winds at a speed of 30-40kmph could start on Sunday. In East Midnapore, constant drizzle in several towns started from Saturday afternoon. District officials set up a control room to monitor the weather and instructed civic volunteers at beaches to keep vigil on tourists and dissuade them from venturing out into the sea. “The Alipore Met office has given us the alert and we are instructing our personnel on the ground on the response,” said disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. Fishery representatives are working to get all fishermen back on shore. “We have sent the weather alert to registered fishermen, boat operators and related organisations,” said East Midnapore’s assistant director of fisheries (marine) Surajit Bag. District officials added that efforts were underway to organise relief materials in anticipation of weather-related displacement. According to the IMD alert, there is substantial possibility of waterlogging and crop damage, both of which have adversely affected coastal south Bengal on numerous occasions during the latter half of this year. The same forecast of prolonged rain and squall-like weather is also predicted for parts of Bangladesh and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
