18-10-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh attacks: Bengal govt asks district administrations to be on alert||The West Bengal government has alerted its district administrations, particularly those bordering Bangladesh, against the misuse of social media and circulation of fake news related to the recent spate of attacks during Durga puja in the neighbouring country, and urged them to take measures to maintain law and order, a top official said on Monday. All state agencies have been asked to be on toes to combat any attempt to create disturbances anywhere in Bengal amid the ongoing idol immersion ceremonies and observance of Fateha-Dwaz-Daham, he said. "The government has asked district administrations, especially those bordering Bangladesh, to exercise caution against fake news circulation on the violence and vandalism in the neighbouring country. All agencies have been told to keep vigil and thwart attempts to create tension," the official added. A similar word of caution was also issued to senior police officers by Additional Director General (Intelligence Branch). "Since 13.10.21, social media platforms have been flooded with posts of vandalism of Durga Puja pandals in Bangladesh. Centering these issues, districts along Indo-Bangla border have become hyper sensitive and the leaders of different Hindu fundamentalist organisations of India pro-active. "...you are requested to sensitise you, officers and men, under your control and keep sharp vigil to avoid any untoward incident," the message by the ADGP said. On Sunday, the West Bengal Police had retweeted posts by the Asansol-Durgapur police and Purba Medinipur SP, warning people with the intention of spreading misinformation of severe consequences as brawls were reported over multiple issues in the two areas. "Some people are spreading wrong information that bombs were hurled at Puja pandals and damage was done, giving (the incidents) communal colour and trying to disturb peace in the area. Strong legal action will be taken for spreading such wrong and misleading information," the tweet by the Asansol-Durgapur police said. PTI SCH RMS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
18-10-2021||West Bengal||MeT office predicts heavy rain in South Bengal districts till Tuesday||Inclement weather prevailed over most parts of south Bengal on Monday as continuous rain with one or two spells of heavy downpour caused by a low pressure system affected normal life in the city and several other places. The Met department has forecast heavy rain in all the districts of south Bengal, including Kolkata on Monday and Tuesday. The coastal districts of Purba Medinipur and South 24 Parganas will receive very heavy rainfall till Wednesday morning, while districts of Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly are very likely to receive torrential rain on Tuesday, the weatherman said. The Met department said that the inclement weather has been caused by a low-pressure system over north Telangana and strong southeasterly wind from Bay of Bengal. The districts in north Bengal are likely to receive heavy rain from Tuesday owing to the weather system, it said, adding that the sub-Himalayan districts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar and Alipurduar are very likely to receive heavier downpour. The Met department warned of rise in water level in rivers, waterlogging in low-lying areas and landslides in the hill districts of Darjeeling and Kalimpong owing to the downpour. Standing crops in the field, with paddy being almost ready for harvest in several districts of the rice-growing state, may also suffer damage, it said. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till Tuesday. The seaside resort town of Digha received the heaviest rain in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Monday recording 117 mm rainfall, while the river port town of Canning received 108 mm rainfall, the Met said. Kolkata received 22 mm rainfall, while Dum Dum in the northern outskirts of the city recorded 53 mm rainfall during the same period, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Brown sugar seized||Police arrested a suspected drug peddler with brown sugar worth around Rs 70 lakh from Matigara, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Saturday, police said. Sources said around 270 gram of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, and Rs 1.70 lakh were seized from Md Imtajul, a resident of the Sutki Godown area of Matigara. He has been booked under the NDPS Act and a case has been registered at Matigara police station. Officers said this was one of the major drug and cash haul in the Siliguri Metropolitan Police area. “We are conducting frequent raids to catch drug peddlers. A number of seizures have been made and such operations will continue,” a police officer said. In another incident, a Bangladeshi resident was nabbed by a team from the 72 battalion of the Border Security Force while he was allegedly trying to enter India illegally through Mannagar of North Dinajpur on Saturday. Sheikh Abdullah, who officers said was from Thakurgaon district of Bangladesh, was later handed over to the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress collects workers’ details in north Bengal ||Trinamul leaders in Malda and North Dinajpur, the two neighbouring districts in north Bengal which have thousands of migrant workers and workers in unorganised sectors, have engaged INTTUC — the party’s workers’ front — to prepare a comprehensive database of such persons and their families and bring them under the ambit of the party’s trade union. The exercise, party insiders said, can help the Trinamul Congress galvanise its support base, particularly in the upcoming civic and rural elections. “Altogether, there are over five lakh migrant workers from these two districts who serve in other states. Also, there are others who stay here but serve in unorganised sectors and we do not have their complete details. Trinamul has felt it necessary to prepare a database of all of them, along with their families,” said Subhadeep Sanyal, the Malda district INTTUC president. According to Sanyal, detailed information about these workers would enable the party to know about their whereabouts, whether they are still employed or are sitting idle at homes after the pandemic induced lockdown of last year and more importantly, whether they are covered under the benefits of the state-run social welfare schemes. “The same is applicable for their family members. Many migrant workers have lost their jobs and we want to ensure that each family is receiving all assistance which is provided by the state through different welfare schemes,” the INTTUC leader added. The INTTUC workers engaged for this exercise have been asked to keep records of all such families who are prospective beneficiaries of government schemes but have not received the benefit so far because of some reason or other. “Even if there is one family member — for example an elderly woman — who is not receiving the old age pension, the workers will note it down. In due course, we will individually take up these cases with the administration of the block concerned through our local leaders,” said a Trinamul leader based in North Dinajpur district. A Trinamul leader said: “With the initiative, the party will have detailed information about the migrant workers and workers of the unorganised sector of each block of these districts.” “Also, our initiative to help the families of the workers in getting benefits from the state government — right from free ration to monthly financial assistance — would help us to draw their support in the upcoming elections,” the party leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||‘Peddler’ arrested with brown sugar worth Rs 70 lakh in Siliguri||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested a suspected drug peddler with brown sugar estimated at Rs 70 lakh from Matigara located on the outskirts of Siliguri on Saturday. Police sources said around 270 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, and Rs 1.70 lakh in cash had been seized from Md Imtajul, a resident of Sutki Godown area of Matigara. He has been booked under NDPS act and a case has been registered at Matigara police station. In another incident, a Bangladeshi resident was nabbed  by 72 battalion of the Border Security Force while he was trying to infiltrate into India  in Mannagar of North Dinajpur on Saturday. Arrested Sheikh Abdullah is a resident of Thakurgaon, Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Prod on ‘forgotten’ yoga hospital proposal in Kalyani||Officials of the West Bengal Council of Yoga and Naturopathy, a branch of the Union Ayush ministry, have requested their central counterpart, the Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (CCRYN), to look into a 2019 proposal for setting up a 100-bed research institute and yoga hospital in Kalyani. Representatives are alleging that the project, purportedly greenlit by the Bengal government, has been caught in the crosshairs of the ongoing state-Centre political tussle. Bengal representatives of Ayush requested that the Centre “realises the optics” of stonewalling a yoga project, given the latter’s purported significance to the Narendra Modi regime. “The Bengal government, with initiative from chief minister Mamata Banerjee, allotted 10 acres of land in Kalyani’s Gopalpur free of cost towards this project, two years ago, and there has still been no action from the Centre,” said Tushar Sil, president of the state council. “This is clearly an attempt to undermine any progress in this state, even if it happens to be linked to passion projects of the BJP-run central government,” he added. “Our chief minister had allotted Rs 67 crore to set up a yoga medical college and hospital in Belur, and that is already ready.” Several officials and activists associated with yoga reminded how Prime Minister Modi showed his interest in yoga by introducing the celebration of the International Yoga Day on June 21. “The Prime Minister practises yoga in front of cameras on June 21 every year. It is ironic that construction of a yoga hospital is being neglected by the Centre in Bengal. Is it because it is a state ruled by Trinamul,” said a source. Officials referred to a letter dated October 20, 2019, from the state to the director of the central council, seeking clearances for future construction. The project had initially been proposed in response to a Lok Sabha question in July 2019, to which the Union Ayush minister had apprised the House of plans to set up Central Research Institutes of Yoga and Naturopathy, as well as hospitals, in Odisha, Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. In September 2020, an RTI inquiry to the central Ayush ministry had yielded only the information that land had been allotted towards the seemingly forgotten project. “Incidentally, the land in question lies adjacent to the upcoming AIIMS facility here, where similar clearances have reportedly been issued,” said a source. In August this year, a Bengal Ayush team headed by Sil made a trip to meet their Delhi counterparts, and made their stance clear that the state believes political stonewalling was at play. “This is a big project, and it involves yoga, which should be beyond politics. This shouldn’t be stuck in the crosshairs of pettiness,” said Abhijit Ghosh, state secretary of the Indian Yoga Association. “We would like to thank the state government for its initiative. We have already contacted the director of CCRYN but there is no answer yet,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of bypoll on October 30, many leave saffron camp||The saffron camp had to face a setback in Dinhata, the bastion of local MP and Union minister of state for home affairs Nisith Pramanik, as around 300 BJP supporters, including some prominent faces, switched to Trinamul on Sunday, less than a fortnight ahead of the bypoll on October 30. In Dinhata, Pramanik had contested as BJP’s candidate in the Assembly polls and defeated Trinamul’s Udayan Guha by 57 votes. The BJP asked him to continue as MP, necessitating the bypoll. Trinamul has again fielded Guha for the bypoll. The BJP candidate now is former MLA Ashok Mondal. District Trinamul leaders reached Dinhata and welcomed Sudeb Karmakar, district secretary of BJP, and his associates, to Bengal’s ruling party. “We had set a target to win this seat by 57,000 votes. But now we feel the margin will be one lakh,” said  Trinamul leader Partha Pratim Roy. Karmakar fumed at Pramanik. “As a minister, he has stopped speaking to party workers. Many will vote for Trinamul this time,” he said. BJP leaders sounded unfazed at the defection. “We are confident of our support base in Dinhata,” said a district leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Truck mows down three women, injures four in Murshidabad||Three women were killed and four others seriously injured on Saturday evening when a truck ran a few feet off the Farakka-Bahadurpur road in Murshidabad and careened over the group of seven women on the road. The deceased were identified as Sumati Mandal, 45, Jyotsna Mandal, 33 and Ashalata Mandal, 55, all from Sudna village. The four injured are admitted to Jangipur sub-divisional hospital. The driver of the truck fled. SP Y. Raghuvamshi, said a case of unnatural death had been filed. Residents have demanded a speedbreaker in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 624 new cases, 634 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Sunday reported 624 new Covid-19 infections, 634 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases in the state fell by 24 to reach 7,421. Calcutta reported 179 new infections and four deaths on Sunday, North 24-Parganas 128 infections and three deaths. A minister said new infections being reported now is indicative of people who got infected between October 8 and 12, and figures suggest the situation is much less alarming than what was feared. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, on September 26. Since then, in the past 22 days, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 12 days and a fall for nine days. “October 12 was Mahasaptami. We have now gone past the pre-Puja stage and entered the actual Puja days. There were a lot of adverse estimates of things going horribly wrong, on account of people’s general disregard for Covid-19 safety protocols during the revelry. These numbers encourage us to believe that the apprehensions did not materialise,” he said. The state now has over 3.9 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is fifth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Eleven districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections on Sunday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.07 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.3 per cent on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.8 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.54 lakh recoveries and 18,977 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Hill entrepreneurs come up with new concept to sell exotic teas||Hill entrepreneurs Sparsh Agarwal and Ishaan Kanoria have teamed up with tea connoisseur Rajah Banerjee to come up with a new concept to sell exotic teas from Selim Hill, a tea estate spanning 1,000 acres named after a 19th century British planter. Sparsh said they were offering green and black teas of four flushes — first, second, monsoon and autumn — in an annual subscription mode. “Within three weeks of our launch, we found over 300 customers,” he said. A buyer can get a kilo of tea, of 250-gram packs of each flush in a year, for Rs 2,100. The brand “Dorje” derives its name from one of the origins of the word Darjeeling. The entrepreneurs have  chosen the steam loco of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a Unesco certified world heritage site, as the brand’s logo. Although Darjeeling tea is known worldwide for its muscatel flavour and  close to a million kilo is produced by 87 tea estates in its hills, a number of tea gardens are facing financial problems. “It is a picture of contrasts. That is why, we decided on innovation. We’re taking up a new initiative to offer teas of four different flushes to tea lovers round the year through the annual subscription mode. Our plan is to build a subscriber base of around 50,000 people who would get our exotic teas delivered at home,” said Sparsh. Banerjee,who once owned the famous Makaibari brand, has now come up with a new brand, Rimpocha. He is playing the mentor to these youths. “We need to explore new options for the revival of the Darjeeling tea industry, which include new channels to merchandise the teas,” said the septuagenarian tea connoisseur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata government allots cash aid for Kalimpong homestays||The Mamata Banerjee government, which has been putting impetus on the tourism sector that provides employment to around 10 lakh people in north Bengal, has sanctioned funds to assist over 300 homestay accommodations in Kalimpong district. Though the government is offering the aid to all 480 registered homestays in north Bengal, the sanction of funds for Kalimpong is significant as this hilly district alone has  328 such accommodations, the highest in the region. Most homestays draw tourists on a regular basis, especially since last year’s pandemic outbreak, as many people are choosing standalone properties in isolated locations instead of hotels in crowded places. R. Vimala, district magistrate of Kalimpong, said the state government is paying Rs 1.5 lakh to each homestay registered with the state tourism department to develop its infrastructure. “The aid is being paid in three installments. As of now, we have 328 registered homestays in Kalimpong and all will receive the second installment. A sum of Rs 1.64 crore has been sanctioned for this purpose,” she said. Across north Bengal, 480 homestays are registered with the state tourism department. Jyoti Ghosh, a joint director of the department in Siliguri, said Darjeeling district had 124 homestays registered with them while the rest were from  the Dooars. “We receive fresh applications for registration regularly. Homestays have opened a new avenue of income. To encourage the sector, the state has come up with a policy to provide financial aid to homestays. In Darjeeling and the Dooars, many homestays have received first and second installments,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal by-elections: BJP fishes in Bangladesh waters||The Bengal BJP has seized upon the clashes over Durga Puja in Bangladesh, sniffing the odour of a polarising plank ahead of the by-elections in four Assembly seats on October 30. The attempt to fish in troubled waters flies in the face of an appeal by Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina that India should also be vigilant to ensure that religion is not used to divide people and an acknowledgement by the Narendra Modi government that Dhaka has taken prompt action to control the situation. The Trinamul Congress too had appealed for peace in Bangladesh. Last week during Durga Puja, five people were killed and some places of worship vandalised over alleged blasphemy. Reports from Bangladesh on Sunday suggested that the situation was largely under control although nerves remained taut in areas that had witnessed the clashes. Several prominent Hindu leaders in Bangladesh had praised the Hasina government for initiating quick action — Bangladesh Border Guard troops were deployed in 22 districts to provide security to pandals and temples, and 43 people were arrested — after the attacks in Comilla and other places in the Chittagong range. But the Bengal BJP, still licking the wounds of the crushing Assembly election defeat, has emitted loud signals that the clashes in the neighbouring country will be used here to gain votes. The party’s chief spokesperson, Samik Bhattacharya, told a news conference on Sunday: “What happened in Bangladesh is not an isolated incident. This is the legacy of the ethnic cleansing that the country has witnessed…. Illegal immigration from Bangladesh has disturbed the demography of our state as well. The Union government and the people of Bengal will have to be aware of this now.” Bengal leader of Opposition and Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari raised the issue while addressing party workers in the Santipur Assembly segment on Sunday. Later, Adhikari told journalists: “Jagannath (Sarkar) babu won from Santipur with a margin of around 16,000 votes. The people of Santipur are with the BJP. They’ve seen what has happened in Bangladesh and will give a fitting reply here. The BJP will win with a margin three times bigger this time.” Ahead of the Assembly polls in the summer, scores of BJP leaders had accused Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee of turning West Bengal into “West Bangladesh”. Santipur, one of the four constituencies going to the polls on October 30, has a substantial population of Matuas, a Hindu refugee sect from Bangladesh. The BJP believes the narrative it intends to spin around the recent incidents beyond the border will appeal to this group. According to party sources, the same narrative is likely to help the BJP in Dinhata as well as it covers a locality adjacent to India’s international border with Bangladesh. Sources said the BJP intended to rekindle this issue in the civic and panchayat polls, due next year. Earlier in the day, Adhikari and former state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh had posted videos to suggest some pandals in Bengal too had come under threat. The BJP also organised rallies at several parts of the state on Sunday in protest against the clashes in Bangladesh. On Monday, similar protests will be organised at every mandal, the BJP’s smallest organisational units. Bangla fast Rana Dasgupta, the general secretary of the Hindu-Buddhist-Christian Unity Association of Bangladesh, has demanded immediate arrest of the perpetrators of the attacks there and exemplary punishment for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Forest department to purchase guns, wheels to fight crime ||The state forest department has decided to purchase sophisticated arms, as well as motorcycles and cars to intensify patrolling in reserve forests and combat crimes such as poaching and smuggling of timber and other forest produce. “We will spend around Rs 30 crore to buy the arms and vehicles. For quite some time, we have felt the need to provide sophisticated firearms to our men  engaged in patrolling and engage more vehicles to keep an intensive watch on the forest areas,” state forest minister Jyotipriyo Mallick said over phone from Calcutta. Under the plan, revolvers, pistols, SLRs, motorcycles and SUVs will be bought with this fund. Around 95 per cent of these would be allotted for the forests of north Bengal. Sources in the department said on several occasions, they have found that poachers, timber smugglers and those engaging in smuggling of animal parts and small animals use sophisticated firearms. “In contrast, our men (foresters) carry old pellet guns and .303 rifles. To prevent any crime in the forests, it is vital that they are well armed,” said a senior forest officer. The proposal, he said, was with the state finance department and as the state was undergoing an austerity drive amid the pandemic, it took time to get the approval. “We could eventually convince the government that these items are necessary for conservation of forests and for protection of wildlife in the state.” Once the purchases are made, the department plans  to approach the state home (police) department so that forest guards and other officers who work on the field are trained to use the new equipment. “They need to learn how to handle the firearms,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to organise land mutation camps soon||The Mamata Banerjee government will set up special camps across the state after the festive season to complete pending mutation of land parcels, the decision aimed to ensure farmers get their due benefits, especially under central schemes. “We have decided to organise special camps to complete all pending mutation of land across the state as we received a huge response from common people for completing the pending process in the last few months. Special camps will be held across the state from November 16,” said a senior government official. In Bengal’s rural areas, most people traditionally have delayed the mutation of land, inherited or purchased, but this has changed somewhat in recent months. According to sources, the land and land reforms department had initiated a special drive in the past few months to update mutation of land records in the state. “About 30 lakh mutations were done in the past few months, of which over 2 lakh were completed in Duare Sarkar camps,” said an official. Rough estimates suggest  there are 25 lakh more pending mutation cases in the state. The special camps have been planned to bridge the gap. Mutation of land is important because purchase or inheritance of land parcels are two different things, said a source. “Until now, land could be bought or inherited from a person who had the title record (commonly known as dalil) of the plot. But mutation of the land or change in the title ownership sets the land record in favour of the present owner of land and this has assumed importance in today’s context,” explained the source. Now, various government schemes — particularly those intended to serve farmers — require ownership of land. As many farmers did not complete the mutation process after buying land or inheriting plots from ancestors, they faced trouble in claiming the benefits of government schemes. “Though the chief minister made rules easy to claim the benefits in absence of land ownership for state schemes, the Centre hasn't yet done that. As a result, many farmers in Bengal could not apply for the Centre’s PM-Kisan,” said an official. While nearly 62 lakh farmers get benefits from the state’s Krishakbandhu scheme, only about 35 lakh farmers were found eligible for PM-Kisan scheme. “Several exclusion criteria like getting pension and paying income tax have made many farmers ineligible for the central scheme, lack of papers to claim ownership of farmland is another reason why so many farmers could not apply for it. The state government is trying to update the records,” said a source. Another official said that mutation of residential or commercial plots is not a problem in Bengal. But mutation of farmland remains a problem. “The chief minister has made mutation of farmland free, hence people are interested,” said another official. Once the government brings down the number of pending mutation cases, more farmers will be able to apply for benefits under central schemes like PM-Kisan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
18-10-2021||West Bengal||College-goers hold awareness camp on menstrual health for women ||A group of 15 college-goers, under the banner of NGO Chandernagore Bhu-Sankalpa, held an awareness camp on menstrual health for women of the remote Parashmani Island in the Sunderbans, on a boat on Sunday. Sumanta Biswas, founder secretary of the NGO and a private tutor in Hooghly’s Chandernagore, said they had started this campaign four years ago to promote awareness among women in remote pockets of the Sunderbans, after coming to know that women in these areas were kept isolated from  their families during their periods. The group has already conducted half-a-dozen such campaigns in various islands . The students, mostly girls, distributed sanitary pads to around 30 women who came to attend the camp. A physician from a private hospital in Calcutta, Banalata Adhikari, explained to the women the importance of menstrual hygiene and warned them against the dangers of neglecting their health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Health department asks 23 districts to increase Covid-19 vaccination||The state health department has directed all 23 districts to increase Covid-19 vaccination to the maximum possible extent from Monday, with a daily target of 10 lakh jabs, to try and complete vaccinating all eligible people in Bengal with at least one dose within this month. “We have set a preliminary target to complete at least the first dose of vaccination for all eligible people in the state within October 31. It might take a few more days, but the deadline was set as many districts are far from that goal. Calcutta is the only district where cent per cent first dose vaccination for eligible people has been achieved,” said a senior health department official. As of 8pm on Sunday, Bengal administered over 6.65 crore doses, including nearly 1.83 crore second doses – which means 18.3 per cent of the state’s population is now fully vaccinated. Nationally, 21.1 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated. On Sunday, around 2.92 lakh doses were administered in Bengal, from 1,053 vaccination centres, 903 of them run by the state government. Health officials said in Darjeeling, East Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly, over 85 per cent vaccination of at least a single dose of the eligible population has been achieved. Districts like Malda, North Dinajpur and Cooch Behar, however, have just about covered 50 per cent. Sources said the move to increase vaccination came after the Union health ministry sought data on districts that have completed cent per cent vaccination with at least single dose, and on districts that are yet to complete 50 per cent. Health officials said Bengal saw “rather poor” vaccination during four days of Durga Puja, followed by the weekend after Vijaya Dashami. “Even on Chaturthi (October 9), we managed to administer 13.34 lakh doses. But that fell to 2.17 lakh on Panchami (October 10). Between Mahasasthi (October 11) and Vijaya Dashami (October 15), only 11.82 lakh doses could be administered,” said an official. “On Mahashtami (October 13), there were only 8,076 doses administered in the entire state. On Mahanavami (October 14), the statewide total was 52,492. On Dashami (October 15), it was 39,731... But this was also because people were not interested in being vaccinated during puja,” he added. “Now, all districts have been given a target to vaccinate at least 3,000 people from each of the 350-odd blocks from Monday. They are free to better the target, if possible.” Senior officials said the daily target might not be met till Lakshmi Puja on Wednesday. Calcutta leads the districts in vaccination with over 74.17 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas, with over 68.68 lakh doses. Districts in Jungle Mahal are among those with relatively lower numbers. At the bottom of the pile is Kalimpong, with 2.87 lakh doses. Health officials in the districts said civic bodies have fared well in vaccinating their residents. However, the main challenge remains the rural population. An official added that ground-level staff members had been working relentlessly, without leave, since the vaccination process began. “So we had to grant them holidays for the four main days of Puja. Many took leave to visit their homes elsewhere, or meet their relatives,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
