19-10-2021||West Bengal|| In run-up to Bengal bypolls, exodus to Trinamul worries BJP||Bengal BJP leaders are picking their brains to find the answer to one question: Are more MLAs going to join the ruling Trinamul? That the state BJP is worried about defections in the legislature party since Mukul Roy moved out in June is reflected in the party’s choice of candidates for the forthcoming October 30 byelections in the four Assembly seats of Khardaha, Shantipur, Gosaba and Dinhata. Most Bengal BJP leaders including the leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikary are of the opinion that the party’s strategy of giving poll tickets to turncoats had backfired massively. In the 2021 Assembly polls, BJP gave tickets to as many as 173 aspirants who had embraced the saffron fold, a vast majority of these turncoats were from the BJP. The Bengal unit of the party was largely influenced by the triumvirate of national leaders, Kailash Vijaywargiya, Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, all pointing to the stellar result in Tripura where the entire Trinamul moved to the BJP and helped the party form the government replacing the CPM. The BJP’s national leadership expected an encore in Bengal using the same strategy. “This strategy helped us win in other states but did not work here. We made the mistake of not realising that many of the new entrants to our party were actually joining only to cling to power. That is why there has been an exodus since the results were announced,” said Dilip Ghosh, the former state unit president and Kharagpur MP. The trio of Vijaywargiya, Menon and Prakash also took inputs from Mukul Roy, who has himself deserted the BJP. Sources said  Adhikary’s ties with new state unit president Sukanto Majumdar was better than that with his predecessor Dilip Ghosh, who went his own way. Adhikary has also been able to placate BJP dissidents like Tathagata Roy. Though the BJP had won 77 seats, two of its MLAs have since resigned and four others—all coming from Trinamul--- have defected. The Trinamul has been claiming many more MLAs are keen to switch sides, and that has put the BJP leaders ill at ease. “Electorally we do not expect much of a gain from the bypolls. We would like to hold on to the two seats that we had won. But our main objective is to ensure plugging the exodus. Which is why in the selection of candidates preference was given to those who are known BJP-RSS workers in their respective constituencies,” said a BJP source. The only notable exception is Dinhata nominee Ashok Mandal, though the fact that he had joined the BJP in 2016 when it was a minor force in Bengal went in his favour. Mandal, a former Trinamul MLA from Dinhata, had defeated Udayan Guha, the current Trinamul nominee. The Santipur nominee, Niranjan Biswas, for example, has been a Sangh volunteer since 1993 and was also the organisational secretary of the BJP’s South Nadia unit. “The biggest problem we faced in the last Assembly polls was that our polling agents felt disconnected with the nominees, who were either outsiders or were rivals till a few days ago. This time we have fielded people who have spent some time with the party,” said a BJP source. Of the four seats, two (Santipur and Dinhata) fell vacant as the elected MLAs who were also MPs decided on retaining their respective Lok Sabha seats, while in Khardaha and Gosaba, the winning Trinamul candidates succumbed to Covid-19. BJP’s best chance is in retaining Santipur, of which even Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not confident, according to those in her inner circle. Trinamul workers are unhappy with the candidate, Brajakishore Gosain. The ruling party is expected to win the rest of the seats easily. The four seats go to polls on October 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo formally resigns as MP||Former BJP leader Babul Supriyo formally resigned as an MP on Tuesday, a month after he quit the party to join the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. Supriyo thanked the BJP leadership for the confidence they had shown in him. "My heart is heavy as I had began my political career with the BJP. I thank the PM, party chief, and Amit Shah. They showed confidence in me. I had left politics wholeheartedly. I thought that if I am not a part of the party, I should not keep any seat for myself," he said after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The development comes after the two-term MP from West Bengal's Asansol had on September 20 -- two days after joining the state's ruling Trinamool Congress party -- written to Birla, seeking a "brief" appointment with him to formally resign as a member of the House. The singer-turned-politician has repeatedly stressed that he did not want to continue as an MP since he was no longer a member of the party for which he won the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 690 new cases, 683 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 690 new Covid-19 infections, 683 recoveries and a dozen deaths. The total of active cases fell by five to 7,416. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, on September 26. Since then, in the past 23 days, the state recorded a rise in active cases for 12 days, a fall for 10 days and no change on one day. A minister said the new cases being reported now is indicative of people who got infected between October 9 to 13 (Chaturthi to Saptami). Calcutta reported 194 new infections and North 24-Parganas 103. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas were on Monday the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths on Monday. The state now has over 4.19 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.12 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 3 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.81 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.55 lakh recoveries and 18,989 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid curbs? Travel to the Dooars for a taste of Bhutan||Want to visit Bhutan but find the compulsory paid quarantine too cumbersome? Try the Dooars instead, which has similar culture and cuisine, tour operators in north Bengal are saying. Tour operators have started promoting tiny hamlets in the eastern Dooars close to the India-Bhutan border and are offering homestay accommodations to tourists who want to visit Bhutan but can’t owing to various entry regulations of the neighbouring country amid the pandemic. “If one intends to visit Bhutan, one has to stay in paid quarantine for a fortnight and only then move around the country. That is why a considerable number of Indian tourists are feeling disinclined to visit Bhutan which otherwise is a favourite destination for Indians. In such a situation, we are offering them an alternative to stay at a location that is near the India-Bhutan border, and enjoy cuisine and culture similar to Bhutan,” said Raj Basu, convener Association for Conservation & Tourism (ACT). He said that a number of villages, especially those in eastern parts of the Dooars in Alipurduar district that also has the Buxa hills, have emerged as new destinations for tourists who seek secluded spots to enjoy the idyllic landscape of the area flanked by Bhutan hills. Among these include places like Daragaon, Buxaduar, Lalbanglow, Tanshigaon, Ochlum, Lepchakha, Khataline, Chunavati, Adma, Namna, Serubari, Fulbari and Panbari. A historian in North Bengal University said that the Dooars earlier belonged to Bhutan and so the culture and cuisine of a number of tribes in these hamlets are similar to that of the Himalayan kingdom. “The region was annexed to British India after the Sinchula Treaty of 1865. The main interest was the control on trade between the maritime and the mountain routes, where we had the 18 gateways or the Dooars. Over time, settling patterns have changed, but some people’s habits remain the same,” he said. For example, if one treks to the Buxa hills, there are villages where the Dukpas reside. Their food, clothes and even houses are similar to the residents of Bhutan. “They even celebrate the New Year according to Bhutan’s calendar. This festival is called Gyalpo Lhosar,” the academic said. “Any tourist can easily reach this region in the Dooars where they can feel like they are staying at a hamlet in Bhutan,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP faces TMC black flags in Dinhata||Leaders of the saffron camp in Dinhata where the bypoll is due on October 30 along with three other Assembly seats of the state, on Monday had to return without campaigning as hundreds of Trinamul supporters hit the streets with black flags. Trinamul leaders, including state minister and senior party leader Firhad Hakim who is camping in Cooch Behar now, campaigned extensively in Dinhata. On Monday, Ashok Mondal, the BJP candidate contesting against Trinamul’s Udayan Guha in the seat, reached Bamanhat of Dinhata with Mihir Goswami, the BJP MLA of Natabari, also Cooch Behar district. The moment they reached the local market, over 100 Trinamul supporters turned up with black flags and shouted “go back”. “Trinamul supporters stopped me from campaigning. They verbally abused me and shoved me and others. We have informed the administration,” Mondal later said. In Dinhata, BJP MP Nisith Pramanik became the MLA by a margin of only 57 votes. He stayed on as MP, necessitating the Assembly bypoll. “The abysmally low margin has made the bypoll more interesting in Dinhata and both BJP and Trinamul are putting their best efforts to win the seat. However, the saffron camp appears unnerved these days as there have been major defections during the past few days and now, the candidate has to face protests which were not seen earlier,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Accidental firing killed BJP youth leader: Police||Mithun Ghosh, the North Dinajpur district vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, was not murdered on Sunday night but died in an “accidental firing”, police said on Monday. Mithun, 32, was fatally injured by a bullet near his home in Rajgram, a locality under Itahar police station of the district on the fringes of Raiganj. His relatives rushed him to Raiganj government hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. State and district BJP leaders had accused Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. Trinamul denied the charge. Police ruled out any “political element” and said Mithun  was killed accidentally by an illegal firearm. According to the officers, Mithun had an improvised pipe gun and a 9mm pistol, both illegal, with him. On Sunday night, his friends Santosh Mohanta and Sukumar Ghosh came near his home and wanted to see the firearms, police said. While they were checking out the firearms, a round got fired from the pistol Sukumar held, and hit Mithun in his abdomen, police said, adding that as he collapsed, the duo fled. “On way to the hospital, Mithun told his nephew how he was shot by Sukumar. Our officers are searching for him. We arrested Santosh and he confirmed the incident” said Arsh Sharma, additional SP of Raiganj police district. BJP leaders, however, are insisting it is murder orchestrated by Trinamul and have called an eight-hour general strike from 6am on Tuesday across North Dinajpur. “Mithun was an active party worker and ahead of the Assembly polls had received threats. Those who shot him are Trinamul supporters. Police and administration are not acting neutrally and are trying to hide the political identities of attackers,” said Sukanta Majumdar,  state BJP chief. Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in the state Assembly, said the same. Trinamul leaders denied the charges. “It is an unfortunate incident but police probe revealed that the BJP youth  wing leader had illegal firearms on him . The BJP is falsely trying to implicate us as it is fast losing ground in North Dinajpur district,” said Mosaraf Hossain, Trinamul MLA of Itahar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Nine fishermen spend nights on trees in Sunderbans||Nine fishermen from Raidighi in South 24-Parganas spent two sleepless nights on trees inside the tiger reserve of the Sunderbans to protect themselves from tigers after their boat toppled in Bidyadhari river during Saturday evening’s downpour. The fishermen were rescued on Monday afternoon after a six-hour search by villagers who found the “missing” men on trees. “We had to search extensively along the coast of the island to trace the missing fishermen who had left their homes in a boat early on Saturday,” said Yasin Gazi, a social worker in Raidighi who led the rescue operation on Monday. Gazi said the operation to look for missing fishermen began on Monday morning after one among the nine men managed to make a call from his mobile phone to inform villagers about their plight. “The phone network was very poor. He barely managed to give a faint indication of the place where they had taken shelter on trees,” said Gazi. “We launched the search after informing police. We also informed the cops after the rescue,” the social worker added. Sanatan Mistri, one of the nine rescued fishermen, said they had left their homes to catch fish in the Bidyadhari river early on Saturday. But after dusk, the weather changed with heavy rain and gusty winds. ‘We tried to take our motor boat to a safe location. However, a sudden gust of wind toppled our boat near the coast of Shakhdowani forest.” Shakhdowani forest of the island of the same name in the Sunderbans is a restricted forest under the tiger reserve. “We did not have any option apart from climbing trees. We could not retrieve food and drinking water from the boat and the strong wind made us shiver in cold. We took shelter on top of three trees and every passing hour was a nightmare,” said Mistri. Hasan Molla, another fisherman, added they saw pugmarks of tigers on the soft soil. “We knew tigers were around. We could not sleep for the fear of falling off trees. We are lucky to have been rescued.” “It is unusual for boats to overturn in a river, such things happen in the sea. The accident was triggered by wind and heavy rain,” said an official in South 24-Parganas. While the fishermen are happy to be back home in Raidighi, inclement weather has left the administration in coastal districts worried. Following the formation of a low-pressure in the Bay of Bengal, coastal districts — mainly North and South 24-Parganas — are experiencing continuous rain and winds of 30-40kmph since Saturday evening. The Indian Meteorological Department on Monday said it would continue till Wednesday. The IMD had earlier issued a warning for two days from Sunday, but its special bulletin on Monday mentions orange and yellow alerts for south Bengal districts including North and South 24-Parganas, Calcutta, Howrah, Birbhum, East and West Midnapore. These places are likely to see heavy rain till Wednesday. “There is a forecast of heavy rain in most south Bengal districts till Wednesday. Later, low-pressure area is likely to move towards north Bengal,” said a weatherman in Calcutta. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Outrage over Lakhimpur, Bengal unit of farmers’ unions stop trains||The Bengal unit of the All India Kisan Sabha and other farmers’ unions stopped trains at various stations across Bengal on Monday. The events were organised as a part of the Rail Roko appeal made by the Sanjukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer’s associations, which has been spearheading the farmers’ protests against the three contentious central farm laws. The protests were organised to demand the removal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. His son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the Lakhimpur incident. In Bengal, the Rail Roko was organised across the state including Burdwan, Singur, Jhitka, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, Tamluk, and Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||India||BJP protests in bid to milk Bangla unrest, Suvendu meets envoy||The Bengal BJP’s desperation to politically exploit the clashes in Bangladesh during Durga Puja was evident on Monday as party MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari led a delegation of MLAs to the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner’s office in Calcutta to express concern over the attacks. “We have won (the Assembly seats) with votes of Sanatanis. Nobody else voted for us. We are responsible for the Hindus,” Suvendu told the media after the meeting. “With all due respect towards India’s foreign policies, the Bangladesh PM (Sheikh Hasina) isn’t dealing with the situation with a tough hand,” Suvendu said in contrast to Narendra Modi government’s acknowledgement that the Hasina government had acted promptly to control the situation. A source in the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner’s office confirmed Suvendu met deputy high commissioner Toufique Hasan and handed over a memorandum. “Suvendu’s decision to meet Hasan was his way of sending a message ahead of the October 30 bypolls that the party was concerned about the plight of Hindus in India and outside,” said a party leader. Suvendu also visited the Dhakeshwari temple in Kumartuli where, according to BJP’s media cell, he prayed “for the safety of the oppressed Hindu minority of Bangladesh”. SFI, the students’ wing of the CPM, organised demonstrations across the state to condemn the attack on minorities in Bangladesh and in several parts of India. “From Babri to Comilla, majoritarian extremist atrocities are the same. These extremists nurture each other. This is why the likes of Suvendu Adhikari eye electoral gains when the Jamaat creates unrest beyond the borders. There is no difference between the RSS and the Jamaat. It is our duty to shun all forms of communalism and stand up for humanity,” said SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya. Echoing the same spirit, members of the Bengal intelligentsia have issued a letter of protest condemning the attacks on the minorities in Bangladesh and sought immediate redressal from the Sheikh Hasina government. In Nadia’s Mayapur, monks and devotees of the Iskcon organised a congregation at its headquarters on Monday evening to condemn the alleged atrocities on its devotees in Bangladesh. They also demanded “tangible action” against them at the earliest to ensure the safety of minorities in Bangladesh. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Residents, traders worry over BSF’s inroads||The decision by the Union home ministry to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50km from the existing 15km inside the Indian territory from the border, has resulted in anxiety across north Bengal and also Murshidabad to the right of the Ganga. In north Bengal, six of the eight districts, barring Alipurduar and Kalimpong, share borders with Bangladesh. “If we go by the decision, it is clear that the BSF will have access to almost all the district headquarters (except Darjeeling) of the remaining six districts and also most other towns of these districts. Hence if residents of these areas articulate a fear of intense vigil by the BSF, it can’t be ignored,” said a retired police officer. The BSF is a central armed police force tasked with the security of India’s borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. A rough estimate indicates that the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction means the force will have control in areas covered under 52 police stations in these districts. In Cooch Behar and South Dinajpur, the BSF will have access to areas under all police stations, as all come within 50km of the border. “Similarly in Siliguri sub-division, all the police stations are located within 50km of the India-Bangladesh border. The situation is no different in Malda and North Dinajpur,” said an observer. In Malda, nine of the 14 police stations are within the prescribed jurisdiction, while in North Dinajpur, eight of the nine police stations are located within 50km. On the right of the Ganga, the situation is no different. In Murshidabad, earlier the BSF had access in parts of eight of the 28 police stations, but now will have access to areas under 21 police stations. “We are worried and have sent a letter to the chief minister, requesting her to take up the issue with the Centre. We apprehend that it might have an adverse effect on the local economy as in Siliguri all major markets will come under the jurisdiction of the BSF,” said Ayush Tibrewal, the general-secretary of North Bengal Merchants’ Association. Shankar Kundu, general-secretary of West Dinajpur Chamber of Commerce, a trade body in North Dinajpur, added: “Most BSF men don’t understand local dialects too.” Trinamul leaders have also criticised the Centre’s decision. Senior state minister Firhad Hakim, in Dinhata, Cooch Behar, to campaign for the October 30 bypoll, drew parallels with a famous line of Sholay’s Gabbar Singh. “We have heard the dialogue (of Gabbar Singh) that if any child does not sleep at night, the mother says if you don’t sleep, Gabbar will come…. Now, mothers will say that if you don’t sleep, (Narendra) Modi’s BSF will come,” said Hakim. However, BJP leaders accused Trinamul of trying to politicise the issue and also claimed that the Centre’s decision would help in curbing crimes near the border. Ajay Ganguly, a district vice-president of the BJP in Malda, said: “There is no problem in any other state over the issue, but here, Trinamul is trying to politicise it. The decision was taken for national security.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Himalayan black bear rescued from hills||A Himalayan black bear that had sneaked into the Darjeeling town, apparently a week ago, was rescued by foresters of Darjeeling wildlife division on Monday morning. According to the foresters, during the past six-seven days, the three-year-old male bear was found wandering in localities like Hermitage Road and Lebong, which are adjacent to the Tibetan Refugees Self Help Centre. On Monday, the foresters laid a trap and managed to cage the animal. After rescuing the bear, the foresters examined the animal and later released it in the wild at a higher altitude of the hills. “We are keeping a watch in the locality from where the animal was rescued to know whether any more bears strayed into the area with it,” said Suratna Sherpa, the divisional forest officer of Darjeeling wildlife division. According to experts, the Himalayan black bear is an endangered species and normally dwells in the hilly forest tracts ,which are at a height of 10,000 feet or above. “Usually, Himalayan black bears descend downhill during winters for mating and then go into hibernation. The animal is normally reclusive by nature and avoids human population. It only strays into human habitats in search of food,” the divisional forest officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur Liberation Organisation rebel surrenders in Balurghat||A trained militant of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), a banned terror outfit, surrendered before police in Balurghat of South Dinajpur on Monday. Sudip Sarkar alias Pintu Barua Koch, who hails from Borapara area under Kumarganj police station of South Dinajpur, reached the office of Rahul Dey, the district police chief, and surrendered himself. “We appreciate his decision to surrender and return to the mainstream. We will also see that he is rehabilitated like other former militants of the organisation in the district,” Dey said. According to police sources, four former militants of the KLO — an armed outfit floated by a section of Rajbanshi youths in the late nineties which of late, is trying to regroup over the demand of separate statehood — have been provided with jobs of special home guards from the district. “In due course, Sudip Sarkar will also be provided with employment so he can run his family. It is a part of the initiative taken by the chief minister Mamata Banerjee to help these people,” said a police officer. Sudip, when asked about his decision, said it was a wrong decision to join the terror outfit. “I got disillusioned and felt it necessary to return to normal life. I have full confidence in the state government,” he added. Police sources said they are in contact with some other militants and linkmen (non-trained ones) who have expressed willingness to surrender. “Some more of them will be back into the mainstream soon,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Two killed after truck hits car in Suri||Two persons, including a 38-year-old medicine dealer from Haldia, were killed and three others were injured after the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck on NH14 near Suri town early on Monday. The five were travelling from Haldia to offer prayers at the Kali temple in Birbhum’s Tarapith when an unidentified truck hit the car and fled away, police said. Medical merchant Samir Samanta and driver Sheikh Matibul, 35, were declared brought dead by the doctors at Suri district hospital where Samir’s wife Moumita, 32, daughter Shreyashi, 9, and his friend Shibeswar Modak, 38, are undergoing treatment. “We are apprehending that it was a truck that hit the car and fled away. We are trying to track the vehicle,” said a police officer in Suri. As the incident happened early in the morning, police said there were no eyewitnesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
