20-10-2021||West Bengal||Incessant rain causes landslides in north Bengal||Normal life in parts of north Bengal was affected on Wednesday as heavy rain in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri districts triggered landslides and caused damage to roads and bridges, restricting vehicular movement in various places, officials said. The Meteorological department issued a 'red' alert for Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Alipurduar, forecasting "extremely heavy rain at one or two places" in these districts till Thursday morning. Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain during the period, it said. Road connectivity in several places of Kalimpong district, linking Kalimpong town with several hamlets such as Pedong, Lava and Algara, was snapped owing to landslides, the officials said. Water from the overflowing Teesta river submerged the National Highway 10 that connects Siliguri with Sikkim capital Gangtok at Teesta Bazar area, disrupting vehicular movement, they said. A bridge on the Balason river at Matigara on the outskirts of Siliguri in Darjeeling district also got damaged. Siliguri Police Commissioner Gaurav Sharma said vehicles have been diverted to another route owing to the damage to the bridge, while motorcyclists and pedestrians have been allowed to use it. "We are urging people to make plans for long travel to reach their destinations owing to the diversion," he told reporters. Hundreds of tourists, who have thronged the hills during the Durga Puja season, are facing difficulties in travelling to their next destination or reaching railway stations or the Bagdogra airport to return home, owing to the incessant rain and landslides, the officials said. Several low-lying areas in the Jalpaiguri district have been flooded owing to a rise in the water level of Teesta and Jaldhaka rivers. People from these areas were being moved to safe places for shelter. Darjeeling received 233.8 mm rainfall, the highest in the state in the 24 hours till 8.30 am on Wednesday, followed by Kalimpong (199 mm), Jalpaiguri (151 mm) and Cooch Behar (60.9 mm). Water levels in Torsa and some other rivers in the region have started rising owing to the torrential rain. The Met department said the inclement weather condition will prevail in the sub-Himalayan districts till Thursday morning. Weather in West Bengal's southern districts, which received heavy rain since October 17 owing to a low-pressure system, improved considerably on Wednesday, though the Met department said thunderstorms with lightning at one or two places are likely in the region during the day. Dry weather will prevail in the southern parts of the state from Thursday, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader accused of beating up schoolteacher in Malda||A local Trinamul leader and former councillor of Englishbazar municipality in Malda district and his alleged henchmen have been accused of assaulting a tribal schoolteacher after accusing him of stealing a bicycle in Malda town on Friday. Sudip Tudu, the schoolteacher in his mid-thirties, has suffered serious injuries and is under treatment at Malda Medical College and Hospital. The matter came into light on Monday after Tudu’s kin filed a complaint with Englishbazar police. Leaders of various political parties, including some from Trinamul, have protested, prompting Paritosh Choudhury, the former Trinamul councillor, to go into hiding. Police are searching for him. Sources said Tudu, who stays in Habibpur block of the district, had been to Malda to meet his relatives at Krishnapally in ward 3 of the town. On Friday, after he left his relatives’ place, some local residents allegedly accosted him. “They started thrashing me. I had no idea why. One of them, who introduced himself as the former councillor of the ward, called me a thief. I had done nothing,” Tudu said from the hospital bed. He added that his relatives took him to the hospital. As the news spread, the Left and the BJP demanded Choudhury’s arrest. “The Trinamul leader intercepted and thrashed a schoolteacher in broad daylight without any reason. Shameful. Stringent steps should be taken against all the accused,” said Gobinda Mandal, the district BJP chief. On Tuesday, representatives of All Bengal Teachers’ Association, the teachers’ front of CPM, met Tudu in the hospital. They threatened a movement if Choudhury was not arrested immediately. District Trinamul leaders, when questioned about the attack on the school teacher, tried to distance themselves. “Paritosh Choudhury is a former CPM worker and later joined Trinamul. Earlier, some other allegations were made against him but this time, he has crossed all the limits. The party will never stand by him and we want the law to take its own course,” said Krishnendu Choudhury, a state general secretary of Trinamul based in Malda. Police officers of Englishbazar police station said they are in search of him. “We are working on certain inputs and hope to locate him soon,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||PF-Aadhaar link extended to December 31||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has extended the date of linking Aadhaar cards with UAN (Universal Account Number) of provident fund holders associated with different plantation sectors to December 31 this year, much to the relief of thousands of workers associated with tea and cinchona plantations in north Bengal. “This is a major relief for the tea workers and tea companies as the seeding process of most of the three lakh odd workers who are employed in the tea estates of north Bengal is yet to be completed. We have time and again raised this issue at concerned quarters and it is good that finally, an extension has been given. We hope the authorities of EPFO and UIDAI will see that the work is done in due course,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. It may be mentioned that in June this year, the EPFO had issued an order for their staff, mentioning that the ECR (electronic challan-cum-receipt) for deposition of provident fund would be allowed only for those members or beneficiaries of the provident fund whose Aadhaar numbers are seeded and verified with their UAN numbers. “This had led to a major problem as the Aadhaar details of thousands of tea workers did not match with their records with the EPFO. Thus, those needed to be amended. Also, because of the direction and the mismatch, tea companies could not deposit the workers’ provident fund as no ECR would be generated. That is why, the extension was sought,” elaborated a tea planter in Siliguri. The order for seeding and verification was made compulsory through a notification made by the Union labour ministry on May 3 as per the Social Security Code that was passed on last year by the Parliament. The extension, sources said, is also applicable for workers engage in other plantations sectors, which include cardamom, jute, pepper, rubber and cashew nut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmi Puja lesson for ‘those playing communal card’||Secular forces in Bangladesh putting up a concerted protest against divisive violence during Durga Puja in their country can take heart from a village across the border, some 100km from Calcutta. Around 190 Hindu families and 60 Muslim families from Dharmadanga village in East Burdwan’s Kalna are all set to continue with a 43-year-old tradition where Hindus and Muslims team up to celebrate Lakshmi Puja. “We were very sad on receiving the news of the attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh and protests and politics over the issue here in Bengal. We were discussing among ourselves how harmoniously people of both communities live in our village. Every year we celebrate Lakshmi Puja, where Muslims are an integral part of the festivities,” said Tarak Das, secretary of the Lakshmi Puja committee of Dharmadanga village. “I am not very educated but I can’t forget the lines penned by poet Kazi Nazrul Islam, Mora ek brinte duti kusum... Hindu Musalman (we are two buds of one stalk — Hindu and Muslims). We never differentiated among Hindus and Muslims,” said Das, also the secretary of the Pallishri Sangha in Dharamadanga, the club behind the puja set up in 1979. He added: “I am a school dropout.” On Tuesday, Muslim youths of the village and their Hindu neighbours cleaned up the puja pandal. A few Muslim youths were among those who brought the Lakshmi idol from Kalna town. Saifuddin Sheikh, 30, who on Tuesday was among those to bring the 10-foot-high Lakshmi idol to the pandal, said: “It is our festival. It is our duty to take part in the puja. Before me, my uncle and father used to do the task that I am doing now. There is no question of Hindu or Muslim among us.” Elders said the idea to include Muslim families had happened without deliberation. “People here first set up the club for farmers to discuss how to increase their produce or how to minimise damage to crops,” recalled a septuagenarian. “It was a sudden decision over 40 years ago. I was very young. Someone told us that as we all are farmers we should organise a Lakshmi Puja. It was spontaneous and our Muslim friends immediately agreed to be a part of it. We never thought who is Hindu or Muslim,” said Arun Mondal, one of the founders of the puja. Old -timers said Dharmadanga village was an “example and lesson” for those playing the communal card in Bengal. “Kings of Burdwan had always ruled the area with a message of communal harmony and Muslims and Hindus were integral parts in their court. Kings used to gift camels to Muslim dignitaries before Id,” said Sarbajit Jash, a local historian. “The tradition of harmony that started in the 19th century here is still alive in the district. The village is teaching a lessonto all at a time when certain communal forces are trying to break the harmony that we have.” the historian added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Babul resigns as MP from Asansol ||Former Union junior minister Babul Supriyo resigned as the MP from Asansol on Tuesday. Supriyo met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla at his residence and tendered his resignation around a month after quitting the BJP to join the Trinamul Congress. On September 20, two days after joining Trinamul, Supriyo had written to Birla seeking an appointment to formally resign as a parliamentarian. He was finally asked to meet the Speaker on Tuesday. “I won from Asansol as a BJP candidate. To me it is unethical to remain an MP from that seat after I quit the party,” Supriyo told journalists after tendering his resignation. Asked if he would contest from Asansol in the ensuing bypoll on a Trinamul ticket , Supriyo said: “No. This I can tell you clearly.” In his resignation letter, the singer-turned-politician also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and added that he would remain indebted to his former party. “It has been a very fulfilling seven years that I have spent in the Parliament and I shall always remain indebted to my now ex-party BJP and Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji, Hon’ble Shri Amit Shahji & respected Shri JP Naddaji for giving me the opportunity to serve my country,” Supriyo wrote. Supriyo “quit politics” after being dropped as junior minister in a reshuffle in July. He had taken to Facebook to announce his decision and expressed his discontent over him being dropped as a minister. However, he had also said he wouldn’t join any other party. On September 18, however, Supriyo joined Trinamul in Calcutta. On Tuesday, he again said that his decision to join Trinamul was a “simple” issue and there was nothing much to read into it. “I had whole-heartedly resigned from politics. Didi (Mamata Banerjee) told me that I had done good work in public life and won for a second time…Hence I shouldn’t resign,” Supriyo said. He also added that Asansol will always hold a special place for him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Chief secretary asks districts to increase Covid-19 tests||Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Tuesday asked districts to increase Covid-19 tests across the state with positive cases showing a rise after Durga Puja. He also asked district officials to be prepared in case the third wave of pandemic hits the state. The chief secretary held a videoconference with district authorities, including officials of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, with a PowerPoint presentation to show how Covid-19 cases were on the rise after Durga Puja. According to Dwivedi’s data, positivity rate of almost all districts have increased significantly between October 12 and 18 compared to what was reported between October 5 and 11. These districts include Calcutta, and the North and South Parganas. In Calcutta, positivity rate was 3.65 per cent between October 12 and 18 and 3.11 per cent between October 5 and 11. “Overall, Bengal’s positivity rate was 2.09 per cent between October 5 and 11 but it jumped to 2.53 per cent between October 12 and 18. It’s a cause for concern,” an official who attended the meeting on Tuesday said. He added that the chief secretary asked officials to be ready with infrastructure for tests and treatment as well as vaccination. Active cases rise Bengal on Tuesday reported 726 new Covid-19 infections, 705 recoveries and nine deaths. The total of active cases rose by 12 to 7,428. A minister said new infections being reported now is indicative of people that got infected in the October 10 to 14 (Panchami to Navami). Calcutta reported 183 new infections and two deaths on Tuesday, and North 24-Parganas 106 new cases and two deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Cash crunch compels fresh infrastructure project screening||Several infrastructure project proposals including bridges and roads, which have been submitted or are set to be submitted for administrative approval, may face a roadblock as the state public works department has decided to access the necessity and importance of all such projects. All the engineers of the PWD have been asked to submit reports pointing out why the projects, sent or to be sent for administrative approval and financial sanction, are a necessity and important. The development is considered to be significant as the department has been taking up only necessary projects in the past 18 months in the wake of the finance department order asking all the state departments to go for an austerity drive in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic since April 2020. Sources in the government said that only those projects considered to be extremely necessary are being sent for administrative approval these days. In light of this, a further scrutiny of such projects would lead a critical situation. “This (new development) makes it clear that the government is in a mood to conduct a scrutiny of those projects which have already been considered absolutely necessary. Already projects worth about Rs 8,000 crore are pending for administrative approval and some more were supposed to be sent for seeking the required approval. It seems all projects have now hit a roadblock," said a senior official. The official explained that these projects were considered necessary because these include 45 to 50 bridges across the state planned to replace the old and existing ones. “All bridges planned to be replaced are very vulnerable. If new bridges are not approved, old ones may collapse in near future,” he added. Some officials said the government is trying to ensure only unavoidable projects get administrative nod amid the stressed financial condition of the Bengal government. “If administrative approval is given and projects don’t take off, it does not look good. So, only those projects which are unavoidable will be carried out,” said a source. Some officials said that the state government was forced to review new projects as it is facing trouble to arrange funds for Lakshmir Bhandar scheme which will kick off from October-end. “The scheme requires Rs 18,000 crore annually.. The government has to cut down expenditure on infrastructure heavily to run it,” said a source. A senior PWD official, however, said the decision to review all projects was linked to the finance department’s austerity drive where a new project worth more than Rs 30 lakh must wait for approval. But others said the austerity measures are in place since April, 2020 but reviewing all new projects already considered a necessity clearly hints at more budget cuts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Floods hit puja paddy husk supply in East Midnapore||Devotees in East Midnapore shopping for Lakshmi Puja essentials are facing a low supply of paddy husk, among the most vital items of the ritual, as prolonged rainfall has destroyed over 2.1 lakh hectares of the 2.4 lakh hectares of cultivated land in the coastal district. “Around 2,819 of 3,199 mouzas of land have been inundated in this district over the past month, and in places like Potashpur, one can still see sea-like stretches,” said an official in the agriculture department of East Midnapore district. He estimated damages in farming because of the rain and floods in East Midnapore alone to be Rs 1,500 crore. At Amra Kajan Youth club in Bhagabanpur, which shares a fate similar to Potashpur, club president Prabir Adak said the most “surprising and humbling” fact was that the Lakshmi Puja dhan would come from Nadia. “Usually our district sends dhan elsewhere,” he said. District officials said the cultivation of vegetables and betel leaf has not been spared, with losses pegged at nearly Rs 200 crore. Flower vendors in the district too have had to sell their produce at “unimaginably high” prices because of flood damage. “Rajnigandha and bel are selling at 10 times their prices compared to last year. This harms the wholesale buyer and customer,” said Bengal flower vendors’ association secretary Narayan Naik. District deputy director of agriculture (plant protection), Mrinal Kanti Bera, concurred that paddy season in East Midnapore this year had been “lost to the prolonged monsoon” and that there was “no possibility of winter harvest”. Elsewhere in south Bengal, rain has left vegetable fields under water and caused prices to soar. “While a kilo of brinjal, which cam for Rs 40 before the flood, is now Rs 80 per kilo, lady’s finger, which was earlier priced at Rs 20 per kilo, now comes for Rs 60-70 per kilo,” said Tamluk resident Sujit Dutta. State agriculture department officials said they were yet to estimate the quantum of loss across south Bengal but admitted the worst-hit crop would be paddy as it was almost ready for harvest when the rain and floods arrived. “The rain damaged ripe paddy. The sum of damage is yet to be calculated,” said Jagannath Chattopadhyay, deputy director of agriculture in East Burdwan. Speaking to The Telegraph, Pradip Mazumdar, who is the agriculture adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said: “According to primary estimates, the situation is so bad that there will be much to worry about. However, we apprehend some loss to vegetables.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain triggers floods, landslides in Kalimpong||Landslide occurred in Kalimpong on Tuesday after a low-pressure area hovering over sub-Himalayan Bengal and the neighbouring states of Sikkim and Bihar resulted in incessant downpour since Monday evening. The rain triggered landslides and flooding in several places. Multiple landslides were reported from Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in Bengal and also the neighbouring state of Sikkim. At least one person died and six were injured owing to the slides in the region. Weather officials indicated inclement conditions would persist for at least another 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Niti Aayog team to meet tea growers in north Bengal ||A Niti Aayog team is set to come on a three-day visit to north Bengal next week for talks with stakeholders of the tea industry. In recent years, this is the first time that the Narendra Modi government is sending such a high-level team to north Bengal. According to officials of the Tea Board of India, the team from the Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office (DMEO), a wing of the Niti Aayog, will reach here on October 27 and will meet representatives of tea associations, small tea growers and others belonging to the tea sector that even today provides employment to around 10 lakhs people in the region in a direct and indirect manner. The DMEO, sources said, is tasked with the responsibility to monitor and evaluate the implementation of schemes, programmes and initiatives of the Centre and come up with policies and recommendations. “They will meet officials of the tea board and the tea board’s quality control laboratory (at the tea park in New Jalpaiguri). They will attend meetings with representatives of tea planters’ associations based in the Terai and owners of bought-leaf factories. On October 28, they will visit Jalpaiguri,” said a source in the tea board. In Jalpaiguri, the team will meet small tea growers and tea planters’ associations based in the Dooars. On the third day, they will visit a site in Ghoshpukur (on the outskirts of Siliguri) where there is a self-help group of small tea growers. In the past seven years, that is, since 2014, the BJP has managed to consolidate its support base in the tea belt. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party could win all the parliament ary seats that cover the tea estates. In the Assembly elections, the saffron party could manage to win most of the seats in the tea belt. Political observers, when asked to comment on the sudden visit of the Niti Aayog team, said this might be the Centre’s attempt to placate tea workers and their families as an undercurrent of discontent can be seen among them these days. “Even though they had voted for the BJP, the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has not done much for them. Earlier this year, a sum of Rs 1,000 crore was allocated for the development of women and children in tea estates of Assam and Bengal but not a penny has come to these people so far. The upcoming visit by a Niti Aayog team hints that the Centre has something in mind for them,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Nisith defends ministry’s decision to extend BSF jurisdiction||Union minister of state for home affairs Nisith Pramanik defended his ministry’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50km from 15km into Indian territory from the India-Bangladesh border in the states of Bengal, Assam and Punjab. Pramanik, also the Cooch Behar MP, dubbed Trinamul’s criticism of the decision “detrimental” to national security. Last week, the Centre decided to expand the BSF’s jurisdiction, paving the way for it to conduct raids, make seizures and arrests within a 50km ambit like the state police. The decision led to anxiety in north Bengal, where it was found that areas spread under 50 police stations will now be within the BSF’s ambit. Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim on Monday drew the analogy of Gabbar Singh from Sholay to say it would scare people. Pramanik on Tuesday said “there was no reason for wrong fears”. “It is a matter of national security and Trinamul is unnecessarily trying to politicise it,” said Pramanik. Pramanik, who was on his way to Delhi from Bagdogra, underscored the importance of the north Bengal in terms of national security. “All of us know that north Bengal is located in chicken’s neck (the area where the width of the Indian sub-continent is the thinnest and perched between Nepal and Bangladesh). We have four international borders here and this decision (of extending BSF’s jurisdiction) can help in bolstering security of the region,” said Pramanik. Though the Union minister of state tried to drive home the message that people dwelling here will not face any problems with this decision, apprehension, however, continues to linger among people. Prasenjit Ghosh, the secretary of Mahadipur Exporters’ Association – Mahadipur in Malda district is one of the major land ports in north Bengal through which bilateral trade is carried out with Bangladesh – sounded perturbed. “We are apprehensive that the trade might get affected if the BSF imposes fresh restrictions across its new jurisdiction. Thousands of trucks bound for Bangladesh are parked within this area of 50 kilometres and hundreds of small traders, who depend on the border trade, run their shops along the route that leads to the border. Such restrictions can also affect them,” he said. The decision has also nudged the agents associated with export. Bhupati Haldar, secretary of the Mahadipur Clearing & Forwarding Agents’ Association, said they will soon hold a meeting with their members. “Our members want to find out what can be ramifications of this decision. We would then sit for a discussion and if required, we will sent letters to the central government, seeking necessary steps so no fresh constraint comes up in the way of border trade,” said Haldar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Man with family stuck  in Kedarnath slide with little food and water||A 50-year-old man, his wife and daughter, are stuck in Uttarakhand’s Kedarnath since Saturday with very little  food and water following heavy rain and landslide in the northern state. Biswajit Roy, 50, an employee of Chinsurah Municipality left his home on October 11 with his wife Chumki, 45, and 19-year-old daughter Answesha for Kedarnath and few other places in north India. When they reached Kedarnath on October 16, the weather had started turning bad. Sources said the Uttarakhand government had issued a red alert on Monday, October 18, following the forecast of heavy rain, and stopped at least 20,000 tourists from visiting Gouri Kund and Kedarnath. However, those like the Roys who had already reached Kedarnath were stuck. “We are staying here (at a government guest house) but desperately need food and water. We are surviving on a few packets of biscuits left with us. All shops are closed amid heavy rain,” said Roy over phone from Kedarnath. “We did not have any idea that the situation would turn so bad. We heard the road down from Kedarnath was blocked due to a landslide. It is not possible for us to get down,” the worried man added. According to him, he and his family tried to catch a chopper on Sunday and leave Kedarnath but bad weather made it risky. He added that his parents and relatives in Hooghly were worried and praying for their safe return. “My son and his family are stuck in Kedarnath. We are worried and anxiously waiting for their return,” said septuagenarian Supriya Roy, Roy’s mother.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Saffron party politicising Bangla unrest, says Trinamul Congress||Trinamul on Tuesday attacked the BJP for its reported bid to politicise in Bengal the communal unrest in Bangladesh, and while condemning last week’s attacks on Hindu minorities in the neighbouring country, lauded the Sheikh Hasina government and civil society there and questioned Narendra Modi’s silence on the matter. Mamata Banerjee’s party ended its silence on the BJP’s attempts to polarise the electorate in Bengal by misusing the Bangladesh clashes in a strongly worded article on the front page of Trinamul mouthpiece Jago Bangla, named Shokuneyr rajniti BJP’r (Politics of vultures of the BJP). Jago Bangla also carried an editorial titled Bangladesheyr hridoy hotey (From the heart of Bangladesh). “The question… remains – who stands to gain from the attacks in Bangladesh?” it asked in its frontpage lead article. “In various countries, religions of fundamentalist forces can be different, but in terms of their interest in the business of elections in the name of religion, they complement each other,” its editorial said. Since last week’s Durga Puja, at least six people have been killed and some places of worship vandalised in Bangladesh. Several prominent Hindu leaders there however have praised the Hasina government for quick and incisive action after the attacks. Her Awami League accused the Opposition alliance of the BNP and the Jamaat-e-Islami of masterminding the attacks to create communal tension in Bangladesh. The Bengal BJP, licking the wounds of the Assembly poll and bypoll defeats, has emitted loud signals that the Bangladesh clashes will be used here to gain votes in the upcoming bypolls to four Assembly seats on October 30. “It can be seen that two forces stand to gain from this – a) Those who want to foment unrest in Bangladesh b) The BJP here, who want to sacrifice some Hindus in Bangladesh to seek votes on the basis of Hindu sentiments here. Which Suvendu Adhikari has already said,” the Jago Bangla frontpage lead said. “The question from the political circles is that those who repeatedly seek votes in the name of Hindus; the one who goes to offer prayers in a Bangladesh temple ahead of the (Bengal) Assembly elections to attract votes, why doesn’t that Prime Minister Narendra Modi talk when there are problems there?” asked the front page piece. “Now, practising vulturous politics, the BJP’s opportunist Suvendu Adhikari is saying: ‘Bangladesh’s incidents will result in an increase in votes for the BJP here’,” it added. In the editorial, Jago Bangla asserted that what happened during Durga Puja in Bangladesh was wrong, but it was a conspiracy that had nothing to do with the common “While it is a fact that it caused fear among minorities there, it is also a fact that the Hasina government has been taking stern measures,” read the editorial. “What is even more heartening is that in Bangladesh itself, there are meetings, rallies, and mega-rallies in protest against these attacks. Multiple Muslim organisations have come forward in protest. Seeing some of these rallies gives us hope, reassurance. This is the heart of Bangladesh,” it added, apparently referring to Dhaka’s iconic Shahbag Square, where on Monday thousands cutting across religious lines raised their voice against the attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
