21-10-2021||West Bengal||35,000 Indian entrepreneurs left country under Modi govt, says Amit Mitra||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Thursday cited three different studies to claim that 35,000 Indian entrepreneurs of high net worth left the country between 2014 and 2020 during the tenure of the Narendra Modi government. He wondered whether this was due to "fear psychosis", and demanded that PM Modi must place a white paper in parliament on "massive flight of Indian entrepreneurs during his regime". "Under Modi Govt 35,000 Indian Entrepreneurs of High Net Worth LEFT India between 2014-2020, as NRI/Immigrants. India RANKED No 1 IN EXODUS IN THE WORLD. WHY? Fear psychosis'?? "PM must place WHITE PAPER to Parliament on massive flight of Indian entrepreneurs during his regime," Mitra wrote on Twitter. Citing a study, he claimed 23,000 high net worth entrepreneurs left India during the 2014-18 period, the worst in the world. "In 2014-2018, 23,000 High Net worth entrepreneurs left India ( Morgan Stanley study) Worst in the World. 7,000 left India in 2019 (AfrAsia Bank). 5,000 left India in 2020.(GWM Review)," he said. "Recall 19 minutes of TIRADE against Indian business by Piyush Goel (Goyal), reportedly saying business practices of Indian Industry went against national interest - short of calling them "anti national'. Breeds 'fear psychosis', motivating exodus? But the PM did not rebuke Goel (Goyal). Why?" Mitra also said on the microblogging site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Basirhat youth feared dead in Puri||A BA first-year student from Basirhat in North 24-Parganas has gone missing after he was swept away by high tidal waves at a beach in Puri on Tuesday evening. While Sanju Bhattacharyya, 21, is still missing, his elder brother Sourabh Bhattacharyya, 24, and another youth Sahin, 21, who had accompanied Sanju on the trip, were initially swept away but managed to stay afloat and were rescued by onlookers. Police and local sources said the three youths, all residents of Kachharipara in Basirhat’s ward 9, had dared ignore warnings issued by the Puri district administration asking tourists not to venture into the turbulent sea. The sea had turned rough following depression in the Odisha coast of the Bay of Bengal and the accompanying squall. Family sources in Basirhat said Sanju, his elder brother Sourabh and their common friend Sahin reached Puri on Tuesday afternoon. In the evening, the trio went to the sea beach for a bath. Sanju’s father Prasanta Bhattacharyya, a businessman by profession, rushed to Puri with some relatives and friends after getting the news. The family has alleged non-cooperation by the Puri beach authorities and police in tracing Sanju, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri bridge closed after water bends pillar ||Vehicular movement along the bridge over Balason river on the northwestern end of Siliguri stopped suddenly on Wednesday morning after one of its pillars bent with the force of the water of the swollen river. The 50-year-old bridge is a vital stretch of National Highway 31, the principal highway that connects Siliguri, some other districts of north Bengal and the Northeast with rest of the country. Though road connectivity has not completely snapped, vehicles moving towards Siliguri and beyond have to make detours through the under-construction stretch of NH 27 or along the stretch of Asian Highway II, work on which has been completed only recently. On Wednesday morning, some residents in Matigara block of Siliguri subdivision spotted the tilted pillar and noticed that a portion of the concrete plank of the bridge had sunk visibly, by some inches. Residents immediately informed the police. Soon, the Siliguri Metropolitan Police issued an advisory that only two-wheelers and pedestrians would be allowed on the bridge till further notice. “We have issued an advisory that other than two-wheelers, all other vehicles will have to go via Naukaghat More (a junction on Asian Highway II in the southern end of Siliguri). Vehicles bound for the hills will have to take other routes. Our men will be posted at the bridge and we will also put men to guide vehicles through other routes,” said Gautam Sharma, commissioner of police. For many years now, there has been a longstanding demand to built a parallel bridge over Balason river and also to widen the stretch of NH31 between Balason and Salugara (on the northeast-end of Siliguri) through which the highway heads towards Sevoke. The demand had intensified because of the regular congestion at Darjeeling More at the junction of NH 31 and NH 55, and is considered the main entry point to Siliguri But no work to build a second bridge or widen the stretch has been taken up as yet. On one hand, state ministers and Trinamul leaders blamed the Centre for not allocating funds for the project. On the other, BJP leaders and MPs accused the state of not arranging land required for the project. In August this year, Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP of the BJP, had said that Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had told him that the project has been taken up in the 2021-22 fiscal. “He (Gadkari) also said that the ministry will build a 13.4km elevated four-lane corridor (along NH 31) between Balason Sevoke and will spent around Rs 1,150 crore for the project,” Bista had said. Gautam Deb, a former state minister who is the administrator of the board of administrators in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), who visited the spot on Wednesday, said the state PWD that looks after the stretch and the bridge, will shortly take necessary steps. “The chief engineer of the PWD inspected the structure on his way to Calcutta. I have requested the minister of PWD to send technical experts soon for restoration work. It is because of the Centre that the project got delayed,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||4 killed in Toto-truck collision in Shaktigarh||Four persons, including the driver of an e-rickshaw , were killed on Wednesday afternoon when the vehicle collided head-on with a truck on the Burdwan-Kalna road in East Burdwan’s Shaktigarh. Police have seized the truck and said that prima facie the Toto driver was drunk. “All four passengers, including the driver of the e-rickshaw (commonly called Toto), were drunk. Eyewitnesses said that the Toto was going in a zigzag way. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem,” said Kamanisish Sen, East Burdwan SP. Police have identified the deceased as driver Bhairab Das, 26, Nirmal Chatterjee, 50, and Abhijit Pal, 48. The fourth person is yet to be identified. According to eyewitnesses, the Toto headed for Burdwan town careened near Baliara village in Shaktigarh and collided with the truck coming from the opposite direction. Raw spirit East Burdwan police on Tuesday night recovered 1,500 litres of raw spirit from Shaktigarh. Police said the raw spirit would have gone towards making around 15,000 litres of illicit liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Finance agent drugged, looted of lakhs in Siliguri||An agent of a private finance company was abducted in Siliguri on Tuesday with Rs 11.5 lakh in cash that he was carrying. Police have rescued Paritosh Roy from Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri district and nabbed three suspects. Sources said on Tuesday. Paritosh, who collects cash on behalf of the company from depositors, was on his way to a bank in Siliguri from Fulbari when he was attacked in Kamrangaguri. "We suspect the men had drugged him,” said a policeman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Plan to upgrade NJP station infrastructure ||The authorities of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) are planning to improve the operating systems and some allied infrastructure of New Jalpaiguri (NJP), the largest and busiest station in north Bengal and the second most important station in the division after Guwahati, to buttress the expansion of railway network across the Northeast. Over the past few years, the Indian Railways have been expanding its network in the northeastern states and intends to connect all the state capitals in due course. Trains are running from Agartala (Tripura) and Itanagar (Arunachal Pradesh) and work is in progress to introduce train connectivity to places like Imphal (Manipur), Kohima (Nagaland), Shillong (Meghalaya) and Aizawl (Mizoram). “NJP has always been an important station in the principal rail route that connects the Northeast. As it is evident that train movement through this route will increase in due course, we have decided to improve the operating system of NJP station within the next three months,” Anshul Gupta, the general manager of NFR, said here on Wednesday. Sources said Gupta has held a meeting with all senior officials of the NFR zone and discussed infrastructure issues as well as train services. In north Bengal and the Northeast, the track till Guwahati has been electrified, which is considered as a major development and can reduce the running time of trains. “We have identified a few areas which need to be improved to introduce more trains. As a part of the programme, the signalling system, the entire operational process of the station, the infrastructure for carrying out necessary maintenance work of trains and improvement of passenger amenities are required in NJP,” said an official. The general manager also spoke about the upcoming Ghum Festival, a fest that has been planned by the NFR to promote the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway — a world heritage mountain railway recognised by the Unesco. The festival has been planned for November and will continue till the first week of December. The idea is to draw more tourists to Darjeeling hills and also include local residents in the plan for conservation of the DHR toy train and its other assets, which are all part of the heritage. “We want to portray the glory of this century-old world heritage train, which started its journey in 1881, before the people. Sharing its memories with the people, developing the DHR museum at Kurseong and the promotion of DHR are some of the objectives for hosting the fest,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar villager shot at ‘over land’, neighbour blamed||A 36-year-old man in Jorpatki village under Mathabhanga police station of Cooch Behar was allegedly shot at by one of his neighbours on Tuesday over a land dispute. Chamiul Mian sustained two bullet injuries on his chest and is under treatment at a private nursing home in Siliguri. He is reportedly critical. His brother Kadar Mian has filed a complaint with the police, accusing their neighbour Aharuddin Mian. All are residents of Jorpatki, the village where  CISF personnel had fired outside a local booth on April 10 this year during the Assembly elections, killing four youths. In his complaint, Kadar has stated that last year, they had sold a part of their ancestral land to Aharuddin. Since then, the latter had problems with them over the borders of the piece of land which was sold to him, the brother alleged. On Tuesday evening, Aharuddin shot three rounds at Chamiul, one of which missed him, Kadar alleged. A team from Mathabhanga police are in search of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||3 Bangladeshi nationals arrested for illegal entry||The BSF arrested three Bangladeshi nationals in  north Bengal on Tuesday for allegedly illegally entering India and later handed them to respective local police stations. According to BSF sources,  the 61 battalion posted at the border outpost in Bhimpur of South Dinajpur apprehended two Bangladeshis while they were allegedly trying to infiltrate into India. They have been identified as Akhil Sarkar and Sumitra Rani Sarkar, both residents of Rajshahi district of Bangladesh. In another raid, another team of the same battalion nabbed Mohammad Sohan, a Bangladeshi youth from Dinajpur district, at the international border. Along with the arrests, the border guards have also seized a number of items, including cattle and cough syrup bottles estimated at Rs 2 lakh, from the Indo-Bangla border in different districts of north Bengal on Tuesday, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid cases cross 800 in Bengal after months||Bengal on Wednesday reported 867 new Covid-19 infections, above 800 in a day for the first time since July 25. The state also reported 795 recoveries and nine deaths. In all, active cases rose by 63 on Wednesday to 7,491. A minister said the new infections reported now are indicative of people who got infected between October 11 to 15 (Sashthi to Vijaya Dashami). “We are seeing the worst of the spike from the puja revelry and allied disregard for safety. It is unlikely to deteriorate drastically from this stage,” he said. Calcutta reported 244 new infections and North 24-Parganas 129, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. “Calcutta and North 24-Parganas witnessed the most indiscipline in terms of Covid-19 protocols before and during Puja, so it’s no surprise that the sharpest spike would be found in these districts,” said the minister. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.13 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.43 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.83 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.56 lakh recoveries and 19,007 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP targets Mamata for silence on Bangladesh minority attacks||Bengal BJP leaders targeted Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday over her alleged silence on the issue of attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh According to sources in the party, the targeting of the chief minister is a part of the BJP’s plan to reap political dividends from the developments in the neighbouring country. “Mamata Banerjee’s silence on the attack on Hindus in the neighbouring country is suspicious. She only does vote-bank politics,” Dilip Ghosh, the party’s national vice-president and Midnapore MP, tweeted. “Why hasn’t she issued a statement on the security of Hindu Bengalis in Bangladesh yet?” Ghosh questioned. Speaking on similar lines at a news conference in the evening, BJP Bengal chief and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar said: “The incidents are happening very close to Bengal. Yet the chief minister is silent. Trinamul is silent, the government is silent. What is their stand?” “People are upset with what’s happening in Bangladesh.... The chief minister is silent and the other political parties are also giving rhetorical reactions. The BJP is the only party that has hit the streets demanding security and protection for the Hindus. The stand that we have taken will surely help us,” said a senior state BJP leader. The Trinamul Congress has swatted away the BJP’s allegations about Mamata’s silence. Replying to Majumdar’s allegations, state minister and Trinamul spokesperson Subrata Mukherjee said that his party has spoken on the issue. “She (Mamata) is unwell. But I’ve seen Partha Chatterjee (state minister and Trinamul’s secretary general) speak on the violence,” Mukherjee said. Majumdar on Wednesday also demanded the deployment of central forces during the ensuing civic polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Poor upkeep hits Nadia bridge ||Traffic between Nadia and East Burdwan district was affected since Wednesday morning as the state public works department suspended movement of heavy vehicles on Gouranga Setu over Bhagirathi river in Nadia. The expansion joints of the suspended spans of the cantilever bridge were dislocated owing to poor maintenance, said sources. PWD authorities on Wednesday barricaded the lane under which the joints have been dislocated while keeping the other lane open to allow movement of only light vehicles. A team of PWD engineers of Nadia highway division-II led by executive engineer Sanjay Singh examined the bridge and said movement of heavy vehicles would remain suspended till repairs were done. Repairs will start from Friday after a fresh visit by experts on Thursday. Singh told this paper: “Expansion joints of 6m-wide suspended spans of the cantilever bridge have become dislocated by over an inch, hence making it uneven. We have examined the joints of the bridge from various angles.” He added that it was a good sign that so far no crack was noticed. “So, we have barricaded one lane of the bridge to avert further damage,” he said. “We have done preliminary investigations today (Wednesday). There will be a fresh investigation by our expert team on Thursday and we have planned to start restoration work from Friday with a target to finish repairs by one week,” Singh said. The 569-metre-long cantilever bridge connects Krishnagar with Nabadwip in Nadia, adjacent to Purbasthali block in East Burdwan district. A large number of vehicles and inter-district public transport connecting Nadia, East Burdwan and Birbhum use Gouranga Setu. The “over-hanging balanced cantilever beam” bridge was inaugurated by former urban development minister Bhola Nath Sen of the Congress government on June 17, 1973. This bridge spans over six piers. One approach pier at both ends is located on the river embankment while the other four piers are based on the riverbed. In 2016, two of the main piers of the bridge were dislocated owing to erosion of river embankment and repeated floods during monsoon. The snag was repaired but the bridge’s health remained feeble. Residents and motorists  said soil at the base of piers eroded regularly and feared that this might lead to the bridge collapsing. They also demanded the construction of a new bridge as an alternative to the Gouranga Setu. “Gouranga Setu is around 50 years old and its two lanes take a huge load every day. The state government should consider building a new bridge as it has been doing for Iswar Gupta Setu over river Hooghly that connects Nadia (Kalyani) to Hooghly (Tribeni),” a local resident said. To this, Singh said: “We have so far no such proposal for a new bridge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP ex-chief Dilip Ghosh to ‘introduce’ successor in districts||Bengal BJP’s immediate past chief Dilip Ghosh and his successor Sukanta Majumdar will embark on a statewide tour from Thursday in what party insiders have said is a rare initiative in the faction-ridden Bengal unit The trip, planned by Ghosh, is part of a strategy to “introduce” the new party president to the district-level functionaries. This journey is being called Samwardhana Yatra (felicitation rally) since Majumdar will be felicitated in all the districts that he visits. “We will start our journey from tomorrow (Thursday) with Birbhum. As of now, we will visit three-four districts in the coming three days,” Ghosh, currently one of the national vice-presidents of the party, said. “Once this leg of our tour is over, we will wait till the bypolls and then visit north Bengal,” he added. According to multiple sources, the idea of this tour was mooted by Ghosh and approved by BJP national president J.P. Nadda. “The morale of our workers is down after the poll debacle. Most of us are tired of the factionalism. Dilip-da’s plan, if it works, may just be the elixir we need,” a state BJP functionary said. Birbhum  apart, Ghosh and Majumdar will visit Nadia and East Burdwan in the first leg of their journey. Majumdar was appointed as the state unit chief on September 20 after removing Ghosh. While the change was imminent, the announcement came as a sudden jolt to the party. Several leaders within the party are of the opinion that Majumdar is close to the state unit’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, who in turn reportedly does not get along with Ghosh. “This could also be an attempt on Dilip-da’s part to strengthen his ties with Sukanta Majumdar, so that he doesn’t completely lose his grip on the party,” a source said. Several BJP old-timers this correspondent spoke to said they couldn’t recall any instance of the immediate past president handholding his successor like this. “This (trip with  is a rare development indeed and Dilip-da must be complimented for it,” said a BJP source. A senior state BJP leader recounted how Ghosh had received a cold shoulder from his predecessor Rahul Sinha, who was made a national secretary of the party after Ghosh became the state president. Majumdar said the idea was to connect with leaders in the districts. “We leave tomorrow (Thursday) and will offer our prayers at Tarapith the day after,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rainfall across Sikkim, north Bengal paralyse life||Extremely heavy rainfall across the Sikkim and Darjeeling hills and north Bengal foothills since Monday night has caused flooding and landslides that have damaged roads, houses and key bridges, paralysing life in the hills and plains. Mud, rock and water running down the mountains damaged close to 400 houses in the Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. At least three people, including two minor girls, were missing and tens of thousands were evacuated away from the swollen, fuming rivers. Hundreds of tourists got stranded. A weather expert said a “sudden” low-pressure zone and southerly winds had caused 230mm of rain in 24 hours in Darjeeling, which was 68 times higher than the normal for this time of year. The Balason river, which flows down the hills and cuts across the NH-31 at Matigara on Siliguri city’s northwest end, has damaged one of the pillars of the 50-year-old bridge that connects the city with Bagdogra airport. With the tilted pillar causing a part of the bridge’s plank to subside, police are allowing only two-wheelers and pedestrians to cross the bridge. Traffic has been stopped along NH-31, which runs along the “chicken’s neck” and connects the Northeast. At Rangpokhola in Sikkim, a stream that flows along the Bengal border and cuts across NH-10 — the principal highway connecting Sikkim with the rest of the country — swept away two reinforcement pillars of its bridge on Tuesday night. The Sikkim government is allowing only light vehicles to ply — and only in a single flank — along the route, the most-used entry point to the state opposite the border town of Rangpo. “Both bridges are strategically important for the region and the country, and are regularly used by the defence forces,” a retired army officer said. “At Rangpo, the NHIDCL (National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited) is building an alternative bridge that will be ready by the year-end. As for the bridge over the Balason, it’s surprising that neither the Centre nor the state has taken the initiative to build an alternative bridge so far.” Swollen rivers Principal rivers like the Teesta, Torsa and Jaldhaka have flooded their banks, with 70,000 people being shifted to safer places. Tourist ordeal Traffic has been affected across landslide-hit highways and roads, such as NH10 at 29th Mile and Swetijhora, creating a nightmare for thousands of local people and tourists travelling to Sikkim and Kalimpong from Siliguri or the other way round. While some made detours with their vehicles, many were seen crossing the landslide spots on foot and then trying to hitch a ride. Many tourists missed flights, buses or trains because the travel to Siliguri had taken extra hours. In the evening, North Bengal State Transport Corporation announced it would run three additional buses to Calcutta. On Wednesday morning, a portion of NH55 — the main highway connecting Siliguri with Darjeeling along which the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway track runs — caved in at Cheuri Vhir near Mahanadi, halting traffic. “The Rohini Road and the Pankhabari Road are open and vehicles are moving between Siliguri and Darjeeling through these routes,” an official said. Missing A portion of Vauxhall, the official residence of the sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Darjeeling, took a landslide hit on Tuesday night. D. Roy, the SDO, was not at home at the time. Suman Thapa, 59, a policeman posted on the compound, is missing. A search is on. In Alipurduar, two minor girls who had gone to the Torsa’s banks are missing. Low pressure Weather experts said it rarely rains in north Bengal this time of the year. “Data shows there’s hardly any rainfall at this time as the southwest monsoon starts withdrawing from September-end. But this rain was caused by a sudden low-pressure area that developed in the region, along with southerly winds,” a meteorologist said. He said the average rainfall in Darjeeling on October 20 is 3.2mm. “But it rained around 230mm (from October 19 morning to October 20 morning), which is over 68 times the normal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
