22-10-2021||West Bengal||Closed bridge over Balason river hits Siliguri traffic||Thousands of people living in and around Siliguri and also those reaching the city on different errands had to bear the brunt of severe traffic congestion on Thursday because vehicular movement was reversed as the bridge over the Balason river remained closed for the second day. On Wednesday, the Siliguri Metropolitan Police had halted traffic movement (barring two-wheelers) through the bridge after one of its pillars tilted with the force of the swollen river and a portion of the bridge’s plank subsided. In Siliguri, vehicles heading to Bagdogra, other parts of Siliguri sub-division or southern parts of the state (towards North Dinajpur district and beyond), move through the north end of the city, and vice-versa. Passenger vehicles bound for districts located in the north of Siliguri (Alipurduar, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri) and northeastern states, also take this route. However, since Wednesday, the movement of these vehicles has been reversed. They are now moving out of the city through its southern end (Naukaghat More) to reach Bagdogra or other places. Also, vehicles entering the city from these places are returning through the same route as they cannot cross the Balason bridge. “These vehicles are taking Burdwan Road where a flyover is under construction. This is leading to severe traffic congestion, while Darjeeling More (the principal entry point to Siliguri in the north) area is almost vacant. It is taking almost an hour extra to reach Bagdogra airport which otherwise is a 30-minute ride from the city. We don’t know when the Balason bridge would be reopened, at least for light vehicles,” said Dibyendu Saha, an IT professional who commutes daily between Shivmandir and Siliguri. The vehicular load on Burdwan Road, which connects to Asian Highway II, has also led to traffic congestion in some parallel roads, which include the Hill Cart Road, Sevoke Road, Bidhan Road, the DBRCD flyover, as many light vehicles are taking these routes to reach the airport and other locations. Meanwhile, a three-member team from the state public works department and Union ministry of road transport and highways visited the bridge over Balason river. They then held a meeting with government engineers and officials of the district administration. “The team comprised officials from the central ministry and an official from the design and planning section of the NH division of state PWD. They reached here from Calcutta, went to the site and inspected the damaged pillar as well as the entire structure of the bridge,” said a PWD official. The team members also collected information about the intensity of traffic movement through the 50-year-old bridge, sources said. “It is good that the water level of Balason has receded as there has been no fresh rainfall since Wednesday evening. Even then, we are keeping a watch on the banks,” said Shribas Biswas, the block development officer of Matigara. Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, held a meeting with officials of the sub-divisional administration, the police and different state departments. “We took stock of the situation. The bridges and culverts located in the civic area have not been affected by the rain. I have asked officials of the state PWD to check the condition of the bridge over the Mahananda river which is on NH31,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Social worker from Mirik bags Ford Global Fellowship||Juliana Lohar from Singbuli tea garden in Mirik has been selected for the prestigious Ford Global Fellowship, which is an initiative by one of the world’s largest foundations to supports young leaders from around the world who are advancing innovative solutions to end inequality. Juliana is currently based in Goa and is a coordinator with ARZ (Anyay Rahit Zindagi), a non-government organisation working towards combating sex trafficking in India. “The selection involved a rigorous process with interviews at the regional (involving India, Nepal and Sri Lanka) and global level,” Juliana told The Telegraph over the phone from Goa. Juliana has worked for the rescue of children and women from commercial sexual exploitation and eradication of the religious practice of dedicating girls as devadasis (victims of sex trafficking) in Vasco, Goa, apart from providing economic rehabilitation to victims. “In the past, ARZ started a laundry service in Goa to provide economic support to the victims. Recently, we have also started a knitting program with the same goal,” said Juliana, who played a key role in launching these projects. Nearly 900 people are attached to the laundry initiative in Goa. “I developed interest to work for the welfare of victims of sex trafficking when I was pursing my masters in social work in Mumbai in 2002. I believe that the fellowship will provide me an opportunity to learn from other cohorts and also exchange ideas to create a global platform to create a gender-equal society,” said Juliana, who is in her early 40s. The social worker also plans to replicate the learning from Goa, which is a major destination for sex trafficking in source areas, to prevent the crime. Smita Chakraburtty, founder, Prison Aid and Action Research (PAAR) and an independent prison researcher, who was commissioned by Patna High Court in 2015 to inspect all 58 prisons in Bihar and come up with recommendations for systemic change, is the other Indian to be selected for the fellowship. Each of the selected fellows will receive a stipend of $25,000 (around Rs 18.5 lakh) as part of the fellowship apart from support to help the fellows “work better, faster and deeper”. The US-based Ford Foundation, which started this fellowship last year, is looking to invest $50 million over the next 10 years to create a network of 240 fellows from across the globe who are working on pressing issues. In 2020, the foundation had selected 24 fellows while 48 were selected this year from across the world. The foundation’s website states that they are looking for “committed leaders who have demonstrated meaningful impact, but whose full potential has yet to be fully realised because of a lack of resources or access to a global network”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Gourikund: Downhill trek of 18km with ‘no help’||A 50-year-old resident of Hooghly, Biswajit Roy, his wife and teenage daughter who were stuck in Uttarkhand’s Kedarnath following heavy rains, had to trek 18km downhill to Gourikund on Wednesday night for 12 hours after the family was allegedly refused a chopper. The Roys accused the Uttarakhand government of not assisting them for past three days amid “disastrous weather” and despite “entreaties” from the Bengal government. “I have never witnessed such inhumane behaviour as was meted out to us by the Uttarakhand administration. Senior officials, including one attached to Bengal’s resident commissioner in Delhi, called me up and told me that the Bengal government had communicated with officials in Kedarnath. But no one came to our help, which is why I and my wife and daughter had to trek through the night risking our lives,” said Roy, who works with the Chandannagore Municipal Corporation. Sources said the Uttarakhand government had issued a red alert on October 18, following forecast of heavy rain and stopped at least 20,000 tourists from visiting Gouri Kund and Kedarnath. However, those like the Roys who had already reached Kedarnath, were stuck. Roy left home on October 11 with his wife Chumki, 45, and daughter Answesha, 19, for a tour of North India. When they reached Kedarnath on October 16, the weather had started turning bad. “We spent three days in biting cold with wet clothes, there were no shops to purchase food from,” he said. He and his family had queued up to board a chopper at the helipad but despite repeated chopper arrivals, they were not assigned seats, he alleged. “We queued up at 5am on Wednesday and were refused the chopper after being made to wait till around 5pm, which made us frustrated. My wife became very worried as we had been stuck amid a disaster for the past three days without any attention from the government. Finally, we took the risk and started walking down from Kedarnath to Gourikund—the 18 km stretch,” Roy added. The walk through the mountain road was risky. In a few places, the trio had to pass through a stretch barely 3 feet wide”, he said. “We faced many spots where the roads were completely damaged by landslides. We carefully crossed those areas. In many places, we had to cross through icy water at midnight. The threat to our lives was ever-present as animals could also have attacked. We did not have any option apart from this as the government in Uttarakhand was not ready to help,” said Roy. When the Roys had descended around 5km, a phone call from NDRF personnel asked where they were and whether they needed any help. “The NDRF officials also called me and asked how they could help the Roy family. But I said they were already on their way to Gouri Kund and it would be helpful if they could arrange a car so they could get to Guptkashi, where we were,” said Arijit Shil, a youth from Chandernagore who accompanied the Roy family on their trip but failed to reach Kedarnath himself. The Roy family had walked for around 12 hours after starting from Kedarnath, before they could reach Gouri Kund. “It was a very bad road and threats to our life were everywhere. So, we had to take a lot of time. However, the NDRF did not provide any car for us Gouri Kund. We hired a car so as to meet two of our friends there,” said Roy. “It was our good luck that we reached safely. Now, we will go to Hardwar as our train ticket is scheduled from Lucknow on October 24,” he added. In a similar incident, family members of seven youths, including a woman from Bankura’s Onda who had gone trekking in Uttarakhand, have sought help from the Bengal government after not being able to communicate with the youths over phone. Police said they had already communicated the families' concerns to Nabanna on Thursday. Sources said three tourists from East Burdwan’s Memari, including school teacher Sanjay Adhikari, are also stranded at an army base camp at Darma Valley in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district because landslides have left roads blocked. With temperatures dropping fast, the tourists have pleaded with the Uttarakhand government to rescue them and arrange their return home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to visit BJP bastions at home, Goa||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has drawn up a plan to recast her focus on two BJP bastions, a region in her own state and a state in west India. On October 24, Mamata is set to arrive in north Bengal on a four-day trip and from here, fly to Goa, a state in which her party has initiated political activities along with  Tripura in recent months. After assuming office for the third time, this will be Mamata’s first visit to north Bengal, a region where the BJP has emerged as a major political force. “The Bhowanipore by-election had perhaps held back the chief minister as she planned a visit to north Bengal ahead of the Durga Puja but postponed it. Now that the bypoll is over and she is an elected MLA, it is clear she is all set to focus on the region,” said a political observer. He pointed out that along with other parts of Bengal, civic and rural elections would be held in north Bengal districts. Trinamul intends to revive its support base here before these local polls. “The idea is to try and prevent BJP from winning the Lok Sabha seats of north Bengal at the 2024 Lok Sabha polls for which Trinamul has major plans,” the observer added. Mamata, sources said, will attend a “Bijoya Sanmilani” (a post-Dussehra get-together) hosted by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police on October 24. The next day, she will attend a review meeting of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts. On October 26, she will head to Kurseong to attend a similar review meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. She will stay in north Bengal on October 27 and is likely to leave for Goa the next day, said sources. Mamata’s visit, Trinamul insiders said, was significant as there have been new development in north Bengal. BJP legislator John Barla, who is also a Union minister of state, has renewed the demand for a north Bengal state, backed by a number of BJP leaders, including former state chief Dilip Ghosh. Last week, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a tripartite meeting on a political solution for Gorkhas. A similar meeting may be held in November. “BJP leaders here  are trying to stoke the sentiments of people... The chief minister’s visit is important and we believe she will take steps so that strategies of the BJP do not work,” said a Trinamul leader. The Mamata government has met some demands of north Bengal, for example recognising the Rajbanshi language and and making it a medium of instruction in schools, constituting development and cultural boards for different communities, to mollify those raising the demand for statehood. Hundreds of former KLO militants, who had once left the mainstream on the same demand, have been inducted as home guards. Mamata is likely to fly from Bagdogra to Goa on October 28 and return to Bengal on November 1. Sources in the party said she was likely to oversee the induction of eminent personalities in Goa to Trinamul and hold meetings for a roadmap ahead of Assembly polls there in February. Focus on repair The absence of persistent rain across Sikkim and Darjeeling hills and north Bengal foothills since Wednesday late evening helped the administration and social organisations to focus on restoration work. But landslide-hit NH10, which connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country, was still closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Bankura administration confirms Gangadhar’s name on poll roll||The Bankura district administration on Thursday confirmed Gangadhar Pramanik’s name on the electoral roll, the process completed within a month of the 33-year-old migrant labourer’s return home to Bankura’s Radhanagar village after spending over three years in a detention centre in Assam for those declared “foreigners”. “The person detained in Assam for over three years is now enrolled in the electoral roll of the district. His voter identity card (EPIC) will be issued after draft publishing of the roll. We will also arrange other documents he requires. After field verification, we started the work to get him the required documents within two days of his return to his village,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. After Gangadhar returned home following an initiative by Citizens for Justice and Peace, a platform of human rights defenders, state government officials visited Radhanagar and checked land papers and other relevant documents of his family. They also visited the primary school where he studied till Class IV and confirmed that he is an Indian. Officials said they did all formalities, including submission of electoral forms along with voter identity cards of his parents and land papers. A field verification by a block level officer was also done. “The (electoral roll) registration is accepted only after all required documents are given online. It is really very surprising that this person was declared a foreigner in another Indian state,” said a senior official in Bankura. Gangadhar, 33, had left his remote village in Bankura in search of work around 10 years ago. He ended up spending over three years at a detention centre, officially called “transit camp”, in Assam’s Goalpara after he was declared a foreigner. As a migrant worker, Gangadhar had moved to Assam in search of work to help his poor family. In December 2017, while working at a roadside eatery on the outskirts of Guwahati, he was declared a foreigner and sent to the detention centre in Goalpara. After returning home, Gangadhar was desperate to find a job for his survival and his mother’s treatment. Government officials, with help of the local gram panchayat, got him a job at a sweet shop in Radhanagar. “I am very happy that my name has made it to the electoral roll. I also want my Aadhaar card to prove that I am not a foreigner,” said Gangadhar from Bankura. Bappa Layek, the owner of the sweetmeat shop, said Gangadhar had joined the job last month and it was helping him come out of the trauma. “The detention had traumatised him. He had stopped talking to anyone. But now he is better. I always request my customers to interact with him,” said Layek. The CJP officials were overwhelmed when told about Gangadhar’s inclusion on the electoral roll. The representative of the organisation not only helped the Bankura man get bail from the Assam tribunal but accompanied him to reach his home in Radhanagar village of Bankura. The CJP officials thanked the Bengal government for the initiative. “A month and three days after Gangadhar Pramanik returned home in Bankura with help of Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), the Bengal district administration confirmed his registration on the electoral roll bringing more meaning to his renewed life at home. After being shorn off all rights and thrown into a detention camp in Assam for no crime at all, this action is prompt, humane, much deserved and appreciated by human rights organisations and most of all the hapless individuals and communities we represent,” said Teesta Setalvad, human rights activist and CJP secretary. “We hope it will send a strong message to the Assam police to stop such acts of discriminatory detention without any basis in fact or law,” she added. Officials in Bankura said once he receives the EPIC card, Gangadhar would be eligible to work under government schemes, if he wants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 833 new cases, 775 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 833 new Covid-19 cases, 775 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases rose by 44 to 7,535. A Bengal minister said that the new cases reported now are indicative of people who got infected in the October 12 to 16 (Mahasaptami to Ekadashi) window. “Despite the 15 days of rise in active cases since September 26, the total of active cases has actually fallen (between September 25 and Thursday) by 139. There is no cause for panic or pessimism yet,” he said. Calcutta reported 232 new infections and North 24-Parganas 143, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta reported five and North 24-Parganas seven. The state’s recovery rate is currently 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.13. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.52 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state now has 4.37 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, on September 26. Since then, in the past 26 days, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 15 days, a fall for 10 days and no change for a day. Bengal now has more than 15.83 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.57 lakh recoveries and 19,021 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh unrest fuels CAA chant by BJP MP agannath Sarkar||The BJP’s Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar has written an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to implement the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act in India in order to “protect the Hindus of the whole world”. His appeal, made in a letter dated October 17 in the context of the purported communal unrest in Bangladesh, is being viewed as an attempt to push for the implementation of the citizenship matrix as a core issue with the objective of polarisation ahead of the four bypolls in Bengal on October 30. “It is my humble request to you to implement the CAA in India at the earliest and protect the Hindus of the whole world... If correct and strict steps aren’t taken now then jihadi forces will be encouraged in Bengal and which may lead to their atrocities here as well,” Sarkar wrote. Sarkar urged Modi to stand beside the Hindus of Bangladesh, hailing him as the “saviour of all the Hindus of the world”. “I humbly submit before you to implement the CAA in India as early as possible and protect the Hindu across the globe. The entire Hindu (Sanatan) community today seeks your support in this regard,” wrote Sarkar. Bengal BJP has  planned to exploit the Bangladesh unrest for electoral gains in Bengal. Key leaders of the state unit have attacked chief minister Mamata Banerjee for her alleged silence on the issue, although her party and its mouthpiece Jaago Bangla have been repeatedly condemning the incidents. Modi, however, is yet to end his public silence on Bangladesh. Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s Nandigram MLA, has publicly said that events beyond the international border will help his party win the Santipur bypolls by a larger margin. Suvendu had also written to Modi on October 14, requesting urgent “steps” to protect the Hindus of Bangladesh. The CAA issue, in context of the Bangladesh violence was first ignited by the party’s chief spokesperson in the state, Samik Bhattacharya. Known as a relatively moderate voice in the party, he said the CAA must be implemented in India to safeguard the interests of victims of majoritarian attacks in Bangladesh. However, the Modi government has repeatedly deferred the implementation of the CAA which passed by Parliament on in December 2019. On July 27, the Union government sought extension till January 9 next year to complete the task of framing the rules of the Act. The objective of the act is to grant Indian citizenship to the religiously persecuted minorities — with elaborate mention of every major religion of south Asia other than Islam — from neighbouring (Muslim-majority) countries, such as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Till Covid-19 forced a premature, inconclusive withdrawal, fierce protests from citizens across the nation had erupted against the divisive, discriminatory nature of the Act. It is widely deemed part of a trident — alongside the National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens — being used by the BJP-led Centre to further a divisive agenda and corner Muslims in India. Mamata and her party have been among those bitterly opposed to the implementation of the triad. Speaking to this newspaper, Sarkar claimed it was not an attempt to polarise, but acknowledged that his party has made it a by-election issue in Santipur and Dinhata, two Assembly seats located close to the Indo-Bangladesh border, which his party had won this summer even amid the Trinamul sweep across the state. “It is not for vote-bank consolidation, rather to remind about a legitimate demand, which has become more important for the Bangladeshi Hindus, in the wake of the recent attacks on them,” he claimed. In a bid to justify his appeal, Sarkar said: “Its implementation has become urgent since there would be a large number of Hindu people seeking refuge in India to escape the atrocities.” “If the Union government implements the CAA, they could freely come and settle here,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds of tourists recount landslide, rain ordeal in hills||Hundreds of tourists who have been to the hills descended to Siliguri on Thursday and narrated their harrowing experiences of spending the past 72 hours in different destinations of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Sikkim. While some spoke about how they got stuck in traffic owing to landslides and road cave-ins, others recounted how they spent a night at the houses of locals as they could not reach their destinations. Ashok Chowdhury, who is from Cooch Behar and was on his way to Lava — a tourist hotspot in Kalimpong district — on Tuesday said he witnessed boulders and trees descending from the hills. “By the time we left Kalimpong, it was raining heavily. Soon after we got out of the town, the downpour got intense and we saw trees and boulders rolling down. As we reached Sixth Mile, a landslide occurred and around 30 cars carrying tourists got stuck,” he said. It was around five in the evening and throughout the night, the entire group was stuck at the same location. At around 9.30am on Wednesday, they started walking. “We crossed the landslide with our luggage, walked for around five kilometres and then found some cars which took us to our place,” he added. Aparesh Dutta, a banker from Calcutta who had been to Sikkim, had a similar experience. On Tuesday afternoon, he and four of his friends had started from Gangtok and were supposed to reach Siliguri by evening. “We however, could not proceed beyond Melli (around 60km from Siliguri). There was a beeline of cars. It was raining consistently and we could often hear from drivers and locals about fresh landslides occurring in different places of Kalimpong district, standing in the dark,” said Dutta. It was then that one of the friends found a local who agreed to provide them accommodation and food. “We stayed together in a small room but it was like a boon to us. Otherwise, we would have had to sit in the car throughout the night,” he said. Dutta reached here on Thursday morning. On Wednesday morning, they went to Kalimpong, stayed there for a day and descended to Siliguri on Thursday. “We had Tuesday’s train tickets. Today, we somehow managed to get tickets of a private bus,” said Dutta. The sudden spate of rain followed by landslides across the hills have, however, not reduced the inflow of tourists to the region. Even on Thursday, hundreds of tourists reached the area. Those bound for Darjeeling and Dooars headed for their respective locations. “However, those who were supposed to go to Sikkim or Kalimpong, could not head for their destinations as NH10 is still closed. While a section of them preferred to wait in Siliguri for a day, some others went to alternative destinations like Darjeeling, Mirik and Dooars,” said Santanu Choudhury, who runs a travel house here. Those associated with the travel industry however, are hopeful that the disruption due to the downpour will not affect the movement of tourists. Most of the hotels and homestays have reservations till Diwali. “There has been no cancellation so far. Restoration work of the hill roads have started and we believe things will become normal in the next few days,” said Samrat Sanyal, secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Male elephant found dead in drain of tea estate||The carcass of a sub-adult male elephant was found in the drain of a tea estate in Alipurduar district near the forests of Buxa Tiger Reserve on Thursday. Sources said some workers of the Nimti Jhora tea estate spotted the carcass while heading to the plantations on Thursday. Foresters, who were told, reached the spot and found footprints of elephants. “We suspect a herd entered the plantations and the sub-adult elephant fell in the drain and died. We can confirm the cause of death only after post-mortem,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Absence of rainfall in hills leads to improvement of situation||The absence of persistent rainfall across the Sikkim and Darjeeling hills and north Bengal foothills since Wednesday late evening led to improvement of the situation on Thursday helping the administration and different social organisations to focus on restoration works. However, NH10, the principal highway that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country, remained closed as the road cave-in at Birick Dara or 21th Mile — a stretch on the route — is yet to be repaired. “The NH division of state PWD has started road restoration work at the site through back-cutting (cutting the hillside to create a road for vehicles). We are keeping a watch over the situation but it would take at least four to five days to restore a single lane for goods vehicles,” said a senior police officer of Kalimpong district. According to administration sources, Kalimpong district has borne most of the damage during the past two days when an extremely heavy downpour occurred in the hills and in adjoining areas of the plains. “Altogether 46 landslides occurred across Kalimpong district. This clearly indicates the extent of damage,” said a source. Though NH10 continued to remain closed, sources said a caved-in road has been restored by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) at Sherpagaon near Gorubathan through which goods vehicles can go to Sikkim. “Since certain stretches of the alternative roads are narrow, separate routes have been fixed for movements of goods vehicles,” the source added. However, on Thursday, no fresh landslide was reported in the hills. In Darjeeling district, most of the roads have been restored and repair works of damaged houses and other buildings have started, said administration officials. In the plains, water levels of rivers like Teesta, Torsha, Jaldhaka, Balason and Mahananda have receded, prompting people to start returning to their homes. Around 70,000 people, who stay along the banks of these rivers in the districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, had shifted to safer places as the rivers had swelled due to the intense downpour and had flooded their localities. Meanwhile, in Alipurduar district, bodies of two minor sisters of Chotomechiabusty in Jaigaon under Kalchini block, who had gone missing from the bank of the swollen Torsha river on Wednesday, were recovered on Thursday. “It is an unfortunate incident. We will hand over due compensation to the family. All assistance has been provided for their last rites,” said Prasanta Barman, the block development officer of Kalchini.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Two migrant workers jump off Farakka Express, injured||Two migrant workers sustained serious injuries as they jumped off the Malda bound Farakka Express while it was moving through Malda town on Thursday in a bid to catch a bus for home. Both were rushed to Malda Medical College and Hospital, one with the sole of his foot chopped off and another with a head injury. “The train was moving slowly through Krishnapally area. This seemed to encourage the duo to get off as they were in a hurry to catch a bus,” said a police officer of Englishbazar police station. Rehab centre death Mayukh Guha, 16, of Maynaguri, died at a private rehabilitation home in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. His mother alleged he was tortured. Sources said Mayukh had got addicted to cell phones and around three months back, his parents had put in him in the rehab home. On Thursday, his health suddenly deteriorated. Home authorities rushed him to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri where doctors pronounced him dead. His parents filed a complaint at Kotwali police station. “We suspect he was tortured,” the boy’s mother said. Home authorities have denied the charge. Police are probing the incident. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata government to appoint advisers in 30 departments ||The Mamata Banerjee government is all set to appoint advisers — most from the corporate world — in at least 30 departments in a bid to run them professionally. The move, senior officials said, is significant as this would be the first time when a state government is trying to bring in people from the corporate world to get fresh ideas to run the departments and the government as a whole. Sources in the Bengal government said there were some 100 special secretaries in various state departments. But advisers from the corporate world will be brought in only to ensure that the state departments get “out-of-the-box” ideas. “The process to recruit the advisers will start soon. The advisers are likely to be posted in the rank of special secretaries, which is a very senior post in the government,” said a senior official. The advisers would get a salary of about Rs 2 lakh a month, which is on a par with special secretaries already working with departments. The rank of special secretaries is considered to be a very senior position as a WBCS (executive) officer is elevated to this position after 25 to 28 years of service. A bureaucrat explained how these advisers would work within the government. “For example, an adviser with a personnel management degree working in the corporate world can be appointed in the labour department. He or she will have the liberty to bring in fresh ideas on how to improve the quality of life of labourers in organised or unorganised sectors and put forward his or her proposals to the secretary. A final decision will be taken by the top brass of the government,” the bureaucrat said. Similarly, sources said an adviser in the education department could inform the government about new courses that could be introduced in educational institutions considering the trends in the contemporary job market. “Many of the special secretaries do have management degrees but they are not aware of the latest ideas and practices in the corporate world as they attain this rank at the very end of their careers (as civil servants). There is no practice of regular communication between corporate and government officers,” said another official. These advisers will be incorporated through a lateral entry route, which the Centre has adopted. However, in Bengal, lateral entry to the state government is not new. The state government had appointed some professionals at the CM’s grievance redress cell at the joint secretary rank in 2019. A senior official explained that the idea to bring in professionals in the top tier of the state departments was initiated after the experiment of bringing in professionals through lateral entry at the chief minister’s grievance redress cell has produced desired results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
