23-10-2021||West Bengal||With more Durga Pujas this year, Bengal's fav fest pips state growth rate||Bengal’s favourite festival is growing at a rate of 9.61 per cent, higher than the growth rate of the state as announced recently by the Centre’s Niti Aayog despite the economic slowdown amidst a global pandemic. The growth indicator came from figures released by the state-run power utility, West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited. "W. Bengal ranked no. 1 state by RBI on Net PerCapita Income Growth in 2020-2021. Bravo! WB’s growth + 7.16 per cent while India average – 3.99,” tweeted an ecstatic finance minister of Bengal Amit Mitra on October 1, days before festivities began in the state. In the last fiscal, according to  Niti Aayog CEO Amitabha Kant, only West Bengal, Tripura, Sikkim and Bihar have shown positive growth. Compared to the previous year,  3,521 new Durga Puja venues were recorded in the state in 2021. WBSEDCL had in 2020 provided temporary power connections to 36,603 Puja pandals across the state, which in 2021 rose substantially to 40,124. The Bengal government’s cash rollout of Rs 50,000 to each Durga Puja committee is believed to be one of the reasons behind the spike in the number of Puja organisers this year. Mamata Banerjee had announced a policy of giving cash to Durga Puja organisers which despite many a legal wrangling over  past seasons has remained in the government’s budget allocation. “Initially the scheme was for small clubs which could not raise the desired funds for the festival. Now it has been extended to all clubs. We expect the numbers will go up in the coming years as Rs 50,000 is guaranteed,” said a senior official in the power department. Besides cash, free electricity is another incentive for the organisers, though they have to submit a security deposit. The state had this year raised Rs 9.36 crore as a security deposit. “If that Rs 50,000 is seen as the capital, then investing that into organising the festival, the committee can raise funds through advertisements, renting space for stalls etc,” said an official. Mamata’s policy of loosening the purse strings has helped her tighten the political grip across the state, the dividend that her party has reaped in successive state elections.“It is an easy way to get government money. Being associated with a religious festival nobody will raise any questions. There should be an audit to find out in which constituencies the number has increased significantly,” said a CPM leader. In some districts like Murshidabad, which still has a Congress presence, organisers were allegedly discouraged from inviting party leaders to inaugurate Durga Puja in their constituencies. Mamata’s insistence on cash transfers to beneficiaries is largely what John Maynard Keynes had famously advised in his Keynesian multiplier model:  increased government spending during a recession year will eventually lead to more spending. This model was also advocated by several economists, including Nobel winner Abhijit Banerjee, during the early stages of the pandemic. Most of the welfare schemes that the Bengal government is running are cash-based, which has helped  beneficiaries mostly from the lowest economic strata stay afloat despite lack of jobs and employment opportunities. A study commissioned by the tourism department pegs the total economic worth of  creative industries at Rs 32,377 crore, about 2.58 per cent of Bengal’s GDP. This calculation was made before the pandemic and obviously excludes the additional 3,521 Durga Pujas that came up this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Merlin Group announces the launch of A Mega Sports Township in Kolkata||Calcutta-based realtor Merlin Group announced the formal launch of a residential township called RISE in Rajarhat, promising to add over 6 million square feet of built-up space over the next decade to the city’s landscape. The 45-acre township is going to be based on the theme of sports with an approximate population density of 35000 at Rajarhat Chowmatha on the 6 lane express highway connecting New town.The proposed township is 20.9 km  from the central  business district of Kolkata and 7.5 km from Bengal Silicon Valley.  The developer intends to build pitches for football and cricket apart from a swimming pool and indoor sports arena for the residents of 10,000 dwelling units which will come up there. This theme based Greenfield Township Project will generate 7000 direct and 25000 indirect local employment opportunities. Infrastructure cost of the project is going to be around Rs 250 crore, Saket Mohta, Managing Director of Merlin Group, said. Merlin is promising to hand over the first phase of 2,529 units in five years. The builder has priced the 2-BHK and 3-BHK apartments between Rs 29 lakh and Rs 40 lakh. “Kolkata property market has remained resilient during the pandemic. There had been a major revival in sales of residential real estate projects in the 2nd quarter of 2020-21 riding on the back  of resilient economy and vaccination drive by  the Govt. People living in standalone houses, realized the need for shifting to apartments in gated community with all amenities required for modern living.  Our sports  city will be a self-sufficient  township  where people will  get  all  ingredients to live on  their own terms. We are in talks with leading hospital brands and Schools of international repute. Covid has brought a paradigm shift in lifestyle.  People have grasped the importance of owing a spacious apartment with more rooms for online classes for the children and work from home facilities. Thus, the sales of spacious flats in a gated community are anticipated to continue this quarter and beyond. We are quite hopeful about  the grand success of  the sports city where people can elevate their  lifestyle and fulfill  their  dream in sports", signed off Saket Mohta As part of its marketing initiative, Merlin Group has launched  a corporate football league christened RPL – RISE PREMIER LEAGUE to be played at the football ground on 23rd and 24th October under the mentorship  of veteran footballers namely Manash Bhattacharya, Biswajit Bhattacharya, Prasanta Banerjee and Krishnendu Roy. Teams from 16 corporates namely TCS, Genpact, Wipro, Cognizant, HSBC, HDFC, British Telecom, PWC, FIIOB, Red FM, Big FM, Friends FM, Fever FM, Nuvoco Vista Corporate Ltd., Woodlands Hospital  and the Merlin Group itself will participate in the two day football tournament followed by 2 exhibition matches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders dishonoured people's verdict by quitting as MLAs, says Abhishek||TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday slammed the BJP for "thrusting by-election" on two of the four assembly seats in the state that will go to polls on October 30. Addressing a rally at Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, Banerjee pointed out that bypoll was necessitated here and in Khardah following the death of two TMC candidates, but the circumstances under which elections are being held in Shantipur and Dinhata are different. "Winning BJP candidates Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik resigned as MLAs even after being elected by people. They dishonoured the verdict of people to retain parliamentary berths. The BJP is seeking votes again in those two seats. They will be rejected by people," he claimed. The senior TMC leader also asserted that his party will make a "4-0 sweep" in the by-elections. Taking a dig at Amit Shah, he said, "The former BJP national president and the current home minister had promised to dole out Rs 2 lakh crore for the development of Sunderbans and carve out a separate district during his campaigns for assembly polls some months ago. "They are still holding power in Delhi but you won't hear about any follow-up initiatives from them." The Diamond Harbour MP further noted that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, in contrast, "kept her promises and rolled out schemes such as Lakshmir Bhandar".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Five arrested with drugs in Siliguri ||The special operation group (SOG) of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bhaktinagar police, arrested five persons with  narcotics in two separate raids in Siliguri on Wednesday night. Police sources said four persons were intercepted with 300 grams of brown sugar, worth around Rs 30 lakh from Jhankar More. In another raid, the police arrested another man and recovered 5kg of cannabis from him. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. Rehab death, 2 held Two persons were arrested on Thursday night following the death of a teenaged boy who was staying at a private psychological rehab centre at Pandapara in Jalpaiguri. On Thursday, the boy fell ill and he was shifted to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. Later, the boy’s parents filed a police complaint alleging that their son had been tortured. Cops then arrested Saikat Mondal, who ran the centre, and his father Sushanta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Protest against assault on tribal teacher in Malda||Hundreds of people under the banner of eight tribal outfits hit the streets in Malda on Friday protesting the alleged assault of a tribal schoolteacher by a local Trinamul leader after accusing him of theft a week back. The protesters marched on NH12 shouting slogans and demanding immediate arrest of the accused leader who has allegedly gone into hiding after the incident. On October 15, Sudip Tudu, a teacher of Manikora High School in Habibpur block of the district, was returning home after visiting a relative in Krishnapally here. Suddenly a group of youths led by Trinamul leader and former councillor Paritosh Choudhury intercepted him. They accused him of stealing a bicycle and started assaulting him. Even though Tudu said he was a teacher, the group did not stop. Eventually, the teacher’s relatives came to his rescue. He was admitted to Malda Medical College and Hospital for treatment and was recently released. After the incident came to light, resentment arose among the tribal population in Malda and in the neighbouring districts of North and South Dinajpur. On Friday, hundreds of them gathered in Gayeshpur area here and took out the protest march which disrupted traffic along NH12. “We want the police to arrest the accused within 72 hours. Such unprovoked attacks should stop,” said Nirmal Soren, a leader of an organisation representing tribal teachers. As the protesters headed for Rathbari crossing, a large police contingent posted there stopped them. Senior police officers came forward and spoke to the leaders, who said they intend to meet Alok Rajoria, the district police chief, and submit a memorandum. They were, however, told that only a small delegation can go to the SP’s office. Though initially reluctant, the tribal leaders eventually agreed and met Amit Kumar Shaw, additional superintendent of police (headquarters). They were told that two persons have already been arrested in connection with the incident. Shaw told reporters that they are trying to trace the Trinamul leader. “A case under different sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the SC/ST Act has been registered. All possible steps are being taken to arrest the main accused,” the police official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC slams Tripura CM for attack on Sushmita Dev||Trinamul Congress on Friday accused Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb and the BJP of “political terrorism” in the northeastern state, alleging that Rajya Sabha member Sushmita Dev had sustained injuries from an attack at Amtali, where she was leading a campaign for Mamata Banerjee’s party. “Under @BjpBiplab’s #DuareGundaRaj, attack on political opponents is setting new records!” tweeted Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. The party’s fledgling Tripura unit issued a statement condemning the BJP for the alleged attack on Trinamul MP Dev while she was launching a political programme titled Tripura’r Jonyo Trinamul (Trinamul for Tripura). The vehicle Dev was in was allegedly vandalised in the incident. Trinamul’s Tripura unit said Dev was taken to a private hospital for treatment. Faleiro post Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, who joined Trinamul from the Congress last month, was on Friday appointed a national vice-president of his new party by Mamata, days ahead of her visit to the western state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Quartet held with narcotics in Siliguri ||The special operation group (SOG) of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bhaktinagar police, arrested five persons with narcotics in two separate raids in Siliguri on Wednesday night. Police sources said four persons were intercepted with 300 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, worth around Rs 30 lakh from Jhankar More. The arrested youths have been identified as Sourav Roy, Raju Muhammad, Koustav Talapatra and Ali, all residents of Siliguri. In another raid, the police arrested Ashik Biswas, a resident of Shastrinagar here, and recovered five kilos of cannabis from him. The quartet have been booked under the NDPS Act, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Bisons found dead in riverbed in Jalpaiguri||The carcasses of two gaurs (Indian bison) were found lying in the bed of the Jaldhaka river in Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri district on Friday. After being informed by some locals, a team of the wildlife squad of the forest department posted in Ramsai reached the spot and recovered the carcasses. It may be mentioned that in the past five days, this is the second time that dead gaurs have been spotted in the area. Earlier, on October 18, carcasses of a female adult gaur and a calf were found in the same spot. “There are no external injury marks and also, no one has taken away the meat from any of the carcasses. We are waiting for autopsy reports,” said a senior forest officer. The foresters suspect that the animals might have strayed into the area from the adjacent Gorumara National Park in search of fodder. Youth found dead A youth residing in Manjha tea estate of Naxalbari block in Siliguri sub-division, was found dead near the India-Nepal border on Friday morning. Police said Amar Kisan, 21, was found dead with his throat slit and a probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Funds plea to Brahmaputra river board for flood-protection||The Bengal irrigation department has submitted project proposals worth Rs 110 crore to the Brahmaputra Board for carrying out flood-protection and anti-erosion works along the banks of five prominent rivers flowing through the districts of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. The board, which is headquartered in Guwahati, works under the Union ministry of water resources. “The rivers of these three districts of Bengal are considered to be part of the Brahmaputra basin. At a meeting of the board held earlier this month, we had mentioned that funds should be allocated for carrying out different protection works on the banks of these rivers. Those present at the meeting had asked for project proposals from us. Accordingly, we have submitted the proposals with an estimated cost of around Rs 110 crore,” said Subhankar Chakraborty, the chief engineer (north-east) of state irrigation department. Though these three northern districts of Bengal come under the board, time and again questions have been raised by the state government as to why funds are not being allocated for protection of the banks of rivers like Teesta, Torsha, Jaldhaka, Raidak, Mansai and Kaljani which flow through them. According to sources, among the projects which have been submitted before the board, include flood protection works — construction of embankment and allied works — along a stretch of 9.1 kilometres on the left bank of Teesta near Joyee bridge that connects Haldibari and Mekhliganj. There are also proposals for embankment repair works on the right bank of Mansai river in Mathabhanga-I block and similar work on the left bank of the Mansai in Dinhata-I block and Mathabhanga-II block, all located in Cooch Behar district. Proposals for construction of an embankment along a 500-metre stretch of the Raidak-II river in Cooch Behar and same work along a stretch of 410m on the right bank of Sankosh — the river that divides Bengal and Assam — have been also put before the board. “We have also found that flood protection works are necessary along a stretch of 2.18km on the left side of the Torsha river bridge off NH31. This is another project which we have submitted before the board seeking allocation of funds,” said an official of the irrigation department. A senior officer of the state government, when asked about the projects, said the Centre provides funds through the board to carry out such works. “Funds should be allocated for all rivers of the Brahmaputra basin. However, we have found that funds are provided only for rivers located in northeastern states and not for the rivers flowing through these districts of north Bengal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Glare on Centre apathy in building parallel bridges in north Bengal||The precarious condition of two bridges along National Highway 31 — the Coronation Bridge at Sevoke and Balason river bridge — has raised questions over the Centre’s alleged apathy in building parallel bridges which are required to keep connectivity intact in north Bengal following the damage to road infrastructure due to inclement weather in the region. “These two bridges are in precarious condition for years. We have been hearing that the Centre would strengthen them and also construct new bridges running parallel to these.… But the promises have remained only on paper,” said a prominent businessman of Siliguri, who did not wish to be named. The 70-year-old Coronation Bridge at Sevoke (located around 20km from here), developed cracks almost 10 years back, prompting the state PWD to restrict movement of vehicles weighing beyond 10 tonnes. The bridge connects Siliguri with Dooars. Now, movement of all vehicles barring two-wheelers has been halted for the past three days over the 50-year-old Balason river bridge, which is located on the northwest end of Siliguri, after one of its pillars bent with the force of the swollen river and a portion of the bridge’s plank subsided. “Both the bridges are on the national highway. Thus, the onus is on the central government (to repair them). We fail to understand why there has been such a delay in taking up these projects,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher based in Siliguri. “For almost a decade, most of the heavy vehicles (weighing above 10 tonnes), be it trucks carrying consignments of teas from the Dooars or vehicles of defence forces (there are a number of defence installations in the Dooars that shares border with Bhutan), have been taking roundabout routes and moving via Jalpaiguri. We often hear that decks have been cleared for the new bridge but till date, construction has not yet commenced,” said Chandan Roy, secretary, Dooars Forum for Social Reforms. Similar is the case of the Balason river bridge. Though there has been an unprecedented growth in the local and regional traffic during the past 50 years, no initiative was taken to build a second bridge parallel to it. “The central government is entirely responsible for the delay. There is a long-pending proposal to widen the stretch of NH31 from Balason to Sevoke and make it a four-lane highway (it is two-lane now). Land is not at all an issue,” said Alok Chakraborty, the chairman of Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Puja effect begins to show on Bengal Covid figures||Bengal on Friday reported 846 new Covid-19 infections, 792 recoveries and 12 deaths. Active cases rose by 42 to 7,577. A Bengal minister said the new cases reported now is indicative of people who got infected in the October 13 to 17 (Mahashtami to Dwadoshi) window. Calcutta reported 242 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 116, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported three, while North 24-Parganas reported four. The state now has 4.47 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. The state’s recovery rate is currently 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.14. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.1 per cent on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.84 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.58 lakh recoveries and 19,033 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Sikkim highway repairs continue after Tuesday cave-in||National Highway 10, the principal highway that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country, remained closed for traffic even on Friday. Officials of the state PWD (NH X division) engaged earthmovers to cut down the rock to create space for building an interim stretch of road at Birick Dara, located around 40km from here under Kalimpong district, throughout the day. A stretch of the highway has caved in at the site due to incessant rainfall on Tuesday, leaving little space for vehicles to move. “The work is in progress and we expect to open it soon, at least for light vehicles,” said a source in the state PWD. In Siliguri, officials of the state PWD (NH IX division) said on Friday that they are planning to install a Bailey bridge along the damaged portion of the bridge over the Balason river so that vehicular movement can be restored along the route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Nabanna phone tower shift for VVIP security risk||The PWD has started relocating mobile phone towers of two private telecom service providers from the rooftop of Nabanna, the 14- storey state secretariat, considering these could be a security hazard for the VVIPs. The initiative was taken after an incident of fire in one of the towers on October 12 during repair work on the roof carried out by the PWD. “The experts recommended that these mobile towers could be hazardous particularly when the VVIPs like the chief minister and the chief secretary have offices in the 14th and 13th floors. These towers would now be installed somewhere at the ground level of the building,” said a senior official. “Though the flames were doused immediately, the incident exposed the vulnerability of the offices of the VVIPs. So the enquiry committee recommended relocating the mobile towers,” said a senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Santiniketan land grab allegation by Baul maestro||Baul maestro Purna Das Baul and his sons on Friday alleged that 1.3 acres the musician had purchased in late 1970s on the outskirts of Santiniketan have allegedly been encroached upon by a few locals recently. The artiste, along with one of his three sons Dibyendu Das, came to Kamarpara at Illambazar near Bolpur on Friday to attend an inspection by land department officials to inquire how much of his land had been encroached upon. “I had purchased four bighas (1.3 acres) of land in 1978 for my three sons. Now, I have come to know that the land has been encroached upon and construction has been done by some unknown people. I have requested the government to help me get back my land,” said the 88-year-old musician. Sources said Dibyendu had lodged a complaint with the police, block land department and the subdivisional officer of Bolpur accusing a few local persons of encroaching the land his father had bought in the 70s. “We live in Calcutta and could not visit Santiniketan in the past two years because of the pandemic. During my visit last month, I found at least four structures constructed by encroaching on our land. I also brought my father here for an inspection by the government,” said Dibyendu. One of the persons, who has built a shop allegedly on the land owned by Purna Das, said: “The land where I have my shop is owned by me and does not belong to the musician.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP brawl greets new & old Bengal chiefs||Two factions of Bengal BJP got involved in a brawl in front of the party’s new state chief Sukanta Majumdar and his predecessor Dilip Ghosh during a felicitation ceremony organised for the two leaders in East Burdwan’s Katwa on Friday. Sources within the saffron camp said before the arrival of Majumdar and Ghosh at the venue, a group of party workers from BJP’s Katwa organisational district had started to raise slogans demanding removal of party district chief Krishna Ghosh. The sloganeering began to grow louder and soon turned into an ugly scuffle as supporters of Krishna took on those demanding his removal. The two factions exchanged punches, threw chairs at each other and fought with sticks. The clash left several BJP leaders, including Krishna, injured. Ghosh reportedly told the agitators to lodge complaints within the party structure if they had any complaint against any leader and then asked the dissenters to leave the hall and threatened to ask police to lathicharge them. This further aggravated the situation, prompting the security personnel of Ghosh to escort him and Majumdar out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Earthmovers become political tools in the hills||In this season of rains and landslides, earthmovers have become the most sought-after equipment for politicians to win over hearts in the hills. Ajoy Edwards, who has publicly announced his decision to float a new political party, was the first to envision the importance of this equipment when he started to use earthmovers even before monsoon set in this year. With the equipment’s impact being felt strongly across the hills, Anit Thapa, president of the fledgling Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), Bimal Gurung, president, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) and Binay Tamang, who is also planning to start the “third chapter” of his political career, have followed suit in recent days. “We are deploying three earthmovers right now. We have bought two and have hired one,” said Edwards. On Friday, Tamang deployed an earthmover to clear a roadblock at Risheehat area in Darjeeling. “In the last few days, we have cleared road blockades in six locations,” said Tamang. The Thapa camp claims they, too, are working non-stop in the past few days. “We have cleared more than 20 spots using JCBs,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman, BGPM. “Of course, we have pressed earthmovers into service,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary, GJM. A district official said that any help for public convenience was always welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
