24-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Metro discontinues non-AC coaches||The Metro Railway, Calcutta, on Sunday formally bade farewell to non-AC rakes, some of which have been in service since its inception as the country's first underground railway in 1984.  The Calcutta Metro, which started operations on this day in 1984, organised an exhibition 'Down the Memory Lane' at Mahanayak Uttam Kumar station to mark the departure of the non-AC rakes.  "As part of the farewell, we have organised a photo exhibition that will depict the past, present and future of Metro Railway," General Manager Manoj Joshi told reporters.  He said it is an opportunity to relive the moments that the city has shared with the Metro Railway, which have become an integral part of people's lives.  "Several expansion works are underway, and in two to three years, new corridors will start functioning," Joshi said.  The last non-AC Metro rake was ceremonially sent off to Noapara carshed from Mahanayak Uttam Kumar station by Joshi.  The Metro Railway, Calcutta, which started services 37 years ago between Esplanade and Bhowanipore (at present Netaji Bhavan station), a distance of 3.40 km, now covers 31.3 km.  Construction work is underway in the New Garia-Airport, Joka-BBD Bag routes apart from the East West Metro, a part of which is already operational.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Call for early weather warning system in hills||Torrential rain and landslides in North Bengal have swivelled the spotlight on the need to augment early warning systems for the fragile hills of Darjeeling. Amar Singh Rai, vice-chairman of Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) and a former Darjeeling MLA, on Saturday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee seeking specific intervention that found resonance among experts working on disaster management. Rai has requested the installation of a doppler weather radar (DWR) station and automatic weather stations (AWS) in all major urban centres and at the block level. “A DWR would be able to give more precise warnings on the quickly changing mountain weather and enable accurate nowcasts to be issued.  The earning warning would go a long way in saving lives,” Rai has written. Nowcasting is weather forecast in a very short period of up to two hours. The Darjeeling hills do not have a meteorological station. The nearby stations are located in Gangtok and Jalpaiguri and experts believe that public dissemination of information is slow. Doppler weather radar sends pulses of electromagnetic energy into the atmosphere to find precipitation, determine its motion and intensity, and identify the precipitation type such as rain, snow or hail. “DWR system would give early warnings and this would be extremely helpful for nowcasting in the fast-changing mountain system,” said Wing Commander (retd) Praful Rao, founder, Save The Hills, a group formed by experts on disaster management. “We welcome the points raised by Amar Singh Rai, as in the past we have seen that people are only after funds instead of setting up tangible assets.” Rai has also raised the issue of establishing a state-level research centre on landslide hazards. “The centre could be co-located with an existing institute of higher learning and should include officials from GSI (Geological Survey of India),” said Rai. According to GSI, about 0.42 million sq km of land in India is prone to landslides out of which 0.18 million sq km falls in the northeast Himalayas, including Darjeeling and Sikkim. “Our hills experience every type of landslide and it makes sense to have a centre here to study and look toward mitigating such disasters instead of having experts coming from other regions and lecturing us,” Rao said. The need to upgrade drainage systems in the hills and to check the stability of major structures in Darjeeling and Kalimpong has also been requested by Rai, who is also a former chairman of Darjeeling municipality. During the past few days, the hills witnessed numerous landslides triggered by torrential rains on October 19 and 20. The IMD on Saturday said the southwest monsoon had completely withdrawn from Bengal. Darjeeling witnessed a sharp drop in the weather. The AWS at St Paul’s School, Darjeeling recorded a minimum temperature of 8°C at 1.45pm on Saturday while the maximum temperature in the hill town was 12°C at 9.45am. The maximum and minimum temperature in Darjeeling for the month of October has been recorded as 19°C and 11.6°C, respectively, as per the District Survey Report of Darjeeling. Body recovered The body of Suman Thapa, 59, a home guard, who had gone missing after a landslide hit Vauxhall, the official residence of Darjeeling SDO on October 19, was retrieved from the debris on Saturday morning. “The bereaved family will be sanctioned Rs 2 lakh as ex-gratia as per government norms,” said a senior district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Howrah trader killed at Burdwan home||A 44-year-old trader from Howrah’s Shibpur, who used to deal in tarpaulins in Calcutta’s Burrabazar, was allegedly killed by unidentified persons in his ancestral home in East Burdwan’s Raina on Friday night. Police sources said Sabyasachi Mondal had come to his ancestral home at Dariyapur village on Friday with one of his friends, a driver and an aide. Sabysachi’s father, Deb Kumar Mondal, 68, has lodged a complaint with the Raina police accusing his brother and nephews of the murder. Sources said Sabyasachi’s friend Rajveer Singh, 42, was alerted by his screams around 9pm. “I found at least four persons stabbing Sabyasachi with sharp weapons. They left the place after killing my friend.” “We own a tarpaulin business in Burrabazar that my son used to run. There has been a long-running conflict over property and ancestral business with my brother and his sons. We want punishment for those behind the murder,” said Deb Kumar. “We have started a probe,” said Aminul Islam Khan, SDPO, Burdwan south.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Diesel crosses Rs 100-mark in six  Bengal districts||Diesel prices broke the psychological barrier of Rs 100 a litre in at least six Bengal districts, the hike triggering panic among farmers, traders and tour operators who demanded central intervention to soften the blow. A litre of diesel is now selling for Rs 100.08 in Cooch Behar, Rs 100.17 in Alipurduar, Rs 100.29 in Darjeeling, Rs 100.14 in Purulia, Rs 100.16 in Nadia and Rs 100.03 in Murshidabad: "The hike in diesel price will push inflation at a time people are bearing the brunt of the pandemic-induced loss of income,” said a member of West Bengal Petroleum Dealers' Association. The price of petrol had crossed three digits in July. Sources in the association said diesel price crossed Rs 100 for the first time in Purulia’s Jhalda on Friday. Till Saturday evening, it was over Rs 100 in five more districts, Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Darjeeling, Nadia and Murshidabad. “Fuel price includes freight charges plus other taxes levied by the Centre and states, hence price of petro products is higher in remote and interior areas. It is a matter of time before the Rs 100-plus diesel reaches Calcutta,” said another member of the association. . Sources said farmers will be the hardest hit as power tillers, crop harvesters and vehicles used to carry yields run on diesel. “In addition to our movement against the three farm laws, we now request people from all sections of society to raise their voice against the Centre’s decision to hike the price of diesel. It is a question of our survival,” said Amal Haldar, state secretary of the All-India Kisan Sabha. Private tour operators as well as public transporters are also worried about making ends meet. “Now that diesel price is up, we have to bear losses as we can’t ask clients to pay extra as the rates are fixed at the time of booking,” said Subrata Majumdar, a transporter in Siliguri. Some public transport operators hoped the state government would now hike bus fares. “The number of passengers has gone down since the pandemic began. Now, if the state does not hike fares, it would be impossible for us to run buses,” said a bus owner in Birbhum. Tourists also complained of being overcharged. Nisith Ghosh of Barrackpore in North 24-Parganas, who arrived in Siliguri by bus on Saturday morning with his family, said he had to part with Rs 6,000 to reach Darjeeling. “The rise in price of diesel has pushed our travel budget to an extreme,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 1,000 new Covid-19 infections in 24-hour cycle||Bengal on Saturday came close to reporting 1,000 new Covid-19 infections in the 24-hour cycle, clocking the highest such figure in over three months at 974 cases. Calcutta and neighbouring North 24-Parganas accounted for the bulk of the cases, whose numbers were expected to rise after the Durga Puja celebrations. The last time the state had recorded such a large number of cases was 105 days ago on July 10, when 997 new infections had been counted. On Saturday, Calcutta reported 268 new infections and North 24-Parganas 147. These are the only two Bengal districts to have been registering three-digit figures. Hospital admissions have been on the rise. On Saturday, Bengal reported 12 Covid deaths. The number of active cases rose by 154 to reach 7,731. The government is planning to set up containment zones in the worst-affected areas. A minister said Saturday’s figures included people who got infected in the October 14-18 (Navami to Troyodoshi) window. Lakhs had flooded Calcutta’s streets during the Puja. “The situation outside Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood is under control at the moment. The city and surrounding areas witnessed the worst disregard for Covid safety protocols by revellers during the peak of the festival, so some degree of spike was expected,” the minister said. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 710, or 73 per cent, of the fresh daily infections on Saturday. Bengal now has 4.61 per cent of the nationwide total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of Covid-19 patients. Bengal’s recovery rate has been 98.31 per cent against a national average of 98.14 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year, was 2.26 per cent on Saturday. A positivity rate of up to 5 per cent is considered tolerable. The Covid mortality rate in Bengal stands at 1.2 per cent against a national average of 1.33 per cent. Bengal has now clocked more than 15.85 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was recorded in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.59 lakh recoveries and 19,045 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata tweets maiden Goa agenda ||Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Saturday took to Twitter to formally announce her maiden trip to Goa later this month and called upon “individuals, organisations and political parties” to join her and oust the BJP from the western state. “As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Mamata tweeted. She added: “Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realising their aspirations!” Her tweet had a hashtag “GoenchiNaviSakal”, or “a new dawn for Goa”. Trinamul had earlier announced it would contest the Goa Assembly polls scheduled for February 2022. Party MP Derek O’ Brien, poll strategist Prashant Kishor and other leaders are already preparing the ground for it. Mamata’s call to political and apolitical forces to join hands with her and overpower the BJP in Goa is being seen as the latest of the many attempts on her part to bring together the Opposition before LOk Sabha polls in 2024. “The language of the tweet is important... it indicates she wants to bring all anti-Modi forces under one umbrella for a brute Opposition,” a party source said. On Friday, Mamata appointed Luizinho Faleiro, Goa’s former Congress chief minister, as a vice-president of Trinamul. Faleiro has been instrumental in encouraging and convincing people from several walks of life and fellow Congress leaders to join Trinamul in Goa. Prasad Gaonkar, an Independent MLA of Goa, has also extended his support to Trinamul. The party has, however, been accused of forcing defections from the Congress, the biggest national force against the BJP, and thereby strengthening the saffron camp. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, MP and Bengal Congress chief has repeatedly levelled such allegations against Trinamul. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya took to sarcasm to comment on Mamata and her decision to visit Goa. “She is such a talented person. Why should her prowess be limited within the country? It must be used at the international level to combat the Covid-19 virus,” remarked Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Bailey bridge to Balason’s rescue in Siliguri||The Bailey bridge installed at Majerhat in Calcutta after the old one collapsed in 2018 will now be installed over the damaged bridge on Balason river at the northwest end of Siliguri on NH31, officials of state PWD (NH–IX division) said here on Saturday, a day Darjeling MP  Raju Bista visited the site and accused the state government of neglecting the bridge. Since Wednesday, traffic on the bridge, barring two-wheelers, has been banned by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police as one of its pillars got titled and a stretch of its concrete plank sank to an extent owing to the force of the swollen Balason river. “We will bring the dismantled iron parts of the Bailey bridge installed in Majerhat. Once these parts reach the site, our engineers will install the Bailey bridge here, most likely from the first week of November. We hope  traffic is restored on this vital route by the end of next month,” said an official of the state PWD. Bista, the BJP MP, visited the site and “doubted” if the state PWD, tasked to maintain the bridge, did any maintenance work. He asserted again that the Union ministry of road transport and highways would build a new bridge parallel to the old one. “The ministry will build a new bridge, which will have three lanes, parallel to this bridge. Once the new bridge becomes operational, this one will be dismantled and a similar three-lane bridge built. This means we will have two bridges, each three-lane, over the Balason river in due course,” said Bista. He said it was part of the central project to widen the stretch of NH31 between Balason and Sevoke. This August, the MP said the Centre  had allotted Rs 1,150 crore for the project. Countering this, Alok Chakraborty, the chairman of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee, said: “Since 2011, BJP candidates have won from the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat but have hardly taken any initiative to develop the infrastructure of the region. Now they are again making tall talks...” He added: “We doubt when this so-called project will begin. The state has cleared land-related issues for it around two years back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks districts to tame post-Puja Covid spurt||The Bengal government has decided to emphasise on setting up containment zones again as Covid-19 cases have shown a spurt in some districts after Durga Puja. Chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Saturday held a videoconference with district magistrates and Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials where he stressed on containment zones to prevent rapid spread of the Covid-19 virus. “The chief secretary told us we have to go back to basics, identify areas from where positive cases are being reported and set up containment zones to prevent the spread of the virus,” said a district magistrate who attended the meeting. The chief secretary also asked authorities to ensure people wore masks while going out. He instructed districts to carry out vaccinations properly and keep all Covid-19 hospitals ready for patients. Officials in Nabanna said that till August this year, districts had been setting up containment zones. But once positive cases started going down across Bengal, the practice of setting up of containment zones was done away with. “The district authorities have been allowed to take decisions on identifying areas where containment zones will be set up. But the instruction from the top is that the district authorities have to consider setting up containment zones in case infections rise in a specific area,” said an official. The government has reasons to be worried as positive cases have started rising alarmingly in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, and to a lesser extent in South 24-Parganas in the past few days. Of Bengal’s 974 new Covid infections on Saturday, Calcutta accounted for 268, North 24-Parganas 147 and South 24-Parganas 79. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas have been reporting over 100 new cases daily for a while. “The cause of concern is that infection figures were 145 for Calcutta and 109 for North 24-Parganas on October 11 (Sashthi). It is clear that the uncontrolled rush to puja pandals left a serious impact on Covid-19 graph in these three districts. If strict measures are not initiated immediately, the situation could spiral out of control,” said a health department official. Some officials said many currently Covid positive persons are asymptomatic and asserted that only an increase in daily tests would reveal the real picture on the ground. “We may not get the true picture of infections at this moment as fewer number of people are coming up for tests (less than 50,000 a day). Once the number of tests touch 65,000, we may get a true picture of the ground reality,” said an official. The state government has asked districts to scale up the number of tests within the next few days. Aggressive tests are needed for Calcutta and North 24-Parganas that are showing signs of rapid spread of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
