25-10-2021||West Bengal||Schools, colleges in Bengal to open mid-November ||Educational institutions in Bengal will open from mid-November, as announced on Monday by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Siliguri, amid a rise in Covid cases across the state post-Durga Puja. “Schools and colleges should be reopened from November 15 onwards. They have to be given time to sanitise,” Mamata told state chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi during an administrative meeting in the North Bengal town. “Kali Puja is on the 4th (of November), followed by Bhai Phonta on 6th, Chhat Puja on November 10 and 11 and Jagaddhatri on November 13. Whatever is to be done has to be from November 15 onwards,” Mamata said. The CM later clarified that classes 9-10, 11-12 & college, universities will reopen from November 16 as November 15 is a holiday on occasion of Birsa Munda jayanti. The state government has allocated Rs 110 crore for renovation of school buildings, which have been lying shut since March 2020. For around 400 government and government-aided schools in Calcutta and surrounding areas, Rs 7crore have been allocated. The schools had already been instructed to inspect the condition of the buildings and take up repair work. The state education department has instructed district inspectors for schools to ensure that the first round of sanitisation is completed by October 30. The second round of sanitisation will be carried out before the premises actually open. Though the government order on reopening of schools is still pending, sources said reopening is likely to be done in phases beginning with classes IX onwards. On Sunday, Bengal had reported 989 new cases of Covid-19, higher than the 974 cases recorded on the previous day. The highest number of cases were recorded from Calcutta (273) followed by adjoining North 24-Parganas (146). The Bengal government has relaxed most of the restrictions imposed in May this year after the elections, though curbs on educational institutions remained. Mamata had earlier hinted that schools could reopen after the festive season. CISCE and the CBSE have already announced dates for holding offline examinations from November 22 and November 30 respectively, which might have forced the state government’s hand in opening educational institutions, at a time when children are yet to be vaccinated. A Bengal government official said the central boards did not consult the state before announcing their offline schedule. Had the Bengal government delayed the opening of schools, students in CBSE and CISCE run schools would have faced problems in appearing in the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
25-10-2021||West Bengal||No force can create further division of Bengal, says Mamata ||Mamata Banerjee said no force can create a further division of Bengal while speaking here on Sunday, her first public address in north Bengal after becoming the chief minister of the state for the third time in a row. Her unequivocal message, a source said, was part of her strategy to throw the gauntlet at the BJP which has in recent times been talking about carving out a state from  north Bengal. Mamata, who has time and again underscored that she and her party, the Trinamul Congress, are against any further partition of Bengal, on Sunday again asserted that any division of the state would compound the problems in the northern districts. “We do not believe in divide and rule. There is going to be no division of the state anymore... We want to stay together so that peace and amity prevail in the region. If we divide, there will be problems,” Mamata said at a “Bijoya Sanmilani” (a post-Dussehra get together) hosted by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police at Bagha Jatin Park of Siliguri. Such assertion of the chief minister comes at a time when a number of BJP functionaries, including elected representatives like Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP John Barla have demanded that a state should be carved out of north Bengal. A number of senior party leaders, including former state party chief Dilip Ghosh, had lent Barla support in a roundabout manner. Amid the debate on whether north Bengal can or should be divided, the Narendra Modi government brought the issue of the PPS (permanent political solution) out of the freezer earlier this month. Home minister Amit Shah held a tripartite meeting on the emotive subject involving Gorkha identity. In the course of her speech, Mamata also criticised the BJP for raising fingers at her government on the issue of post-poll violence and said that leaders of the saffron party had better take a look at the states where they are in power. She referred to the recent attack on party leader Sushmita Dev in BJP-ruled Tripura and avowed that they will never let “Bengal turn into Tripura.” “It is not so easy… we will not let Bengal become a Tripura. We will put all efforts to protect Bengal. In Tripura, no one can enter it and anybody going there has to face assault. No other political party (except the BJP) can hold political activities there. There has been a spate of violence in Tripura and things have reached such an extent that we have brought our injured party workers to Calcutta for treatment as they did not get proper medical treatment there. Similar is the situation in (BJP-ruled) Uttar Pradesh,” said Mamata. The chief minister, while addressing the crowd, also tried to drive home the point that she is concerned about the festivals of all the communities of the state. She announced that the state government has announced two days’ holiday on occasion of Chhat Puja celebrated next month. “I would ask all the DMs and SPs of the state to prepare the ghats we require for Chhat Puja. If required, some new ghats can be readied so that people can carry out rituals while adhering to Covid-19 safety protocols,” Mamata said. During the next two days, the chief minister will attend review meetings of four north Bengal districts, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong, which will be held at Uttarkanya (the branch secretariat of the state) in Siliguri and in Kurseong. Mamata will stay in north Bengal till Wednesday. The Bengal chief minister is scheduled to leave for Goa, the west Indian state where Trinamul has cast its focus, on Thursday. BJP-ruled Goa will have its Assembly elections in February next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans youth on mission oxygen on two wheels||Soumitra Mondal, 29, from the remote Bali island of the Sunderbans, proved humanity exists even in the bleakest of times. On Saturday morning, Soumitra tied an oxygen concentrator to the carrier of his bicycle and cycled 15km on muddy roads and then lugged his vehicle on a boat to cross a river and reach a village in Basanti to help a Covid-19 patient’s need for oxygen support in that remote place. After a two-hour journey, he reached the patient,  an elderly woman,helped her out with the oxygen concentrator, before returning down the same tough terrain in the afternoon. Saturday was just another day for Soumitra, who has helped over 100 Covid-19 patients since the outbreak last year.  Before the pandemic, he used to be a contractual para teacher in a local school but Covid-19 made him jobless. But it did not make jim bitter. He became a volunteer, helping out people round the clock. “I saw it is tough for people in these remote islands to get oxygen cylinders or medicines in good time, so I started arranging oxygen cylinders with the help of a few NGOs. Now I have six oxygen cylinders and two oxygen concentrators. As I have no other vehicle, I have to carry the cylinders or concentrators on my cycle,” he said. On Saturday, when Amal Nayek, a retired teacher from Shibganj contacted Soumitra for oxygen support for his ailing wife, a Covid-19 patient, the youth did not waste any time. “I am now used to these trips, as I have been doing this since the summer of 2020,” he said. Nayek, who is also known in the area as a social worker, said he was very grateful to Soumitra. “My wife got infected with Covid-19 and was released from a nursing home, but she needed oxygen at home. I called Soumitra, and he took just two hours to reach our home with the oxygen concentrator. It is truly admirable,” said Nayek. Soumitra, who is diabetic, contracted Covid in June. “I got Covid, but the pandemic can’t stop me from helping people. Here, the main challenge is access to a hospital in time. Locations are such that people have to rely on boats. I will help in whichever way I can,” he said. The local administration has allowed Mondal to board boats gratis, for his services. “What he has been doing is remarkable. Everyone should accord all help possible to him,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Explosion at vacant house in Malda||An explosion ripped apart a vacant house at Patuatuli village in Malda district on Sunday after crude bombs went off, triggering panic in the area. Police rushed to the spot and have seized 40-odd crude bombs from the house and also from an adjacent litchi grove. Investigations have started. According to sources, the explosion occurred at the house of Samiul around 10am, which was under lock and key. Sheikh works as a migrant worker in Kashmir. His family also stays with him. “The room and walls of Sheikh’s house have been damaged in the explosion,” said a source. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that as the migrant worker had left his house locked and some anti-socials were using it for making and storing crude bombs,” said a police officer. Anticipating that more bombs were stored at the locality, the police launched a search and soon found more crude bombs kept hidden in the litchi plantation adjacent to the house. The bomb squad of CID was summoned and the bombs were defused at the site in the afternoon. In Malda, crude bombs are made in different parts of Kaliachak and are used by miscreants during gang wars. Those bombs are mostly kept stored at orchards where people do not visit regularly. Madanmohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Kaliachak police station, said no arrests have been made so far. “We are conducting a search across the village. Also, our officers have gathered some information and are trying to trace those who had stored the bombs at the spot. We are also finding out whether anybody was injured in the explosion,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Funds sanctioned for town near Bhutan border||The state municipal affairs and urban development department has sanctioned a sum of Rs 12 crore for infrastructure development of Jaigaon, the town in Alipurduar district on the India-Bhutan border. “We thank the state government for sanctioning the fund. It will be spent for improvement of roads, sewerage and solid waste management of Jaigaon. We have spoken with officials of Kalchini block (Jaigaon is located under this block in Alipurduar)) and have also sought some projects from them. The state fund will help in giving a facelift to Jaigaon and its surrounding areas,” said Gangaprasad Sharma, the chairman of Jaigaon Development Authority (JDA). Jaigaon is close to Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of Bhutan and the most popular entry route to the Himalayan kingdom from India. Over the years, members of the business community and residents in general dwelling in Jaigaon have demanded better infrastructure   in the town, whose shabby look is in sharp contrast with Bhutan’s Phuentsholing. “On our side, the roads are narrow and there is no parking space for vehicles. Also, our town has no proper waste disposal system is unlike Phuentsholing which is neat and clean. The roads in Phuentsholing are wide with dedicated parking lots. We, too, want a clean town with proper infrastructure. It is good that the state government has sanctioned funds for our town,” said a trader based in Jaigaon. Sharma, the JDA chairman, said he has identified around 18 roads which require extensive repairs and drainage. Also, some localities, which are beside hilly streams flowing down from Bhutan, have been identified, he said. “During the monsoon months, these streams swell and cause flash floods and minor landslides, damaging roads and houses. Appropriate protection work would be carried out in these sites,” Sharma explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Biswa Bangla all set to launch fairs in districts||Biswa Bangla, a retail enterprise established by the micro, small and medium enterprises department of the Bengal government, has decided to promote the art, craft, culture and food of each of the 23 districts of the state through fairs in every district. The initiative will be launched from December with the first fair in Murshidabad. While the primary objective will be to promote the heritage of that particular district, these fairs will give the Biswa Bangla brand, a brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, an opportunity to regain the business that it has lost during the pandemic. “Biswa Bangla is looking at promoting crafts and textiles of different districts to pull in customers post pandemic and open new vistas for artisans in the grassroots through this,” said Partho Kar, chief consultant to the enterprise. According to Kar, two such fairs will be held every quarter in the coming months, starting with the one in Murshidabad in the third week of December. This will be followed by a fair at Bolpur in Birbhum early next year. “The pandemic had hit Biswa Bangla just like any other retail business. However, in the last few months things have been looking up,” Kar said, adding the enterprise has maintained its 100 odd employees during the pandemic and paid them their full salary. Biswa Bangla works directly with around 15,000 artisan families across the state. These craftspersons have also been victims of the pandemic induced lockdown. As the new initiative is likely to attract more orders, artisans will now get more work, hoped Kar. Sources in the government said that it was also planning to organise the flagship business convention, the Bengal Global Business Summit, in April after a two-year hiatus. “We are going to organise the BGBS in April. MSME, indigenous arts and crafts have always been our focus in the summit. Two Biswa Bangla events (the two fairs) immediately before the summit will have a positive effect in general,” an official at the MSME department said. Every Biswa Bangla store— there are nine such stores including one each in Delhi and Hyderabad — will also have banners and posters with the history and a commentary highlighting the heritage of a district and its exclusive products that its craftspersons are famed for, Kar said. He also added that an artisan, who carves out replicas of products made out of ivory during the time of the Nawabs, has been identified. This person uses a Korean stone to make ivory replicas and he will also be a part of the fair.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata lambasts Modi govt over hype around 100 crore Covid jabs||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday lambasted the Narendra Modi government over its hype around the 100 crore Covid-19 vaccination doses administered in the country, calling it yet another “jumla”. Mamata said when only about 30 crore people or less than 23 per cent of India’s 130-odd crore population are fully vaccinated, there is no need for such celebrations. “This (the 100 crore vaccinations) is nothing but another jumla,” she said in Siliguri. “Jumla” has come to mean unfulfilled promises. “What is the meaning of this noise when barely 30 crore people have been fully vaccinated and over 35 crore people have not received a single dose. Vaccination process for those below 18 years of age has not even begun yet.… Unless you administer the double dose to the entire population, there is no point in such a show,” said Mamata. Of the 102.3 crore vaccine doses administered in the country, only 30.5 crore have been second doses. She also spoke on Covaxin. “There has been a bit of keleyngkari (scandal). He (Modi) took Covaxin. He went for a trip to the US. But they have failed to obtain (WHO) recognition for Covaxin, which is inconveniencing countless people, including students, who can’t go abroad for no fault of theirs, because they received Covaxin,” she said. “I had written to him to expedite recognition for Covaxin….” Bengal received from the Centre barely seven crore of the 14 crore vaccine doses it needs, she said. “It is being said we are number 3 three among states in terms of vaccination. Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh are ahead of us because they got more doses than us.” Bengal, with a population of around 10 crore, has so far administered over 7.2 crore doses, including 1.97 crore second doses. After a Puja lull, Bengal administered over 55 lakh doses in the past seven days. Covid numbers On Sunday, Bengal reported 989 new Covid-19 cases, 828 recoveries and 10 deaths. Active cases rose by 151 to 7,882. On Sunday, Bengal reported 989 new Covid-19 infections, 828 recoveries and 10 deaths, resulting in a rise by 151 in the total of active cases, or people under treatment of the infection, to 7,882. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases on September 26. In these 29 days, including Durga Puja and preceding and succeeding weeks, there has been a net rise of 208 in the state’s active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said new infections being reported now were indicative of people who got infected between October 15 and 19 (Vijaya Dashami to Lakshmi Puja). Calcutta reported 273 new infections on Sunday and North 24-Parganas 146, the only two of Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas two each. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 719 or 72.7 per cent of the new infections detected. Bengal now has 4.73 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains sixth among states with the highest number of such cases. Its recovery rate, 98.33 per cent even till Wednesday, fell to 98.32 on Thursday, 98.31 on Saturday and 98.30 on Sunday. The recovery rate, nationally, remained 98.14 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.32 per cent on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee greets Anit Thapa as 'bondhu' from hills||Mamata Banerjee landed at Bagdogra airport on the plains of Darjeeling district on Sunday afternoon but the rumbles were felt in the hills of Darjeeling. This is because three major political forces in the hills; the Anit Thapa-headed Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), the Bimal Gurung-led Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) and Binay Tamang, who plans to start his “third chapter” of his political career are all allies of Trinamul Congress but are intensely competing against each other to be the “closest” to the chief minister. Amid the rivalry and the game of perception, Anit Thapa seems to be leading. Only Thapa shared the dais at the chief minister’s function in Siliguri on Sunday afternoon. The importance of Mamata’s invitation to Thapa for the Siliguri event could be gauged from the reactions in his party. Pictures of Thapa at the event and also a 22-second video where Mamata addressed Thapa as our “bondhu (friend)” from Darjeeling were immediately and widely circulated by leaders of the BGPM. Many believe that the perception of having the “blessings” of the state government has gained importance in the hills amid talks that elections to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and panchayats can be held immediately. GTA elections are due since 2017. The last one-tier gram panchayat election in the hills was last held in 2000. Thapa’s party leaders have also started creating a narrative that Mamata’s decision to hold the administrative meeting for Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in Kurseong on October 26, is a further reinforcement of the state’s blessings to Thapa. Thapa hails from Kurseong. In what many hill observers felt was a last-minute damage control measure, Thapa’s former leader Tamang issued a press release signed as “former GTA chairman” reminding all that an earlier administrative meeting had also been held at Kurseong in 2019. Tamang also stated in his media statement that he would want to see Mamata Banerjee as the Prime Minister of India in 2024. Asked if he was meeting Mamata, Tamang told this paper that nothing is confirmed. The Bimal Gurung camp, however, was more candid. “We have sought an appointment to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee but have not received any confirmation yet,” said Roshan Giri, the general secretary of GJM. Bimal Gurung and Mamata Banerjee, despite being political allies now, have shared a blow-hot, blow-cold relationship in the past. Even though Gurung decided to ally with Trinamul last year, ditching his decade-old ally BJP, there has been no public announcement of the two leaders meeting each other. Rivals Thapa and Giri also hoped that elections either to GTA or two-tier panchayat elections will be held in Darjeeling soon. According to a 1992 constitutional amendment, only a two-tier panchayat election (gram panchayat and panchayat samiti) can be held in the hills. There are no provisions for holding elections to the third tier, zilla parishad, unless the Constitution is amended again. Even so, the elections to one tier, which is the gram panchayat, was last held in 2000. Insiders maintain Thapa is planning on a rousing reception for Mamata when she ascends the hills on Tuesday. Sources maintain that Thapa’s party is also looking at replacing office-bearers of Khas, Rai and minority development board. “The final decision, however, lies with the chief minister,” said a BGPM source. The state government has formed 16 development boards for various hill communities. There are allegations of widespread corruption against certain boards. Many in the hills are expecting the chief minister to take stock of the development surrounding the setting of Darjeeling Hills University, which has yet to make a headstart as a vice-chancellor to the university has not yet been appointed following difference of opinion between the state government and the governor on the issue. The recent landslide and the administration’s promptness are also likely to be discussed in the administrative meeting. The district administration of Darjeeling and Kalimpong have been communicating to the media of the initiatives being taken to reopen NH-10 and other roads in the districts. Political parties in the hills are also vying against each other in deploying earthmovers to clear roads, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Wild elephants get stranded in Jalpaiguri ||A herd of wild elephants got stranded in the Teshimla and Kumlai area of Malbazar block of Jalpaiguri on Sunday morning. Sources said a herd of elephants had strayed out of Apalchand forest and entered the area on Saturday. A section of this herd walked into Kumlai and Teshimla villages and took shelter near a tea estate. As the news spread, a team from Malbazar wildlife squad and police reached the spot. Dipen Subba, the range officer of the squad, said they were monitoring the elephants and would steer them into the forest in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhola fish 'taller than a man' trapped in Gosaba ||A team of five fishermen — Bikash Burman, Rahul Burman, Saikat Burman, Kamalesh Burman and Kalipad Barr —  from  Sonagaon village of Gosaba island, South 24-Parganas, trapped a Bhola fish “taller than a man” from a creek linked to Kapura river on Saturday afternoon. The fish, which was 7 feet long and weighs 78.4 kilos was later brought to the Canning market for auction in the evening. A Calcutta-based fish trading company bought it for Rs 37,53,811. “We had never seen such a giant fish in this market. The fish was sold at the rate of Rs.47,880 per kilo in the auction,” said Prabhat Mondal, a fish trader in Canning. A fish exporter claimed that the giant fish, colloquially known as “Telia Bhola” has immense medicinal value. “The blubber (primary fat storage) of this fish has huge demand in the foreign markets. That’s why it is exported for medicinal purpose,” the trader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks Modi to withdraw extension of BSF's jurisdiction||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately withdraw a Union home ministry notification that extends the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km within Indian territory from the international borders Bengal shares with neighbouring Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. The wider footprint will bring around 37 per cent of the total geographical territory of Bengal within the ambit of the central paramilitary force, Mamata has pointed out in a letter to Modi. The entire territory of Bengal adds up to “88,752sqkm, of which around 32,400sqkm (equivalent to 37 per cent of the state’s total territory) will come within the expanded territorial jurisdiction of the BSF, and thus interfere with the executive powers of the state and the state police’s ability to maintain the law and order in such areas”, the letter said. On October 11, the Union home ministry came up with a notification that empowers the BSF to conduct raids and make arrests and seizures in areas located within 50km from the borders without requiring permission from the state police. Mamata, who usually does not make political statements during the festive season, broke her silence on the issue on Sunday. “It is just an attempt to try and grab control over a considerable area of the state,” she said in Siliguri. A retired police officer agreed: “What the chief minister has mentioned is absolutely correct. If we consider the entire north Bengal region and Murshidabad district, an estimate indicates that the BSF will have access to the entire area spread across as many as 70 police stations. The number is likely to touch 100 if we consider other districts like Nadia and North 24-Parganas which also share borders with Bangladesh.” After the notification was issued, several trade bodies in Bengal and exporters had expressed fear that the smooth flow of goods could be affected and local economies in the border districts harmed. Opposition parties such as the CPM and the Congress, too, had raised questions. Charanjit Singh Channi, chief minister of Punjab that shares borders with Pakistan, too had voiced objections. In her letter, Mamata has mentioned that altogether, the BSF would have jurisdiction in 11 districts of the state while underscoring some of the practical problems that would crop up. “Most of the areas which will now fall under the newly delineated jurisdiction of the BSF are densely populated, and extending the powers of the BSF in such areas is fraught with the potential issues which are bound to arise when a force unfamiliar with the local populace, language, geography and society, is also put in the charge of administering law and order in such areas,” the chief minister said. In the three-page letter, she has elaborated on the police infrastructure of Bengal which has three zones, 10 ranges, 29 police districts, seven commissionerates, 631 police stations with 491 outposts and other specialised units. The state police are “thus well-equipped and better-placed than the BSF to promptly respond to any situation in the areas affected by the notification”, Mamata has written to Modi. Mamata, who has time and again protested the Centre’s attempts at usurping the state’s powers, has accused the Modi government of creating a parallel investigating agency for offences that fall within the state police’s jurisdiction. “In a federal structure, the requirement of obtaining the relevant state’s concurrence and consent is central to the exercise of jurisdiction of any central force, such as the BSF, in the state. Given the absence of such concurrence, the notification is a violation of the basic structure of the Constitution, of which federalism is an inviolable part,” the chief minister said in the letter. Mamata, who reached Siliguri on Sunday afternoon on a five-day visit, said at a public event: “Some people… have taken such a decision politically…. We don’t endorse it. We have good relations with Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal and don’t need such extension of jurisdiction here. It is just an attempt to try and grab control over a considerable area of the state.” Trinamul sources said the letter — and the brief comment at the Siliguri event — were the beginning of a long-drawn protest the chief minister was planning on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Bid to bring back dropouts to schools in South 24-Parganas||The South 24-Parganas district administration has launched an endeavour to bring back children who were compelled to leave studies for financial reasons back to school, in a move that will be amalgamated with the state’s pre-existing Kanyashree endeavour for adolescent girls. Kulpi block officials aided by a social organisation have begun mapping out such regions and motivating children and their parents to resume school activities. The ‘Kanyashree Prakalpa’ and ‘Scheme for Adolescent Girls’ (SAG), with the support of individuals and social organisations like ‘Child In Need Institute’ (CINI), which work for poor children in India, are jointly behind the effort. “Since poverty is one of the prime causes behind such drop outs, the district administration wants to ensure that the parents of such children are covered by suitable welfare schemes as per their eligibility,” said an official. The local administration last month re-admitted at least 12 such drop outs, including a girl who left for an underage marriage and also a special needs child who stopped going to school for peer abuse and bullying. Jhuma Das, 15, Sanchita Purkait, 14, Saheba Khatun, and Azhar Mollah, 12 will once again be attending regular classes at the Gumuk Beria Braja Mohan High School in Gajipur once the pandemic restrictions are lifted. At 13, Jhuma had to stop her studies in order to get married. She, however, escaped from her in laws’ home in the wake of alleged physical and mental torture. She was spotted by SAG-KP facilitators during a door-to-door Covid awareness programme. She has been admitted to Class IX. “I am eagerly waiting to visit the classroom again,” Jhuma said. Sanchita had begun working as domestic aid in Calcutta with her mother two years ago to keep the family afloat. Her ailing father, a tricycle paddler, expressed his inability to continue paying for her studies. She was also spotted during a Covid awareness initiative. Madhumita Halder, a facilitator under the SAG-KP programme said, “During door to door Covid and health awareness programmes for girls, we noticed many girls and boys had stopped their studies primarily in the absence of smart phones as they could not attend online classes and also owing to financial reasons in most cases. At the same time, we found some other students who stopped going to school even before the pandemic situation began. We talked to them and their families and later appraised the district administration so as to get them back to school.” “We tried to solve their problems which convinced them to resume studies. CINI provided all support including organising counselling sessions for the children since they had difficult past,” Madhumita said, further adding that since these children are disconnected with studies they would soon be brought under special free coaching arranged by the block administration. An official of CINI added, “Our sole objective is to prevent drop outs and to develop a conducive atmosphere for education. Our front-line workers in association with administrative authorities engage in dialogues with families of dropped out students or those at risk to highlight how the benefits of education would in long term benefit them. To prevent drop outs, we also offer supplementary education support and other possible means in consultation with the administration”. Kulpi’s joint BDO Tarif Islam told The Telegraph, “Bringing back dropout students to school is a continuing process. But bringing back dropouts after over two years is a unique initiative which we have launched under the SAG-KP convergence scheme. We have taken the support of social organisations like CINI in this endeavour. Not just CINI, we are at the same time involved with other organisations and individuals so that the mapping of such students can be done on a wider level so as to get them back to school again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Gosaba bridge in byelection battle on October 30||A three-year wait for clearance from the Narendra Modi government for a bridge to connect Gadkhali and Gosaba in South 24-Parganas has become a major issue in the Gosaba bypoll on October 30. The proposed bridge over the confluence of four rivers, Durgaduani, Hogol, Vidyadhari and Kartoa is expected to overhaul the socio-economic scenario in remote Sunderbans. Right now, it takes around 30 minutes to cross the confluence of four rivers and reach Gosaba from Gadkhali. Once the bridge gets constructed, travel time will be cut down to three minutes. The bypoll in Gosaba was  necessitated as victorious Trinamul MLA Jayanta Naskar died of Covid in June this year. Naskar had defeated his closest rival, Barun Pramanik of the BJP, by over 23,000 votes. This time, Trinamul’s Subrata Mondal is pitted against the BJP’s Palash Rana. In October 2018, the Bengal government had planned to build a 1km bridge to connect Gadkhali and Gosaba. The public works department of the state government had sanctioned Rs 285 crore in the 2017-18 fiscal to the Sunderbans affairs department, which is the implementing authority of the project. Preliminary work started to build the bridge. However, a critical component to implement the project is awaited — getting clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forests — as the site of the bridge falls within Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ). The notification for CRZ rules was issued by the Union ministry of environment and forests in February 1991 to regulate activities in coastal areas. Under it, coastal land up to 500m from high tide line and 100m from the banks of creeks, lagoons, estuaries, backwaters and rivers subject to tidal fluctuations are earmarked under CRZ. Hence, without central nod, the work to build the bridge could not be started although the Mamata Banerjee government sanctioned Rs 285 crore for it three years ago. . “The latest communication with the Centre on this vital bridge happened in July after I took oath as minister. The BJP-led government is doing what they do for other projects in Bengal, delaying its nod,” said Bankim Hazra, the Sunderbans affairs minister. This alleged central indifference has become the focal theme of Trinamul’s campaign in the Gosaba by-poll. “The state government has sanctioned funds for it but the BJP is making the people of Gosaba suffer by sitting on a crucial permission. We are telling people how they are being deprived,” said Trinamul candidate Mondal. BJP’s Rana countered this charge. “There are conditions and the state government needs to fulfil those (before getting the Centre’s permission). The problem is that Trinamul is trying to misguide the people of Gosaba on this issue with an eye on the bypoll,” said Rana but could not elaborate on the conditions. District officials said the bridge would help provide better and faster health care services to people of Gosaba. “We need to wait for a trawler to carry emergency patients or pregnant women who need to be shifted to a sub-divisional hospital in Canning. During low tide, boats can’t operate properly and patients have to wait for as long as an hour for the high tide. With the bridge, patients can be transferred to Canning in ambulances within a few minutes,” said Indranil Bargi, the block medical officer of health in Gosaba. This apart, policing in the remote islands would become easier once the link comes into operation. At present, police use boats to reach far-off islands in Gosaba but the bridge will help cops to travel in vehicles. “Now, we send forces in advance to tackle situations like cyclones. The bridge will help us to communicate with the islands easily,” said Vaibhav Tiwari, the Baruipur police superintendent under whose jurisdiction Gosaba falls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Couple and five-year-old son found dead in Cooch Behar district||A couple and their five-year-old son were found dead at their house at a village located under Dinhata-II block of Cooch Behar district on Sunday. According to police, Manoranjan Sarkar, 52, a casual worker and a resident of Tiyadaha-Kishamat village, hacked his wife Santana, 22, and son Rony, 5, to death and then committed suicide by hanging. “During preliminary investigation, we have come to know that the couple had differences and would often indulge into fights. On Sunday, as none of the family members came of the house and the doors remained closed till late morning, some locals checked and found them dead inside,” said Sumit Kumar, Cooch Behar district police chief. The villagers informed police and soon, a team rushed to the spot. “All three bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Investigations have started,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
