26-10-2021||West Bengal||Centre asks Bengal to review Covid cases, deaths||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, the Centre has asked the state government to immediately undertake a review of cases and deaths, and stressed on the importance of ensuring Covid-safe festivities. In a letter to the West Bengal health secretary, issued on October 22, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has reported 20,936 new cases and 343 fresh deaths in the last 30 days, accounting for 3.4 per cent of India’s new cases and 4.7 per cent of fresh deaths in the same period. Expressing concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in Calcutta, he said the district has reported high quantum of average daily new cases in the week ending October 21 along with more than 25 per cent increase over the past week — from 217 cases in the week ending October 14 to 272 cases in the week ending October 21. Calcutta has also reported almost 27 per cent increase in positivity rate in the past week, from 5.6 per cent in the week ending October 14 to 7.1 per cent in the week ending October 21, Bhushan said. “The weekly testing trends in this district are also showing a downward trend. This calls for more proactive action on the testing front,” he said. “With the ongoing festive season, it is crucial to emphasise the importance of Covid-safe festivities in order to maintain the collective gains made in the battle against this pandemic so far,” the Union health secretary said. The state must ensure strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and focus on second dose vaccination coverage of all eligible beneficiaries, Bhushan said. He said it has also been observed that cases surge exponentially in instances where basic public health strategy ‘testing, tracking, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination’ is not followed rigorously. “The current trends of increasing daily new cases and case positivity, if left unchecked may lead to a situation where there is severe strain on health infrastructure and health workforce,” Bhushan said. He said regular review of Covid-19 cases and deaths must also be undertaken, and necessary corrective measures should be promptly communicated to field teams. “Lastly, it should also be ensured that the district maintains consistency in data up-dation in the Covid-19 portal,” Bhushan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Ronaldinho, Yuvraj Singh to 'star' in Merlin Group's sports township||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee could soon have a date with the Brazilian world-cupper and former Barcelona star Ronaldinho. The Calcutta-based real estate major, Merlin Group, is bringing three sporting icons and a martial arts exponent together at Eastern India’s first greenfield sports-based township to come up at Rajarhat. Rise-Sports Republic with 2,500 flats in 10 towers—one exclusively reserved for senior citizens--- will have sports academies, two of which are expected to start by end of 2021. Brazilian soccer star Ronaldinho’s R10 soccer academy, which already has a presence in Bengaluru, will open a chapter in Calcutta at the township, and so will India’s own cricketing icon Yuvraj Singh. The Shroff siblings, Tiger and Krishna, will set up a martial arts training centre and a similar facility for swimming with the legendary Olympian Michael Phelps. The cricket and football grounds with specifications for training facilities as desired by the two icons, Ronaldinho and Yuvraj Singh, are in the final stages. “This will be a township with everything within the same premises including school and healthcare facility. The academies will be open for all and not just residents,” said Saket Mohta, managing director Merlin Group, at the launch of the project at a city hotel. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 2,000 crore and expected to be ready by January 2027. The icons associated with each of the academies are expected to be visiting Calcutta a couple of times every year. “The coaches, trainers will be handpicked by the sporting legends as they have done with similar facilities elsewhere in the world. It is not important to see the face of either Ronaldinho or Yuvraj Singh, but follow the training module that they have designed. These are professionals and choose the best for the academies that they run,” said Mohta. For the project, the Merlin Group has been acquiring land over a period of 14-15 years. Apart from the sports academies, the township will also have other sporting activities for the residents to pursue like tennis and squash courts. The Merlin Group is yet to finalise on the school and the hospital that would come up in the premises. “The school will be affiliated to either CBSE or ICSE,” said Satyen Sanghvi, director Merlin Group. The block of flats exclusively reserved for the senior citizen will have emergency and nursing care facilities within the tower, making it a self-sufficient unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||People will face torture with extension of BSF jurisdiction, says Mamata||Continuing her tirade against the Union government over its decision to extend BSF's jurisdiction, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged that the move was meant to torture common people. Banerjee also said that she respects the border guarding force for the job it undertakes, but condemns the "intention" behind extending its jurisdiction. The BJP-led central government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. "In the garb of extending BSF's jurisdiction, people will be tortured. There was no need to do so, the BSF does not even have the authority to lodge an FIR," the CM said here during an administrative meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. She further stated that there was no problem anywhere in the bordering areas of the state, and the West Bengal director general of police has spoken to inspector general, BSF, on the matter. "We are living in peace. I have already sent a letter to the PM on the issue," the CM added. On Monday, too, Banerjee had criticised this decision of the Centre and said that an "attempt was being made to interfere in the federal structure of the country".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Classes IX to XII of state-run, aided schools to resume from Nov. 16||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced that Classes IX to XII at state-run and state-aided schools will reopen across Bengal from November 16 along with colleges and universities, some 20 months after the pandemic forced them to close. The decision doesn’t strictly cover private schools, a senior government official said. But a copy of the state government’s order meant for government and government-aided schools will be shared with the boards that affiliate private schools, another official said. The boards can pass on instructions they deem fit to the private schools, he added. Several private schools are said to be eager to reopen as early as possible although many parents are still unsure. The chief minister said at a review meeting for Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts in Siliguri: “It’s been decided to reopen the schools for Classes IX to XII, along with colleges, universities and other institutions of higher education, from November 16.” She instructed chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to ensure the necessary preparations, such as sanitisation and repairs, before classes resumed. Schools and colleges in Bengal have been closed since March 16 last year. The government and government- aided schools in Bengal had reopened for students of Classes IX to XII for two months in February. But the government had to shut the schools again in April following a spike in Covid cases. The state government had about 10 days ago signalled its latest plan to reopen schools when it allotted Rs 110 crore to carry out repairs in 400-odd schools that prolonged closure had left in poor shape. Sources at Nabanna said the lower classes would be reopened in a phased manner. “In the next phase, we plan to reopen Classes VI to VIII. The decision will be taken only following an assessment of the situation after in-person teaching resumes in Classes IX to XII,” a senior government official said. Since nobody under the age of 18 has received Covid-19 jabs in the country, the Bengal government is in no hurry to reopen the lower classes, a bureaucrat said. Another official said: “We are not stressing the reopening of private schools at this moment because the private schools are holding online classes regularly from the nursery to the higher secondary level. But not all the state-aided schools have the infrastructure to hold regular online classes, so they need to resume physical classes.” He suggested a couple of other reasons why the private schools are not being asked to reopen immediately. “Teachers of state-aided schools have been given two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. But the government has no record whether all teachers of private schools have received two doses. Besides, most of the private schools are in Calcutta, where Covid-19 cases are rising,” he said. Sources said the health department would issue a Covid-19 safety protocol before the schools reopen. A source said: “The guidelines will make it clear how many students would be allowed in a class at a particular period (lesson), whether the students and teachers must wear masks throughout, and how far two students should sit apart.” A health department official said that when some polytechnic colleges were allowed to reopen in January and February, only half the students were allowed to attend class together. “So, each student attended classes on alternative days. This plan is likely to be followed at the schools, too, initially,” he said. Mamata said: “We had initially planned to reopen the schools from November 15 (Monday). But the day had already been declared a holiday because it’s the birth anniversary of (tribal freedom fighter) Birsa Munda. So, the educational institutions will reopen the next day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Art exhibition opens in Darjeeling||A major art exhibition was organised after a gap of 12 years in Darjeeling on Monday. The Annual Art Exhibition 2021 organised by the Himalayan Art Academy in association with Sahitya Kala Prakostha, Darjeeling, was thrown open to the public at Himalayan Kala Mandir here on Monday. The exhibition will continue till October 30. “A major art exhibition is being held in Darjeeling after 12 years,” said Hemu Rai, president, Himalayan Art Academy, an organisation of artists from the region. Hill artists attributed the irregularity of such events to the absence of a gallery and lack of patronage. They said that the town once used to organise three exhibitions in a year. “For decades we have been requesting governments to set up an art gallery in the town. In the absence of a gallery, our artists are forced to stack their works at home which is discouraging,” said Rai. “We don’t have a gallery, we don’t have an art school, forget about art colleges. Art materials are not easily available here and there is no institutional help. Governments dole out money to organise pujas, football tournaments, musical events and other activities but we have not received a penny to organise exhibitions,” said Rai. “This year we received support from the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantrantik Morcha,” said Rai. Fifty-one artists have put up 173 exhibits at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Female jumbos rescued near Jalpaiguri, 4 held||The state forest department rescued two female elephants on Sunday night while the animals were being taken to Jamnagar in Gujarat from Arunachal Pradesh in a truck. Four persons, including a mahout, have been arrested in this connection. On Monday, the elephants and the arrested quartet were handed over to a team of the forest department of Assam. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (north), on Sunday said a team of foresters in Assam intercepted the vehicle in Dhubri. “The driver was asked to produce documents to prove that they are transporting the elephants — one 18-year-old and another eight-year-old — in a legal manner but they managed to escape the spot with the vehicle,” Jakhar said. “We got information about the elephants and accordingly, the truck was stopped at the checkpost near Teesta river on NH 27, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri. On Monday, a team from Assam reached the spot and we handed over the elephants as well as the four persons who were in the truck and detained. They left for Dhubri in the afternoon,” Jakhar added. Sources in the forest department said the elephants were bought in Arunachal Pradesh and were supposed to be taken to Gujarat. “The persons who were there in the truck claimed that the elephants were bought as a person wanted to donate the animals to a temple in Gujarat. However, there were discrepancies in the documents,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader accused of assaulting schoolteacher in Malda arrested||A local Trinamul leader and former councillor of Englishbazar municipality in Malda district, who was accused of assaulting a tribal schoolteacher after branding him a thief, was arrested from the railway station here on Monday. Paritosh Choudhury had reached Malda Town station where he was apparently planning to board a train when he was apprehended by a team from Englishbazar police station around 10.30am. On October 15, Choudhury and some of his associates had assaulted Sudip Tudu, a schoolteacher based in Habibpur of the district, at Krishnapally here after accusing him of stealing a bicycle. Choudhury was produced in a local court which sent to him to police custody for three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Protesters ransack bank over aid delay in North 24-Parganas||Over 500 women beneficiaries of Lakshmir Bhandar scheme allegedly ransacked a branch of a nationalised bank at Bongaon in North 24-Parganas on Monday morning and raised a blockade in Bongaon town accusing the bank authorities for non-cooperation in maintaining their accounts and delaying disbursement of money allotted to them by the state government. The women gheraoed the bank situated at Saatbhai Kalitala area of Bongaon, forcing suspension of day’s operation and also allegedly vandalised the door and window panes of the bank. They then blocked a road to protest against the authorities “refusal to update their passbooks for the last three years”. The blockade continued for over two hours and was withdrawn only after senior officials of the district administration and bank authorities assured to address their grievances soon. Unnati Bawali, a protestor, said: “Poor service by the bank is nothing new. The bank has over 10,000 customers and a large number of them are beneficiaries under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. But, unfortunately, most of the beneficiaries are yet to get money that disbursed by the state under the scheme. While all other banks have credited the amount to the beneficiaries, this bank has been harassing us. They don’t even allow us to print our passbooks and the ATM is also defunct.” Sonali Pathak, another protester, accused the bank officials of threatening customers with police complaints whenever anyone raised a voice against their poor service. Senior manager of the bank Ratan Roy, however, has refuted the allegations. “An upgradation process has been going on due to  merging of our bank with another nationalised bank. This has created some problems because of system-related changes and unavailability of stationery like passbooks. We have informed the higher authorities about the problem and they have assured cooperation. But people have become impatient.” “Moreover, till very recently there was a Bengal government ban on printing passbooks because of the Covid situation. The customers are wrongly accusing us of non-cooperation,” the manager added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: District schools in containment zones to not reopen from November 16||Several government-aided schools will not be able to reopen from November 16 as they are within containment zones, set up recently after Covid-19 cases started rising in Bengal again, officials said. On Saturday, the chief secretary had asked districts to set up containment zones once again as Covid-19 cases were rising after the pujas. “Since then, some districts like North 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Jalpaiguri have set up more than 150 containment zones. Almost all other districts will come up with freshly drawn up containment zones within the next two days,” said a senior official. Officials said as all other activities, except emergency services, remain suspended in the containment zones, reopening of schools falling in these zones would not be possible from November 16. District officials and teachers said they can’t start sanitisation activities in the schools located in the containment zones as such activities and entry are restricted according to the guidelines of the state government. “It is not possible to allow any school to open for any type of work inside a containment zone. Even all types of government offices are also kept closed in the containment areas. So, the school authorities need to wait till the number of Covid cases come down and the containment zone tags are lifted,” said a senior health official in Calcutta. Every containment zone is in force for at least 14 days from the day of announcement and the period can be extended if Covid cases do not come under control. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced in Siliguri on Monday that schools would be opened for Classes IX to XII, along with colleges and universities, from November 16 by adhering to proper Covid protocol. Apart from containment zones, district authorities have also introduced micro-containment zones in a few pockets. The containment zones are the highest in number in three Bengal districts adjoining Calcutta — Howrah, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas. As of now, there are 72 containment zones in Hooghly district, whereas the corresponding figure for Howrah and North 24-Parganas is 45 and 56, respectively. In Hooghly, at least six schools and a college have come under containment zones. Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P, however, said: “We review the containment zones every week. So, it is not a long-run issue. Once the situation in those containment zones turns normal, the schools will be reopened.” However, a section of teachers said as the Covid cases in the state have started to increase after the festival, containment zones could be changed that could bring more schools within the containment zones in future. “My school is not in the containment zone now, but one cannot guarantee that the area will not become one with a steady spike in the number of Covid cases in the state. This can happen even after we have sanitised the buildings to reopen. Then we will have to sanitise the school again,” said a teacher in Hooghly. Officials in other districts also expressed concern over the growing number of Covid-positive cases. Apart from the increasing Covid cases, the chief minister’s announcement to reopen schools from November 16 has left several teachers worried as a large number of institutions need immediate repair. “We always demanded that schools should open. It is true Covid cases are on the rise and the other trouble is several schools are yet to receive funds from the government to carry out repair,” said Chandan Maiti, general secretary of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung to focus on hill solution not GTA polls||Bimal Gurung, president of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, on Monday said that he would not contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) elections but would instead work for a “permanent political solution” with the state government. Many believe that Gurung might have shot himself in the foot with the announcement as he has left no escape route if the state government does decide to hold the GTA election now. The party in power in hill bodies like the GTA is considered to be the most powerful. Gurung, who was in Kalimpong to attend the death anniversary of former councillor Barun Bhujel who died while in police custody during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, said: “I will not contest the GTA election as I have already resigned. I will work for a permanent political solution. Others might contest but not Bimal Gurung.” Since 2017, elections to the GTA have not been held. The Morcha leader said that he would work for a permanent political solution with the state government. Gurung ditched the BJP last year to join hands with Trinamul. Even though the Morcha leader said he was committed to working with the state government, he did reiterate that he would support a party that supports hill issues during the 2024 Lok Sabha election. “Some say that Bimal Gurung has forgotten the community’s issue but till Bimal Gurung is alive, he will continue to work for the community, land… their (martyrs’) sacrifice will not go in vain,” said Gurung. A section of the hill people are also not taking his announcement seriously. “Politicians, however, can never be trusted. They can easily come up with some other excuse to contest the election as they simply cannot walk away from such an important election. Such flip-flops by Gurung are nothing new,” said an observer. Meanwhile, Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha, has been invited to the administrative meeting to be held in Kurseong on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP MPs shun poll grind in Santipur and Naihati ||The beleaguered Bengal BJP is struggling to put up a united front ahead of the October 30 by-elections with the apparent reluctance of party MPs — Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik — to campaign hard for Santipur and Dinhata, the two seats the party hopes to win, making things difficult on the ground. Bypolls for Gosaba, Khardah, Santipur and Dinhata will be held on October 30 and the BJP has been banking heavily on Sarkar and Pramanik to retain two of the four Assembly seats that the party had won in the summer elections. The bypoll for Santipur was necessitated after Sarkar opted to vacate the Assembly seat and retain his place in Parliament. Similarly, Pramanik vacated the Dinhata seat to stay on as MP and went on to be appointed as the junior minister for home in the Narendra Modi government. With an eye to win the Santipur bypoll, BJP appointed Sarkar as the observer for the Assembly segment. However, he refused to take the responsibility and informed the state BJP unit about his inability to dedicate much time for the polls due to preoccupations elsewhere. “Even before Durga Puja, Jagannathda had clearly told our leaders that he wouldn’t be able to work as the Santipur observer. He had said he would be busy with pujas and in his role as a member of parliamentary standing committees,” a state BJP leader said. The real reason, however, is Sarkar not being on good terms with BJP’s Santipur candidate Niranjan Biswas, the leader added. Sarkar had hoped the party would field someone of his choice for the Santipur bypoll but when that did not happen, he made his discontent clear. “To ensure that none raise their fingers at him, Jagannathda is taking part in the campaign but not in the way the party expects him to do,” a BJP leader in Santipur said. Refuting allegations of factionalism, Sarkar said: “We are a united team and the BJP candidate will win by a huge margin.” On the other hand, Pramanik is seen campaigning less for the party’s Dinhata candidate Ashok Mondal and busy with ministerial work in Delhi. “We understand that Nisithda is a minister. Yet this constituency is also a part of his responsibilities. More so when there have been defections to the Trinamul only because the leaders were unhappy with Nisithda,” a leader in BJP’s Cooch Behar unit said. The leader said Pramanik had joined the campaign in the last one or two days. “Mihir Goswami also joined our party from Trinamul. Yet he has been campaigning hard in Dinhata. Goswami and Mondal were attacked by Trinamul goons but Nisithda was nowhere to be seen. As a minister he should have been leading the campaign from day one,” the leader said. According to a state BJP functionary, the party hopes to win Santipur and Dinhata. The chances, however, have been affected because of Sarkar and Pramanik’s near absence during campaigning which in turn has brought down the morale of party workers, a senior state committee leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 805 new Covid infections, 11 deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 805 new Covid-19 infections, 807 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 13 to 7,869 — a drop after six consecutive days of rise. A minister said the number of new infections reported on Monday is indicative of the people who got infected in the October 16 (Ekadoshi) to 20 (the day after Lakshmi Puja) window. Calcutta reported 229 new infections, while North 24-Parganas recorded 142, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths, while Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported three each. “We are, in terms of the Covid-19 statistics, getting past the Puja days and going into the post-Puja phase. It is becoming increasingly clear that the reality of the outbreak situation is far better than what was estimated before the festive spell began,” said the minister. In the 30 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 18 days and a fall for 11 days. In these 30 days — considered the core phase of the autumnal festive spell, including not only the Durga Puja days but also the preceding and succeeding weeks — there has been a net rise of 195 in the state’s total of active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. Bengal now has more than 15.87 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.6 lakh recoveries and 19,066 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul inducts Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh||Trinamul Congress on Monday inducted Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh, after similar exercises in Tripura, Assam and Goa, with Mamata Banerjee underscoring her party’s ultimate objective of ousting the BJP from the Centre. In Siliguri, Rajeshpati Tripathi and Laliteshpati Tripathi — grandson and great-grandson, respectively, of deceased Congress stalwart Kamalapati Tripathi of Uttar Pradesh — joined Trinamul in the presence of the Bengal chief minister and her heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. “Some people mock our party as a regional political force but let me assert that Trinamul is a national party. We have initiated political activities in Tripura and Goa and now, we have Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh joining us,” Mamata told journalists outside Uttarkanya. Mamata said the Tripathis would now draw up a plan for her to visit Varanasi. “Wherever we are going, we are going with the purpose of strengthening our organisation before the Lok Sabha polls (of 2024)…. If we can run Bengal, we can also run Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Traffic on NH55 restored, work on to repair NH10||Traffic movement along the entire stretch of NH55, the principal highway that connects Siliguri with Darjeeling through Kurseong, was restored after five days. The movement of vehicles along the entire stretch of NH10, the highway that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with Siliguri and the rest of the country, however, will resume in another four-five days, said sources in the state PWD. Road restoration work at Birick Dara, located along NH10 under Kalimpong district and around 30km from here, continued for the fifth day on Monday. The progress of restoration work has also made the tourism industry hopeful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief minister’s call to create jobs for migrants||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday instructed various functionaries of the government — from ministers to bureaucrats — to explore all possible options to create employment opportunities for migrant workers in the state in a bid to rebut the Opposition’s allegation that jobs are shrinking in Bengal. The chief minister, while attending an administrative review meeting of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts at Uttarkanya — the branch of the state secretariat here — tried to send out a message that the government was keen on creating employment opportunities in Bengal. “Several youths from our state migrate to other states for jobs. There, they toil hard and have to bear considerable expenses for their stay. We have to take initiatives and motivate them so that instead of moving out, they stay here and get engaged in small businesses. We have to create self-help groups of youths through which they can carry out different works and can make a living,” she said. Over the past few years, BJP leaders, including central ministers, have asked why youths from here had to move to far-flung states like Kerala and Rajasthan to make a living for themselves. While elaborating on the need to create jobs to discourage migration of the working population from the state, Mamata also asked Moloy Ghatak, the state minister in-charge of the labour department, to update the data of the state’s employment bank. Keeping her focus on employment, the chief minister asked H.K. Dwivedi, the chief secretary, to immediately initiate the process of recruiting retired persons and corporate professionals as joint secretaries in various departments on contractual basis. “Publish an advertisement immediately for recruitment of 50 such people. Half of them would be posted in the districts (one in each district) while the remaining would be posted in various departments. This will help in easing the workload,” said Mamata. Later, she asked her officers to try and engage jobless youths in homestay tourism. She also asked the officers to focus on the textile sector and engage self-help groups as well as youths in powerlooms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
