27-10-2021||West Bengal||Drugs worth Rs 2 crore seized in North 24 Parganas, 3 held||Three persons were arrested after Yaba tablets worth around Rs 2 crore were seized from them in Madhyamgram on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off customs department officers apprehended two people from Madhyamgram and recovered around 28,000 Yaba tablets. Both of them were arrested. Later, 8000 more tablets were seized from another place and one more person was arrested. “The total value of the seized Yaba tablets is around Rs 2 crore. Also known as madness drug, crazy medicine and Nazi speed, these are psychotropic substances prohibited under the NDPS Act 1985,” said an official. A mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine and sold as red or pink pills, Yaba originated in Myanmar and entered the Bangladesh black market in early 2000 and gained instant popularity due to the paucity of such stimulants locally. The fact that it was cheap also helped. This is, however, not the first time that such drugs were seized from the city and its outskirts. In August this year, Heroin and Amphetamine tablets worth ₹55 crore in the international market were seized by the special task force of the Kolkata Police in West Bengal’s Malda district. Four drug peddlers, two of whom are from Manipur and Bihar, were arrested. A consignment was also seized in Kolkata in July 2020. Smuggling of Yaba tablets has shot up since 2019 across the porous Indo-Bangladesh border in south Bengal, after the Border Security Force (BSF) cracked down on cattle smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Make this dhanteras chomok bhora||Shyam Sundar jewellers like every year have a number of gifts, collections and special editions of jewellery, gems and more on offer for its annual Diwali presentations – Chomok Bhora Dhanteras. For those visiting this Gariahat outlet between October 26 and November 6, will have the special collections of this extra special edition of ‘Chomok Bhora Dhanteras’ which has turned 16 this year, thereby making the annual celebration grander. The collection includes designer hand-crafted gold and diamond jewellery, traditional and trendy bridal jewellery, dazzling collections of affordable diamond jewellery, gems and precious stones. “We had started Chomok Bhora Dhanteras, fifteen years ago, as an opportunity for people to buy gold and diamond jewellery and pray for its reflection in family fate and fortune,” said Rupak Saha. He added, “Dhanteras is all about welcoming home the Goddess of wealth and prosperity.” “Over the years, 'Chomok Bhora Dhanteras' has grown in size and scope - in terms of the festive collections of gold and diamond jewellery as well as the gift-wrapped offers and draws - all in the true spirit of the festival,” added Saha. Shyam Sundar Co Jewellers, is geared up to welcome customers and usher in the festive season of light and warmth, joy and happiness, greeting and gifting. During a special preview earlier this month, Tollywood star, Ankush Hazra, unveiled this year's 'Dhanteras Dazzle' jewellery collection and added to the glamour of the day. He was flanked, on either side, by Arpita & Rupak Saha, Directors, Shyam Sundar Co Jewellers “I take this opportunity to wish everybody all the best during Chomok Bhora Dhanteras,” said Hazra. “We take this opportunity to thank our dear customers for their continued patronage and assure them of continuing to live upto their expectation,” said Arpita Saha. The threesome signed-off with heart-felt greetings and good wishes for a really happy Diwali. 'Chomok Bhora Dhanteras' will be exclusively on at all the showrooms of Shyam Sundar Co Jewellers in Kolkata (Gariahat, Behala & Barasat) & Tripura (Agartala, Khowai, Dharmanagar & Udaipur) from October 26 to November 6, 2021. What more, with every purchase that its customers make to please goddess Dhanvantri, there are a number of assured gifts, offers and draws that can make you feel lucky. Some of them being • Assured gifts with every purchase • 25% discount on making charge of gold jewellery • No making charge on diamond Jewellery • Precious gems available at a discount of 15% • Daily lucky draws, where three lucky winners can win gold coins • Mega draw: 5 Scootys Apart from this the jewellery outlet has other regular schemes like Sonay Sohaga (special discount scheme to buy jewellery), old gold exchange facility, gold coins, silver coins and utensils on offer. Keeping the pandemic and rising number of cases into account, Covid protocol is being strictly followed and necessary safety measures are in place for customers to safely make purchases in the stores; and all staff members are vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Alapan moves court challenging shifting of case filed before CAT||Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former Bengal chief secretary and current chief adviser to the chief minister, moved Calcutta High Court on Tuesday challenging a decision to shift a case he had filed before the Central Administrative Tribunal bench in Calcutta to the principal bench of CAT in Delhi. The Centre had served a showcause notice on Bandyopadhyay, asking why he had violated norms by “not attending a meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi” at Kalaikunda on May 28. “Bandyopadhyay had replied that only the state government, where the IAS officer is posted, has the jurisdiction to carry out an inquiry on the officer’s conduct. But the Centre’s department of personnel and training (DoPT), the cadre-controlling authority of IAS officers, unilaterally set up an inquiry committee against Bandyopadhyay and asked him to appear before the committee in Delhi,” said a source in Nabanna. Bandyopadhyay had challenged before the CAT’s Calcutta bench the DoPT’s decision to set up the inquiry committee against him. “But the DoPT moved the principal bench of CAT in Delhi, urging it to shift the case to the capital, which was approved unilaterally. Bandyopadhyay has challenged the decision to shift the case from the CAT bench in Calcutta to the CAT principal bench in Delhi. It is still unknown why the case is moved to Delhi even though it could easily be heard by the Calcutta bench,” said a source in the administration. Death threat Late on Tuesday night, Calcutta police lodged a case based on a complaint from Bandyopadhyay regarding a death threat to him through a letter. The letter was sent to his wife and Calcutta University vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Bandyopadhyay. It was sent by one Gourhari Mishra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Traffic along damaged stretch of NH10 resumes, bridge repair starts||Traffic along the damaged stretch of NH10, which links Sikkim and Bengal’s Kalimpong district with the rest of the country, resumed on Tuesday afternoon after a gap of six days. Since August 20, vehicular movement had come to a halt along the route as a part of the road had caved in at Birick Dara, located around 30km  from here, after an extremely heavy downpour in the hills. The incident had prompted the state PWD (NH-X division) to engage earthmovers. Rocks along the stretch, around 80 feet, had to be cut to create space vehicles to ply. Altogether, a stretch of around 300 feet has been rebuilt in the past few days, PWD sources said. “We have managed to restore the connectivity of NH 10 along Birick Dara. Both heavy and light vehicles started plying from around 4.30pm on Tuesday,” S. Chhetri, the executive engineer of NH-X division of the state PWD said. The resumption of road connectivity has come as a major relief for the business community in the hills as well as for tourists and  tourism stakeholders. During the past one week, all vehicles bound for Sikkim and Kalimpong from Siliguri and vice-versa, were taking detours on narrow roads. Repairs also started on the Balason river bridge on NH31  on Tuesday. On October 19, a pillar of the bridge had tilted, prompting the police to stop traffic, barring two -wheelers. “Repairs have commenced from today and by November 8, components of the Bailey bridge, which would be installed in the damaged stretch, will reach here from Calcutta. We expect the Bailey bridge to be ready in a month’s time,” said an official of state PWD. In Kurseong, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee attended a review meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, she also expressed concern over road conditions. “We have found a number of hilly roads are in a bad state. This is because a section of contractors use white pebbles instead of black ones and within a year, the top layer of the road peels off. This has to stop. Officials  should pay surprise visits to ensure proper quality...,”said Mamata. A senior official of state PWD, who attended the meeting, said he would look into the issue and will also hold talks with engineers of his department. He also spoke on the widening of a 13km stretch of NH31 between Balason bridge in the northwest and Sevoke in the northeast of Siliguri and said the state has cleared the decks from its end. “We have cleared everything from our end. The NHAI will fund the project and we are waiting for their approval,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Kashmir killings drive migrant workers back to Malda district||Asgar Ali, a 28-year-old who worked at an apple orchard in Kulgam district of Kashmir, returned to his village in Malda district four days ago. Ali, who had worked in Kashmir for over four years, felt unsafe in the Valley after the recent killings of five migrant workers. “Everything was fine there even a few weeks back. However, after migrant workers were killed by unidentified militants, I felt it was no longer safe to stay there. Even the police there are not confident about protecting us and so I decided to return home,” said Ali, who hails from Nayabusty in Kaliachak. It was a hard decision. The youth used to make Rs 22,000 a month in Kashmir. He is now jobless in Malda, and doesn’t know how to run his five-member family. Along with Ali, some 1,500 workers have returned to home in Malda district, mostly in Kaliachak, from Kashmir. Akbar Sheikh, who is from the same area, said they did not know why militants were targeting migrant workers. “It might be a conspiracy to drive us away. But whatever be the reason, we are now jobless,” said Sheikh, who would make around Rs 20,000 a month in a carpet factory. Sources in the state intelligence agencies estimated that roughly 5,000 workers from Malda work in Kashmir, mostly in apple orchards or in carpet-making units. “My employer in Kulgam expressed his helplessness and said it was better if we left for our home states. He assured us once things improve, he will call us,” said another youth back in Malda. Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, the Congress MP of Malda south, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention in the situation for the security of these workers so that they can return to Kashmir. “It (Kashmir) is an integral part of India and there is no reason why workers of Malda can’t work there freely and safely. I have urged the PM to see to it that they can work there safely,” he said. “Also, the home minister has been there and he too, should look into the issue,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal: Private schools await official circular on reopening||Authorities of private schools in Siliguri and in the hills of north Bengal are waiting for an official circular of the state government to decide if they will reopen their institutions, at least for Classes IX to XII, along with the state-run and state-aided schools. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that government schools will reopen for students of Classes IX to XII from November 16, after a gap of almost 20 months. On March 16, 2020, the Bengal government had shut schools in view of the pandemic. Online classes began shortly afterwards. Colleges, universities and other institutions of higher education will also reopen from November 16, Mamata had added on Monday, and stressed on sanitising the buildings in time before that date. In all, there are around 70-odd ICSE schools in the hills and Siliguri, along with 30-odd CBSE schools. S.S. Agarwal, the president of North Bengal Sahodaya School Complex (NBSSC), an association of CBSE schools in the region, said they will hold a meeting on October 30 with the principals and administrators of all CBSE affiliated schools of north Bengal. “The first-term board exam for Classes X and XII will be held offline in the last two weeks of November. After exams, we will hold a meeting and take a decision on the issue,” said Agarwal, also the principal of Siliguri Model High School. “We need to confirm that all teaching and non-teaching staff, bus drivers and allied staff have received both doses of the Covid vaccine before classes resume. Also, whether all the students will attend classes daily in school or be called on alternative days,” said a representative of AHLIS (All Hill Listed ICSE Schools), an association of ICSE schools in the hills. The principal of a well-known ICSE school in Siliguri said he wanted to read the circular that the state government was likely to issue on reopening schools. “It is evident that a set of guidelines or standard operating procedures on Covid 19 safety will be stated in the circular that schools will have to follow. We want to see it before making a decision,” said Velloor Chacko Jose, the principal of Don Bosco School, affiliated to the ICSE, in Siliguri. Authorities of a number of state-aided schools across north Bengal have started sanitising their premises in view of the chief minister’s announcement. Atyuha Bagchi, the headmistress of Siliguri Girls’ High School, said they were ready to resume classes. “We recently sanitised the entire and we will do it again shortly ahead of November 16,” she said. “All teachers and non-teaching staff of our school have been vaccinated and have planned to allow only two students to sit on one bench. If there is any other guideline from the state’s side, we will strictly adhere to it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 806 new cases, 811 recoveries and 15 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 806 new Covid-19 infections, 811 recoveries and 15 deaths, resulting in a drop, for the second consecutive day, by 20 in its active cases to 7,849. Bengal now has 5 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is fifth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. In the 31 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of Durga Puja on September 26, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 18 days, a fall for 12 days and no change for one day. In these 31 days considered the core phase of the autumnal festive spell, including not only Durga Puja days but also the preceding and succeeding weeks, there has been a net rise of 175 in the state’s total of active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said the number of new infections reported on Tuesday was indicative of people who got infected between October 17 (Dwadoshi) and 21 (two days after Lakshmi Puja) . Calcutta reported 248 new infections, while North 24-Parganas 148, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 618 or 76.67 per cent of the new infections detected on Tuesday. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas six each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent now, while that of the nation is 98.17. Bengal’s  daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal now has over 15.88 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year, including over 15.61 lakh recoveries and 19,081 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Four Meghalaya residents arrested with 15kg cannabis||Police arrested four Meghalaya residents, including a woman, after 15 kilos of cannabis was seized from their vehicle in Jalpaiguri on Monday night. Police sources said they had information that an illegal consignment of narcotics would be smuggled to Bihar from the northeast. Accordingly, a team of Kotwali police station intercepted a car on NH27 at Gosala More, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town, around 9pm. As the policemen searched the vehicle, they found 15 kilos of cannabis concealed in it. “The vehicle that has been seized bore a registration number of Meghalaya. During preliminary probe, it has been found that the cannabis was loaded somewhere in Assam and was supposed to be smuggled to Bihar. We are trying to find out whether the arrested quartet, all residents of Meghalaya, are mere carriers or associated with a drug smuggling racket,” said a police officer. The estimated price of the seized consignment is Rs 75,000, the police sources said. On Tuesday, the quartet — Sanjib Roy, Jagmohan Roy, Vicky Kunar and Bina Ranglihat  — were produced at a local court and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. In another incident, a suspected smuggler was apprehended by 174 battalion of the Border Security Force at Hamjapur border outpost in South Dinajpur district on Monday. Aynul Miya, a resident of Banspatharia in the district, was trying to cross the India-Bangladesh border with 124 bottles of cough syrup when the BSF men intercepted him. The BSF carried out raids in different locations across north Bengal on Monday and Tuesday and seized a number of items including cattle, cannabis and cough syrup worth Rs 3.08 lakh, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Tourist hub at India-Bhutan border||Come Diwali, and tourists intending to travel to the Dooars — particularly the eastern parts of the region that fall in Alipurduar district — will have the option to enjoy the enchanting landscape of the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan from a hilltop of India. The Alipurduar district administration has come up with nine cottages at Daragaon, a tiny hilly hamlet, in the district, built at around Rs 1 crore. “Each of these is a double-bed cottage. Tourists can spend nights here while travelling to the neighbouring country from India and vice-versa. The accommodations will be opened before Diwali,” said a source. Sitting at the cottages, one can see the Bhutan hills and Phuentsholing town, the principal entry point to Bhutan by road from India, and its surroundings. Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry, said these cottages, close to the India-Bhutan border, would provide tourists an opportunity to catch a glimpse of the neighbouring country. Bhutan has opened gates for tourists after the Covid-19 pandemic, but made it mandatory for tourists to stay in paid quarantine for a fortnight. “Tourists can catch a glimpse of the mystic landscape of Bhutan while staying in the Dooars. There are only a few accommodations available for tourists at such a location on the Indian border,” said Basu. The cottages have been handed over to the Jaigaon Development Authority (JDA). Ganga Prasad Sharma, the chairman of JDA, said: “We will provide the cottages on lease to a private agency. The tender process has been initiated. “ “Tariff and other charges would be finalised once we select the agency (to run the facility) and confirm  an agreement,” added Sharma. He mentioned that a paved road has been constructed from Jaigaon town to the cottages which are on the Daragaon hill. “Tourists can sit on the verandah of the cottages, enjoying the beauty of forests and hills, while relishing the local traditional cuisine. In due course, there are plans to organize a day-trip to Phuentsholing and adjoining areas of Dooars and also organise ethnic cultural events at the venue,” said a source in the JDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee focuses on small-scale industries in hills||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday spoke extensively on the need to set up small-scale industries in the hills, the stress on industry in a region traditionally starved of organised sector employment indicating a strategy to woo voters in the region ahead of the GTA and panchayat polls. This is the first time the state government has shown such an intent for the hills, but it remains to be seen if the idea is implemented, said a veteran in hill politics. Mamata announced a steering committee with Anit Thapa, president Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatrantik Morcha, his rival Roshan Giri, general secretary of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, former Darjeeling MLA, Amar Singh Rai, Trinamul leader Gautam Deb and state government officials. “The steering committee should come up with proposals by December. I will visit Darjeeling then,” she said. The economy of Darjeeling depends mainly on tea and tourism, both of which are largely unorganised. In an attempt to create more jobs, Mamata stressed on eco-friendly projects in 15 percent of unused tea garden land that the government has allowed for non-tea activities. She also directed officials to explore the possibility of bottled drinking water plants using stream water. “This can be marketed through Bengal Dairy (an enterprise of the state government),” she said. “Bengal Dairy will take up HIMUL (a dairy cooperative in Siliguri) and we will also set up a plant to produce poultry, cattle and fish feed,” said a state official. The other proposal floated by Mamata was IT units. “Why can’t IT units be set up in the hills, the place is ideal for IT hardware units,” she said. Mamata stressed the unused land of cinchona plantation be properly utilised. Discussions also ranged from setting up knitting and embroidery units in the hills, and strengthening food processing units and packing units which the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) has taken up in the hills with the state government and district administration. “Train hills youths in skills, just bring them out of their houses and train them,” said Mamata. The CII was also instructed to come up with proposals for Darjeeling region. The CM also announced construction of Jai Hind community and conference halls in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik. Rai raised the issue of appointing a vice-chancellor for Darjeeling Hills University and waiving electricity dues that hill people were not allowed to pay by agitating parties during the Gorkhaland agitation a decade back. Other issues raised by various hill leaders included setting up a subordinate selection board to recruit employees by Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, a separate school service commission for the hills, converting forest village into revenue villages, creating an alternative route to NH10 to connect Siliguri with Kalimpong/Gangtok among others. “There has to be peace in the hills. We plan things for hills but outsiders come and instigate an agitation. If there is peace much can be achieved,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
27-10-2021||West Bengal||GTA elections after final voter list, says Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced that elections to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) would be held soon and initiative would also be taken to hold panchayat elections. Her announcement assumes significance as this is the first formal declaration that the two key elections will be held soon in the region. Elections to GTA are due since 2017. The last one-tier panchayat election (gram panchayat) was held 21 years ago in the hills. “Right now, the voter list is being revised, once this is done, we will go for GTA elections,” Mamata said during an administrative meeting held in Kurseong. Administrative sources said that the revision of the electoral roll will start from November 1 and be completed by January 5. This essentially means elections can be expected by January-end, said a source. The chief minister sought the opinions of both Anit Thapa, president of Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantrantik Morcha, and Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha , who were specially invited to the administrative meeting, on holding the elections. Giri and BGPM MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha also sought elections to panchayats. While these two leaders sought a two-tier panchayat elections (gram panchayat and panchayat samity), the chief minister talked about three-tier panchayat polls (the first two and zilla parishad) in the hills. “Regarding panchayat there is an issue of upgrading from two-tier to three-tier for which a constitutional amendment. We will take up this issue, too,” Mamata said. In 1992, the Constitution was amended to set up a two-tier panchayat in the hills comprising a gram panchayat and panchayat samity unlike the rest of Bengal where a three-tier system with the zilla parishad as the highest tier exists. No constitutional amendment is needed to hold two-tier rural polls. The other major political announcement made by Mamata was the formation of a steering committee to suggest “a permanent political solution” and development avenues for Darjeeling hills. Anit Thapa, Roshan Giri, Amar Singh Rai, former Darjeeling MLA now with Thapa’s party, and Trinamul leader and former minister Gautam Deb were some names announced by the chief minister for the steering committee. “You give me feedback on the permanent political solution you want… I will come up with a permanent political solution. I don’t only just say things but I also fulfill them,” Mamata said, adding she wanted peace in the hills. A permanent political solution is a phrase coined by BJP in its election manifesto, the provision of which has not been specified by the saffron party. During the Bengal election campaign Mamata had also said she would come up with a permanent political solution. Roshan Giri had earlier said that they wanted an autonomous body under Article 244 (A) of the Constitution which is a provision for a “state within a state” but for Assam. Thapa said he would consult his party leaders and experts and draw up their proposal. The general understanding following the discussion at the administrative meeting suggests the hills will go for a GTA election in the next three-four months, followed by municipality elections and probably two-tier panchayat elections. In the meantime, an exercise would also be undertaken to come up with “a permanent political solution” for the region. Mamata made it clear that she has much confidence in Anit Thapa but also gave space to Roshan Giri. Bimal Gurung had on Monday said that he would not contest GTA elections if they are held and would instead concentrate on a permanent political solution. “It would be interesting to see how Gurung reacts once the election schedule is announced,” said a hill observer. The chief minister also reprimanded Trinamul leader and Rajya Sabha MP Shanta Chhetri twice during the meeting for “indiscipline” and for making public statements against Anit Thapa recently. “Anit is my friend in the hills,” Mamata told Chhetri. Mamata also asked Chhetri to meet state power minister Aroop Biswas. Chhetri had made a statement on Monday which many had interpreted was against Aroop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
27-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP in Goa tore down Mamata Banerjee’s posters: Trinamul ||Trinamul on Tuesday accused the BJP’s Pramod Sawant government in Goa of damaging its publicity materials two days ahead of Mamata Banerjee’s proposed visit to launch her party’s bid for power in the western state. It tweeted that the BJP was never this rattled with the Congress or the AAP in Goa. “It’s a SHAME that the @BJP4Goa govt has to resort to such cheap tactics to defame the one woman that all of #Goa is waiting for!” said Trinamul tweeted in a statement, along with several pictures of the alleged damage to the party’s publicity materials. “Ahead of @MamataOfficial’s visit, BJP miscreants made a shoddy attempt to destroy our branding that featured Didi. Is this democratic in any way?” it asked on the microblogging site. “@BJP4Goa was never THIS RATTLED with @AamAadmiParty and certainly not with @INCIndia! Such cowardly acts are a huge misfit in Goa. Goa deserves a government that is fearless! Goa awaits a New Dawn! #GoenchiNaviSakal.” Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar denied the charges and claimed it was a publicity stunt. “Nobody knows Trinamul in Goa. Trinamul has torn its own posters in a bid to gain publicity,” he said. Goa is set to have its Assembly elections in February. Trinamul insiders said this week Mamata in Goa is likely to induct some leaders from other parties, musicians Lucky Ali and Remo Fernandes, and actor-activist Nafisa Ali. She is also likely to forge alliances with some Goa-based political parties. Trinamul has inducted former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, a veteran with four decades in the Congress, and elevated him to the post of national vice-president. After Faleiro came a number of political leaders from Goa, from various parties there. From the civil society, Trinamul has already managed to get the likes of poet N. Shivdas, filmmaker Tony Dias, environmentalist Rajendra Shivaji Kakodkar, footballer Denzil Franco, and boxer Lenny Da Gama. Prior to Trinamul’s formal Goa plunge last month, poll consultant Prashant Kishor and 200-odd members of his team – on assignment till 2026 for Trinamul, had been seen testing the Goa waters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
