28-10-2021||West Bengal||Congress limits itself to Twitter space : Trinamul Congress||The Trinamul Congress (TMC) on Thursday launched a fresh attack on the Congress, accusing the grand old party of "limiting itself to Twitter space" instead of firming up an opposition alliance against the BJP. As West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee embarked on her three-day visit to poll-bound Goa, the party in its mouthpiece "Jago Bangla" iterated that it would venture out to other states to expand its base and put up a formidable fight against the BJP. "We want an alliance to be formed against the BJP. We have said this to the Congress, too. But it is least bothered and shows a lackadaisical approach," an editorial in the TMC mouthpiece said. Referring to the proposal of setting up of a joint steering committee by Banerjee during the August 20 opposition meet convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the editorial said nothing has moved forward since then. "The Congress is limited to the Twitter space. The party has taken no initiative to build an opposition alliance. In 2014 and 2019, too, the Congress had done the same," it said. The editorial further clarified that the TMC would continue to bolster its strength, while keeping the "doors of alliance with the Congress open". "We have never said that an opposition alliance will be forged without the Congress. But we will not waste our time for them by sitting idle," it added. The TMC, of late, has been criticising the grand old party over its alleged failure to take on the BJP. Earlier this month, the Mamata Banerjee-led party took a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat at Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, as it wondered if the Congress could erase the setback through a Twitter trend. The relationship between the Congress and the TMC seemed to have soured after the ruling party in Bengal, in its mouthpiece, claimed that party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Cops take strict action against Covid norm violators as cases surge in Bengal||The police are keeping a close watch on public movements in Kolkata, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and Hooghly places that have largely contributed to the spike in COVID-19 cases post Durga puja -- and have arrested people in parts of the state for violating health protocols. At least 72 people have been arrested in South 24 Parganas for not wearing masks -- 30 in Narendrapur and 42 in Sonarpur, a police officer said. The state government has earmarked 24 containment zones in Sonarpur and Narendrapur, shutting down marketplaces and non-essential shops for three days to curb the spread of the disease. At Chandannagar in Hooghly district, 16 wards have been declared as micro-containment zones and people without masks on roads were asked to do sit-ups in public, the officer said. In Barasat, North 24 Parganas, some locals were detained for flouting COVID norms. In the city, too, the police distributed masks and warned people of consequences for violating the protocols, the officer added. Bengal currently has 129 containment zones, 43 of which are in South 24 Parganas district. The state is experiencing a surge in Covid-19 cases since the culmination of Durga Puja. The state reported 976 new cases on Wednesday, pushing the tally to 15,89,042. In a letter to the West Bengal government on October 22, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has reported 20,936 infections and 343 fatalities in the last 30 days, accounting for 3.4 per cent of the country's new cases and 4.7 per cent of fresh deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Supreme Court silent on Pegasus probe commission set up by Bengal govt: panel member||A two-man commission set up by the Mamata Banerjee government to investigate alleged phone tapping of various persons of West Bengal using Pegasus software is functioning as usual as the Supreme Court did not say anything on the panel in its Wednesday's order, one of its members, Justice (retd) Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, said. The apex court on Wednesday appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India. "Since the Supreme Court order of Wednesday did not refer to us (the two-man commission) or touch upon us, there is no restraint order on our activities," Justice (retd) Bhattacharya said on Thursday. The former Calcutta High Court chief justice told PTI that the commission is working as usual as per its mandate. The other member of the commission is former Supreme Court judge Justice (retd) Madan B Lokur. The commission set up in July had invited statements from the public with regard to the alleged interception of mobile phones of various police officials, politicians, journalists, members of the judiciary and activists in West Bengal. According to reports, Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, a nephew of the West Bengal chief minister, and poll strategist Prashant Kishor were among the potential targets of the spyware during the assembly elections held earlier in the state. The Justice Lokur and Justice Bhattacharya Commission of Inquiry has been mandated to enquire into whether "any incidences of reported interception have occurred," state and non-state actors who were involved in such reported interception and mechanism used for "such reported interception." It is also mandated to enquire into "whether any software such as Pegasus of NSO Group Technologies located at Herzliya, Israel, and/or any spyware and/or malware of any other organisation had been in use and/or currently being used to conduct such reported interception." The commission will also enquire into the legality of any such alleged interception, if found to be true.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 976 new infections and 15 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 976 new Covid-19 infections, 837 recoveries and 15 deaths, resulting in a rise by 124 in its active cases to 7,973. Bengal now has 5.02 per cent of the national total of active cases, or Covid patients under treatment, and is fifth among states with the most such numbers. In the 32 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, there has been a net rise of 299 in the state’s total active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said new infections reported on Wednesday were indicative of people who got infected between October 18 (Troyodoshi) to 22 (three days after Lakshmi Puja). Calcutta reported 272 new infections and four deaths on Wednesday. North 24-Parganas reported 159 new infections and three deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia, which accounted for 707 or 72.44 per cent of the new infections detected on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent now, while that of India is 98.16. Its daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.25 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.89 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.62 lakh recoveries and 19,096 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya’s wife passes away||Ratna Bhattacharya, the wife of veteran CPM leader and former MLA and mayor of Siliguri Asok Bhattacharya, died at a private nursing home in Calcutta on Wednesday morning. She was 69. Party leaders said she was ailing for some time. Sharing the news on social media, Asok wrote: “I have lost my life partner who was with me for the past 41 years.” She had excellent relations with several people, including politicians and sports personalities, many of whom  called her kakima, he added. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her condolences. Jibesh Sarkar, the CPM district secretary of Darjeeling, said her mortal remains would be brought to Siliguri on Thursday for last rites. “We will pay homage to her at the district party office and then arrangements would be made for her last rites,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP acid test in Dinhata bypoll||The Dinhata bypoll on October 30 is an acid test for the saffron camp in Cooch Behar. At the Assembly elections this year, the BJP had fielded Nisith Pramanik, its Cooch Behar MP, from the seat. Pramanik managed to topple Udayan Guha, the Trinamul candidate and then sitting MLA, by a wafer-thin margin of 57 votes. The seat became vacant as the BJP asked Pramanik to continue as MP. An observer said that the slender victory margin a few months ago made this Dinhata bypoll crucial for the BJP, although Cooch Behar district as a whole was a BJP stronghold. “In 2019, the BJP was ahead of Trinamul by 15,539 votes in the Dinhata Assembly segment, but in the state polls this year, the BJP won by 57 votes in this seat,” he said. Cooch Behar voters elected Pramanik as MP in 2019 and seven BJP MLAs of nine in the district this year. Trinamul in Cooch Behar is beset with infighting. Observers, however, pointed out that in Dinhata, Trinamul leaders had tried to revive their support base. A senior functionary of BJP admitted Dinhata was important for them as it is the stronghold of Pramanik, now Union minister of state. For the bypoll, BJP has fielded Ashok Mondal, a former Trinamul MLA who  defected to the saffron camp. Trinamul fielded Guha again. Abdur Rauf of Forward Bloc is also in the fray. The BJP is trying to play the polarisation card, with its leaders referring to the violence in Bangladesh. Trinamul is underscoring the recent notification of the Union home ministry that has extended jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the international border. “Dinhata is close to the India-Bangladesh border and both these parties are playing their own cards,” said an observer. Both Guha and Mondal are confident of victory. “People of Dinhata elected an MLA (Pramanik) who shunned them. They will not vote for the BJP,” said Guha. Mondal said if people are “allowed” to vote, the BJP will win. “Trinamul is trying to intimidate voters. If people vote fearlessly, Trinamul can never win in Dinhata,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Five tourists from West Burdwan die in Uttarakhand, seven injured||Five tourists from West Burdwan were killed and seven injured when their van fell into a gorge after ramming into another one of their convoy that had turned turtle on a hilly road in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district on Wednesday afternoon. Sources said 12 tourists from Raniganj, Asansol and Durgapur were in a Tempo Traveller that fell in the gorge in Shama village in Bageshwar. They were part of a group of 30 tourists in three Tempo Travellers. “We were returning to Kausani from Munsiyari (popular tourist spots in Uttarakhand) in three separate vehicles. Suddenly one of the three vehicles overturned in the middle of the road at Shama. The driver of our vehicle somehow managed to steer past. However, the third vehicle in our convoy rammed into the overturned vehicle on the narrow hill road and fell into the gorge,” said one of the tourists. Initially, fellow tourists tried to rescue the passengers from the gorge. Soon, local people and a rescue team from the administration joined them.. All the 12 occupants of the vehicle were rushed to nearby hospital in Kapkot, where five were declared brought dead. Seven persons, who were injured, were admitted to the Kapkot community health centre. Sources said two are critical. The news reached the West Burdwan district administration on Wednesday evening.  District officials said the deceased were identified as Subrata Bhattacharya, 61, and his wife Runa, 55, of Durgapur town,  Kishor Ghatak, 59, and Chandana Khan, 64, of Raniganj town and Srabani Chakraborty, 55 of Asansol. “We are in touch with the administration there to bring back the bodies as well as those who are injured,” said a West Burdwan district official. Citu state committee member from Durgapur Pankaj Roy Sarkar said one of the deceased, Kishor Ghatak, was a district secretariat member of the CPM’s trade union wing and an employee of Eastern Coalfields Limited. “I cannot believe he is no more. Only a few days ago we met at our state conference at Jamuria. He was our trade union leader in the coal sector. I am shocked,” said Roy Sarkar. Sources said the manager of a tour operating company that hired the vehicles was arrested by Uttarakhand police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Raiganj MLA who quit BJP joins Trinamul||Krishna Kalyani, the Raiganj MLA who won the Assembly polls on a BJP ticket, but quit the party on October 1, joined Trinamul on Wednesday. By doing so, he became the fifth MLA to defect from the saffron camp since this summer elections, lowering the BJP’s Bengal Assembly tally of legislators to 70. On Wednesday, the MLA told journalists that “no self-respecting individual” could  work in the BJP. Reacting to his decision, state BJP chief and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar said that the people of Raiganj would give Kalyani a befitting reply in the future. Kalyani had left Trinamul to join the BJP ahead of this year’s Assembly elections. However, within months differences arose between him and the party leadership in North Dinajpur district. He finally quit the BJP on October 1, citing differences with the saffron party’s Raiganj MP Debasree Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks why Alapan case was sent to Delhi||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Wednesday questioned the lawyer representing the principal bench of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on his client’s urgency to shift the case filed by Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now chief adviser to the chief minister, to its bench in New Delhi from Calcutta. The case came up for hearing after Bandyopadhyay moved the high court on Tuesday challenging the decision. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharya asked the principal CAT lawyer: “How could your client come to know that all relevant documents in connection with the case... were lying in New Delhi and not in Calcutta?” Bandyopadhyay’s lawyer said his client was being harassed by the Centre on the charge that he had not attended a meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda on May 28. “After shifting the case from Calcutta to New Delhi, the principal tribunal fixed the case for hearing on October 27 but the hearing was adjourned today (Wednesday),” the lawyer said, adding that the department of personnel and training had set up an inquiry committee against his client and he had been asked to appear before it on November 2. The division bench of Justices Bhattacharya and Rabindranath Samanta said the verdict would be delivered on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Flood cloud on school reopening in East Midnapore||Administrators of several schools in parts of East Midnapore are unsure of how to implement the Bengal government’s plan to reopen schools in mid-November as many school buildings are still waterlogged from the floods of last month or used as flood relief shelters. “Around 113 of East Midnapore's 181 Madhyamik schools are now relief centres for flood-hit people,” said a district official, adding that standing water from rains in mid-September had still not fully receded in many places. Patashpur and Bhagabanpur blocks stand as the most prominent examples, where school officials have been asked to prepare classrooms of students between Classes IX-XII by November 15, but a cursory glance at many of these school grounds on Wednesday revealed cows tied under tarpaulins sheds. “Even now, many people can’t go back home (washed away by floods). They are staying in schools that are used as relief centres. How can students  come to these buildings?” asked Bhagabanpur panchayat samiti functionary Sheikh Raeesuddin, adding that Moyna, Panskura and Kolaghat were also affected by floods though in lesser measure. At the Ektarpur High School in Bhagabanpur, middle-aged farmer Arabinda Giri lay under a tarpaulin with his wife and son, a student of Class X. “I lost four bighas of land  in the floods. I want my son to go back to school, certainly, but we need to have a roof over our heads first,” he said. Nearby, Class X student Dipannita Rana wondered when her home will be repaired. “I want to sit Madhyamik (in 2022). But I don't know how our home will be repaired before that,” she said. “She is a little immature and so she thinks everything will fall into place,” smiled her mother. “Our present reality is that we don’t even know where our next meal is coming from, outside of this school.” District officials at the Ektarpur school camp said surveys were being held to estimate how many people could be shifted from school buildings by mid-November. On Wednesday afternoon, the Ektarpur  school administrators and East Midnapore district officials cut a strange picture as the former held ground surveys for reopening of schools and the latter manned relief counters. In the open hallway, scores of tied cattle lay chewing grass. Most of their owners were inhabitants of the school-turned-relief camp. A few of their older children who had attended the Ektarpur school viewed their present reality with embarrassment. One of the teachers of Ektarpur High School Abhijit Das said he was not sure if they will be able to meet the state’s November 16 deadline to start classes as the relief centre continues to operate at the institution. “The relief camp at our school still has around 150 people. We cannot force them out,” Das said, adding that only if the premises were vacant could the mandatory Covid safety protocols such as sanitisation of classrooms be done before letting the students in. District inspector of schools (secondary) Subhasish Mitra said he was aware of the situation in schools of the flood-hit areas. “Schools need to reopen now, that’s a fact. But the persons displaced by floods will have to be rehabilitated as well,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Two organisations launch project to curb trafficking in tea gardens||The Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association (DBITA) has launched a project in association with the Unicef to prevent human trafficking, especially of women and children, from the Dooars tea belt. The pilot project to curb trafficking of women and children by involving tea estate dwellers, along with the Calcutta office of the Unicef, was taken after a webinar was hosted by the Indian Tea Association (ITA) in July this year. In the webinar, discussions were held on the need to pay attention to the tea gardens of north Bengal to limit trafficking of children and women to distant places in the pretext of jobs. “A section of the tea population is vulnerable to trafficking and illegal migration. These incidents often go unnoticed as the victims remain silent and in some cases, their families do not report to authorities. This makes it virtually impossible for the management of tea gardens to keep track and take remedial measures. That is why, this initiative has been taken,” said Sanjay Bagchi, the DBITA secretary. In Dooars, tea estates are spread over 250km — starting from Jalpaiguri district and up till the Bengal-Assam border. “The idea is to evolve and strengthen community-based child protection mechanisms. Initially, the project would be implemented in 26 tea estates of the Dooars and four tea estates of the Terai. A local person from each garden has been selected as ‘community mobiliser’ who will enumerate the data pertaining to the local population and will act on a set of guidelines mooted by experts of the Unicef. They will be in touch with the management and other concerned persons,” said a source. On Wednesday, the programme was launched at a meeting at the Central Dooars Club in Jalpaiguri. Representatives of the Unicef and the DBITA were present at the event, along with the managers and labour welfare officers of the 26 tea estates of Dooars where the project would be initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Too few teachers in Urdu-medium schools in Bengal||A large number of Urdu medium schools in the state may find it difficult to hold classes when they reopen on November 16 because of shortage of teachers allegedly because of the state government’s reservation matrix. The state has at present 80 Urdu medium schools with around 1,400 sanctioned posts of teachers. The All-Bengal Urdu Medium School Association claimed around 65 per cent of these posts were vacant for years and most belonged to the reserved categories. A leader of the association said a large number of posts of teachers had been lying vacant in most of these schools for the past couple of years as a state government rule adopted in 1990 earmarked a major part of these posts for reserved category (SC/ST) candidates. After much persuasion by the association, only 101 out of 1,400 sanctioned posts were exempted from reservation by the backward classes welfare department in 2010. But this hardly changed the situation. President of the association Aftab Alam, also headmaster of Urdu-medium Howrah High School, said: “We fear the shortage of teachers may lead such schools to lose board recognition.”” Alam’s school has 10 vacant posts and he said that the association had once again made a written appeal to the state minority affairs and madrasa education minister Md Ghulam Rabbani to fill up vacant post of teachers. Teachers said a fresh appeal had been made to Rabbani though repeated appeals to the education and backward classes welfare departments, and to state government officials failed to yield results. In the last few years, the West Bengal Central School Service Commission could not recommend suitable teachers from the reserved caste categories to Urdu medium schools that led to the posts remaining vacant and crippling  these institutions affiliated to state secondary and higher secondary boards. Insiders in the education department claimed the problem had its roots in a March 1990 order through which the then Left government introduced reservation for Urdu medium teachers. The scenario did not change with Trinamul in power in 2011 as the Mamata government stuck to the same recruitment matrix. A recent survey by the association shows that in eight north Bengal districts 57 per cent of posts are vacant of which 35 per cent belong to the reserved category. The rest 22 per cent are for general category candidates. Another survey indicates that in Calcutta 353 posts of teachers out of 599 are vacant in 27 Urdu medium schools. In North 24-Parganas, 79 posts are vacant out of 174 posts in 11 schools. Around 51 posts out of 79 vacant posts are in the reserved categories. South 24 Parganas district has only one Urdu medium school in which out of the 12 sanctioned posts 10 are vacant and five of them are reserved. Narrating the plight of Urdu-medium schools, Shamima Khatoon, a teacher in charge of Kankinara Urdu Girls’ High School (HS), said: “We have 33 sanctioned posts of teachers for 1,763 students. But prior to lockdown, only 10 teachers were physically available. Now five of them have been transferred. I don’t know how to manage the situation with only five teachers.” “We are not against reservation but students belonging to a linguistic minority should not be debarred from the right of education because of non-availability of Urdu speaking teachers,” she added further. Speaking to The Telegraph, state minority affairs & madrasah education minister Md. Ghulam Rabbani acknowledged the grievance as “genuine” but expressed his helplessness while accusing the Centre for the problem. “The reservation matrix was created by the Centre and the state government has been following it. We cannot change the rule,” he said. “However, I have taken up the issue with the education minister, chairman of Urdu Academy and also informed the chief minister about the problem. We also tried to take up the matter with the Centre, but there has been no response. Now we have referred the matter to our law cell and asked our officers to find a way out,” Rabbani added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||State government meeting affects hill traffic||Commuters between the Darjeeling hills and the plains were beleaguered with the state government holding an administrative meeting in Kurseong, as the local administration decided to divert most vehicles through the Mirik route. This meant travellers from Darjeeling to Siliguri, and vice-versa, had to travel for two extra hours. Kurseong lies midway between Darjeeling and Siliguri and is the main route for commuters between the two towns. Those travelling through the Kurseong hill have three routes to choose from: National Highway 55, Rohini Road and Pankabari Road. But all pass through Kurseong town. The administration limited traffic on all three routes on Tuesday and Wednesday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an administrative meeting in Kurseong on Tuesday and stayed over on Wednesday. “Since yesterday (Tuesday) we have been directing almost all the vehicles travelling between Darjeeling and Siliguri through Mirik,” said a traffic constable at Jorebunglow. On a normal day, people reach Siliguri from Darjeeling within two-and-a-half hours. Mirik is situated on the opposite hill of Kurseong, and it normally takes four-and-a-half hours to reach Siliguri from Darjeeling via this route. People had to pay higher fares too. “Yesterday (Tuesday), people travelling from Gangtok to Siliguri, and vice-versa, had to pay almost Rs 9,000 instead of the normal fare of Rs 3,500 to hire a car,” said a travel agent from Gangtok. This is because following the closure of NH10, which connects the Himalayan state with the rest of the country, traffic was being diverted through Teesta-Jorebunglow-Kurseong to reach Siliguri. “This earlier diversion meant that the fare had been hiked from Rs 3,500 to Rs 6,000,” said the travel agent. However, the Darjeeling administration further diverting the vehicles via Mirik meant an extra expense. The NH10 route was opened at around 4.30pm on Tuesday. Travellers from Darjeeling to Siliguri, who would have normally paid Rs 2,500, had to pay Rs 4,000. Even commuters within Kurseong town faced inconvenience, as traffic along the town’s two main roads was limited. A policeman was seen using his official vehicle to ferry an old woman from the Zero Point to the Giddepahar area in town on Wednesday morning, as movement of local taxis was limited. Lower rung officers also lamented about lack of infrastructure. “There are only a handful of hotels in Kurseong and accommodation is a problem. Moreover, we could not take all the rooms and had to leave aside 30 per cent of the rooms to the hotels,” said an official. Many employees who travel from Siliguri to Kurseong on a daily basis also had to take leave because of paucity of vehicles to Kurseong. Darjeeling and Kalimpong, however, do not have problems like Kurseong. On Wednesday morning, Mamata Banerjee took a walk to the Mahanadi, covering a to and fro distance of about 10km from the circuit house where she was staying. Bengal minister and singer Indranil Sen sang a song penned by Mamata, as she sipped tea at a roadside stall along NH55, along with their cabinet colleague Aroop Biswas. Sources said the chief minister also bought a child-sized pair of shoes and slippers at the Mahanadi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
28-10-2021||West Bengal||CII aid to enhance farmer income in north Bengal||The north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has taken up the task to help hill farmers and others who produce various items by linking them to markets and giving them technical inputs to increase their income. “We have developed rural entrepreneurship hubs by giving market linkages to over 150 farmers, including those in self-help groups, in the hills. The plan is to help them merchandise their produce. The initiative is helping in the growth of agro-based units,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, chairman of the CII, north Bengal. According to him, large cardamoms, soft brooms, mushrooms, honey, “dalle khursani” (a variety of chlli), turmeric, ginger and avocado are being produced in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. “Earlier, people found it tough to get buyers who offer an apt price for their products. Now things have improved. More people are getting attracted to this sector,” he said. The initiative by the CII comes at a time when chief minister Mamata Banerjee is underscoring the need for jobs in the state, including the hills. On Tuesday, at the review meeting in Kurseong, Mamata said trade bodies and state government officials should explore options for people to earn here without having to migrate. She asked trade bodies and political leaders to prepare a roadmap for industrial investments in the hills and north Bengal as a whole. “In past five years, we have seen growth in the MSME sector in all eight districts of north Bengal. We want the state government to set up an industrial park in Dabgram (on the south end of Siliguri) where unused land of the housing department is available. Many investors want to open MSME units here and such a park will help them,” Tibrewal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
