29-10-2021||West Bengal||Local trains to run from Sunday with 50 per cent capacity in Bengal, Covid restrictions extended||The Bengal government on Friday gave the green signal to allow local trains to resume services, and also  schools and colleges to reopen, while extending Covid restrictions till the month of November. Till Friday 982 new Covid cases were detected, of which the highest 273 cases were in Calcutta. Till Thursday 6pm, the number of new Covid cases was reported by the state health department to be around 990, which was at 530, till two weeks ago during During Puja. From Sunday, local train services will resume at 50 per cent capacity from Howrah and Sealdah, the two main stations under Eastern Railway catering to Calcutta. While the Eastern Railway and South-Eastern Railway were keen on resuming services over the last few months, the state government did not share its urgency. In Mumbai, Western and Central zones of the railway have started plying 3,141 rakes from Thursday onwards. As announced by the chief minister, classes IX-XII, colleges and universities will start taking attendance from November 16 onwards instead of the virtual classes that were on since March 2020when the countrywide lockdown was declared. Cinemas and other places for public entertainment will operate with 70 per cent capacity and till 11 pm. Restrictions on movement at night will remain throughout the month of November except for the days between Nov 2-5 on the occasion of Diwali and Kali Puja and November 10-11 for Chhath Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
29-10-2021||West Bengal||At 77, why Sobhandeb is still standing tall in the poll fray||The 45 kilometres between Baruipur and Khardaha, two suburban centres on either side of Calcutta, now covers the entire span of three decades of  veteran Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay's life as an undefeated MLA. The former boxer is contesting for his ninth straight term in the state Assembly from his fourth constituency in Saturday's bypoll, along with three other seats in the state. Chattopadhyay’s career appears to be scattered all over, but he is the leader who has held the Trinamul's  moral compass high. His position in the party, despite his unflinching loyalty towards Mamata Banerjee, has always been wobbly. He founded the Trinamul’s trade union wing which borrowed its name from the Congress-run INTUC, only to have it taken away by leaders who waltzed into the Trinamul currying favour with the party chief. Chattopadhyay never said a word. The ninth contest, second time this year, would not have been necessitated had Mamata not insisted, first on contesting from Nandigram, where she lost and then decided on reclaiming her old seat Bhowanipore, from where the soft-spoken Chattopadhyay had made it to the Assembly for the eighth time in a row. Mamata could have contested from Khardaha or any of the three other seats (Shantipur, Dinhata and Gosaba) which will go to polls on Saturday. It had to be Bhowanipore for her and Chattopadhyay was made to sacrifice his seat. At the age of 77, Chattopadhyay has been busy over the last few weeks familiarising himself with the neighbourhoods of Khardaha, which has for 41 years been the seat of two finance ministers in the Left and later Trinamul governments. Chattopadhyay had cut short his second term as MLA from Baruipur in 1998 when he joined Mamata’s newly floated outfit and retained his seat in a similar bypoll, while his other legislative colleagues ignored the anti-defection law with impunity and switched political camps, a legacy that continues to sully Bengal’s politics. In the three decades that Chattopadhyay has been in public life, not a whiff of scandal has touched him, though his political path has not always been free from controversy, mostly linked to  internal bickering in the party. When Trinamul wrested the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in an alliance with the BJP, the trade unionist Chattopadhyay was at loggerheads with  mayor Subrata Mukherjee, who was leading a double life as a Congress MLA and a Trinamul Mayor. Fourteen years later, Chattopadhyay found himself embroiled in a turf war with Mamata’s trusted aide Aroop Biswas, who was a minister, while Chattopadhyay was kept out of Writers’ Buildings with the government chief whip’s post in the first Trinamul government. On June 8, 2015 the state Assembly witnessed a public spat between Chattopadhyay and Biswas, over one ward which was moved from New Alipore to Rashbehari, represented by Chattopadhyay five times. Chattopadhyay’s use of "goonda raj" to admonish the Biswas siblings, Aroop and Swarup, meddling in his constituency did not go down well with Mamata. For Mamata, the Biswas brothers were more effective in election management, and therefore more important in the party than Chattopadhyay, who had no organisational role. Biswas was also heading the sports department (after minister Madan Mitra was arrested in connection with the Saradha scam) which gave him control over the clubs in the state, which have played a key role in Mamata’s repeated ride to power. The Biswas brothers, along with the younger sibling Swarup’s wife Juin extended their clout from New Alipore, Golf Green, Tollygunge, Azadgarh, Regent Park, Kudghat, Ashoknagar, Netaji Nagar Bansdroni, Naktala and Garia. Chattopadhyay on the other hand despite being a veteran trade unionist did not have any organisational role to play and was restricted to his constituency. And despite being the local MLA he found it difficult to gain control of ward 81. His onward journey as the power minister in Mamata’s second term too did not go smoothly. First, as minister he ran into trouble with his own party’s trade union that he had formed and silently witnessed being usurped. Then some of his decisions were overruled. He also fell foul of the party leadership after bringing to light a fake job racket involving some key Trinamul leaders who had promised jobs to around 20,000 youths in exchange of Rs 5 lakh each. But, Chattopadhyay survived all of these and is still standing tall in the poll fray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
29-10-2021||West Bengal||School out of bounds for many Sunderbans girls||Teenagers Moumita Munda and Manisha Mondal of Hingalganj block in North 24-Parganas district won’t go to schools 16 when classes are set to resume on November 16 after a gap of 20 months owing to the pandemic. When schools and colleges reopen, they would have left home to work as domestic helps outside Bengal. The girls aged between 18 and 19  have no option left but to quit studies to overcome financial hardship they have been facing for over the past 18 months owing to the pandemic-induced lockdowns and the disastrous consequences of successive cyclones Amphan and Yaas. They are not the only ones. Many others in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Haroa and other areas of the Sunderbans have dropped out of school and moved outside Bengal to work as domestic helps or cooks. Many others are preparing to take up jobs soon since most want to avoid an early marriage, which many families in rural Bengal see as a “solution” against poverty. These girls, however, want to fight poverty by taking up jobs. Till the pandemic struck, Manisha used to study at ABS Madanmohan Vidyapith at Amberia village in Hingalganj. The Class X dropout said: “During the last 18 months our family income has taken a hit. My elder sister used to give private tuitions, my mother worked as a domestic help. With the onset of Covid-19, students have stopped coming for tuitions. Taking tuitions online is a luxury as my sister doesn’t own a smartphone. My mother also lost her job. This made it difficult for me to continue my studies. Getting a job was the only option.” Manisha got in touch with a few girls in the village who had been working outside Bengal to find a job, she said. “With help from my friends working outside the state, I got the job of a domestic help in Kerala. I hope to save some money for my family.” Moumita shares Manisha’s plight. Moumita's difficulties multiplied after her father, the family’s sole breadwinner, died of Covid a few months ago. Her mother, a renal patient, is trying to support the family as a domestic help. Her sister is specially-abled. “For the past two years we have been struggling to survive. We are surviving on rations provided by the government. We need cash to buy medicines for my sister. Continuing with school is a luxury for me,” Moumita said. Local sources said several families in remote areas of the Sunderbans region have been finding it tough to survive. “The situation is alarming. Continuing with their studies is a costly affair for many. I am sure to lose many students when classes resume on November 16,” a teacher at a school in Minakhan said. Sources said by working as a domestic help, or cook or in garment factories outside Bengal, girls earn anything around Rs 10,000 per month. BDO Hingalganj S.P. Lahiri said he was unaware about so many girls in his area opting out of studies. “The picture of dropouts will be clear after November 16 when schools reopen. We will then definitely count the numbers and take steps to get students back to class,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 990 new cases, 845 recoveries and nine deaths||Bengal on Thursday reported 990 new Covid-19 infections, 845 recoveries and nine deaths, causing a rise by 136 in its active cases to 8,109. Active cases or Covid patients under treatment in Bengal are above 8,000 again since September 17, 41 days ago. Bengal now has 5.23 per cent of India’s active cases, and is fifth among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate, which was 98.33 per cent even till October 20, fell to 98.32 on October 21, 98.31 on Saturday, 98.3 on Sunday, and to 98.29 on Thursday. India’s recovery rate is 98.18 per cent. In the past 33 days since the state snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, there has been a net rise of 435 in Bengal’s active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said new infections reported on Thursday were indicative of people who got infected between October 19 (the day before Lakshmi Puja) and 23 (three days after Lakshmi Puja). Calcutta reported 275 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 164 new infections and two deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Five districts logged a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 718 – 72.53 per cent – of the new infections detected on Thursday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.18 per cent on Thursday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one, while North 24-Parganas reported two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.9 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.63 lakh recoveries and 19,105 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmir Bhandar scheme checklist norms relaxed||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to relax the verification process before offering cash aid under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme, as scrutiny of applications received so far revealed as many as 26,86,115 of them were incomplete. According to government sources, 1.79 crore applications were received under the scheme through Duare Sarkar camps held between August 16 and September 15. “But more than 26 lakh applications were found incomplete. Usually, such applications get cancelled, but we can’t do that as the chief minister had announced no eligible applicant will be left out,” said a senior official. Under the scheme, women aged between 25 and 60 years are eligible for direct benefit transfer of Rs 1,000 a month if they are from SC and ST communities or Rs 500 if they are from the general castes. Primary reports from districts suggest most women did not submit Swasthya Sathi and Aadhaar cards or caste certificates, whenever applicable, while applying for the Lakshmir Bhandar benefits. Recently, the secretary of the women and child development and social welfare department issued an order asking officials verifying the applications at the districts to conduct an inquiry on whether the applicants, who did not file required documents, were eligible to get the documents. If the applicants don't have the documents but are eligible to get them, the applications should be recommended for approval, the government decided. “If it is established on enquiry that the applicant is eligible to get the Swasthya Sathi Card/Aadhaar Card/SC or ST certificate, the verifier will recommend the Lakshmir Bhandar application for approval,” reads the order. Sources in the state secretariat said had applications been rejected, the state government could have saved more than Rs 4,000 crore annually under the scheme and the total annual outgo under the scheme could have come down to Rs 14,000 crore from Rs 18,000 crore. However, the Bengal government has not taken that route. “This (not giving benefits to those with incomplete applications) would have made a large section of women in Bengal angry with the state government. The ruling establishment does not want to take a chance ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a source. A state minister said that primarily the Bengal government wants to give something to women of all the sections of society. “It is important to ensure that all eligible women get the benefit (of the state government). If anybody does not have a card (such as Swasthya Sathi), it is not her fault. We have to ensure that all eligible women get the benefit and that’s why enquiry on a case-to-case basis has been ordered,” the minister added. The state government is also working on war footing to solve another problem that has left 8.19 lakh applicants in trouble as the validation of their bank accounts failed, posing a problem in transferring the benefit. “The district magistrates have been asked to look into each of these cases. If there is any problem at the bank’s end, it has to be sorted out immediately,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Diamond Harbour: North American predatory fish trapped, dead||An alligator gar, a North American predatory fish, was trapped from a creek linked to the river Hooghly in Diamond Harbour on Thursday morning. Rupa Mistry, a homemaker, first spotted the fish floating in the Mograhat creek in a semi-conscious state. “I was stunned to see this crocodile lookalike. With the help of others, I stepped in and trapped it,” said Mistry, a resident of Lenin Nagar under ward 12 of Diamond Harbour. Sources said the 5-foot-long torpedo-shaped fish, weighing 20kg, drew huge crowds in the area. Forest officials rushed to the site but the fish died soon. An official said that it might have been smuggled. “We heard about the alligator gar in coastal Maharashtra and Kerala in the recent past. But, in coastal Bengal, this is probably the first such instance. This fish may have been smuggled,” a forester said. Tanmay Sanyal, assistant professor of zoology at the Krishnagar Government College, said: “Alligator gars are predators and a possible threat to native marine biodiversity. They remain at the top of the food chain and can survive for unusually long years given their unique biological mechanism. They are native to North America and can grow up to 8 feet in length. They can survive for long periods in high salinity as well as in fresh water. Alligator gar can seriously harm carp in freshwater and hilsa in saline water too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee promises return to hills in November||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would visit the hills in November again as she left Kurseong town on Thursday and headed for Goa, the BJP-ruled state in west India on which Trinamul has been steadfastly focusing for the past few months. Later in the afternoon, Mamata landed in Goa where she will stay for three days. Elections in the western state are due in February next year. “I am leaving for Goa from here. During my stay in the hills, I have communicated with the people. I will be back in the hills again next month,” the chief minister said, while leaving for Bagdogra airport from Kurseong. During her five-day visit to north Bengal — the first visit after she had assumed the chief minister’s office for the third time — Mamata spent half of her time in Kurseong, a move which indicates that Trinamul is recasting its focus on the hills. She has also addressed a number of local demands, which include the GTA and panchayat elections, and has sought proposals from the hill leaders on the issue of “permanent political solution” (PPS) in the hills. The chief minister’s assurance to her allies — the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Bimal Gurung and Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha led by Anit Thapa — indicated that she wants to counter the BJP and its allies, particularly because recently the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has picked up the hill issue and Union home minister Amit Shah held a tripartite meeting earlier this month. There are indications that another round of tripartite talks would be held in November. “She has tried to drive home the point that her party gives due importance to its allies by asking them to come up with proposals for PPS. Also, her move to address the issue and other demands like elections of local bodies in the hills shows that she does not want to leave any political space for the saffron camp,” said an observer. In the hills, the BJP and its allies like the GNLF are under pressure over the issue of PPS and also on the issue of according Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities. A veteran of hill politics said that as the chief minister has clarified that elections to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) would be held next year and the panchayat elections would be held in due course, she has taken a two-fold strategy to dent the BJP’s support base in the hills. “On one hand, she is playing the development card. On the other hand, she is putting all efforts to confirm that there is no grievance among her allies,” the political leader said. Earlier on Thursday, Mamata took a stroll through Kurseong town. Accompanied by Thapa, she met some school students and interacted with them. “Extremely pleased to interact with children in Darjeeling! Their smiling faces fills my heart with joy (sic),” the chief minister posted on social media with a video.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Performance for peace in Santiniketan||Meghbalika, an all-female band from Tripura, performed at a programme at Panchaban Art Resort in Santiniketan on Thursday (in picture) organised to promote cultural exchange and spread the message of peace between Bengal and Tripura. “Tripura has a special connection with Santiniketan because of the association of Rabindranath Tagore’s family with the Manikya dynasty. We have come from Tripura to strengthen the ties between the two states. We think music can be the best tool to handle the problem of violence and intolerance that have become major threats in the subcontinent,” said Nandita Saha, one of the band members. The Manikya dynasty ruled Twipra Kingdom and later the princely Tripura state since the early 15th century. A cultural group of Santiniketan, Geetikunja, also performed at the event that was inaugurated by eminent Rabindra Sangeet exponent Mohan Singh Khangura. Tapas Mallick, the organiser of the programme, said they will organise more such programmes in the coming days to promote cultural exchange and spread the message of peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal health department sanctions Rs 8.5 crore  for 7 Covid hospitals||The state health department has sanctioned Rs 8.5 crore for setting up infrastructure in Alipurduar in anticipation of a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which is likely to lead to a spike in infections across Bengal and in the district. According to sources in the health department, the fund would be used to develop seven hospitals for Covid patients in different locations of the district. Among these facilities, a Covid hospital with 100 beds will be built on the campus of the district hospital in Alipurduar town. “The site has already been identified for construction of the new Covid hospital at the district headquarters. In addition, four other hospitals, each with a capacity of 20 beds, will come up on the campuses of four rural hospitals. Also, two six-bed facilities would be created in two other health centres of the district,” said Girish Chandra Bera, chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Alipurduar. He said that the 20-bed hospitals will come up in Uttar Latabari, Kamakhyaguri, Madarihat and Bhatibari while the six-bed facilities will be set up at the primary health centres located in Turturi and Shishujhumra. “Around Rs 35 lakh would be spent for each 20-bed hospital, while for the remaining two facilities around Rs 20 lakh would be spent. The state PWD will soon start the construction work,” Bera said. For the 100-bed hospital, the department will spend around Rs 7 crore. “Once the pandemic is over, all these hospitals would be used as extended facilities for other patients,” the CMOH added. Residents of Alipurduar have welcomed the decision and simultaneously pointed out that unlike the state government, the Centre has not identified any district of north Bengal for construction of Covid hospitals. “...allocations should also be made for north Bengal districts so that there is no shortage of facilities if the number of Covid cases rise in the coming days,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Police bust illegal call centre, six women arrested||A team from New Jalpaiguri police station under the Siliguri Metropolitan Police busted an illegal call centre operating in Shaktigarh area here on Wednesday and arrested six women. Police said the accused were running the call centre in the guise of a “friendship club” and are suspected to be fleecing people. “We acted on specific information and conducted the raid in a building at Kathaltala in Shaktigarh. It was found that they are running an illegal call centre,” said a police officer. During the past few months, the police here have launched a crackdown on such call centres. A number of such places have been raided by police and arrests have been made. Police sources said that in the past two to three months five to six raids have been conducted and around 20-25 people arrested for duping people through such rackets. “Our officers are investigating the case and trying to find out how they used to cheat people. Earlier, we have found that calls were made to people in the name of a friendship club and gradually, money was collected or stolen through various means from them,” the officer added. Those arrested are residents of different areas of Siliguri, the police said. A number of cellphones and laptops have been seized during the raid. “We suspect more people are involved in the racket. We are trying to identify them and such raids will continue,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Englishbazar: Police seize huge cache of banned sound crackers||Englishbazar police conducted raids in two areas of Malda on Wednesday night and seized a huge cache of banned sound crackers. Police sources said they acted on a tip-off to  raid Saduallapur and Rathbari simultaneously. In all, 7,740 pieces of illegal crackers were seized. “We arrested three persons who illegally stored crackers,” said Ashis Das, inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station. Those arrested are Satyajit Mandal and Prasenjit Mandal, residents of Mothabari and Bijay Manda of Jhaljhalia in Malda town. Malda police, sources said, is conducting raids to prevent use of illegal crackers during Kali Puja and Diwali. In another case, the Englishbazar police recovered 10 smartphones, which are suspected to be stolen ones, from Mahadipur on Wednesday night. A person, identified as Samiul Sheikh, was arrested as he could not produce documents of the phones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||WhatsApp helpline number for paddy posers||The state food and supplies department released a WhatsApp helpline number on Thursday to maintain transparency in paddy procurement process in Bengal. From November 1, the department will buy paddy from farmers across the state. “To confirm complete transparency in the process of procuring paddy from farmers, this helpline has been introduced. Any farmer facing any issue or problem in selling his produce can contact this number and register his complaint. He can also post photographs and videos to substantiate his complaint,” Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said on Thursday. So far, there were two helpline numbers – 1967 and 18003455505 — where farmers can call and register their complaints. Using WhatsApp is an additional facility. “The number in which WhatsApp messages can be sent is 9903055505,” the DM added. Sources in the administration said that the main problem that farmers face in selling paddy to the state is the highhandedness of middlemen. “These middlemen in a coordinated manner force farmers to sell paddy to them at lower rates. Even after a farmer gets a bank cheque or money is transferred to the farmer’s bank, the middlemen take a part from him. This WhatsApp facility, we believe, can help reduce these activities of middlemen as farmers can click a photograph as evidence and send it to us. We can take immediate steps against any middleman trying to interfere in the sale,” said a source in the district administration. This year, paddy would be bought at Rs 1,868 per quintal and Rs 20 more would be paid as transport cost to farmers for bringing the paddy to the purchase centres. In Jalpaiguri, 20 such centres would be opened, said the district magistrate. Last year, around 1.35 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased in the district and this year, there is a target to buy 1.55 lakh metric tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Purulia: Man dies, four others fall ill after eating unidentified root||A 62-year-old person died and four others of a Sabar family in Purulia district fell ill after allegedly eating an unidentified root on Thursday morning. Refuting the possibility of hunger that prompted the Sabar family in Puncha area to eat the root, Purulia district magistrate Rahul Majumdar said: “We have checked that the family had no shortage of food. The family had collected their share of rations two days back.” All the four persons who fell ill have been admitted to Puncha primary hospital. All are stable, said a doctor at the Puncha hospital. Sources said Jaladhar Sabar, 62, and four of his family members from Nirbhaipur village of Puncha had eaten a boiled edible root that they had collected from forests on Thursday morning. “All of them immediately started to vomit after consuming the root. We took them to the hospital but Jaladhar died on the way,” said a villager. Police, along with district officials, started a preliminary probe to find out the cause of the death. “The sample of edible root that the Sabar family had consumed has been collected. It will be preserved in case we need to undertake further tests,” said a doctor at the Puncha hospital. District magistrate Majumdar said the tribal population in Jungle Mahal often eat such edible roots. “It might be that the root the family found and ate contained some poisonous element,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Honour for preventing 150 child marriages during past nine years||A 32-year-old youth residing in Malda district has made it to the India Book of Records for stopping around 150 child marriages during the past nine years. Jubaraj Tribedi, a resident of Chari-Anantapur area in Kaliachak-III block, has been recognised for his work by authorities of the Indian Book of Records recently with a medal, certificate and other documents. Tribedi, who is a clerk in a high school, got involved in the work from college days. “Initially, I learned acting from my uncle Parimal Tribedi and then, along with some friends, started hosting street plays across Malda district to prevent people from getting their minor girls married. Since 2012, I started working on this issue in a full-fledged manner and developed a network. These days, I get information about most of the cases and put all my efforts to stop such marriages,” said Tribedi. He immediately communicates with the police and the administration if he gets information and in most cases he rushes to the spot and tries persuade the parents to stop the marriage. “On many occasions, I had to face threats, and even assaults. But I did not give up,” said Tribedi, who has been felicitated earlier by the state government for his work. A few days back, Tribedi was taken aback as he got a call from the India Book of Records.“Due to the pandemic, they did not hold a formal function and have sent the medal, certificate and other items to me. This recognition has boosted my morale to continue work ing on the issue,” he said. Along with the prevention of child marriages, Tribedi also works for girls in erosion-affected areas of Malda. “I have spent my own money to arrange marriages of girls who are from poor families and have lost their homes and land due to erosion. I often move in the rural belts and visit households where there are minor girls, meet their parents and urge them not to get them married unless they turn adults,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Trinamul leadership asked to give allies space||The state Trinamul leadership has instructed its leaders and workers of Darjeeling hills to “go slow” and refrain from any activity that can antagonise hill parties that are its allies. That Trinamul intends to maintain a close relationship with its allies was evident on Tuesday when chief minister Mamata Banerjee lambasted Shanta Chhetri, the party’s Rajya Sabha member  from the hills, for her remarks against Anit Thapa who heads the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM). Along with BGPM, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha led by Bimal Gurung is also an ally of Mamata’s party. Binay Tamang, who has quit the GJM and hinted at the “start of a new political chapter,” is also with Trinamul. On Wednesday, state minister and party leader Aroop Biswas held a meeting with his party colleagues in the hills at the PWD bungalow in Kurseong. “During the past few months, we have held several programmes across the hills where people from different political parties and also the civil society have joined Trinamul. In yesterday’s (Wednesday’s) meeting, we have been told to continue with such events, but without hurting political agendas of other hill parties,” said N.B. Khawas, spokesperson, Darjeeling (hills) Trinamul committee. Party insiders said this year, there have been major changes in hill politics which is drawing more people to  Trinamul. Fragmentation of political forces have been seen and prominent political faces Binay Tamang, Mahendra Chhetri and Ajoy Edwards have quit their parties. In this situation, many feel it is pertinent to join Trinamul, and the party leadership wants to give space to allies, said a hill Trinamul leader. Trinamul’s stance seems to have nudged the BJP, which is in alliance with GNLF and some other political forces of the hills. On Thursday, Sukanta Majumdar, the state BJP president who was here, said the Centre is sincere in resolving the permanent political solution for the Gorkhas. “The Centre is holding talks on the issue. Our party has always been with the hill population and has worked for their interests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Bodies of Pritam, 4 others reach Dumdum airport on Thursday ||The bodies of Pritam and four other trekkers, which were recovered on Tuesday, reached Dumdum airport on Thursday morning. Ministers Ujjwal Biswas and Sujit Bose handed over the coffins to their family members. Pritam’s body was buried at a place adjacent to his residential plot with the permission of the local people and the Nadia administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul and BJP leaders spar before bereaved family||The ugly side of the rivalry between Trinamul and the BJP came to the fore on Thursday when representatives of both went to console the kin of a Durgapur couple, who died in an accident during their tour to Uttarakhand on Wednesday. The grief-stricken family was compelled to request both BJP MLA from Durgapur (West) Lakkhan Ghorui and Trinamul councillor Sushil Chatterjee from ward 16 in Durgapur, to leave. Both Ghorui and Chatterjee had gone to the Link Park residence of Subrata Bhattacharya, 61, and wife Runa, 55, two of the five tourists from West Burdwan district who died in the road mishap at Bagheshwar district in Uttarakhand, to console the family. Reportedly, Chatterjee and party workers were standing in front of the Bhattacharya home when the BJP’s Ghorui arrived with his followers at 11.30am. Ghorui was wearing a saffron neck scarf with BJP emblazoned on it. This reportedly angered the Trinamul councillor. Chatterjee pointed to Ghorui’s scarf and objected to it, accusing the saffron leader of coming to condole the deaths with a political motive. Ghorui refuted Chatterjee’s charges. “I am a public representative as well as a human being. I have come here to console the family as an MLA and a human being,” said Ghorui. Sources said the verbal spat between Ghorui and Chatterjee went on in front of the bereaved family members who were waiting outside their house for the arrival of the bodies from Uttarakhand. Finally, one of the relatives, Sriparna Banerjee, with folded hands, requested the sparring duo to leave. “We are already in unbearable pain and not in a position to speak to you anymore. I apologise. Please leave us (alone),” Sriparna told the leaders with folded hands according to sources. Ghorui spoke to journalists and left. Later, speaking to the media, Chatterjee questioned Ghorui for wearing the BJP’s scarf. “I also represent Trinamul in the corporation but I am not carrying my political identity. We (Trinamul) work for people and they (BJP) only believe in politics. Our chief minister has taken initiative to bring back the bodies,” he said. CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member Pankaj Roy Sarkar said the whole incident revealed the true culture of the BJP and Trinamul. “We can’t imagine that anyone can use a tragedy for political gain. Both the BJP and the Trinamul can’t see beyond politics,” said Roy Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Parties like BNP and Jamaat believe in communalism: Bangla minister||Bangladesh information minister Hasan Mahmud said on Thursday that the recent attacks on Hindus there were part of a plan by the Opposition BNP-Jamaat alliance to engineer riots and create instability in the country. “Some parties like the BNP and the Jamaat believe in communalism and they cash in on that and create instability…. Recent atrocities on the Hindu community were such an attempt through which they wanted to engineer riots across the country,” said Mahmud, who was here to inaugurate the Bangabandhu Media Centre at Calcutta Press Club. The facility set up in memory of Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation in Bangladesh and known as Bangabandhu (Friend of Bengal), is the second such centre in the country, after Press Club of India in Delhi, which has come up with a grant from the information ministry of the Bangladesh government. Although the event was held to mark 50 years of Bangladesh’s independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu and 50 years of India-Bangladesh friendship, and celebrate the role that Calcutta Press Club and its members played in the 1971 Liberation War, the focus shifted to recent developments in Bangladesh during the Q&A. Mahmud, who is also the joint secretary of the ruling Awami League, underscored that the Sheikh Hasina government was committed to retain Bangladesh’s secular fabric. “When incidents of these attacks happened, we spent sleepless nights calling up our party colleagues and telling them to protect the puja pandals,” said Mahmud. Responding to questions on the security of the minorities in Bangladesh, a Muslim majority country, he echoed Hasina, who had urged the Hindu, Christian and Buddhist communities not to consider themselves minorities. “In Bangladesh, we don’t believe in minorities.… Everyone is a Bangladeshi and that’s our first identity. The festival of Puja is not only for the Hindus as all of us take part in it and so is the case with Id, which is celebrated by all,” said Mahmud. The Bangladesh government has been trying to send out a message that it has “zero tolerance” towards fundamentalist forces. The re attacks on Hindus followed rumours that someone had placed the holy Quran at a puja pandal in Cumilla. “From the very beginning, we were sure that no Hindu can place a Quran at a puja pandal.… Finally, investigations revealed that a Muslim, by the name Iqbal, had done it under instigation. The agencies are probing the case and what happened thereafter and stern actions are being taken,” said Mahmud, referring to 139-odd cases filed and over 1,300 arrests across the country. He stressed the number of pujas in Bangladesh was more than 32,000 this time, an all-time high. “The government gave grants to the puja committees… Out of more than 32,000 pujas, only five or six were attacked by some people, who have been trying to communalise the politics of Bangladesh. You all know that even during the country’s Liberation War, there were people who had supported the Pakistani forces. Don’t forget that their descendants are still there,” he said. Some veteran journalists, who had covered the Liberation War, were felicitated by Mahmud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP-Border Security Force meeting angers Trinamul Congress  ||The ruling Trinamul on Thursday lodged a complaint with the Cooch Behar district magistrate referring to a meeting between senior state leaders of the BJP and the deputy inspector-general of the Border Security Force  on Wednesday and alleged it was held to “influence” the October 30 Dinhata bypoll. The meeting between BJP leaders, including state chief Sukanta Majumdar and his predecessor Dilip Ghosh, along with party’s Cooch Behar district president Malati Rava, and the BSF DIG Shailendra Kumar Sinha held at the sector headquarters in Cooch Behar-II block assumes significance not only because of Saturday’s bypoll, but also as the recent Union home ministry decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the international border. “Dinhata constituency comes under BSF jurisdiction according to the new notification... We fear the BJP may use the BSF during and ahead of the elections to harass our party workers, leaders and common voters,” said Partha Pratim Roy, a former MP and election agent of Udayan Guha, Trinamul candidate. Sources in Trinamul said that the party's top brass asked the district leadership to flag the issue. The Trinamul has, in the past, accused the central forces deployed during the elections of working in favour of the BJP. “We think the BJP leadership violated the model code of conduct and that’s why we have urged the DM, who is also the district election officer, to take steps,” Roy added. “I am a member of the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs. Whenever I visit bordering areas, I pay courtesy visits to BSF officials. It was such a meeting,” Ghosh said on Wednesday’s meeting. DM Pawan Kadyan did not comment. Sources in the chief electoral officer’s office said they were looking into the complaint. BJP district leaders said Trinamul was making a hue and cry about the meeting as they were nervous about Saturday's bypoll. "They had lost the Assembly elections in Dinhata and now they will also lose the bypoll... We are organisationally far ahead of Trinamul here,” said a BJP leader. Local Trinamul leaders admitted that Guha was on difficult turf against BJP nominee Ashok Mondal. Cooch Behar Trinamul’s internal feuds cost it dear in the Assembly polls. The party lost seven of the nine seats in the district. The BJP filed a complaint with the chief electoral officer of the state, demanding immediate transfer of the DM and the SP of Cooch Behar district. The DM had said no to identity checks of voters when they enter the booths or stand in queue, and the SP failed to provide security to their candidate, they alleged. Roll revision meeting Aariz Aftab, the chief electoral officer of Bengal, held an all-party meeting in Calcutta on Thursday ahead of the electoral roll revision that begins with the publication of the draft electoral roll on November 1. The final electoral list will be published on January 5, sources  said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal teenagers quit school to keep working as domestic workers||Teenagers Moumita Munda and Manisha Mondal of Hingalganj block in North 24-Parganas won’t go to school when classes resume on November 16 after a gap of 20 months owing to the pandemic. They would have left home to work as domestic workers outside Bengal. The girls aged between 18 and 19 have no option left but to quit studies to overcome the financial hardship they have been facing for over the past 18 months owing to the pandemic-induced lockdowns and the disastrous consequences of cyclones Amphan and Yaas. They are not the only ones. Many others in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Haroa and other areas of the Sunderbans have dropped out of school and moved outside Bengal to work as domestic helps or cooks. Many others are preparing to take up jobs soon since most want to avoid an early marriage, which many families in rural Bengal see as a “solution” against poverty. These girls, however, want to fight poverty by taking up jobs. Till the pandemic struck, Manisha used to study at ABS Madanmohan Vidyapith at Amberia village in Hingalganj. The Class X dropout said: “During the last 18 months our family income has taken a hit. My elder sister used to give private tuitions, my mother worked as a domestic help. With the onset of Covid-19, students have stopped coming for tuitions. My mother also lost her job. Getting a job was the only option.” “With help from my friends working outside the state, I got the job of a domestic help in Kerala. I hope to save some money for my family.” Moumita’s difficulties multiplied after her father, the family’s sole breadwinner, died of Covid a few months ago. Her mother, a renal patient, is trying to support the family as a domestic help. Her sister is specially-abled. “Continuing with school is a luxury for me,” Moumita said. Sources said by working as domestic maids outside Bengal, girls earn anything around Rs 10,000 per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
