30-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Why Trinamul needs to win all four bypolls||The CPM nominee Debajyoti Das had received 26,916 votes during this summer’s Assembly polls from the Khardaha Assembly seat where polling is on for the by-election being held on Saturday along with Cooch Behar’s Dinhata, Nadia’s Santipur and South 24-Pargana's Gosaba. Santipur 64.18 per cent Gosaba 66.07 per cent Dinhata 61.52 per cent Khardaha 52.37 per cent On Saturday while polling was on, CPM’s North 24-Parganas district leader and former MLA Tanmay Bhattacharya came under physical attack by alleged Trinamul workers while he was on way to the local CPM office. Though Bhattacharya later told newspersons he did not believe the attack was a motivated one,  CPM candidate Das (renominated for the seat) said in many areas polling agents were threatened on Friday night. “We had reports of a biker gang involving 60-70 bikes  entering from neighbouring Madhyamgram several times since last night. The local leaders in the Khardaha constituency helped them identify the homes of our polling agents, where these outsiders went to issue threats,” Das said. During the Assembly polls, Trinamul had received 89,807 votes around 28,140 votes more than the BJP nominee. The candidate, Kajal Sinha, succumbed to Covid before the results were announced leaving the seat vacant. Till 11 am, only 23.60 per cent voters of Khardaha had come out to cast their votes, lowest among the four constituencies where polling is on. While the low turnout is not unusual for a bypoll, the intimidatory tactics, which the ruling Trinamul has denied, helps the party keep its lead and therefore control intact in the area. Since the Assembly results were declared on May 2, four MLAs from the BJP have switched sides. The outcome of the bypoll will have no impact on the political status of either parties, but would send a message for the polls to be held in the future, most notably the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. While Khardaha and Gosaba went to Trinamul in the Assembly elections, Santipur and Dinhata were won by the BJP. Two of party MPs who had contested and won the Assemblies later resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. In Dinhata, the victory margin was a mere 57 votes. The BJP, which has seen an exodus of its winning candidates to the ruling Trinamul (though it can be said  in favour of the BJP that the turncoat MLAs were from Trinamul who had switched sides believing the BJP to would come to power), needs to retain the two seats it had won previously to plug the leaking boat that the BJP’s legislative party has turned into. For Mamata, on the other hand, a 4-0 result is important keeping the future in mind. In the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, if she has to be a contender for the Prime Minister’s post, the Trinamul has to do far better than It did in 2019. A repeat of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when Trinamul won 22 and 18 seats went to the BJP will not help her national aspirations. Mamata needs to keep the BJP in check in Bengal electorally, not politically. That is why RSS shakhas have increased in the last 10 years that the Trinamul has been in power. That is why the Trinamul is aiming for a clean sweep in these bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||By-polls to four Bengal assembly constituencies underway||Voting began at 7 AM on Saturday for by-polls to the four assembly constituencies of Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Shantipur in Nadia, Khardah in North 24 Parganas and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas districts, an election commission of India (ECI) official said. In Dinhata, TMC's heavyweight north Bengal leader Udayan Guha is fighting to reclaim the seat which BJP had snatched from him by a whisker in polls held last April. The by-election at Dinhata was necessitated by the resignation of Nisith Pramanik, now Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, who favoured keeping his Lok Sabha membership over sitting in the opposition in West Bengal's assembly. Guha, a two-time MLA from Dinhata, is up against BJP's Ashok Mandal, who as a TMC candidate had defeated him, a Forward Bloc candidate then, in 2006. The bypoll to Shantipur was necessitated by the resignation of BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, who too resigned from the assembly seat in favour of retaining his Lok Sabha membership. State minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who resigned from Bhabanipur to facilitate Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election to the Assembly, is fighting from Khardah, where TMC's Kajal Sinha died due to COVID-19, just days after polls to the seat were held Bypoll to the Gosaba seat in Sunderbans was also necessitated by the death of TMC's Jayanta Naskar, who too was suffering from Covid. The EC has deployed 27 companies of central armed forces in Dinhata, 22 in Santipur, 20 in Khardah and 23 in Gosaba, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur: Youths collect money in the name of Kali Puja subscriptions||Several truck drivers and private car owners in Durgapur town have alleged harassment by youths forcibly collecting money from them  in the name of Kali Puja subscriptions. Truck drivers carrying industrial materials to factories in this industrial hub said they were being forced to shell out anything between Rs 100 and Rs 500 depending on the size of their vehicle. “I have already paid Rs 400 as Kali Puja chanda at four places in the town. Today (Friday) I was stopped by some youths who  asked me to pay Rs 300, which I couldn’t afford. They refused to allow me to move and so I parked my vehicle along the roadside,” said Bablu Yadav, a truck driver. Bablu was coming from Sambhalpur in Odisha and the cash he was carrying to meet expenses on road was almost exhausted, he said. “The truck owner gave me Rs 2,000 in cash as travelling costs, including food. I have already paid Rs 400 towards subscriptions. I am driving for two days and have almost exhausted my money,” he said. He finally approached a police team patrolling the area. Police chased the youths and picked up two of them. Private car owners said they were being forced to shell out between Rs 50 and Rs 20 at various locations in the town as Kali Puja chanda. “I was going to visit Durgapur barrage with my wife and daughter in my car. Youths at two locations in Dumurtala and Birbhanpur stopped me and asked for Rs 50 each time,” said Ranjan Das a trader. Ranjan said the youths blocked his way at Birbhanpur when he refused to pay them. “I told them that I paid Rs 20 as Kali Puja subscription a few meters away and won’t pay again. They refused to let me move. I had to pay Rs 20 again,” he said. Asked, some youths stopping trucks for chanda, said: “What is wrong in it?” “We take money only once a year for Kali Puja. What is wrong in it? What will you say when police collect bribes from truck drivers round the year,” a youth told this reporter. Police said they had beefed up patrolling in industrial areas. “We are taking stern actions against such complaints. We have arrested some youths for harassing people,” said Dhrubajyoti Mukherjee, assistant commissioner of police, Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC sets up seven-member committee for civic polls||Leaders of Trinamul Darjeeling (plains) district committee have formed a seven-member committee to  monitor the party’s organisational activities under the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) area in view of the upcoming civic polls. Senior party leaders here said on Friday that the committee will also draw up the campaign plan and select candidates who will contest the municipal elections here. “There has been a specific instruction from the state leadership that such a committee should be formed to oversee party’s activities in the civic area. Accordingly, we sent a panel of 15 names among whom the state leaders selected seven persons. Accordingly, the committee has been constituted. It will work until the civic elections are over,” said Alok Chakraborty, the chairman of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district. The seven members of this new Trinamul committee are Chakraborty himself; Papiya Ghosh, the district president; Vedabrata Dutta, the district spokesperson; Pratul Chakraborty, a state general secretary of the party; and Pradip Goyal, Jayanta Kar and Dulal Dutt, three presidents of as many town committees of the party.Senior leaders such as former minister and current chair of the SMC board of administrators Gautam Deb and former district party president Ranjan Sarkar have not been included in the committee. “We have followed the instructions of state leaders and cannot comment on the issue. All of us have to go by party’s guidelines,” said Chakraborty, when asked if the absence of Deb and Sarkar will create a negative impact on organisational activities. He said that after the Assembly elections, they received around 10,000 applications from people, mostly political workers of other parties, seeking to join Mamata Banerjee’s party. “The party has decided to scrutinise each application and then decide on induction. We do not want to hurry on the issue,” he said. Along with political activities across all the 47 wards of the SMC, the committee will also make its recommendations about prospective candidates who will contest from these wards. “Till date, Trinamul has never got a majority in the SMC,” said a party insider. “This time, we are determined to secure the civic body here. All necessary efforts would be taken in this regard.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||New test facility at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital||The Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, located on the outskirts of Siliguri, will start conducting respiratory panel infection test from next month. The test is vital to find out viruses which have infected the lungs and the respiratory tract of a patient who has suffered a viral attack. “This will be the first of its kind test facility in north Bengal. Chief minister had earlier announced that such a facility would be introduced in the state and the NBMCH has been chosen as one of the testing centres. The tender process to obtain necessary equipment for the test has been done and we hope that from the first week of November, the test can be held here,” said a source. Experts at the VRDL said that through the test, viruses responsible for lung and respiratory infections including influenza-one, S-one, rhinovirus can be diagnosed here. “So far, samples of patients from north Bengal were sent to Calcutta to find out which virus has infected them in case of respiratory problems and the testing facility was not available in any state-run hospital of the region. The facility is available at private hospitals but it is expensive. Now, it will be available free of cost,” said an expert. Arunava Sarkar, the principal investigator of VRDL, mentioned that so far, RT-PCR tests of 5.90 lakh swab samples have been carried out in the lab, which is highest for any lab in the state. The lab was opened here last year. “Although pressure of testing swab samples for Covid-19 has reduced these days, an additional responsibility will be put on the lab as we have to conduct the respiratory panel infection test here. We hope to conduct this test in a successful manner,” said Sarkar. A doctor posted at the NBMCH said the test is important to provide necessary treatment to patients having respiratory problems due to viral infection. “Detection of viruses can help in streamlining the treatment which eventually will reduce death rate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Control room for Covid-19 patients in Jalpaiguri ||The Jalpaiguri district administration will start a control room from Monday to keep a tab on Covid-19 patients who are staying at their homes across the district. “It has been found that a number of patients infected with the contagion are staying in isolation at homes and are not following doctors’ advice. In some cases, patients are delaying in getting proper treatment. Earlier, such delay in treatment and admission had left many patients critical and some of them have even lost their lives. That is why, it has been decided to open a control room so that all these patients can be monitored on a regular basis,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate. At the control room, the administration will depute employees who will make phone calls to Covid patients and their family members on a regular basis to keep an update about their health condition, medicines and admission in hospital. “If any patient is found to be critical, immediate arrangements would be made through the block and the district administration to facilitate his admission to a hospital. The mechanism, we believe, can help in reducing the number of deaths owing to Covid-19,” the district magistrate added. In Jalpaiguri district, nine safe homes were opened earlier for treatment of Covid patients. Later, as the cases came down, these homes were closed down. “Those in charge of these safe homes have been asked to be on alert and also take steps to keep these facilities ready,” said a source in the administration. In South Dinajpur, 15 areas spread across 11 wards of Balurghat town have been declared as containment zones following a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. “On Wednesday, around 30 people were tested Covid positive here, which is highest during past two-three months. Areas from where the cases have been reported have been declared containment zones,” said an official in the administration. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Schools to reopen with  different timings from November 16||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education on Friday issued a formal notification to reopen schools with revised academic hours from November 16. Classes will be held in  separate sessions for physical distancing. Students of Classes IX and XI will report at 9.30am for classes from 10am to 3.30pm. Students of Classes X and XII should report at 10.30am for classes from 11am to 4.30pm. This schedule will be followed from Monday to Saturday. “As students from Classes V to VIII will not attend school now, there will be sufficient room for students of Classes IX to XII in small groups,” an official of the WBBSE said. Classes were suspended owing to Covid-induced lockdown in March last year. Recently, the state government decided on physical classes  from November 16 but only for students from Classes IX to XII in separate academic hours. The state school education department also directed district magistrates to appoint an additional district magistrate as the nodal officer in districts to ensure smooth reopening of schools from November 16. The department has also instructed the district inspectors of school to contact the ADM and DM  concerned for any action required to run schools physically after a gap of 20 months. Sources in the school education department claimed  the objective behind the appointment of nodal officer was to ensure implementation of Covid protocols in real time so that students do not fall victim to complacency in the implementation of health protocols. “District inspectors will keep in touch with the ADM for instructions and coordinate with headmasters to ensure cleaning and sanitisation are done before allowing students in, according to instructions of the board,” an administrative official in Nadia said. Board president Kalyanmoy Ganguly said besides theoretical classes, practical classes for students of Classes IX to XII can be taken from November 16. “Covid safety protocols prescribed need to be followed strictly for arranging practical classes," he said. Revised timings from 9.30am to 4.30pm have angered teachers who have termed the development “inconvenient”, especially for those who use suburban trains. “It would have been better if the board left the timing decisions to school authorities. The revised timing is illogical and will be a problem for teachers who depend on local trains to commute. We demand the board consider implementing old and usual school timings from 10.30am to 4pm and on Saturday's stick to the half-day schedule,” said Chandan Maity, state secretary of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Police halt movement of two-wheelers on Balason bridge||Siliguri Metropolitan Police halted movement of two-wheelers on the Balason river bridge here from Friday as the work to install a Bailey bridge started on the site. “From Friday morning, even two-wheelers are not allowed on the bridge. This is because work has started to set up the Bailey bridge. The bridge is likely to be ready by the first week of December. Till then, only pedestrians can use the bridge by walking on the footpath. They should however, maintain discipline as work is in progress,” said a senior police officer. Since October 20, traffic on the bridge on NH31 was stopped after one of its pillars tilted and a part of its concrete plank sank under the impact of the swollen Balason river following downpour. Only two-wheelers and pedestrians were allowed. The rest had to take long detours to and fro Siliguri. Now, two-wheelers will also have to take detours. With Balason bridge off bounds, the stretch of Asian Highway II which moves through northwest of Siliguri and connects Naukaghat on southern end of the city has become the principal entry and exit route. “There is traffic congestion along the stretch as all vehicles are moving on this route. The detour has also increased travelling expenses as commuters have to cover extra distances and fuel prices are already high. Till Thursday, we could cross Balason on bike but from now even that option is not there,” said Tanmoy Goswami, an IT professional. The halt in movement along the bridge has also led to diversion of traffic movement, causing severe congestions in principal roads and crossings of the city. Earlier, most of the traffic used to move through northern parts of Siliguri but now, the vehicles are moving through the southern end. Police, asked on the issue, said traffic movement across the city was under CCTV surveillance and they were taking necessary steps as and when required to prevent snarls. “If we notice excess flow of vehicles through one area, we are diverting traffic through other roads to reduce congestion. Our men are working in all the traffic guards of the city and taking prompt steps,” a policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP legislator from Kurseong raps state party chief||BJP legislator from Kurseong, B.P. Bajgain has shot off a “protest” letter to BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar asking him to refrain from making any statement against the demand of Gorkhaland. There has always been a tussle between Bengal BJP’s hill and plains leaders on Gorkhaland but Bajgain’s letter to Majumdar clearly indicates that BJP hill leaders are trying to assert themselves more strongly on it. On Thursday, Majumdar  told the media at Jalpaiguri had blamed Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee for endorsing the word “Gorkhaland.” “She was the one to agree to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and sign an agreement to include the word Gorkhaland. Gorkhaland was neither included by the CPM, nor the Congress nor the BJP,” said Majumadar, adding that the saffron party would work out a “permanent political solution” for the hills. In a strong worded letter, Bajgain stated: “The syllogistic meaning of this statement leads us to think that the BJP was never a pro-Gorkhaland party, either then and now, period... This letter is a protest in regard of your Jalpaiguri statement before mediapersons.” Many in the hills, including the BJP’s allies, feel that permanent political solution means the state of Gorkhaland though the BJP has not yet defined the phrase. Bajgain, also has not minced words in the letter and clearly reminded Majumdar that he and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista had won elections on the Gorkhaland promise. “I myself have been granted this opportunity to serve as the MLA from the BJP, whilst promising that this demand of Gorkhaland will be met. Whatever may be the name of the future state, the name of Gorkhaland is holy to us likewise, Gita, Bible, Quran and Tripitak,” the letter reads. Another BJP MP from Alipurduar, John Barla has been demanding a separate north Bengal state comprising eight north Bengal districts. Speaking to this newspaper, Bajgain said that he had also voiced his protest when BJP leaders from the plains have not spoken favourably of Gorkhaland. “Yes, I have written the letter and I also emailed it to him yesterday (Thursday). I will again meet him in Calcutta on November 1 and will try to personally iterate the contents of the letter again,” said Bajgain. The Kurseong MLA said they were not demanding Gorkhaland from Bengal leaders but from central BJP leaders and it was necessary to protest such statements as “we cannot keep the (hill) people in a state of confusion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Bypoll test for Trinamul and BJP||Around 9 lakh voters will on Saturday elect MLAs in four geographically and demographically diverse constituencies, Khardah, Gosaba, Santipur and Dinhata. Both had a 2-2 score in the Assembly polls, Trinamul bagging Khardah and Gosaba and the BJP Dinhata and Santipur. However, Trinamul’s overall win in the Assembly polls and later in Bhowanipore and two others seems to have made the BJP jittery. A state BJP leader said: “The best we can do is put up a fight in Santipur and Dinhata.” In Santipur, Trinamul’s Brajakishore Goswami is pitted against BJP’s Niranjan Biswas. In Dinhata, the contest is between Trinamul’s Udayan Guha and the BJP’s Ashok Mondal. Trinamul veteran Sovandeb Chattopadhyay has been fielded in Khardah against young BJP candidate Joy Saha. In Gosaba, Trinamul’s Subrata Mondal is pitted against BJP’s Palash Rana. BJP’s Jagannath Sarkar, MP from Ranaghat, won the Santipur seat by 15,878 votes in the Assembly polls. Sources close to Sarkar, who resigned from the MLA seat, said Biswas has a tough task cut out for him.  Of the 2, 37,000 odd voters of Santipur, 40 per cent are SC and ST, most of whom had voted for the BJP earlier. BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari publicly claimed that recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh gave the party an edge here. But a BJP functionary said: “This could be the case only in rural areas. Also, Muslims are around 22 per cent of the electorate and they will vote for Trinamul.” The Bangladesh factor has been flagged by the BJP in the campaign for Dinhata too where Trinamul’s Udayan Guha lost to BJP’s Nisith Pramanik, MP and currently the junior union minister of home affairs, by 57 votes in the Assembly polls. only. Like Sarkar, Pramanik also resigned from his MLA seat leading to a by-poll in Dinhata. In Dinhata, dwellers of erstwhile Bangladeshi enclaves (which are Indian villages now) and the Rajbanshi population decide the results. After 2015, when the enclaves merged with the Indian mainland and residents, mostly Muslims, became Indian voters, they supported the BJP. The support of Rajbanshis had helped the saffron camp. However, during the past few months, Trinamul managed to revive its support base in Dinhata to an extent. While the BJP is playing the Bangladesh card to woo Hindu voters, Trinamul is referring to the recent notification of the home ministry which has extended BSF’s jurisdiction (from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the international border), and highlighting the impact of this central policing on people. Trinamul again fielded Guha against BJP’s has pitted senior party leader Ashok Mondal. There are 2,98,080 voters in the seat who will vote in 417 booths. Khardah in North 245 Parganas, and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, are likely to be cakewalks for Trinamul. State minister and an eight-term MLA Sovandeb Chattopadhyay has been fielded in Khardah against young BJP leader Joy Saha. Chattopadhyay won the Bhowanipore seat during the Assembly polls but vacated it for Mamata later. Trinamul’s Kajal Sinha had won in Khardah by 28,140 votes, but died of Covid-19 before the results were declared. “We have no doubts about Sovandebda’s victory,” a senior Trinamul leader said. In Gosaba, Trinamul’s Subrata Mondal is pitted against BJP’s Palash Rana. This seat was vacated after Trinamul’s elected MLA Jayanta Naskar of Trinamul died of Covid-19. Naskar had defeated BJP’s Chitta Pramanik by 23,709 voters. Confident of winning this seat again, Trinamul’s target is to increase its margin. Counting for the bypolls will be held on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 982 new cases, 860 recoveries and eight deaths||Bengal on Friday reported 982 new Covid-19 infections, 860 recoveries and eight deaths, resulting in a rise by 114 in active cases to 8,223. Bengal now has 5.3 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is fifth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. In the past 34 days — since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases ahead of Durga Puja on September 26 — there has been a net rise of 549 in the state’s total of active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. The state’s recovery rate, 98.33 per cent till October 20, fell to 98.32 on October 21, 98.31 on Saturday, 98.3 on Sunday, 98.29 on Thursday and 98.28 on Friday. The recovery rate, nationally, is 98.17. A minister said new infections reported on Friday were indicative of people who got infected between October 20 (Lakshmi Puja) and October 24. Calcutta reported 273 new infections and one death on Friday. North 24-Parganas reported 161 new cases and two deaths. These were only two districts of the state with a three-digit figure of new cases. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 726 or 73.93 per cent of the new infections detected on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2 per cent on Friday. Bengal now has more than 15.91 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.64 lakh recoveries and 19,113 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Nabanna annexe building turns into a nightmare for authorities||The incomplete Nabanna annexe building — a proposed 11-storey structure  at Mandirtala in Howrah near state secretariat Nabanna — has turned into a nightmare for authorities. An internal report of the state public works department has pointed out that the abandoned place has become a den of goons and a major untoward incident was just waiting to happen. Sources in the government said the work for the annexe building started in June 2018 but after the casting of the ground floor roof, the project came to a halt following “verbal instructions of higher administrative authorities” in June 2019. The cost of the project was estimated at Rs 48.41 crore. The carpet area of the ground floor and first floor was supposed to be 880.49sqm. ‘There was a plan that all the departments, which were run in rented places since the Writers’ Buildings was vacated for renovation in 2013, would be brought to the annexe building which is located at a stone's throw from Nabanna. But after 20 per cent of the estimated cost was spent to complete the base for an 11-storey building and casting the roof of the ground floor, the project was stopped without showing any particular reason,” said a senior official. The state PWD pointed out that the building had become unsafe for the area with local goons starting to invade it. “It is very close to the state secretariat and a structure like this always poses a threat to the security of the state secretariat where all VVIPs have their chambers or visit on a regular basis. It is good that the PWD has drawn attention of the authorities to the structure," said a source. The internal report by the PWD also stated that about six months ago, a proposal was put forward to construct a three-storey building in the place to house the office of the director of security. “But no communication thereafter has been made by the director of security. Hence, the fate of the project remains the same,” reads the PWD’s internal report. The PWD has proposed to arrange security cover for the site and has also proposed to construct a boundary walls to prevent any untoward incident. However, officials were not sure whether the proposals would be approved as the state government is facing a financial crunch in order to  run a series of welfare schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Leander Paes and Nafisa Ali join Trinamul Congress in Goa||Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Friday inducted celebrities such as Leander Paes and Nafisa Ali and entrepreneur Mrinalini Deshprabhu into her party for its Goa foray, which she formally launched over the course of a busy day of political and PR exercises. While the names of swimmer and activist Ali and Deshprabhu had been doing the rounds, tennis icon Paes was a surprise for most. “When, at the age of 14, I went to play tennis for India, Didi (Mamata) was the (junior) Union sports minister. She used to always encourage, always support…. Now, after three decades of tennis, I would like to support the lady who has been going forward with immense courage. She is a real champion to me,” said Paes, 48, a Calcutta boy and now a resident of Goa. Regarded as one of the greatest players in doubles, he won 18 Grand Slams in men’s and mixed doubles, and a bronze for India in men’s singles at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. “I would like to serve the people by means of politics. I would like to serve the youth of the nation. That is why I have joined Didi,” said Paes. “India is the world’s largest democracy. There cannot be division here on the basis of caste, creed, or religion,” he added. Now 64, Ali was a Congress candidate against Mamata in Calcutta South in the 2004 Lok Sabha polls. She lost. Ali also had a brief stint with Samajwadi Party before returning to the Congress in 2009. “She (Mamata) is such a champion for the cause of protecting the inclusive ethos of India…. It is important, now more than ever, to close the ranks on forces that seek to divide this great nation,” said Ali, a Calcutta girl who was the national swimming champion in the early 1970s, was crowned Miss India in 1976, and went on to act in films. Sources in Trinamul said Mamata was keen on engaging civil society members in politics in Goa, something she did successfully in Bengal. The BJP’s Pramod Sawant-led government would seek re-election to the 40-seat Goa Assembly in  February 2022. The principal Opposition there is the Congress, with the AAP testing waters there for some time. Last month, Mamata inducted Goa’s former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, with four decades in the Congress. He is now a national vice-president of Trinamul, helping it not only in Goa but also in several states of the Northeast, which he handled organisationally for the Grand Old Party. After Faleiro came a number of political leaders from Goa, from various parties there. From the civil society, Trinamul has already managed to get the likes of poet N. Shivdas, filmmaker Tony Dias, environmentalist Rajendra Shivaji Kakodkar, footballer Denzil Franco, and boxer Lenny Da Gama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC orders Alapan's case against Centre to be heard in city||Calcutta High Court on Friday provided relief to former Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay by ruling that his challenge to the Centre’s disciplinary proceedings will be heard in Calcutta and not Delhi, while observing that the Union government’s “entire modus operandi” in the matter “reeks of mala fide”. It questioned the speed with which the Principal Court of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in Delhi had shifted the hearing of Alapan’s petition from Calcutta to the national capital, saying such “overzealousness to cater to the fiat of the government... shocks judicial conscience”. Allowing a plea from Alapan, now chief adviser to the Bengal chief minister, the division bench of Justices Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya and Rabindranath Samanta struck down CAT Delhi’s directive for a venue change. But it clarified that Friday’s order would not prejudice the main case to be heard by the Calcutta chapter of CAT. Alapan had petitioned the Calcutta chapter of CAT to quash the proceedings drawn against him by an inquiry committee set up by the Union government’s department of personnel and training (DoPT). The charge against Alapan is he had failed to attend a May 28 review meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had convened in Kalaikunda. The high court cited the speed at which things had moved at the principal bench of CAT in Delhi, with the DoPT’s October 20 petition for transfer of the hearing cleared unilaterally on October 22 and a less-than-24-hours’ notice served on Alapan. “Promptness is appreciated, but overzealousness to cater to the fiat of the government, be it central or state, is not, by courts of law as a tradition,” the high court order said. “This shocks judicial conscience, to say the least.” It added: “The entire modus operandi adopted by the Union of India reeks of mala fide. It is unfortunate that the principal bench of the CAT nurtured such efforts by passing the impugned transfer order, thereby paying obeisance to the diktat of Union of India, which has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court and various high courts not to be a favoured litigant.” The high court said the order by the principal bench of CAT had violated not just Alapan’s legal rights under CAT rules but also his fundamental right to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution. “...(The order) also leaves a bad taste in the mouth due to the mode of operation of a quasi-judicial (if not judicial) authority and also poses a threat to the federal structure as envisioned by the makers of the Constitution of India,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Suburban local trains to operate at 50% capacity from November 1||The Bengal government has allowed suburban local trains to operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity from November 1. It has also announced a series of relaxations while extending till November 30 the stricter restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. An order issued on Friday afternoon removed the night-time restrictions (11pm-5am) from November 2 to 5 for Kali Puja, and on November 10 and 11 for Chhath Puja. Cinemas, theatre halls, auditoriums, stadiums, shopping malls, market complexes, restaurants, bars, spas and gyms can increase occupancy to 70 per cent from the current 50 per cent but will have to close by 11pm. Coaching centres for competitive exams, too, can operate at 70 per cent seating capacity. Indoor social gatherings, including for weddings, and film and TV shooting can be held with occupancy limited to 70 per cent of the capacity of the venue. Officials said that as schools and colleges were being reopened from November 16, the local trains were being allowed to operate, but at 50 per cent seating capacity. “If local trains are not allowed, students might face trouble in reaching schools and colleges. Even though the number of positive cases is rising, we are hopeful that the situation can be brought under control if the Covid protocols are followed. The situation will be monitored on a regular basis after schools and colleges are reopened and appropriate steps will be taken if positive cases rise abnormally,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court bans use of all forms of firecrackers||Calcutta High Court has banned the use of all forms of firecrackers, including green crackers, in celebrating the upcoming occasions of Diwali, Kali Puja, Chaath Puja, Christmas and New Year’s Eve. A division bench said that “only wax or oil-based diyas might be used”. The cracker ban, which covers the whole of Bengal, will also apply to celebrating Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday. The bench gave primacy to the “right to live” and citizens’ larger interests, choosing to overlook the “smaller interest” of those dependent on the firecracker industry. “We are not convinced that firecrackers of any form, either green or of any other category, ought to be permitted to be used during the coming festive season,” the bench of Justices Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya and Aniruddha Roy said, passing an order on a batch of public interest litigation petitions. The order cited the “pandemic situation, which is getting marginally worse by the day” and “the fact that even moderate Air Quality Index (AQI) can cause severe difficulties for people suffering from respiratory problems”. On Wednesday, the state pollution control board had issued a directive banning all types of fireworks, except “green fireworks” that could be burst for two hours from 8pm on Diwali (November 4). But the division bench of Justices Bhattacharyya and Roy said that even green crackers would not be allowed. “…We find nothing to establish that there is any mechanism in place at present to ascertain whether crackers being sold or burst/ lighted are only green crackers, complying with the norms,” the order said. The bench added: “It would be an impossible task for the police and/ or law-enforcement agencies to ascertain the veracity of the certificates of the crackers.” On the livelihood of those dependent on the firecracker industry, the order said: “It is submitted that, keeping in view the larger interest of the citizens of the state, the smaller interest of the firecracker manufacturers and all concerned with such business might be overlooked.” The bench observed: “Right to live is the fundamental right of the people. This right cannot be curbed by allowing the firecrackers to be used.” It said that many were suffering from breathing problems amid the pandemic. “Their problem will further increase if firecrackers are allowed (on) festive days.” The bench directed the authorities to take steps so that firecrackers were not sold in markets and impose strong measures against those found guilty of violating the court directive. “The State should ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers of any type at all,” the court said. Last year, too, Calcutta High Court had imposed a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali. But firecrackers were burst across the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee sounds pluralism bugle in Goa||Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Friday formally launched her party’s bid for power on Goan soil, with less than four months remaining for the tiny coastal state’s Assembly election, asserting her party’s initials “TMC” stand for “temple, mosque and church”. The Bengal chief minister repeatedly underscored her party’s uncompromising stand on protecting the pluralistic, inclusive ethos of India. “The BJP calls me anti-Hindu. But they are nobody to issue character certificates to me. They should first figure out their own character,” said Mamata. “We unite people, we don’t divide…. Our initials stand for temple, mosque and church,” she added. Through a busy day of numerous political and PR exercises on her maiden political tour of the cosmopolitan western state, a Portuguese colony for over four centuries, till 1961, she also stressed she was not attempting to invade Goa as an “outsider” (which the BJP has started calling her) but was only trying to partner as a “sister” to help the state move forward and ensure that it wasn’t run from Delhi. Listing welfare schemes implemented by her government in Bengal, Mamata said her party could do those with ease in Goa, whose population  is 1.5 per cent of that of Bengal. “I am not here to be the chief minister of Goa… but I will happily ensure there is a policy, a mechanism in the government free of corruption,” she said, stressing hers was a national party and could go anywhere in the nation. She said Bengal and Goa have in common their love for three Fs, fish, football and folk culture. “We will work for Goa resolutely. It is not that we are here to divide votes,” she added, referring to the Congress’s allegation. “You (the Goa electorate) have given an opportunity to all (other) parties… now give one opportunity to Trinamul.” The Congress has been critical of Mamata’s Goa venture, as it is the principal Opposition in the state and had emerged as the single largest party in the 40-seat Goa Assembly in 2017. The AAP too has been trying to make inroads in Goa for some time. The Congress’s fear is that in the February 2022 election Trinamul and AAP would eat into the chunk of around 34 per cent Christian votes. “Let the Congress also contest. They have been contesting for 70 years. The last time, Congress MLAs went to the BJP to help them form the government here. You (the Congress) cannot control your own MLAs,” said Mamata, referring to the controversial power-grab of 2017 in Goa, when the BJP  formed the government despite securing 13 seats compared to the Congress’s 17, when the majority mark was 21. Asked if she was positioning herself as Prime Minister in 2024, Mamata said: “If I tell you everything right away, what will I say later… we are transparent.” BJP Bengal unit chief Sukanta Majumdar responded to Mamata’s day in Goa with derision, dismissing her party’s chances there. Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged she had gone to Goa to divide votes and in order to help the BJP. Mamata began her day with a meeting of her party’s Goa unit at 10am in Dona Paula, with inductions on either side of the likes of Indian tennis icon Leander Paes and swimmer-model-actor-politician-activist Nafisa Ali. At midday, she interacted with fishermen at Betim. At 1pm, she held a news conference in Dona Paula. At 3.30pm, she paid a visit to the Mangueshi temple in Priol, followed by the Shri Mahalsa Narayani temple in Mardol, followed by the Tapobhoomi temple at Kundaim. In the evening, she participated in an interaction with civil society members of Goa in Dona Paula. On Saturday, Mamata would have breakfast with journalists at 10.30pm in Dona Paula, followed by a visit at 11.30am to the Basilica of Bom Jesus on Old Goa Road. At midday, she would conduct a community interaction at Mapusa. “She is leaving no stone unturned to make a significant impact this time, by making public memories that would last for some time. She is on a mission,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
