31-10-2021||West Bengal||Jaideep Nandi returns to TMC from BJP||A group of leaders from the BJP joined the Trinamul with their supporters here on Saturday. Former state minister and veteran Trinamul leader Gautam Deb along with Papiya Ghosh, the Darjeeling (plains) district president, welcomed them into the party at a function held at the district office. Among those who joined the TMC include Jaideep Nandi, a former councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and a prominent political face of New Jalpaiguri area, who had defected to the BJP last year and was made the party’s district vice-president. “It is like a homecoming for me. As I have always followed the Trinamul’s ideology, I found it missing in the BJP and could not continue there,” he said. His decision came a day after he resigned from his post and the primary membership of the BJP. Among others who switched over to Mamata Banerjee’s party from the saffron camp include Dindayal Singha, the Siliguri branch president of BJP’s Kishan Morcha, Nanda Prasad Roy, the BJP convener of Phansidewa block, and Dipankar Paul, secretary of BJP’s Siliguri unit. “During the past couple of weeks, the BJP leaders were in touch with us and wanted to join the Trinamul. We consulted with our senior leaders and workers functioning at different levels and decided to induct them into the party. Along with them, hundreds of BJP supporters have also joined the Trinamul,” Ghosh said. At the induction programme, Deb and some other leaders came up with a clarification about a seven-member committee that the party had announced on Friday. The committee was formed to oversee political activities across Siliguri Municipal Corporation areas before and during the civic polls, party leaders had said. The announcement had led to repercussions within the party and also in the local political arena as the committee did not have senior leaders like Deb and former district president Ranjan Sarkar in it. On Saturday, the Trinamul made an attempt to control the damage. “I would like to clarify that a seven-member monitoring cell has been formed to look after the activities of our booth-level workers across the civic area. It has nothing to do with civic poll preparation or campaign,” Deb said. “The party will take care of these issues and will draw appropriate plans in due course,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Traders cheer as Nepal route reopens||Movement of passenger vehicles between India and Nepal along the Panitanki-Kakarvitta route has resumed on Friday after a gap of 20 months. The development has come as a major relief for around 1,200 traders who are based in Panitanki, located around 35km from here. Their business had taken a hit after the movement of people through the international border was suspended following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year. During this period, only vehicles carrying goods were allowed to move through the border. A few weeks back, the traders had hit the streets and demonstrated on Asian Highway II, demanding the resumption of the movement of people along the route. “We are glad that the authorities of both the countries have reopened the border for movement of passenger vehicles ahead of the Diwali celebrations. Only those who have received both doses of vaccines or carrying a negative RTPCR test report issued not more than 48 hours of their travel are being allowed to cross the border. Even then, we believe, this will largely help in the revival of business in Panitanki,” said Ramkumar Chhetri, an adviser of Panitanki Byabsayee Samiti. According to the traders, around 50,000 residents of Nepal enter India through Panitanki every day and among them around 30,000 visit the local market to buy items ranging from household goods and garments to food items and furniture. “Ahead of the pandemic, goods worth around Rs 1 crore were sold from the local market in Panitanki. This had dried up as the movement of people was stopped,” Chhetri added. A senior trader based in Panitanki said they too, did not want an unrestrained movement of people through the border. “But now that only people who are fully vaccinated or are carrying negative RTPCR reports are being allowed, it is evident that all those entering through the border would be screened. In such a case, movement of local transport should be allowed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri jail guard arrested for cannabis ||A jail guard posted at the central correctional home in Jalpaiguri was arrested on Saturday for carrying cannabis with him. Mohammad Mafizuddin, the guard, is accused of supplying narcotics to the inmates of the correctional home. Charges under NDPS Act have been brought against him and an inquiry ordered.. Sources said on Saturday morning, as Mafizuddin joined his duty, some other guards  on duty felt he was behaving suspiciously. When they frisked him, they found at least 12 packs of cannabis (weighing around 120 grams in all) concealed in his cap. Senior officials of the correctional home  started an inquiry and informed the police. Kotwali police led by Arghya Sarkar, inspector-in-charge, reached there. “The guard has been arrested on the basis of a complaint filed by an official of the correctional home. He has been booked under NDPS Act and some other rules, and will be produced before the court on Sunday,” said Debarshi Dutta, SP, Jalpaiguri. “We are trying to find out if he had an accomplice and the source of his supply,” said source. Gamblers arrested Acting on a tip off, a team of Bagdogra police station under Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested 12 persons from Rangapani on the outskirts of Siliguri for being involved in illegal gambling. “We have also recovered around Rs 1.04 lakh used as board money. Such raids will continue,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||The Telegraph School Awards recognises ‘action’ of individuals during pandemic||Stories of hope, understanding and generosity marked a 90-minute award ceremony that recognised the “action” of individuals and institutions in reaching out to people during the pandemic. These challenging times do not allow physical hugs. But from the online platform of the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2021, 26th edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College, partnered by Tutopia, a request went out on Saturday for an “action hug”. “I’m requesting you from today onwards to give an action hug — an action hug to yourself and an action hug to others,” said Barry O’Brien, trustee, The Telegraph Education Foundation, who hosted the event. “We are so happy to tell you that there are many action hugs going around, and so let’s keep talking about action hugs throughout today’s event.” O’Brien said the “h” in hug stood for hope, the “u” for understanding and the “g” for generosity. “The day we lose hope we’ve lost everything. Please be understanding with yourself, be patient with yourself — we are very impatient with ourselves nowadays and it’s causing all of us mental health issues,” he said. “Finally, ‘g’ is for generosity. You can’t take it with you, friends — whether you go to the smashan ghat, the burial or the cemetery. You can’t take anything with you. So those of us who are privileged enough, blessed enough, let’s be generous, generous with our time, generous with the way we approach life and generous with our money.” Such generosity in pandemic times was exemplified by a “shy school” (it had never before entered itself for the awards) called Future Hope School that travelled almost across the state distributing 90,600 bags packed with relief material by its boys and girls. Similar generosity was shown by “a small school with a huge heart” — the Chowringhee High School, which carried forward the legacy of its late administrator, Perminder Dasani. Within months of Dasani’s death from Covid, his wife and daughters and the team he had left behind collected Rs 3 lakh and donated it for the people of the Sunderbans. They are also carrying on with all the charitable work their mentor did. Both these schools won The Telegraph School of the Year along with the Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Individuals too had stood up to be counted. Cadet Amit Raj of Sainik School Purulia rescued two teenagers from a fire at his Bihar village but himself died of burns. A gas leak had caused a fire in a building. Amit saved a 15-year-old and a 13-year-old and went in again to look for anyone left behind, suffering fatal burns. Amit was one of the recipients of The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage. The stage also recognised Mamoon Akhtar who had to leave school because his father, an iron fabricator, could not pay his fees but went on to complete his education later and start a non-formal school in 2001. Akhtar, founder of the Samaritan Help Mission in Tikiapara, Howrah, on Saturday won The Bhawanipur Education Society College Honour for an Educationist. Amid the pandemic, Akhtar provided food and education to thousands of children and their families. At a time parents are struggling to pay school fees, O’Brien’s appeal to schools was: “Let’s not ask children to leave school.” The MOM Sundarbans Self Help Group — formed by a group of former and present students of Kanaknagar SD Institution, Hingalganj — received The Somak Dutta Endowment. The group trained women in tailoring and provided livelihood to them during the pandemic. Some of these women’s families had no other source of income. The Somak Dutta Endowment went also to the Rokeya Siksha Kendra, a “learning centre” run in Patuli by a group of doctors, engineers, teachers and activists, and to the Sudhu Sundarban Charcha, Hooghly, a group that has in the last 12 years provided education-related material such as books, bags and school uniforms worth Rs 20 lakh to 5,000 students in the remote areas of the Sunderbans. Delhi Public School Megacity and Don Bosco School, Liluah, were joint winners of The Anand Paul Memorial Award for Social Service. Students of DPS Megacity have started the Calcutta Anti-Covid Belt, whose more than 1,200 members have been working with Covid patients and their families, and which now has seven organisational partners. DPS Megacity provided relief during Cyclone Yaas and gave donations for Amphan victims. The MCKV Charity Trust announced 25 scholarships at the award ceremony on the occasion of the MC Kejriwal Vidyapeeth, which it runs, completing 25 years. The trust has been doing social work in Howrah and parts of Jharkhand. O’Brien dedicated the event to Covid warriors — doctors, nurses, attendants, ambulance drivers — many of whom have died. What had started “as a small seed of an idea 26 years ago” has grown strong, O’Brien said. With uncertainty looming large, one needs to stoke the “goodness” inside, he added. “Life is really short, life is really uncertain. So let’s live for ourselves, our families. Let’s live for others too. We will see you next year. Let the movement go on. Start reaching out from tomorrow if you haven’t already,” O’Brien said. The number of entries this year was higher compared with not just last year but even the pre-Covid years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Man shot at by kin over loan repayment||A person in his early thirties was allegedly shot at by his brother-in-law when he asked the latter to repay a loan. The incident occurred at 16th Mile area under Baishnabnagar police station on Saturday afternoon. Om Prakash Quilya, the injured youth, was rushed to the local rural hospital and sent to Malda Medical College and Hospital where he is under treatment. Sources said that a few months back, Quilya had lent Rs 10,000 to his brother-in-law Gopal Ghosh. On Saturday, when Quilya asked Ghosh to repay the loan, an altercation ensued, said sources, and suddenly, Ghosh took out a firearm and shot at him. The bullet hit Quilya on his right leg. Other relatives took Quilya to the hospital. Police have arrested Ghosh based on a complaint filed by relatives of the injured and a probe has started, said a police officer. Woman fleeced A woman from Milanpally of Siliguri was fleeced by two persons who posed as policemen and took away gold ornaments worth around Rs 8 lakh from her on Saturday. Police sources said she was walking through Punjabipara area of the city when the duo approached on a motorcycle and told her that she was wearing excess gold ornaments and could be fined up to Rs 5,000. They suggested she carry her ornaments in a bag. With their help, the lady took off the ornaments which the duo wrapped in paper and handed over to her. When she reached home, she found iron pieces wrapped in the paper. A complaint has been filed with Siliguri Metropolitan Police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Anupam meets BJP workers ‘left in the lurch’||The BJP’s national general secretary Anupam Hazra on Saturday said around 100 party workers had written to him accusing local saffron party leaders of leaving them  in the lurch since the Assembly poll drubbing. Hazra, who said hundreds of party workers across Birbhum had met him or informed in writing that many of these party leaders don’t even take their calls nowadays, promised to raise the issue at a forthcoming working committee meeting where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to attend. “I have received at least a hundred letters from BJP workers from several Assembly segments in Birbhum. The letters say how local leaders are not responding to calls and have not stood with them on the ground to address their problems. I will inform Narendra Modi who is scheduled to attend the party’s working committee meeting on November 7,” said Hazra after meeting around a dozen such aggrieved party workers at his Santiniketan residence. A BJP worker who met Hazra on Saturday said before Assembly polls they were assured of all support and leaders had spoken about the BJP's clout in Delhi. “It was shocking when the party leaders left us alone when we faced attacks by the ruling party immediately after the poll debacle. Many of us have been booked under false cases but BJP leaders are not helping us in legal issues. They don’t even take our calls,” said the BJP worker who refused to be identified. Asked to comment on the issue, Trinamul’s Birbhum district chief Anubrata Mondal was brief in his reply. “It has been established in this Assembly election that the BJP neither had any leader or worker. I will not say anything more in this connection,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Digha tourists drop Covid guard, land in jail||The majority of tourists visiting East Midnapore’s Digha amid the progressive reopening of the local hospitality industry are shunning Covid protocols and likely causing a spike in the number of new reported cases in the district. Police sources said they had “been forced” to arrest errant citizens following reported laxity in enforcing pandemic protocols during Durga Puja. Digha Police Station and Digha Coastal Police Station have arrested 100 tourists over the past three days, with cases being filed against them under Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act (2005). Digha police station officer-in-charge Buddhadev Mal said: “There was an unusual crowd in Digha over the holiday season. According to Covid protocols, police are making loudspeaker announcements exhorting tourists to follow the guidelines, but no one is listening.” Police sources said rowdy tourists had even beaten up civic volunteers on a few occasions when the latter tried to do their job. “This is a certain class of tourists who wantonly flout the rules. This week’s arrests were a precedent to other tourists,” an officer added. Arrested tourists are being kept in the police station for several hours and are being granted bail on personal bonds. Although all these tourists can go home, they will have to appear in court on a subsequent infraction as well as pay a fine. “The administration has warned tourists as well as hotels. Most hotel staff do not wear face masks,” said a district official. On Friday, the block administration held an emergency meeting with two hoteliers’ associations in Digha. Block development officer of Ramnagar-1, Bishnupada Roy, said local trains would start from Sunday. “Crowds could grow in the long run. Hotel staff have been instructed to look into the matter in consultation with the hotel owners’ association and be vigilant.” The crackdown, however, has not gone down well with tourists. “Some of the tourists are very upset because of the strict action. Enforcement is not so strict anywhere in the state. So why is it being exaggerated here?” asked a friend of the arrested tourist, adding that the police could have rather detained him. Bipradas Chakraborty, joint secretary of the Digha Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association, said the police were doing “the right thing” by arresting reckless tourists. “We have asked the police to take action in any hotel break rules.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||State expedites development of private industrial parks||The Bengal government that is putting impetus on job creation in the state has taken up the task to expedite private industrial parks by identifying prospective plots for such parks. On Friday, Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi wrote to all district magistrates of the state, instructing them to identify all parcels of private land measuring 5 acres and above where owners  intend to develop industrial parks. “The idea is to encourage MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) units which can generate employment. Recently, the state has brought a change in its policy and has reduced the quantum of land from 20 acres to 5 acres for setting up of private industrial parks. This has encouraged investors across the state, including north Bengal. That is why, it seems, the state wants to keep a comprehensive database of such plots with it,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, chairman of the north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). In the letter, Dwivedi has said that the district magistrates should find such land that are free from all encumbrances, have necessary road connectivity and availability of water and power. “The DMs have been asked to send a list of such plots to the principal secretary of the state MSME department by November 15. This shows the state’s keenness to develop parks. We want 100 such parks to come up across Bengal in the next three years,” said a an official. Earlier this week, the issue was flagged by representatives of trade bodies of north Bengal before chief minister Mamata Banerjee during an administrative review meeting in Kurseong. Mamata, at the meeting, had underscored  they had brought down the land ceiling and asked the trade bodies to see to it that such parks mushroom in north Bengal. “Several people can get jobs at the units in these parks. Instead of going to other states, they can make a living here,” Mamata had said. In his letter, the chief secretary has said the state has amended its Scheme for Approved Industrial Park which can help the private developers enjoy certain incentives. These include subsidies on government charges and creation of basic infrastructure such as roads and power supply. Tibrewal said they had given information to their members who have been asked to give relevant details of their land to the administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 980 new cases, 880 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 980 new Covid-19 cases, 880 recoveries and 13 deaths. Active cases, or Covid patients under treatment in Bengal, rose by 87 to 8,310. Bengal has 5.4 per cent of India’s active cases, and is fifth among states with the most such cases. Since September 26, when Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 636 in the state’s total of active cases. Calcutta logged 272 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Saturday. A minister said the new infections reported on Saturday were indicative of people that got infected between October 21 and 25. Calcutta reported 272 new infections and four deaths. North 24-Parganas reported 148 new infections and five deaths. These were only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Five districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 705 – 71.94 per cent – of the new infections detected on Friday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.92 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.64 lakh recoveries and 19,126 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypolls: TMC leader’s son ‘hit’ by Khardah BJP candidate's security||Arjyadeep Sinha, son of deceased Trinamul leader Kajal Sinha, alleged he was roughed up by the security personnel of Khardah’s BJP candidate Joy Saha in front of a polling booth on Saturday. “Saha accused one of our workers of being a Bangladeshi. I tried contesting his claim. His security personnel started beating me up,” he told the media from the hospital. Arjyadeep’s father was elected as Khardah's MLA in the Assembly polls but died of Covid, necessitating a bypoll. Saha dismissed the allegation and claimed he was attacked by Trinamul goons when he identified a false voter. “I have told Union home minister Amit Shah that a Bangladeshi national was caught casting a false vote... This compromises our national security,” Saha said The chief electoral officer's office asked for a report from the DM on this. Sources said the report rejected Saha's claims. The Election Commission is said to have sought a report from the state CEO. High turnout Bypolls to four Assembly segments in Bengal, Khardah, Gosaba, Dinhata and Santipur, on Saturday saw high voter turnout. Till 5pm, voter turnout was 69.97 per cent in Cooch Behar's Dihata, 76.14 per cent in Nadia's Santipur, 75.91 per cent in Gosaba in South 24 Parganas and 63.90 per cent in Khardah in North 24 Parganas. "The three Assembly segments, except Khardah, reported more than 80 per cent polling during the Assembly polls in April-May. The trends till 5pm suggest that the turnout would touch that figure and may even cross that in Santipur and Gosaba. Normally, polling percentages are lower in bypolls, but this time, it is bucking the trend," a source in the poll panel said. A section of bureaucrats said the trend suggested people's eagerness to cast their votes in favour of the ruling party, which rolled out a slew of social welfare schemes after coming back to power for the third time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||In Goa, Mamata Banerjee dubs Congress as BJP’s ‘TRP’||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Goa on Saturday accused the Congress of suffering from indecision and thereby strengthening the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Her statements came on a day when Congress MP Rahul Gandhi was also in Goa. “Modiji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress... Congress is the BJP's TRP,” Mamata told journalists at Panaji on the last day of her maiden trip to Goa. “If they (Congress) can’t take a decision the country will suffer. Why should the country suffer...(Congress) have had enough opportunity,” Mamata added but did not specify the Congress’s indecision. Making a reference to the Left-Congress pact in the summer polls in Bengal, she reminded journalists about Rahul’s party taking on the Trinamul instead of the BJP. “Instead of contesting against the BJP, they (Congress) contested against me in my state... They expect we would give flowers to them?” she said. Mamata’s comments came days after her poll strategist Prashant Kishor said for the next few decades the BJP would remain at the centre of Indian politics, even if it wasn’t in power. He had also said Rahul Gandhi was under the misconception that people would be angry enough to overthrow the Modi government. “What I think he (Kishor) meant was that the BJP cannot be defeated the way Congress is functioning...There should be strong decisions. This is what he meant,” Mamata said. However, she refused to speak on what the Congress should do to combat the BJP, saying it wasn’t her party. Mamata also used the last day of her Goa trip to sound out probable alliance partners for the February 2022 Assembly polls there. Trinamul has already said it will contest in all 40 seats in Goa. Mamata met chief of Goa Forward Party Vijay Sardesai and discussed a possible alliance. Sardesai, a BJP ally till April this year, met Mamata in the backdrop of his overtures to the Congress for a possible poll pact being rebuffed. Referring to Mamata as a “symbol of regional pride”, Sardesai welcomed her statement on the need for all regional parties to come together. He said his party had also been speaking in favour of a regional alliance for two years and nobody had paid heed. “We are also a regional party. We welcome her statement...We've been saying the same thing for two years and nobody listened... Trinamul was not there then... I met her today (Saturday) and now we will discuss it (a potential alliance)in our party,” Sardesai told journalists later. Mamata also stressed on the necessity to avoid the division of votes. About her meeting Sardesai, she  said the two parties discussed how the BJP could be defeated through a combined effort. "We discussed the matter... let's work together to fight against the BJP. (Now) it is their decision...We want to avoid division of votes,” she said. She also said her party believed in distributing seats to regional parties. “I want regional parties to be strong. We want the federal structure to be strong. We should make states strong, if states are strong, then the Centre will be strong. Delhi ka dadagiri amka naka (We don’t want Delhi’s bullying), enough is enough,” she said. Reacting to Mamata’s attack, Bengal Congress chief and MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury hit out at the Trinamul supremo and termed her as the BJP’s “Trojan horse”. The Congress leader alleged that Mamata was in touch with BJP leaders, including Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari, as well as RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypolls: BJP poll agent locked up by mom in fear of attack||Afraid of a possible attack on her son, deputed as a BJP polling agent, a woman locked him up at home on Saturday in Nadia’s Santipur, one of the four seats where bypolls were held on Saturday. Tapas Das, 27, a weaver, was supposed to go to a Phuliapara booth as the polling agent for BJP candidate Niranjan Biswas, but mother Madhabi would have none of it. Tapas alleged that on Friday night Trinamul workers reached his home and threatened him with dire consequences if he dared to join as BJP polling agent at the booth near his home on Saturday. His 56-year-old mother ordered him not to step out of home, he said. Fearful that he might disobey her, she locked him up in a room. Later asked why, Madhabi added: “Some youths, who I know well, came around 10.30pm and asked me not to allow my son to visit the polling station. They claimed if my son decided to ignore this diktat, he would be found dead outside the booth. How can I risk my son’s life?” Madhabi said her elder son Tapan, a CPM worker, was unable to withstand threats by ruling party goons in 2018, and suffered a fatal heart attack. When the news of the threats spread, BJP candidate Niranjan Biswas rushed to convince Madhabi to change her mind.Madhabi did not budge. All six members of the family decided not to vote. When the EC representatives visited Tapas’ home and offered security so that the family could vote, Tapas asked zonal magistrate Kaushik Barui: “Will you provide us security after polls?” Biswas said Tapas’s mother did what any mother would have done. “Trinamul-backed goons threatened villagers with dire consequences if they dare visit polling stations. Police were mum. The EC did not respond,” he alleged. BJP MP from Ranaghat Jagannath Sarkar won the Assembly polls, but stayed on as MP, which led to the bypoll. Trinamul candidate Brajakishore Das termed the allegations of threat baseless and BJP’s ploy to mislead voters. However, a local source said the BJP’s victory in the summer polls perhaps made the Trinamul camp want to “plug the loopholes” this time. “There was no threat in the last election (earlier this year). But recently known faces have begun to behave like strangers. Saturday night’s threat was alarming” Tapas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
