01-10-2021||Business||By 2024, the battle of the skies could well be between Tata Air India and Indigo||The government is denying media reports that it has approved a bid by Tata Sons to  take over Air India. But it seems a virtual certainty that the airline will be sold to the Tatas with Bloomberg reporting that an official announcement is expected in the next coming days. So let’s take a peek to see what India’s aviation market might look like in years to come. Fast-forward to 2024. There’s a fierce battle over Indian skies between IndiGo Airlines and the old-new challenger Tata Air India (let’s call it TAI). Tata was the only real bidder for Air India in 2021 and finally walked away with the not-so-glittering prize that it wasn’t quite sure what to do with. TAI has had a hard time from the day it began flying under the new nomenclature proudly emblazoned on all its aircraft. By 2021, IndiGo had already built up a market share of around 59-60 per cent of the Indian passenger market and was the undisputed choice of a majority of the flying public. Any challenger was bound to be punched on the nose – more than once. By contrast, TAI – created from the merger of Air India, Vistara and Air Asia India – together only added up to about 25 per cent of the Indian flying market that had been badly battered by the global pandemic. On the ground, too, there were battles to be fought. Ask any corporate honcho and they will tell you that bringing about a merger between two companies is always a nightmare with both sides fighting for dominance in the new entity. In fact, after a decade, there are still rivalries between the old Indian Airlines staff and people from the former Air India who think that the people from the domestic airline stole the best jobs. The Tatas had a nightmare three-way logistics and personnel problem on their lap: they had to bring together the vastly different cultures of the Government-run Air India. By contrast, Vistara, jointly owned by the Tatas and Singapore Airlines, had been tightly run with a CEO from Singapore. Air Asia India, though, had never got its management structure right and had never been able to make a dent in the Indian market. Says an aviation industry expert: “Merging three different airlines with three totally different cultures represents a huge challenge.” To add to the complications, Air Asia was a low-cost airline and Vistara a full-service airline. Air India too, had its full-service airline and Air India Express, its low-cost sibling. It’s standard wisdom in the aviation industry that you can’t mix the two airline models. Initially, there were fears that both Singapore Airlines and Air Asia would object to this new merger. But Air Asia has its own difficulties at home and wanted out of the Indian market. It originally had a 49 per cent stake in Air Asia India and in 2020 sold about 33 per cent to the Tatas. That left them with about 15 per cent and it was rumoured they were ready to sell for just under $18 million. By and large, Air Asia has washed its hands of its Indian subsidiary. It’s even changed the email addresses of the Indian subsidiary. Its website is now airasia.co.in from airasia.com. Singapore was less keen, but after being battered by the pandemic was ready to go along and hope that TAI might be able to take on IndiGo. Vistara was well-managed and heading in the right direction but with only a 4 per cent to 5 per cent share of the Indian market, had a long struggle ahead. TAI had to figure how to fit into the new organisation Vistara CEO Vinod Kannan, a Singaporean Indian, who had been sent to India by Singapore Airlines. The biggest question of all was who should head TAI and could a person with the right experience be found in India or should it launch a mammoth headhunting operation in the international aviation industry. One decision-maker would clearly be Bhaskar Bhat, the long-time managing director of Titan, who had been the Vistara chairman since 2016. Bhat has always been highly regarded in every industry he has been in. TAI did have its strengths right from the day it began flying under the new nomenclature. The biggest of these was Air India’s international long-haul routes like Delhi and Mumbai to San Francisco and JFK, in New York. “Air India has good long-haul routes. If they can hold on to that definitely in three-four years it will be a huge opportunity for the Tatas,” says an airline industry executive. However, he points out that one weak point for Air India is that most of its fleet is on the older side. Also, Air India Express, headquartered in Kochi, had managed to get a good bite of the Gulf traffic. By contrast, IndiGo has made only hesitant steps internationally. It started a flight to Istanbul but it had one stop in the Gulf. It had also earlier started flights to destinations like Riyadh and Singapore. IndiGo is very conscious that a key factor in keeping its costs low has been flying one type of single-aisle aircraft that can be used on any route. In 2024, it’s slated to take possession of the Airbus A321XLR, a single-aisle aircraft that can fly to Europe and East Asian markets like Singapore. However, it won’t be able to have a business class on such flights. With two strong airlines, it should be possible for India to reclaim its own international market. In the 2010-2020 decade, it lost most of the international market to foreign carriers. The biggest chunk of the Indian market has been taken by the Gulf carriers like Emirates and Qatar Air. In fact, only about 15 per cent of Indian passengers were flying on Indian carriers. And Indian travellers who stop at Dubai or Doha, form about 30 per cent of passengers for the Gulf carriers. Airline experts believe that in the wake of the pandemic, globally passengers will want to not change flights. Says one expert: “I see hub-and-spoke operations coming down after Covid-19. People will not want to risk two flights rather than one.” On the domestic front, TAI will have a different problem. Around 80 per cent of the Indian market is made up of low-cost flyers. Vistara and Air India mostly offer full-service flights. Says an aviation industry expert: “In economy, you cannot charge more than IndiGo." One solution to this problem might be to run full-service flights on the metro routes – the airline would be able to cash in by carrying business class passengers. Then, on smaller city routes, like say, Ranchi to Delhi, it could have low-cost flights. IndiGo has, for over a decade, had a tried-and-tested model. The question is whether the Tatas will be able to match it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||Facebook 'actioned' about 31.7 million content pieces in August 2021: Compliance report||Facebook "actioned" about 31.7 million content pieces across 10 violation categories proactively during August in the country, the social media giant said in its compliance report on Friday. Facebook's photo sharing platform, Instagram took action against about 2.2 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. Facebook had "actioned" over 33.3 million content pieces across 10 violation categories proactively during June 16-July 31 in the country. Instagram took action against about 2.8 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. On Friday, Facebook said it had received 904 user reports for Facebook through its Indian grievance mechanism between August 1-31. "Of these incoming reports, Facebook provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 754 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc," it added. Between August 1-31, Instagram received 106 reports through the Indian grievance mechanism. Over the years, we have consistently invested in technology, people and processes to further our agenda of keeping our users safe and secure online and enable them to express themselves freely on our platform. "We use a combination of Artificial Intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies," a Facebook spokesperson said. In accordance with the IT Rules, the company has published its third monthly compliance report for the period for 31 days (1 August - 31 August), the spokesperson added. "This report will contain details of the content that we have removed proactively using our automated tools and details of user complaints received and action taken, the spokesperson said. In its report, Facebook said it had actioned about 31.7 million pieces of content across 10 categories during August 2021. This includes content related to spam (25.9 million), violent and graphic content (2.6 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (2 million), and hate speech (242,000). Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (90,400), suicide and self-injury (677,300), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (274,200) and dangerous organisations and Individuals: organised hate (31,600). "Actioned" content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning. The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 80.6-100 per cent. The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 50.9 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. For Instagram, about 2.2 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during August 2021. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (577,000), violent and graphic content (885,700), adult nudity and sexual activity (462,400), and bullying and harassment (270,300). Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (37,200), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (6,300), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (2,300).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 361 points in closing trade||Extending its losses for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 361 points on Friday, weighed by HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 360.78 points or 0.61 per cent lower at 58,765.58. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 86.10 points or 0.49 per cent to 17,532.05. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finance and HDFC. On the other hand, M&M, Dr Reddy's, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid were among the gainers. Benchmark indices fell for the fourth consecutive day on weak global cues, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Heavy selling pressure on financials (excluding PSU banks) and IT dragged the index. However, buying was seen in pharma, metals and PSU banks, he noted. He added that better-than-expected sales volume for select automobile companies enabled Nifty Auto index to recover from day's low, while investors preferred to book some amount of profit in the IT space ahead of September quarter earnings beginning from next week. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended in the red. Shanghai and Hong Kong markets were closed for a holiday. Equities in Europe were also trading with significant losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.47 per cent to USD 77.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||GST collection touches all-time high in September at Rs 1.17 lakh crore||India's GST collection remained above Rs 1 lakh crore for the third month in a row at over Rs 1.17 lakh crore in September, raising expectations that second half of the year will post higher revenues. The tax collections in September on goods sold and services rendered was 23 per cent higher than Rs 95,480 crore collected in September 2020, and 27 per cent higher than Rs 91,916 crore collected in September 2019. The collection in September is the highest in five months since April, when revenue was at record high of Rs 1.41 lakh crore. Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in August and July was Rs 1.12 lakh crore and Rs 1.16 lakh crore respectively. "The gross GST revenue collected in the month of September 2021 is Rs 1,17,010 crore of which Central GST is Rs 20,578 crore, State GST is Rs 26,767 crore, Integrated GST is Rs 60,911 crore (including Rs 29,555 crore collected on import of goods) and Cess is Rs 8,754 crore (including Rs 623 crore collected on import of goods), the finance ministry said in a statement. During September, revenues from import of goods were 30 per cent higher and the revenues from domestic transactions (including import of services) were 20 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year. The average monthly gross GST collection for the second (July-September) quarter of the current year has been Rs 1.15 lakh crore, which is 5 per cent higher than the average monthly collection of Rs 1.10 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year. "This clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. Coupled with economic growth, anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers have also been contributing to the enhanced GST collections. It is expected that the positive trend in the revenues will continue and the second half of the year will post higher revenues," it added. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co Partner Rajat Bose said the buoyancy in GST collection is a good indicator of economic recovery. "As the festive season starts, GST collections should also see a rise in the near future," Bose added. The Centre has also released GST compensation of Rs 22,000 crore to States to meet their GST revenue gap, the ministry added. ICRA Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said the release of GST compensation cess of Rs 22,000 crore will benefit the states' cash flow situation, allowing accelerated spending in December quarter, complementing the expected boost to central government spending. Deloitte India Senior Director MS Mani said the GST collection figures indicate that growth of the economy is leading to stable collections, which would help in achieving the fiscal deficit target of 6.8 per cent of GDP. "Most of the key manufacturing states reporting a growth of 20 per cent plus compared to last year does indicate that an economic revival is clearly in progress across key states," Mani added. Mani further said the significant increase in GST collections both from import and domestic transactions compared to the same period last year and the marked increase in the collections in key states indicates an acceleration in business activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||Government junks report of Tata Sons acquiring Air India||India's finance ministry said on Friday reports suggesting the government has picked a winning bid for the debt-laden state-run airline Air India were incorrect. Earlier on Friday, Bloomberg reported that a panel of ministers accepted a proposal from officials recommending salt-to-software conglomerate Tata Sons ahead of an offer from Ajay Singh, promoter of India's airline operator Spicejet Ltd . "Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect," the ministry said in a tweet. "Media will be informed of the Government decision as and when it is taken." Air India and Tata Sons declined to comment. Earlier this month the finance ministry said it had received bids for the airline, but did not name the bidders. A possible sale would come at a time the airline industry is trying to recover from the slump in travel caused by restrictions aimed at containing the coronavirus pandemic. This would also be seen as a relief to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, which has been pushing to sell its entire interest in the loss-making airline. The winning bidder would win control of Air India's 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas, including London's Heathrow Airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged over 500 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid sustained foreign fund outflow and a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 500.67 points or 0.85 per cent lower at 58,625.69. Similarly, the Nifty declined 150.40 points or 0.85 per cent to 17,467.75. Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel and HDFC. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, M&M and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 286.91 points or 0.48 per cent lower at 59,126.36, and Nifty declined 93.15 points or 0.53 per cent to 17,618.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,225.60 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "The risk-off in equity markets has gathered momentum with sharp cuts in the mother market of the US. The Dow and S&P 500 are now more than 5 per cent off from their record highs. Markets, globally, have turned weak," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. He further noted that there are indications of a correction in India too. The leader of this rally, IT, is showing signs of exhaustion. When the leader turns weak, the resilience of the market will be tested. Sustained FII selling is another negative signal. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Shanghai and Hong Kong markets were closed for a holiday. Equities on Wall Street too ended with significant losses in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.19 per cent to USD 78.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Government hikes domestic natural gas prices  by 62 per cent||The government on Thursday hiked by 62 per cent the prices of domestic natural gas used by fertiliser units, power plants and CNG for automobiles and piped natural gas supplied to households. The price of natural gas produced by state-owned firms such as ONGC from fields given to them on a nomination basis will be $2.90 per million British thermal unit for a six-month period beginning October 1, the oil ministry’s Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) said. The rate for gas produced from difficult deepsea fields would be $6.13 per mBtu against $3.62 per mBtu earlier.  The prices will be applicable on a gross heat value basis. This is the first increase in rates since April 2019 and comes on the back of firming up of benchmark international prices but does not reflect the spurt in spot or current price of liquefied natural gas in the last few  weeks. The BJP-led government had in October 2014 adopted a formula that takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (UK), Alberta (Canada) and Russia with a lag of one-quarter. Prices are set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 — each year. The increase in gas price is likely to result in a 10-11 per cent rise in CNG and piped cooking gas rates in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, sources said. It will also lead to a rise in the cost of generating electricity but consumers may not feel any major pinch as the share of power produced from gas is very low. The cost of producing fertiliser will also go up but as the government offers subsidy on the crop nutrient, the rates may not go up for the consumer. Natural gas prices affect earnings of state-run producers such as ONGC and Oil India Ltd. A dollar increase in price results in Rs 5,200 crore revenue for ONGC on an annualised basis, sources said. Sabyasachi Majumdar, senior vice-president & group head — corporate sector ratings, Icra, said: “The increase in gas prices provides limited relief to Indian upstream producers as even at these prices, gas production remains a loss-making proposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Covid: JSW group forced to delay expansion in paints||The JSW group has been forced to delay its expansion in paints because of the pandemic. JSW Paints plans to expand in the north, central and eastern regions and the company has earmarked an investment of Rs 750 crore. A decision on the expansion is likely to be made by the end of the current fiscal. The board of directors of JSW Steel in July has approved investments in JSW Paints in tranches between 2021-22 and 2024-25. At present, the company has an industrial coatings facility in Maharashtra and a decorative unit in Karnataka with a combined capacity of 115,000 kilo litres per annum. The third plant of JSW Paints could come up at Salboni in Bengal where the $13-billion group has a cement factory. JSW Paints will expand mainly in the decorative segment where the company is looking towards improving its market shares to 5 per from 1.5 per cent over a three- year period. “We had commissioned and launched the paints business in 2019. We were expecting a quick and rapid ramp up. But more than a year-and-a half has been affected because of the pandemic and that has slowed our plans to scale up,” said A.S Sundaresan, joint managing director and CEO, JSW Paints. The company on Thursday announced its foray into the Bengal market which will be catered from its existing plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Govt mandate for all auto makers to produce flex-fuel engines||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said that the government will make it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines, after it gets permission from the Supreme Court. Flex-fuel, or flexible fuel, is an alternative fuel made of a combination of gasoline and methanol or ethanol. Addressing the annual session of industry body PHDCCI, Gadkari said that the government is working to develop an ethanol economy. “We are going to make it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines (that can run on more than one fuel),” the road transport and highways minister said. The minister cited examples of Brazil, Canada and the USA, where most automobile companies manufacture flex-fuel engines vehicles. “We have submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court. When we get the permission of the Supreme Court, then we will make it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines,” Gadkari added. Gadkari suggested that the military should ban the use of diesel engine vehicles and use trucks which run on LNG, CNG and ethanol. The minister pointed out that ethanol is much cheaper than petrol and diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Ola Electric raises over $200 million in funding||Ola Electric on Thursday said it has raised over $200 million (about Rs 1,484.7 crore) in funding from Falcon Edge, SoftBank and others, valuing the electric vehicle maker at $3 billion (about Rs 22,272 crore). Ola will accelerate the development of other vehicle platforms, including electric motorbike, mass market scooter and its electric car, a statement said. The funding will further strengthen Ola’s ‘Mission Electric’ that urges the industry and consumers to commit to electric and ensure that no petrol two-wheeler is sold in India after 2025, it added. “We’re proud to lead the EV revolution from India to the world. India has the talent and the capability to build technologies of the future for the industries of the future for the entire world. I thank our existing investors and welcome new ones to Ola,” Ola chairman and group CEO Bhavish Aggarwal said. In July, Ola Electric had announced signing a $100 million (about Rs 744.5 crore) 10 year-term debt financing agreement with BoB.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India may raise reverse repo rate next week||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is forecast to raise the reverse repo rate as early as next week — in the first big step towards policy normalisation as it looks to sponge the excess liquidity out of the system amid better prospects for the domestic economy with the US Federal Reserve likely to cut back on its  bond purchases  by the end of this calendar year. Citigroup economists Samiran Chakraborty and Baqar Zaidi said the central bank could raise the reverse repo rate — it is the rate at which the RBI mops up liquidity from the system — by 15 basis points in its October monetary policy. The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI will meet for three days from October 6. Bond markets were expecting the RBI to raise the repo rates only in December. Since the start of the pandemic, the RBI has ensured there was surplus liquidity in the system to keep the cost of funds low and boost economic growth. This had resulted in the reverse repo becoming the operative repo rate. There were some indications of policy normalisation in the August meeting of the rate panel when the central bank increased the size of the variable rate reverse repo auction — which is of a longer duration than the overnight reverse repo — to Rs 4 lakh crore against Rs 2 lakh crore earlier, though RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had denied it was a case of liquidity tightening. The RBI in a surprise move on Wednesday has set a higher cut-off yield for the 7-day variable reverse repo auction at 3.99 per cent which is closer to the repo rate of 4 per cent and not that of the reverse repo which is 3.35 per cent. “Increasing size and cut-off rates of recent VRRR auctions might have indicated the RBI’s willingness to normalise the liquidity management operations earlier than expected. Hence, we shift our 15 basis points reverse repo hike forecast to the October policy from December earlier,’’ the Citi economists said. They said they were expecting MPC to give a modest nudge towards liquidity normalisation next week but the RBI’s manoeuvres in the last fortnight has opened up other possibilities. This includes the 3.99 per cent cut-off in the latest VRRR auction, substantially higher than the 3.4-3.5 per cent range set earlier. “One can infer from this that the RBI is willing to normalise the liquidity management operations by reducing the amount absorbed under the fixed rate reverse repo and also bring the operative rate closer to the repo rate,’’ the note said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel to invest Rs 5,000cr to triple data centre capacity by 2025||Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it will be investing Rs 5,000 crore to triple its data centre capacity by 2025. The telco has unveiled a refreshed brand identity ‘Nxtra by Airtel’ for the data centre business. The company will set up seven hyperscale campuses and increase the share of green power in running data centres to 50 per cent from the present 35 per cent. “We are making a fresh investment of Rs 5,000 crore to expand our data centres. Some of the work has already started. As an organisation we are trying to build an ecosystem which will cover 70 more cities,’’ said Ajay Chitkara, director and CEO, Airtel Business. The company is already operating 10 large data centres and 120 edge data centres (relatively smaller facilities) located close to target markets, covering 70 cities in the country. Coupled with Airtel’s global network, it offers integrated solutions to large Indian enterprises, start-ups, SMEs and governments. The company is setting up new data centres in Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Noida and Calcutta. Nxtra expects the Chennai data centre to go live by October, Mumbai in the next 18 months and Calcutta by 2024. Its largest data centre will come up in Pune. On Calcutta, he said that it is one of the growth areas for Airtel and it also become a hub for neighbouring countries. Chitkara pointed out that India is expected to become a hub of data centres in the next three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||NCLT directs Zee Entertainment to hold board meeting||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Thursday directed Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd to hold a board meeting to consider Invesco’s request to convene an extraordinary general meeting EGM) to discuss matters related to the removal of MD and CEO Puneet Goenka and a major board reshuffle by appointing six new directors. US-based Invesco — which along with OFI Global China Fund hold 17.88 per cent in Zee — had dragged Zee to the NCLT for not announcing the date of the EGM . At the hearing, the NCLT Mumbai bench, comprising Bhaskara Pantula Mohan and Chandra Bhan Singh, directed Zee to hold the board meeting to discuss EGM dates. The tribunal said the law mandates Zee to convene the extraordinary general meeting, and the board does not have any discretionary power on whether to call the meeting or not. It also asked the company to communicate the board decisions appropriately to the shareholders. The tribunal will now hear the matter on October 4. “The board of the company is scheduled to meet according to the statutory time allotted, in relation to the matter. The company will continue to take all the actions needed in the interest of the shareholders under the law,’’ a spokesperson for Zee said. According to Section 100 of the Companies Act, a company has to announce an EGM date within 21 days of the receipt of a letter from any shareholder who holds more than 10 per cent . The meeting should be held within 45 days after receiving the letter, failing which the investor has the right to call the meeting within three months at company expenses. Zee has time till October 2 to announce the date as Invesco had shot off the letter on September 11. The NCLT said the Zee board should comply with Section 100 of the Companies Act and it does not have any power to deny the EGM. Mukul Rohatgi, who represented Invesco, told the tribunal that Zee was not being run as it should be and, therefore, they want to remove Goenka from the company’s board. Rohatgi said the two shareholders can call for an EGM on their own but it would be very difficult for them to reach out to all the 2.5 lakh shareholders of Zee as their details are not available to them. Gopal Subramaniam who appeared on behalf of Zee said a meeting of the independent directors is taking place on Thursday. Following that, the board of ZEEL will meet and a decision will be taken before the deadline. Dhanlaxmi activism Dhanlaxmi Bank on Thursday said its shareholders have rejected the appointment of statutory auditor P.B. Vijayaraghavan & Co. The bank had listed four agendas at its annual general meeting on Wednesday, of which two were passed and two rejected. The shareholders also rejected a proposal for the authorisation to the board of directors to appoint and fix remuneration of branch auditors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Tata Steel sells NatSteel Holdings Pte Ltd for $172 million||Tata Steel has exited NatSteel Holdings Pte Ltd by selling the company to a Singapore-based trading outfit for $172 million (Rs 1,275 crore). The move is in line with Tata Steel’s plan to pivot the business on the profit making Indian operations and look for opportunities to trim overseas exposure. Singapore-based NatSteel was the first global gambit taken by the company after nearly a century of domestic orientation. A statement from the company said that transaction has been closed and consideration received. They took place on the same day as the signing of the definitive agreement, setting a benchmark in the merger and acquisition space. The proceeds from the sale will be utilised to retire offshore debt. The buyer of the company is TopTip Holding Pte Ltd, a Singapore-based steel and iron ore company. Tata Steel will, however, retain the wires business of NatSteel in Thailand (Siam Industrial Wires) as part of its downstream wires portfolio. Tata Steel said the valuation is 13 times of the historical EBIDTA of the business. The Indian company had acquired NatSteel in 2004 for Rs 1,313 crore, which was soon followed by the acquisition of Millennium Steel in Thailand in 2005 and Corus Group Plc in 2007. The Tatas had been looking to exit the South East Asian business for some time. In 2019, it had signed a definitive agreement to sell a 70 per cent stake in NatSteel and Tata Steel Thailand (formerly Millennium Steel) to China’s HBIS Group for $327 million. But the deal was aborted after the Chinese company failed to get the requisite approval to go ahead with the transaction. The entire SE Asia operation continued as “assets held for sale” on the books of Tata Steel for two more years thereafter. It was readjusted to “continuing operation” from the fourth quarter of the last fiscal. The company had then cited strong performance of the business as the reason for the reclassification. The 2-million-tonne steel operation had recorded a turnover of Rs 4,326 crore and profit after tax of Rs 42 crore in 2020-21. The SEA operation (including Thailand) also had a strong first quarter, earning cumulative EBIDTA of Rs 407 crore. However, within months of the reclassification, Tata Steel decided to sell out. Chatterjee in panel Koushik Chatterjee, ED & CFO of Tata Steel, joined Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) as its member. Officially launched in June 2021, TNFD aims to provide a framework for organisations to report and act on evolving nature-related risks in order to support a shift in global financial flows away from nature-negative outcomes and toward nature-positive outcomes. The 30-member committee is led by Elizabeth Mrema, United Nation’s assistant secretary general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
