02-10-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal dismisses Air India, claims, says govt has taken no decision||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the government has not taken any decision on Air India so far and the final winner will be selected through a well defined process. "I have been in Dubai since...day before and I don't think there is any such decision that has happened at all. Of course bids were invited...and that is assessed by the officers and in due course of time, there is a whole well laid down process through which the final winner will selected," he told reporters here. He was replying to a question about media reports stating Tatas have emerged as the top bidder for the takeover of debt-laden Air India. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary to Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) -- the government department responsible for privatisation -- had said in a tweet on Friday that the Centre has so far not approved any financial bid for Air India. "Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the Government's decision as and when it is taken," he tweeted. When asked about the proposed free trade agreement with the UAE, he said there are lot of opportunities for Indian businesses in sectors such as textiles, gems and jewellery, pharma and healthcare. There is tremendous potential in both goods and services, he added. On investments, he said "we have to encourage Indian businesses to engage with the UAE."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Fuel prices soar to record high across country||Petrol and diesel prices soared to new record highs across the country on Saturday after rates were hiked again by 25 paise and 30 paise a litre, respectively. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest ever level of Rs 102.14 a litre and to Rs 108.19 in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 90.47 in Delhi and Rs 98.16 a litre in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. The price hike follows international oil prices soaring to near three-year high as global output disruptions forced energy companies to draw more crude oil out of their stockpiles. The basket of crude oil India imports has averaged USD 78 per barrel in last few days. The fourth increase in its rates this week has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the seventh increase in prices in nine days has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. State-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) resumed daily price revisions on September 24 after international oil prices neared a three-year high. Global benchmark Brent crude is trading above USD 78 per barrel. In seven price increases since September 24, diesel rates have gone up by 1.85 paise per litre. Petrol price has increased by Re 1 per litre in four instalments this week. When international oil rates fell in July and August, retail prices of petrol and diesel in the Delhi market were reduced by Rs 0.65 and Rs 1.25 per litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Tata Sons emerge as top bidder for Air India||The Tatas look all set to clinch Air India, the state-owned loss-making airline. The capital has been abuzz with talk that a committee of secretaries opted for the Tata bid, preferring it over the one put in by SpiceJet owner Ajay Singh along with a few partners. On Friday as reports swirled that the Tatas had won the bid for Air India, divestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tried to douse the talk with a tweet that said the government had not reached a final decision. The bid will now be scrutinised by a group of ministers headed by home minister Amit Shah. This panel includes finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal, and civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. “Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by the government in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the government decision as and when it is taken,” Pandey tweeted soon after news channels started reporting the deal. The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd (AISATS). AISATS, a leading provider of catering and ground handling services, is a joint venture with SATS Ltd of Singapore. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In April 2021, the government asked potential bidders to put in financial bids. The core Group of Secretaries headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held several rounds of consultations before picking Tata Sons as the best suitor for the national carrier. Officials indicated that the Tatas had outbid the SpiceJet chairman, adding that Ajay Singh had placed a “competitive bid” for the airline through a consortium. Tata Sons submitted its financial bid through its subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd. Earlier this week, valuation firm RBSA Advisors and EY, the consultant for the disinvestment, had made a presentation to the committee of secretaries. They had reportedly set the reserve price in the range of Rs 15,000-20,000 crore. The government plans to hand over Air India by the end of December. If they win, Air India will return to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. A document floated by DIPAM in January 2020 had estimated the airline's debt at Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019. Under the initial bidding terms, the buyer was required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore. The rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The bidding terms were later revised and the bidder was no longer expected to assume a pre-fixed debt of Rs 23,000 crore. Instead, the eligible bidder was required to quote an enterprise value (EV) based on their estimate of the combined value of AI’s equity and debt in their financial bid. The winning bid will be picked on the basis of the highest EV quotation. At least 15 per cent of this value will need to be paid in cash. The rest can be taken on as debt. The state is also likely to offer indemnity to successful bidders from lawsuits filed by foreign mega corporations against AI to recover arbitration awards they have won against India. The airline is contesting these claims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Zee board rejects Invesco's request for convening EGM||The board of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd on Friday rejected Invesco’s demand to hold an extraordinary general meeting, setting the stage for a legal battle between them. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Thursday had directed Zee to call a board meet to decide on Invesco’s demand for the EGM that sought to oust MD and CEO Punit Goenka and appoint  six new directors. After a meeting on Friday, Zee said that its board “arrived at a conclusion that the requisition is invalid and illegal; and has accordingly conveyed its inability to convene the EGM to Invesco Developing Markets Funds and OFI Global China Fund, LLC”. Invesco has the option to convene the EGM at the company’s expense which has to be held within three months. In a regulatory filing, the company said that its board sought the opinion of independent counsel, legal experts including senior retired Supreme Court judges and evaluated the matter in a fair and transparent manner. “The Board has arrived at this decision by referring to various non-compliances under multiple laws, including the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) guidelines, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) guidelines and key clauses under the Companies Act & Competition Act, and after taking into account the interests of all the shareholders and stakeholders of the company,” Zee said. In a detailed submission to the stock exchanges, the company dwelt on the multiple legal infirmities with regard to the requisition notice. It cited I&B ministry guidelines to say prior permission from them is mandatory to effect any change in the CEO or the board of directors. Paragraph 5.10 of the ministry’s guidelines for the uplinking of TV channels from India framed on December 5, 2011 say “it will be obligatory on the part of the company to take prior permission from the MIB before effecting any change in the CEO/ Board of Directors’’. Invesco had said in its notice that the resolutions proposed for the appointment of directors contemplate them to be subject to approval from MIB, while the resolution on  Goenka is not contingent upon any prior approval from MIB. Sebi rules The board cited violation of Sebi takeover rules of it accepted the Invesco proposal. The non-compliance is on the count of the fund proposing the appointment of one half of the board without the approval of the nomination and remuneration committee of Zee and the board. Zee claimed that the Invesco proposals also does not follow the process laid down under Companies Act and Sebi’s listing regulations for the appointment of independent directors. According to Zee, Invesco’s proposal would result in  effecting a change in control of the company without making an open offer. It said regulation 17 of the Sebi listing rules mandates that a board shall have an optimum combination of executive and non-executive directors and that not less than 50 per cent of the board of directors shall comprise of non-executive directors. However, if Invesco’s proposals are effected, the company’s board will comprise of all non-executive directors. Therefore, it will be in contravention of the market regulator’s listing regulations. Additionally, Section 203 of the Companies Act obligates the Company to have a managing director, or CEO, or manager and in their absence, a whole-time director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki sales dip 46 per cent to 86,380 units in September||The shortage of semiconductors has impacted car sales with Maruti Suzuki India reporting a 46.16 per cent decline in sales at 86,380 units in September. The company had sold 1,60,442 units in September last year. Domestic sales slipped 54.9 per cent to 68,815 units last month from 1,52,608 units in September 2020. Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) reported a 23.6 per cent decline in total sales at 45,791 units in September as continued semiconductor shortage took a toll on production and dispatches. The Korean auto major had sold 59,913 units a year ago. Tata Motors sold 24,652 units of passenger vehicles last month compared with 20,891 units in September 2020, marking an 18 per cent growth. MG Motor India on Friday reported a 28 per cent increase in retail sales at 3,241 units in September 2021 despite facing production challenges due to semiconductor shortage. Skoda sold 3,027 units last month to register 131 per cent year-on-year sales growth. Nissan reported a significant 261 per cent sales growth as it sold 2,816 units in India last month against 780 units in September 2020. Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) reported a 14 per cent growth in its domestic wholesales to 9,284 units in September as compared with same month last year. Bajaj Auto reported a 16 per cent decline in total domestic sales at 1,92,348 units in September this year. Farm machinery and construction equipment major Escorts reported a 25.6 per cent decline in total tractor sales at 8,816 units in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Oyo hops on to IPO bandwagon, files for Rs 8,430 crore offering||Hotel aggregator Oyo has filed preliminary documents for a Rs 8,430 crore initial public offering (IPO) as it joined the rush of technology unicorns looking to capitalise on a world-beating rally on the stock exchanges. The offering will consist of a fresh issue of shares of up to Rs 7,000 crore and an offer for sale of as much as Rs 1,430 crore, according to the draft prospectus filed with Sebi. The hotel-booking startup, whose official name is Oravel Stays Ltd, in the prospectus said it has made losses in each year since incorporation and the pandemic has further “materially and adversely impacted” its business. The firm incurred a loss of Rs 2,364.53 crore in FY19, which widened to Rs 13,122.77 crore in the following year but reduced to Rs 3,943.84 crore in FY21. It had aggregate outstanding borrowings of Rs 4,890.55 crore as of July 31, a part of which will be repaid from proceeds of the issue. While founder Ritesh Agarwal and his holding company had a combined 33.15 per cent stake, SoftBank owned 46.62 per cent of Oyo and AirBnB Inc 1.36 per cent. Agarwal held 8.21 per cent and his Cayman-registered holding company RA Hospitality Holdings 24.94 per cent. SoftBank’s arm SVF India Holdings (Cayman), A1 Holdings Inc, China Lodging Holdings (HK), and Global IVY Ventures LLP are among the entities selling some of their shares in the IPO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Grasim Industries gets Rs 8,334 crore income tax demand||Grasim Industries Ltd on Friday said the income tax department has raised a demand of Rs 8,334 crore on the company as capital gains tax with regard to the sale of shares in a group firm. The Aditya Birla Group firm added that it would take “appropriate action” against the tax demand. Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (DCIT) has raised a demand for the assessment year 2018-19, Grasim Industries said in a regulatory filing. This is related to the scheme of Grasim Industries’ merger with Aditya Birla Nuvo and Aditya Birla Financial Services.  The company said it would “take appropriate action against the said Order which it believes is against the spirit of tax laws.” Earlier, the DCIT had sought dividend distribution tax for the same deal in 2019, which was stayed by the Bombay High Court. DCIT has likewise imposed a capital gain tax on the value of shares, without considering that the shares were issued to the shareholders pursuant to the scheme of arrangement and no consideration was received by the company which could be subjected to tax, Grasim Industries noted. “As a corollary to the earlier order, the DCIT has valued the shares issued by the Resulting Company (Aditya Birla Capital Limited) at Rs 24,037 Crore as the sale consideration for transfer of undertaking and has made the addition of capital gains of Rs 22,772 Crore to the income of the Company as part of scrutiny assessment for the AY 2018-19 and has passed draft assessment order on 30th September 2021. “Based on the draft Order, demand for the AY 2018-19 is estimated at Rs 8,334 Crore, including interest and excluding any penalty proceedings,” the filing said. In September 2017, the Ahmedabad bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had approved the merger of Aditya Birla Nuvo (ABNL) with Grasim Industries, to be followed by the listing of Aditya Birla Financial Services Ltd (ABFSL). Grasim Industries, flagship company of the Aditya Birla Group, is a diversified player with a presence across sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Reliance Retail extends deadline to complete Rs 24,713 crore deal with Future Group||Reliance Retail Ventures, the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), has again extended the timeline to complete its Rs 24,713crore deal with the Future group to March 31, 2022. The deal has been contested by Amazon which holds 49 per cent in Future Coupons which in turn is a shareholder of Future Retail Ltd (FRL). In a regulatory filing on Friday, Future Retail said Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) has "extended the timeline for Long Stop Date from September 30, 2021 to March 31, 2022 to which has been duly acknowledged by Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd, wholly owned subsidiary of RRVL". Earlier, RRVL had extended the timeline for the long stop date from March 31, 2021 to September 30, 2021. Long stop is a timeframe in which parties agree to complete a transaction by fulfilling all the necessary conditions for the deal. The development comes after the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) allowed Future Group companies to hold shareholder meetings and seek creditor approval for the proposed sale of its retail business to RRVL. Amazon had filed an application objecting to the NCLT considering the scheme pending completion of its arbitration proceedings against Future Retail. In September, the apex court had directed NCLT, CCI and Sebi not to pass any final order with regard to the dispute for four weeks. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd — and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. Shares of Future Retail on Friday ended marginally higher at Rs 51.90 on the announcement while Future Enterprises settled higher at Rs 8.99. After Future entered into a deal with Reliance Industries in August last year, the US retail giant had dragged the Kishore Biyani-led group into arbitration at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). In October 2020, an interim award was passed by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) in favour of Amazon that barred FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. While both the parties had filed petitions in domestic courts, recently the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the EA award was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. Given these litigations, RRVL for the second time extended the timeline for completing the transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||HDFC Bank in a spot over fake loan fee ||A whistleblower has alleged that HDFC Bank has levied processing fees on customers who had submitted forged or suspected documents to get loans — instead of reporting them to the authorities. The whistleblower has reportedly written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in July that the private sector lender collected a fine which it called “processing fee” after finding that a customer had submitted fake documents to get a loan. It alleged that the penalty was in return for not taking any regulatory or legal action. Responding to the charges, a spokesperson for the bank said that once such applications are identified to be discrepant or suspicious, the bank attempts to provide an opportunity to these people to come and clarify. However, in number of cases, applicants do not respond. The spokesperson added that in all cases, the bank “without exception”, takes steps like declining the loan application and updating the internal data base to prevent any future application from the customer. Further, the lender updates the industry data base to prevent such borrowers from indulging in such practices with any other banks, non banking finance companies (NBFCs) and financial institutions. “The bank does not waive the processing costs from customers who come forward in such discrepant/suspicious cases. The processing fee is charged towards defraying the cost of efforts of the bank for additional due diligence and verification and not for closing the cases,” it said. HDFC Bank however, added that the collection or non-collection of processing fees has no bearing on reporting to the internal and industry data base or attempts to report to the police authorities. “In fact, the bank files police complaints in a number of cases, where processing cost was paid by individuals,” the bank said. Shares of HDFC Bank today ended marginally lower to Rs 1582.55 at the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Khaitans try to reclaim control in McLeod Russel||The Khaitans are trying to claw back control in India’s largest tea planter McLeod Russel India Ltd by scooping up shares from the bourses. The family acquired 5.74 per cent shares of the company earlier this week in two separate transactions in McLeod. The stock purchase coincided with the invocation of pledged shares and sale in the market by one of the lenders. The promoters, the Khaitan family, held a meagre 10.07 per cent stake in McLeod as on June 30, 2021, rapidly falling from a high of nearly 44 per cent as lenders invoked and sold pledged shares. In late September, IndusInd Bank informed the bourses that it invoked 9.58 per cent stake of McLeod. Had the family not stepped up to acquire the shares from the market, the Khaitans would have left with less than 1 per cent in McLeod, which narrowly came out of the jaws of insolvency proceedings last month. However, the acquisition of shares has been done this time with companies and individuals who were not directly linked to the mounting debt problem faced by the group and the numerous legal cases associated with it. Kavita Khaitan, wife of McLeod chairman Aditya Khaitan, picked up a 3.83 per cent stake in McLeod on September 28 in her personal capacity. Two days later, Ekta Credit Pvt Ltd, a promoter group company, bought a 1.91 per cent share in McLeod. Isha Khaitan, wife of Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of dry cell battery maker Eveready Industries India Ltd and director of McLeod, is the director of Ekta Credit, stock market filing showed. “The Khaitans are trying to increase their holding in the manufacturing companies by entities who are not linked to the legacy issue of the group,” a source aware of the churn in the shareholdings, noted. In August, Isha Khaitan and Yashodhara Khaitan, mother of Amritanshu, cumulatively bought 70,000 shares in EIIL, representing 0.12 per cent in the company. Vivaya Enterprises Pvt Ltd, where Isha is a director, additionally bought 0.21 per cent in Eveready in August. Like in McLeod, Khaitan family held a meagre 4.77 per cent stake in Eveready, having ceded holding when lenders invoked pledged shares. Khaitans had borrowed from lenders by pledging their stakes in McLeod and Eveready to support ailing group firm McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. The indebtedness had landed McLeod in insolvency before promoters managed to triggered the company out in the nick of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Row over invalid votes at Birla Corporation||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has retained control over Birla Corporation Ltd by an ‘overwhelming majority’ at Wednesday's annual general meeting. But the warring Birla and Lodha camps traded charges of fraudulent and illegal voting that threatens to erupt into another confrontation in the 17-year-old legal battle for control of the M.P. Birla Group. The five resolutions moved by the Lodha-led management, which included the appointment of CEO and MD Arvind Pathak, received support from 99 per cent of the valid votes. One resolution pertaining to the appointment of retired justice D.G. Karnik was passed with the requisite majority. A resolution seeking to appoint Rameshwar Singh Thakur that was proposed by The Punjab Produce and Trading Company Pvt Ltd, a promoter group company which is not under Lodha’s control, was defeated with 70.03 per cent of the votes cast against it. The poll scrutiniser’s report showed that votes relating to over 1.06 crore shares were termed invalid on technical grounds. These shares belong to three entities: Hindustan Medical Institution, Eastern India Educational Institution and Belle Vue Clinic, which together hold a 13.89 per cent stake. Armed with an opinion obtained from a retired judge of the Calcutta High Court, the scrutiniser also rejected a set of votes cast on behalf of three investment companies, Augusta Agents Ltd, Insilco Agents Ltd and Lanseda Agents Ltd, who cumulatively hold 23.4 per cent. But another set of votes cast on behalf of these companies were approved with the approval of the depositary, NSDL. The Lodha camp said the invalid votes would not materially change the outcome of the poll. However, the Birla camp contested the claim saying Karnik would have lost and Thakur would have been admitted to the board. False voting The Lodha camp sources said people who were not legally authorised to vote on behalf of these trusts and investment companies had done so at the AGM. They claimed that these frauds were detected in time. “These impostors are now liable to face prosecution for cyber trespassing, theft and misappropriation of property. It is clear that these crimes were committed by rogue elements who stoop to new lows every year ahead of Birla Corp’s AGM,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal, and counsel for Lodha. Birla rebuttal E-voting by valid and authorised people on behalf of three companies was wrongfully rejected while votes cast by Lodha nominees in favour of Karnik’s appointment were treated as valid, said N. G. Khaitan, senior partner, Khaitan and Co, and counsel for the Birlas. “If this hadn’t happened, Justice (retired) Karnik’s appointment would be defeated with 72 per cent of the vote going against it while the resolution to appoint Thakur would have been carried with 70 per cent of the votes in favour,” Khaitan said. The Punjab Produce & Trading Co later said it was exploring its legal options and may also file criminal suits if advised to do so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
