03-10-2021||Business||RBI may keep interest rates unchanged during next week's policy review, say experts||Amid rising global commodity prices and the need to contain inflation at home, the Reserve Bank is likely to maintain status quo on interest rates for the eighth time in row in its upcoming bi-monthly monetary policy review later in the week, according to experts. The Reserve Bank had last cut repo rate by 40 basis points in May 2020 to 4 per cent to spur demand in the COVID-hit economy. Since then, the RBI has refrained from taking any action on interest rates. The RBI Governor headed six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to meet for three days from October 6. The decision taken at the meeting would be announced by Governor Shaktikanta Das on October 8. A Morgan Stanley research report expects the RBI to continue to keep rates on hold and retain its accommodative stance in the upcoming policy review. "We opine headline CPI to remain range bound around the 5 per cent mark in the current fiscal year, even as core inflation remains sticky and pressures emanate from higher global commodity prices. We will remain watchful of the RBI's tone and guidance regarding the likely path of policy normalisation. We see the risks of a rate hike (base case in 1Q22) as skewed to delay as growth concerns might dominate given that inflation will likely track below RBI's forecast," it said. SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara had recently said that it looks like that interest rate should remain as it is. "Growth is only showing green shoots. So, I think perhaps, rate may not really go up, but commentary could talk about inflation. To my mind inflation is essentially on account of the supply chain disruption and once this disruption gets addressed, inflation may not really raise its head, as much as it was seen at the time of the last policy decision," he had said. On his expectations from the MPC meet, Ramesh Nair, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), India and Managing Director, Market Development, Asia Colliers, too anticipates that the repo rate will remain unchanged in the upcoming monetary committee meeting. "This will go a long way in rekindling momentum in the housing market. Stable housing prices, a cut in stamp duty in some states, and an inclination to own homes has revived housing demand from the fourth quarter of 2020...A stable repo rate will ensure banks keep their home loans rates low. It will definitely lead to an uptick in sentiments, after a dull Q2 2021 due to the second wave of COVID," Nair said. Rumki Majumdar, Economist, Deloitte India opined that there is pressure on the RBI to change the monetary policy stance. "A lot of it is because there has been an increase in speculations about monetary policy stances in the industrial nations as recovery in industrial countries is leading to higher inflation and rising commodity prices," Majumdar said. According to the Deloitte India economist, the Reserve Bank may decide to continue with the status quo and not change its monetary policy stance or increase interest rates. Majumdar also said that with falling Covid infection rates and rapid inoculation, India's growth outlook and prospects are very promising. The September edition of EY Economy Watch, authored by D K Srivastava, Chief Policy Advisor, EY India, said given that CPI inflation has remained under pressure, the RBI may not undertake any further repo rate reduction in the near future. The monetary policy would only be playing a supportive role while the main impetus to growth may need to come from the fiscal side, it added. If the RBI maintains status quo in policy rates on Friday, it would be the eight consecutive time since the rate remains unchanged. The central bank had last revised the policy rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The RBI has been asked by the central government to ensure that the retail inflation based on the Consumer Price Index remains at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on the either side. The Reserve Bank had kept the key interest rate unchanged in its after monetary policy review in August citing inflationary concerns. The RBI has projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 -- 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for Q1 2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. The CPI inflation was at 5.3 per cent in August. The inflation data for September is scheduled to be released on October 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Petrol, diesel at all-time high after hike for three straight days||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked again on Sunday to send rates soaring to new record highs across the country but top government officials insisted oil companies haven't passed on the entire increase warranted from international oil and gas rising to three-year highs and have ensured UK-like situation of pumps going dry isnt seen anywhere in India. Petrol price for the third straight day hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This sent petrol price in Delhi to its highest ever level of Rs 102.39 a litre and to Rs 108.43 in Mumbai. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 90.77 in Delhi and Rs 98.48 in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petroleum Secretary Tarun Kapoor said oil companies are taking their own decision on aligning retail rates with the cost but they are ensuring extreme volatility is avoided. "We are watching the situation and trying to ensure the impact of global volatility is moderated to a large extent," he said. The basket of crude oil India buys has jumped to a near three-year high of USD 76.71 per barrel. International prices of petrol, against which local rates are benchmarked, have risen from USD 85.10 per barrel to USD 87.11 in just one day while diesel has gone up from USD 85.95 a barrel to USD 87.27. This sudden spike in international oil prices follows global output disruptions but the entire increase in retail rates necessitated by such an increase is not being effected, another official with direct knowledge of the matter said. "Just look at LPG rates. They have gone up from USD 665 to USD 797 in one month but oil companies haven't passed on the increase warranted from that," he said adding state-owned companies were absorbing a lot of volatility. The increases, he said, have been "mild to moderate". "Some people are making a big deal out of the 62 per cent hike in natural gas prices. But if you look at the rates previously at USD 1.79 per million British thermal unit were abnormally low and way below cost. They have now gone up to USD 2.9. They still are less than the cost of production of USD 3.5 per mmBtu and are certainly lower than the USD 4.2 price that was prevalent in India a decade back," the official said. Naturally, the hike in natural gas price will warrant an increase in CNG price but the increase is again being moderated there too, he said adding internationally the price of LNG in the spot market last week soared to an unprecedented USD 35. "Compare to what is happening worldwide, we have managed the situation well," the official said. "Some of the developed nations such as the UK have seen petrol pumps go dry but you won't have heard of such a situation anywhere in India. Our oil companies are not just moderating retail prices but also ensuring uninterrupted supplies." Officials said India believes the situation internationally is temporary and abnormal and things should stabilise over the next few days and weeks. The fifth increase in its rates in less than a week's time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the eighth increase in prices in 10 days has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. State-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) resumed daily price revisions on September 24 after international oil prices neared a three-year high. Global benchmark Brent crude is trading above USD 78 per barrel. In eight price increases since September 24, diesel rates have gone up by 2.15 paise per litre. Petrol price has increased by Rs 1.25 per litre in five instalments this week. When international oil rates fell in July and August, retail prices of petrol and diesel in the Delhi market were reduced by Rs 0.65 and Rs 1.25 per litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Narendra Modi govt adds sting to retrospective tax amendment||The Narendra Modi government has added a sting to the retrospective tax amendment that will make it harder for companies like Cairn Energy to exit from the country without any liabilities. The government has tacked on a condition in the rules underlying the tax amendment passed in early August that would require entities like Cairn Energy to indemnify the Indian government against any future claims relating to their disputes that have dragged on before courts in India and abroad for over a decade. The rules, which were notified late on Friday, say the companies looking to shake off the rigours of the retrospective tax imposed in 2012 will have to furnish an indemnity and commitment not to seek any damage from the Indian government or its affiliates —with the obligation extending to any other interested party that might emerge in the future because of business restructuring. The government has promised to pay Cairn a sum of Rs 7500 crore which is only a part of an international arbitration award of $1.2 billion along with interest that the Edinburg-based oil explorer was granted in December last year. Tax experts say the rules indicate that the repayment will take a minimum of 2-3 months — but only after an open-ended commitment on indemnity is made. Under the rules, the companies will have to withdraw any pending litigation or proceedings before any forum against the levy of the retrospective tax and also give an assurance that they won’t pursue any further claims in the future. In addition, the companies and any other interested party will have to furnish an indemnity bond committing not to seek damages from the Indian government or its affiliates. Companies will have to file a declaration with the income tax authorities along with a board resolution or legal authorisation besides an indemnity bond, the rules said. The freedom from the retro tax has been granted to companies that had restructured their businesses in the country prior to May 28, 2012 — the date when the amendment took effect. The Income Tax (31st Amendment) Rules, 2021, introduce a new portion pertaining to ‘indirect transfer prior to 28th May, 2012 of assets situated in India’, and lay out the conditions and formats for undertakings to be submitted by all ‘interested parties’ to the tax department in order to settle their tax disputes. The affected taxpayers, along with all the interested parties will have to give up all claims in any ongoing legal proceedings, including arbitration, mediation efforts and attachment proceedings, with an explicit undertaking that such initiatives will not be reopened under any circumstances. In order to pre-empt the possibility of an unknown interested party invoking fresh claims against the government in the future, the rules stipulate that the ‘declarant and all the interested parties shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Republic of India and Indian affiliates from and against any and all costs, expenses, interest, damages, and liabilities of any nature arising out of or in any way relating to the assertion or, bringing, filing or maintaining of any claim, at any time after the date of furnishing the undertaking.’ The I-T Rules also require the taxpayer and all the interested parties to issue a public notice or press release explicitly stating that ongoing claims against these tax demands ‘no longer subsist’ and they have signed an indemnity undertaking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Zee in court to scupper EGM||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) has moved the Bombay high court asking it to declare Invesco’s demand for an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) as illegal and invalid. The move comes just a day after its board rejected a notice from Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC to convene a meeting of shareholders to vote on a batch of resolutions seeking to remove the company’s managing director & CEO Punit Goenka and appoint six new independent directors. Sources said the board had advised the company to file a declaratory suit in a civil court to confirm that the requisition notice from Invesco was not legally valid. In a regulatory filing with the bourses, Zee said it did not anticipate any financial implications as a result of the civil suit, barring legal costs. On Friday, the Zee board said the Invesco notice did not comply with provisions under multiple laws that obliged it to seek prior permission from the information and broadcasting ministry and regulatory authorities before seeking to remove Goenka from his position. Invesco and OFI Global together hold 17.88 per cent in Zee. Under the regulations, a shareholder holding more than 10 per cent in a listed firm can seek an EGM. The battle between Invesco and the Zee turned fractious after the institutional shareholder submitted a notice on September 11 demanding an EGM to vote on a resolution to oust Goenka because of concerns over related party transactions and poor corporate governance that had hurt shareholder returns. Since then, Zee has announced a non-binding agreement to pursue a merger with Sony to create a $2 billion media powerhouse. The two sides expect to close the deal by the end of December. Zee needs to deal with the Invesco notice before it can seal the merger. The Invesco resolutions must be placed before the shareholders within three months. Invesco has already moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking its intervention in the dispute. On Thursday, the tribunal had asked the company’s board to consider the Invesco request for the EGM. The NCLT will now hear the matter again on Monday. The battle will now be played out on two legal fronts — the Bombay high court and the NCLT. Observers said Zee is going to highlight the legal infirmities in the Invesco notice when the matter is heard before the tribunal and the high court. Under Section 98 of the Companies Act, 2013, the tribunal is empowered to either suo motu or on the application of any director or shareholder order a meeting of the company in a manner that it deems fit. The legal battle between Zee and Invesco may drag on for some time casting a shadow on the merger with Sony. Shares of ZEEL have come under pressure over the past two sessions because of fears that this could place hurdles to the Sony deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Interest cut on telecom dues||The government has amended the telecom licence rules to rationalise the interest rate for delayed payment of licence fees. The amendment comes into effect from October 1. The move is expected to ease the financial burden on the telecom sector. The department of telecommunications (DoT) will now charge 2 per cent interest above the one-year marginal cost of lending rate (MCLR) of State Bank of India for any delay in the payment of licence fees or any other statutory dues and the interest will be compounded annually. Earlier, telecom firms were required to pay 4 per cent interest above the one-year MCLR of the SBI and the interest was compounded monthly. The reduction in the telecom fees had been announced when the government unveiled its reforms for the sector last month. The DoT has also removed the licence clause under which telcos were charged a penalty equivalent to 50 per cent of the short payment they made for licence fee. The penalty was imposed if short payment was more than 10 per cent of the payable licence fees. The earlier levies were one of the main reasons why a legacy telecom player like Vodafone was forced to the brink of collapse because of a mountain of dues for which it made no provisions while pursuing a two decade-old lawsuit against the authorities that it eventually lost in October 2019. The Supreme Court had upheld the government’s claim of Rs 1.47 lakh crore against 16 telecom players, many of which have since shuttered operations. The basic dues were around 26 per cent while 74 per cent component of the total demand got accumulated on account of interest on this amount, penalty and interest on penalty. Meanwhile, the DoT has cancelled letters of intent (LoIs) issued to 71 firms for providing internet service as virtual network operators. The virtual network operator permit allows firms to resell internet services of telecom companies under their own brand. The LoIs had been issued to the firms but they had failed to initiate further action even after the extension of deadlines. The applicant companies were required to submit the compliance status within a period of 60 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
