04-10-2021||India||WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook face global outage||Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram faced a major global outage on Monday evening with thousands of users, including from India, not being able to use these digital platforms.  Facebook owns photosharing platform Instagram and messaging platform WhatsApp.  The outage is estimated to have started around 9 PM IST. Users complained of not being able to use any of the three services.  "We are aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products. We are working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologise for any inconvenience," a Facebook spokesperson said.  The company did not specify the reason for the global outage.  A tweet shared by Instagram said: "Instagram and friends are having a little bit of a hard time right now, and you may be having issues using them. Bear with us, we're on it! #instagramdown".  Microblogging platform Twitter was abuzz with tweets about the outage as netizens shared posts and memes about the outage.  India has one of the highest number of users of Facebook as well as its other platforms.  As per government data shared earlier this year, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook users and 21 crore Instagram users. The company said it was aware that some people are having trouble accessing Facebook app and it was working on restoring access. The company did not say what might be causing the outage, which began around 11:45 ET. It is normal for websites and apps to suffer outages, though one on a global scale is rare. Users reported being unable to access Facebook in California, New York and Europe. Facebook is going through a major crisis after the whistleblower who was the source of The Wall Street Journal's series of stories exposing the company's awareness of internal research into the negative effects of its products and decisions went public on 60 Minutes" on Sunday. Frances Haugen was identified in a 60 Minutes interview Sunday as the woman who anonymously filed complaints with federal law enforcement that the company's own research shows how it magnifies hate and misinformation, leads to increased polarization and that Instagram, specifically, can harm teenage girls' mental health. The Journal's stories, called The Facebook Files, painted a picture of a company focused on growth and its own interests instead of the public good. Facebook has tried to play down the research. Nick Clegg, Clegg, the company's vice president of policy and public affairs, wrote to Facebook employees in a memo Friday that social media has had a big impact on society in recent years, and Facebook is often a place where much of this debate plays out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 534 points to close above 59,200||Snapping its four-session losing streak, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 534 points on Monday, led by gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 533.74 points or 0.91 per cent higher at 59,299.32. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 159.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 17,691.25. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bajaj Finance, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, HUL, Nestle India, Kotak Bank and Titan were among the laggards. "As we approach the earnings season, indices remained buoyant through the day led by the metals and PSU names with the market breadth exhibiting positive momentum across midcaps and smallcaps," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Privatisation hopes on few metal names fuelled a 3 per cent upmove on the metal index even as select pharmaceutical and speciality chemical stocks saw good buying interest, he said, adding this month is likely to witness almost a dozen companies going public aiming to mop up over Rs 200 billion. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with heavy losses, while Shanghai and Seoul were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading flat in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude dipped 0.13 per cent to USD 79.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Adani completes acquisition of SB Energy India for USD 3.5 billion||Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) on Monday said it has completed the acquisition of SB Energy India for USD 3.5 billion (Rs 26,000 crore). "AGEL, the world's largest solar power developer, successfully completed the acquisition of SB Energy Holdings Ltd (SB Energy India) in an all-cash deal for which definitive agreements were signed on May 18, 2021," a company statement said. With this deal, SB Energy India is now a 100 per cent subsidiary of AGEL. Earlier, it was a 80:20 joint venture between Japan-based SoftBank Group Corp and Bharti Group. The transaction pegs SB Energy India at an enterprise valuation of USD 3.5 billion (approximately Rs 26,000 crore) and marks the largest acquisition in the renewable energy sector in India, it stated. Just last week, Adani Group Chairman Gautam Adani had announced that the group would invest over USD 20 billion over the next 10 years in renewable energy generation. This transaction takes AGEL closer to becoming the global leader in renewables, said Vneet S Jaain, MD and CEO, AGEL in the statement. The addition of these high-quality large utility-scale assets from SB Energy India demonstrates Adani Green Energy's intent to accelerate India's efforts to transition towards a carbon neutral future. Our renewable energy foundations will enable an entire ecosystem of new industries that can be expected to catalyse job creation in multiple sectors, he noted. SB Energy India has 5 GW renewable assets across four states in India through its SPVs. The portfolio holds 1,700 MW of operational renewable assets, 2,554 MW of assets under construction and 700 MW of assets near construction. Solar capacity accounts for 84 per cent of the portfolio (4,180 MW), wind-solar hybrid capacity accounts for 9 per cent (450 MW) and wind capacity accounts for 7 per cent (324 MW). Split across 15 projects with an average project size of 330 MW, this is one of India's highest quality renewable portfolios, with many of the assets being solar park-based projects and constructed using best-in-class governance, project development, construction and operations and maintenance standards. The value-accretive acquisition boosts AGEL's operational portfolio to 5.4 GW and its overall portfolio to 19.8 GW implying a 4x growth locked-in, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 350 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank. After surging to 59,156.62 in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 340.95 points or 0.58 per cent higher at 59,106.53. Similarly, the Nifty rose 98.40 points or 0.56 per cent to 17,630.45. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Sun Pharma and HDFC. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Nestle India, HUL, Titan and PowerGrid were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 360.78 points or 0.61 per cent lower at 58,765.58, and Nifty declined 86.10 points or 0.49 per cent to 17,532.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 131.39 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the dollar index slipping to 94.05 and the US 10-year yield slipping below 1.5 per cent can be interpreted as indicative of return of risk-on in equity markets. However, news from China can turn out to be a drag. China is trying to limit the damage to its real estate sector without bailing out Evergrande, he said, adding that an inevitable consequence will be a slowdown of the Chinese economy which will have implications for commodity prices and currencies of commodity exporters. "Back home, India's exports are booming and are in line to touch the USD 400 billion mark in FY22," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses, while Shanghai and Seoul were closed for holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.30 per cent to USD 79.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Coal ministry planning scheme to permit coal block allottees to surrender mines ||The coal ministry is planning to come up with a scheme to permit coal block allottees to surrender mines that they are not in a position to develop because of technical reasons. The proposed scheme will allow the surrender of blocks without the imposition of financial penalty or penalty on a merit basis after examining the proposal by a scrutiny committee. “To expedite production from allocated coal blocks and for ease of doing business, a scheme will be prepared to allow the surrender of coal blocks to those allocattees where the present allocattee is not in a position to develop the coal block due to technical reasons,” according to the coal ministry’s agenda for 2021-22. Coal blocks surrendered under this scheme will immediately be offered for auction for commercial mining for putting the block to production early. The move would help to boost the production of coal from the mines allocated through auction route. In another step to meet the increased demand for coal in the country, a scheme is being formulated to allow allottees to sell up to 50 per cent of the produced fuel after meeting its captive needs, the coal ministry said. The incentive to allottees will spur them to produce more coal and sell in the market. India’s total coal production registered a marginal  decline of 2.02 per cent to 716  million tonnes(mt) during the last fiscal year. The country had produced 731mt of coal in 2019-20, according provisional statistics of 2020-21 of the coal ministry. Of the total coal production, 671.29mt was non-coking coal and the remaining44.78mt was coking coal. The public sector produced 685.951mt while the remaining 30.133mt was produced by the private sector. State-owned CIL’s coal production registered a marginal rise to 40.7 million tonnes in September. The development assumes significance in the wake of country’s power plants grappling with coal shortages. Coal India Ltd’s (CIL) production had stood at 40.5 million tonnes(mt) in September 2020, according to a BSE filing. CIL’s production in the April-September 2021 period increased 5.8 per cent to 249.8mt, compared with 236mt in the year-ago period, the filing  said. The company’s offtake also increased to 48.3 mt last month, over 46.7mt in the corresponding month of the previous financial year, it added. Its offtake in the April-September 2021 period also increased to 307.7mt over 255.1mt in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||LIC likely to file IPO papers by November||The country’s largest insurer LIC is likely to file draft papers with Sebi by November for the largest IPO in the country’s history, a finance ministry official has said. “We target to bring the IPO within this fiscal and we have set strict timelines. The DRHP would be filed by November,” the official said. The government last month appointed 10 merchant bankers, including Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Pvt Ltd, Citigroup Global Markets India Pvt Ltd and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Pvt Ltd to manage the mega initial public offering of country’s largest insurer LIC. Other selected bankers include SBI Capital Market Ltd, JM Financial Ltd, Axis Capital Ltd, BofA Securities, J P Morgan India Pvt Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd, and Kotak Mahindra Capital Co Ltd. Once the draft red herring prospectus is filed, merchant bankers will hold global and domestic road shows for investors by January, the official said. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas has been appointed as legal advisor for the IPO. The government is aiming to list the insurance behemoth within the current financial year ending March. The ministry is in the process of estimating the embedded value of the life insurer and once that is done the ministerial panel on disinvestment will decide on the government stake that will be divested through IPO, the official said. The government has appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to compute the embedded value of LIC ahead of the initial public offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Furnishing retailer HomeTown to expand in Calcutta||Home furnishing retailer HomeTown is looking to expand in Calcutta. The expansion is part of the company’s plan to open 100 stores in the next 3 years. HomeTown is owned and operated by Praxis Home Retail Limited, an independent listed entity following the demerger from Future Retail in 2017. “The expansion will be majorly in tier 2 cities and also tier 1 cities. We have 11 stores in the east and 4 in Calcutta and we are planning at least a couple more in Calcutta. We will be adding more stores in Patna, Ranchi and Raipur where we already have stores,” said Mahesh Shah, managing director HomeTown. He added that the company is scouting for locations which are expected to be finalised soon. HomeTown at present has 44 stores across the country spread over 8.42 lakh square feet of retail space in 28 cities. According to the annual report of Praxis, the company clocked a turnover of Rs 703.72 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020 which came down to Rs 378.67 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021 as business was affected by the pandemic. The company however hopes to make a quick recovery, with its retail store expansion being supported by e-commerce sales. Shah said that the home improvement market has shot up globally driven by the pandemic and the same trend is also seen in India with the demand for study tables, home office furniture, garden furniture, balcony furniture going up. Demand for furnishing has also gone up with people seeking largers spaces for work-from-home purposes. “It’s about how we ensure that the customer gets what they want. We have started looking at digital as an important medium. Our ecommerce sales have grown to 17 percent of total turnover and we are growing every quarter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Maruti virtual car assistant app for repairs||Maruti Suzuki India Limited is witnessing a surge in maintenance at its service stations with the number of vehicles coming for servicing and repairs up 22 per cent in the second quarter of the fiscal compared with the corresponding quarter two-years ago, which is before the pandemic. The pandemic had led to a drop in servicing but as the lockdowns ceased there was a progressive increase on this count, though it was below pre-pandemic levels. “Now we are seeing not just a growth in servicing jobs as compared to last year, it is growing more than the pre-pandemic levels,” said Partho Banerjee, senior executive director, service, MSIL. The company is now introducing digitisation of its servicing process by launching a virtual car assistant app called S-Assist for its Nexa customers. “The scan and voice-enabled virtual car assistant, S-Assist, optimises the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning to provide an online post-purchase experience to customers,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Toyota will use facilities of the now discontinued Yaris to make newer cars||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) will use the facilities of the now discontinued Yaris to make newer cars. Last week, the company stopped the sales of Yaris. Toyota manufactured the Yaris along with the Camry Hybrid in its second plant at Bidadi which has an annual capacity of 2.10 lakh units. The first plant manufactures the Innova and Fortuner and has capacity of 1 lakh units. The company is preparing to launch new products in 2022 which will be manufactured in its second plant that is now available for modification, said Naveen Soni, senior vice-president,TKM. Asked about the performance of the Yaris in the Indian market, Soni said: “It was well received but the market shifted to the SUV segment from the sedan segment. The demand for executive or compact sedan lessened over the years.” He said there was a possibility of a new SUV being manufactured from the Yaris facility after modifying the assembly line.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Uco Bank to get new managing director||The government is considering appointing Soma Sankara Prasad, the deputy managing director of State Bank of India, as managing director of Calcutta-based Uco Bank. The Banks Board Bureau (BBB) has suggested the name of Uco Bank managing director Atul Kumar Goel for heading Punjab National Bank as MD. The managing director position of PNB will fall vacant after the superannuation of S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao in January. According to sources, since Prasad was in the reserve list when the interview for the appointment for the managing director of Indian Bank took place earlier this year, he has been recommended to head Uco Bank subject to various clearances including vigilance. The final view in this  regard would be taken by the appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) headed by the Prime Minister, sources said. The BBB, the headhunter for state-owned banks and financial institutions, in May had conducted interviews for the position of MD of Indian Bank. Post interview, Shanti  Lal Jain was recommended for the post while Prasad was the candidate on the reserve list. Last month, the RBI removed Uco from its prompt corrective action framework following improvement on various counts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Retrospective tax row in mining||The decision to retrospectively raise the GST rates on royalty for mineral exploration and licence fees for mining rights is expected to face  a legal challenge. The GST Council has proposed to increase the rates retrospectively from July 2017 to 18 per cent from 5 per cent on these two counts. The royalty and licence fees are collected  by the states. Sources said mining and steel companies were in touch with legal consultants to challenge the council’s decision. “This seems to be a retrospective alteration in law which is issued by way of clarification, imposing a significant tax burden on several steel manufacturers and coal mining companies for the past period. These tax demands will be loaded with interest and penalties, leading to a sunk cost pushing up the commodity prices,” Rajat Mohan, senior partner, AMRG Associates, said. The GST Council has increased the GST on ores and concentrates of metals such as iron, copper, aluminum, zinc and a few others to 18 per cent from 5 per cent. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said a correction in the inverted duty structure would help the industry. An inverted duty structure occurs when tax on inputs exceeds that of the output. Kalpesh Shah, senior partner, Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys, said there was an ongoing controversy regarding the nature of the royalty payable by a mining licensee to the government. The question whether such royalty is in the nature of a tax  has been referred to a larger nine- judge bench of the Supreme Court. If the bench considers the royalty as a tax, the council can’t impose GST. Pending a decision, if royalty is regarded as charges for the grant of a mining license, it may qualify as a service and would be levied  GST. “There is also a dispute regarding the applicable rate of tax on such mining royalty. Prior to 01.01.2019, the rate notification did not specifically provide for the applicable rate of tax on royalty. As per the residual entry in the rate notification, GST was payable at the same rate of tax as applicable to the underlying mineral which could be less than 18 per cent,” Shah said. However, the GST Council has proceeded to recommend a tax of 18 per cent with effect from July 1, 2017, at its 45th meeting last month. “Such a clarification would effectively amount to giving retrospective effect to the amendment  prescribing 18 per cent as the rate of tax on royalty, which otherwise was meant to come into effect only from 01.01.2019,” Shah said. “Further, even if ITC (input tax credit) is allowed to be availed of such GST paid on royalty, there may be credit accumulation in the hands of various companies, thus impacting their cash flow position,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||City gas distribution companies unfazed by threat from electric vehicles||City gas distribution companies are not fazed by the threat from electric vehicles (EVs). Vehicles using compressed natural gas (CNG) are expected to remain popular with commercial users over the medium term. Although recent data has shown growing interest among car aficionados for EVs, analysts at HSBC believe that the slow shift toward the latest technology will not affect the CGD firms for whom CNG sales remains a major revenue source. The other key contributor to their topline is piped natural gas (PNG). “Of course, there will be competition from newly-launched EVs which may seem greener. But most CNG vehicles are used for commercial operations which means economics and infrastructure are far more important decision drivers. The economics of CNG vehicles in terms of upfront costs, availability of finance, resale value, choice of models and infrastructure in terms of refuelling/charging infrastructure, repair and maintenance is far superior to EVs in the medium term,” they said in a report. According to the brokerage, India’s CNG vehicle sales have grown at a compounded annual growth rate of by 8.3 per cent over the past seven years. As a result, CNG vehicles account for around 6 per cent of all vehicle registrations, up from 4.5 per cent in 2011. The CGD players are expected to expand their operations to cover an estimated 70 per cent of the population and this is only expected to buttress demand for CNG vehicles. Last month, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) — the regulator for the downstream sector — invited bids for city gas retailing licences in 65 geographical areas in the 11th licensing round. In the previous round, 50 GAs were authorised for the development of the CGD network. The government has been pushing for the expansion of the city gas network as part of a plan to raise the share of natural gas in the country's energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 from the current 6.3 per cent. The HSBC analysts, who also compared the economics of CNG with EV and other fuels, said CNG was still attractive at current EV prices even if one accounts for the total cost of ownership. “While we believe personal vehicle owners may still prefer EV over other fuels, we think CNG will find itself as a preferred alternative for commercial vehicles which run constantly and need quick refuelling,”, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Adani group set to enter Bengal’s maritime sector||The Adani group, India’s largest integrated port and logistic operator, is all set to enter Bengal’s maritime sector. The Gujarat-based industrial house, led by chairman and managing director Gautam Adani, has emerged as the top bidder for the rights to operate a berth at Haldia Dock Complex. The scope of work includes the provision of end-to-end mechanisation at the berth which must be ready in two years from the date that the port authorities award the contract. It will entail an investment of Rs 300 crore. The berth will be capable of handling cargo of close to 3.5- 4 million tonnes per annum. If everything goes according to the plan, this could mark Adani Group’s foray into the port and shipping arena in this state and will further consolidate its dominance in the port sector. The group’s port business is run by Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ). The company’s website claims that it is the largest commercial port operator in India accounting for nearly one-fourth of cargo movement in the country. It has a presence across 13 domestic ports in seven maritime states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. Bengal will be added to the list when this project materialises. Vinit Kumar, chairman of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee (SMP), Calcutta, which manages port operations at Calcutta and Haldia, confirmed that Adani had emerged as the highest bidder for the end-to-end mechanisation of berth number 2 at Haldia. The concession will be given for 30 years as per terms of the tender, he added. The project will be part of the National Infrastructure Pipeline, launched by the Narendra Modi government in 2019, whereby opportunities in at least nine infrastructure verticals — roads and bridges, railway track, port among others — will be identified and developed in partnership with the private sector. Adani also features among a clutch of shortlisted bidders to operate a berth in the Calcutta Dock System, Kumar informed. The company did notcomment on the developments. Shipping industry sources say the entry of India’s largest port operator, owned by Asia’s second richest man, may change the dynamics of cargo handling business at Haldia, which handles coal, iron ore and petroleum products more than any other cargo. Local players have so far controlled the majority of the trade with an iron fist, staving off challenges from pan-India businesses. “A presence in Haldia will further consolidate their strength on the east coast of India, where it has a string of ports and terminals. It will also aid in their coal trading business,” said a shipping industry official who is aware of the development. In 2012, the ABG Group had to leave Haldia under questionable circumstances after it failed to operate a terminal at Haldia, blaming entrenched players who had political patronage. Many believe that Gautam Adani, who is perceived to be close to the ruling party at the Centre, will be a different kettle of fish, though. Besides Dhamra in Odisha which is the closest port to Haldia, Adani owns and operates Gangavaram and Krishnapatnam ports in Andhra Pradesh and Kattupalli Port, north of Chennai in Tamil Nadu. It operates terminals at the government-run Ennore and Vizag Ports — just as it plans to do at Haldia and Calcutta. The company has 335mt annual capacity on the West coast and 227mt capacity on the East coast. The company is aiming to achieve a cargo handling capacity of 350-360mt cargo in 2021-22, an increase of 45 per cent over the previous year. The move to introduce end-to-end mechanisation will make the Haldia terminal the most efficient berth. Cargo will be unloaded by mobile harbour cranes to a conveyor belt to the stockyard. A stacker-reclaimer will be used to lift the cargo on to another conveyor  which will take the material to a rapid loading system. With the help of this rapid loading system, which is being introduced for the first time in Haldia, an entire railway rake can be loaded in two hours flat. At present, dumpers are used to load the rakes. The Adani Group has been steadily building its presence in Bengal. It operates an edible oil plant under Adani Wilmar at Haldia. It has also won the rights to distribute city gas in partnership with Indian Oil Corporation in Burdwan district. Moreover, an infrastructure arm of the conglomerate has been awarded expansion of the Durgapur — Pulsit stretch of National Highway to six lanes. At a time the Mamata Banerjee-government is  trying to build a greenfield port at Tajpur, not too far  from Haldia, the interest shown by India’s largest port operator may be seen as positive for the future development of the state’s maritime sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Betting on the index||After you finish reading your morning newspaper and drinking your cup of tea, take a minute to check the list of NFOs (New Fund Offers) that Sebi updates regularly. Among the things that you would no doubt notice is the sheer prevalence — some might call it predominance — of index funds and their exchange-traded counterparts. In what underlines a marked change in the overall investing habits of ordinary Indians, index-based allocations are now the rage, thanks to the willingness displayed by asset management companies to roll out contemporary products. Habits perfected over decades (read: choosing actively managed funds with a view to beat the markets) seem ready to be replaced by a serious preference for passively managed funds. The modern investor in India, it seems, is now all set to join his cousin in other markets, especially those where ETFs are the standard bearers. Local fund houses have chosen a range of new indices to design their latest offerings — which implies that the old-style Nifty and Sensex have given way to all manners of other indices. The latter are both broadbased and sectoral. Fund of Funds (FoFs) structured on the basis of international markets too are appearing in the securities regulator’s updated lists quite frequently. Clearly, the smart indexer wants to choose from among an array of products, bearing different flavours, both domestic and international. Nifty and Sensex, in comparison, are limited to just 50 and 30 stocks, respectively. The market is far wider, far broader than just a handful of counters — although it could be convincingly argued that these are indeed the most significant ones in the listed universe. The use of indices in the Indian market is surely on the rise, as recent trends suggest. A larger section of investors is convinced that passively managed funds would be able to deliver sustainable returns over a stretch of time. Beating the benchmark is a constant challenge for an active manager; for the latter, securing “alpha” across all market cycles remains a relentless exercise. The objective is certainly not easy to attain. A passive fund, on the other hand, is a lot different. There is no attempt to beat the index; the rationale revolves around mirroring it as perfectly and efficiently as possible. The biggest task of the contemporary investor, therefore, is to choose the correct index fund/ETF. If he misjudges — especially if the selection happens to be a sector-specific index —the result would be evident. There could well be an adverse impact on his overall portfolio. This would also be particularly true in case of international indices, which are terra incognita for the average Indian. Indices chosen by fund houses can range from the well-known to the relatively-unknown. I have found out that the benchmark could be absolutely customised too. The newly-proposed Tata New Age Digital ETF is an example. As the offer document points out, this has been designed to track a bespoke index made up of “companies benefitting from digital transformation and new age technology”. For the record, such companies could include players engaged in online shopping, food delivery, gaming, fintech and cloud computing. Quite an array of contemporary businesses, I must add. The acceptance and the eventual popularity of index-based funds would trigger a greater awareness of a critical element: tracking error. As the basket of choice gets broader, tracking error is expected to be monitored very closely. As readers would no doubt know, this is a measure of the difference in returns delivered by a fund and that provided by the index. Tracking error, at the end of the day, is a computation —the standard deviation of the difference between the daily returns of the underlying benchmark and the NAV of the fund, on an annualised basis. So if you are an enthusiast waiting to allocate more in index funds/ETFs, here are a few questions for you Additionally, a number of secondary issues would be considered important in this context. Changes made by the index service provider, evident in the removal and addition of stocks, would be a significant matter for the fund manager. Similarly, transaction-related costs would act as a spoiler; any increase in the same would lead to an impact on the returns. Finally, delays in realisation of investors’ funds would have to be monitored as these too are an adverse influence. As the investing public’s interest in indices grows, the market would turn towards greater variety. I foresee the arrival of newer categories of funds. Indeed, boutique investment houses, driven by fintech and dedicated entirely to indexing, may also emerge in the days ahead. Many of the new-generation products would be based on indices that are not so popular yet. And some of these would surely emerge as powerful influencers, garnering a bigger share of allocations. Into the heaven of indexing, let the market awake! The writer is director, Wishlist Capital advisors Source: Sebi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
