05-10-2021||Business||Moody's upgrades India's sovereign rating to ‘stable’ from ‘negative'||Ratings agency Moody's on Tuesday affirmed India's sovereign rating and upgraded the country's outlook to 'stable' from 'negative', citing receding downside risks to the economy and financial system. The sovereign rating by Moody's stands at 'Baa3' -- which is the lowest investment grade, just a notch above junk status. "Moody's Investors Service has today changed the outlook on the Government of India's ratings to stable from negative and affirmed the country's foreign-currency and local-currency long-term issuer ratings and the local-currency senior unsecured rating at Baa3," it said in a statement. The decision to change the outlook to stable reflects Moody's view that the downside risks from negative feedback between the real economy and financial system are receding. "With higher capital cushions and greater liquidity, banks and non-bank financial institutions pose much lesser risk to the sovereign than Moody's previously anticipated. "And while risks stemming from a high debt burden and weak debt affordability remain, Moody's expects that the economic environment will allow for a gradual reduction of the general government fiscal deficit over the next few years, preventing further deterioration of the sovereign credit profile," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Centre, states have to work together on fuel price hike: Nirmala||As fuel prices surged to all-time highs on Tuesday, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said prices of petroleum products in the country depend on international oil rates and both the Centre and states have to together handle the issue of their rising cost. Addressing a press conference at the Chhattisgarh BJP office Kushabhau Thakre Parisar in Raipur, she said prices of petroleum products in India, a big consumer of these imported items, depend on their prevailing rates in the global market. "Hence, both the Centre and states have to handle the fuel issue together as they impose taxes on oil products," Sitharaman said. She was replying to a question about the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas in the country. Sitharaman said India had to import almost 99 per cent of its petrol and diesel requirements. "Duty and tax on petrol and diesel are not levied only by the Centre. If we use 100 litres (of petrol or diesel), we have to import 99 litres out of it from abroad. According to oil rates abroad, prices (of fuel products) are fixed here. "When rate in the (global oil) market changes, it also affects us. The Centre imposes a fixed amount as tax and not the value-added tax (VAT). But state governments levy VAT (on petrol, diesel)," she said. Sitharaman said rising fuel prices have definitely increased financial burden on common citizens. "In this structure both the Centre and states impose tax on petrol and diesel. I believe prices are rising and definitely there is a burden on the common people. But both the Centre and states have to handle the issue," she added. Petrol and diesel prices on Tuesday surged to all-time high levels as rates were increased again after international oil prices hit the highest mark since 2014. Petrol price was hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers issued in New Delhi. This sent the petrol price in Delhi to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.64 a litre and to Rs 108.67 in Mumbai. Diesel rates, too, touched a record high of Rs 91.07 in Delhi and Rs 98.80 in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. The sixth increase in fuel rates in a week's time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the ninth increase in prices in less than two weeks has taken diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. International oil prices rallied to a near seven-year high following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 81.51 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 77.76 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 446 points to close at 59,744||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 446 points on Tuesday, propelled by index heavyweights Reliance Industries, TCS and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. Despite opening on a weak note, the 30-share Sensex ended 445.56 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 59,744.88. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 131.05 points or 0.74 per cent to 17,822.30. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping nearly 5 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, Reliance Industries, Titan and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, ITC, PowerGrid, UltraTech Cement and Nestle India were among the laggards. "Domestic equities continued to show resilience and extended gains amid mixed global cues as expectations of strong September quarter earnings lifted investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT and energy stocks witnessed strong recovery, while financials (excluding PSU banks) also witnessed modest rebound, he said, adding that heavyweight Reliance Industries continued to move higher and supported the market rally. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while Hong Kong was positive. Shanghai was closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.47 per cent to USD 81.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Petrol and diesel prices soar to record high across India||Petrol and diesel prices on Tuesday surged to all-time high levels as rates were increased again after international oil prices hit the highest mark since 2014. Petrol price was hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This sent the petrol price in Delhi to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.64 a litre and to Rs 108.67 in Mumbai. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 91.07 in Delhi and Rs 98.80 in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. The sixth increase in fuel rates in a week's time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the ninth increase in prices in less than two weeks has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. International oil prices rallied to a near seven-year high following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 81.51 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 77.76 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. A month back Brent was less than USD 72 per barrel. With international crude oil prices moving in both directions during July and August, no price increase was carried out by oil marketing companies (OMCs) from July 18 to September 23. Instead, petrol price was cut by Rs 0.65 a litre and diesel by Rs 1.25. However, with no respite from surging international prices, OMCs have started to increase the retail selling price of petrol and diesel with effect from September 28 and September 24 respectively. Since then, rates have gone up by Rs 2.45 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 1.50. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. The relentless increase in fuel prices has been criticised by opposition parties who have demanded that the government cut record excise duty on the two fuels to give relief to consumers. The government has so far not agreed to the demand. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday refused to even comment on the high fuel prices. Asked about the fuel prices at his ministry's event in the national capital on Saturday, Puri said, "chodo (please leave it)" before walking away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||India's services sector activity expands in September||India's services sector activity continued to expand in September, supported by favourable underlying demand amid the easing of COVID-19 restrictions, but lost some momentum from August's 18-month high level, a monthly survey said on Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index fell from 56.7 in August to 55.2 in September, but remained well above its long-run average. "Despite easing from August, the rate of expansion was marked and the second-fastest since February 2020," the survey said. Buoyed by signs of improvements in underlying demand, Indian service providers took on additional staff during September. The increase in employment ended a nine month sequence of job shedding, but was marginal overall as some panellists indicated having sufficient workforces to deal with their workloads. For the second straight month, the services sector witnessed an expansion in output. In Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. "Indian companies continued to benefit from a recovery in demand as the pandemic receded further and restrictions were lifted. The improved market environment meant that firms managed to secure new work and increase business activity during September," said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. However, despite the sustained recovery of the sector, business confidence weakened in September. "While forecasts of better demand in the year ahead supported business confidence regarding output, growth looks set to be constrained by rising inflation expectations. We saw a substantial decline in positive sentiment among service providers due to this factor, despite input cost inflation retreating in September," Lima said. Moreover, travel restrictions continued to weigh on international demand for Indian services. New export business contracted for the nineteenth month in a row, the survey said. Business Activity in India's private sector rose further in September, as both manufacturing and services output continued to expand. The Composite PMI Output Index -- which measures combined services and manufacturing output -- was at 55.3 in September, little-changed from 55.4 in August. On the prices front, amid reports of higher fuel, material, retail and transportation prices, average cost burdens faced by Indian service providers rose further during September. The overall rate of inflation was "solid", but softened to an eight-month low. Economists believe the Reserve Bank of India is expected to continue with the accommodative policy stance in its October 6-8 monetary policy discussions. On the macro-economic front, subdued prices of food items like vegetables pulled down retail inflation for the third month in a row to 5.3 per cent in August, within the RBI's comfort zone. Retail inflation, which rose sharply to 6.3 per cent in May from 4.23 per cent in April, has been on a downward trajectory since then. It was 6.26 per cent in June and 5.59 per cent in July this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Sensex sheds over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Infosys, ICICI Bank and TCS amid a negative trend in global markets. After slumping to 59,127.04 in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 102.49 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 59,196.83. Similarly, the Nifty fell 28.60 points or 0.16 per cent to 17,662.65. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 533.74 points or 0.91 per cent higher at 59,299.32, and Nifty surged 159.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 17,691.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 860.50 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be good as of now. A sharp rise in oil prices is a fresh overhang of Indian equities, which can essentially result in further hardening of inflation and adversely impact the government's fiscal math. US stocks ended sharply lower with all three key indices contracting around 1-2 per cent in the overnight session mainly led by intensified concerns about prolonged inflationary pressure on rising oil prices, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses, while Hong Kong was positive in mid-session deals. Shanghai was closed for the holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.37 per cent to USD 81.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||A sneak-peek at superapp TataNeu||Tata Group’s ambitious plan to develop a ‘‘superapp” is close to  reality — the company spearheading the venture is offering the mobile application to a select set of employees over the weekend on a trial basis. The app is named TataNeu and appears to be a comprehensive one that brings many of the consumer facing businesses of the salt-to- software conglomerate under one umbrella. A cursory look at the app shows how the final product may shape up. The app has been shared among many group executives via link. However, it is still not available to the public through free downloads from the Google Play Store or Apple App Store. Apart from a comprehensive section that deals with paying utility bills and recharges, the app allows users to explore a plethora of goods and services from the Tata group stable. At the same time, TataNeu provides users options to choose from rival brands and products. Clicking on any of the links takes the user to the respective apps or website of the related product or service. For instance, a click on the grocery section will take the user to BigBasket app/website; from F&B the user will be transported to Starbucks or Qmin, which is the online food delivery service launched by the Taj group of hotels during the pandemic. TataCliq, the already existing marketplace app /website of the group, which already offers a bouquet of third party products and services, appears to be the most common go-to from the TataNeu app. Multiple tweaks Sources said the app would go through many refinements before it was opened to the public. Two of the popular consumer facing brands Titan and Tanishq are yet to onboard the app. The trial of the app kicks off a a month-and -a-half after Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal chided Bombay House for apparently objecting to the draft e-commerce rules that prevent the conglomerate from selling its own products and that of its affiliates on the superapp. However, within days of the public outburst at the CII event, the minister softened his stand, apparently under pressure from outside and within the government. It now appears that Tatas are moving ahead with the plan even as dust is yet to settle on the e-commerce rules in the country. The superapp plans to mirror an e-marketplace, pitting itself directly not only against global behemoths such as  Flipkart-Walmart and Amazon but also the retail dream of Mukesh Ambani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Bengal's decision to cut stamp duty and circle rate yields results||The Mamata Banerjee government’s decision to cut stamp duty and circle rate for a limited period is  yielding results. A report published by property consultancy Knight Frank India said July-September recorded the “highest” level of quarterly sales in a three-month period. The government had announced a 2 per cent cut in stamp duty and 10 per cent relief in circle rate in the state budget on July 7 this year, even as it took consumers a few more weeks to avail themselves the benefit. Knight Frank says residential sales in the city spiked by 75 per cent year-on-year (YoY) to 6,861 units in Q3 of 2021. During the same period, new launches in the residential market also increased by 62 per cent YoY to 3,128 units. “Calcutta has seen the strongest recovery during the quarter and achieved pre-pandemic levels in terms of sales as well as launches.The 2 per cent cut in stamp duty and drop-in circle rates by 10 per cent in Bengal which has been put into effect has proved to be an effective driver for bringing sales velocity in the market. The announcement of the state government has encouraged developers to launch new projects.”said Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director, Knight Frank India. The limited period offer is in place till October 30, even as the city-based developers have exhorted the government to extend the deadline. A buyer can take advantage of the scheme if the registration process is completed within the due date. Stamp duty has come down to 4 per cent and 3 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively, for properties up to Rs 1 crore and 5 per cent and 4 per cent, respectively, for properties above that ceiling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Formal announcement on sale of Air India expected this week||A formal announcement on the strategic sale of Air India is expected this week. The ministerial panel on Air India is likely to clear the bid placed by Tata Sons, who have reportedly outbid SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh. The Union cabinet will give the final seal of approval to the winning bid. The Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism headed by home minister Amit Shah is likely to meet this week and their decision would be placed before the cabinet, officials said. They said there would be little gap between the ministerial panel meeting and the cabinet meeting. The ministerial panel members include finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. The panel would vet the recommendation of the core group of secretaries headed by the cabinet secretary who has held several rounds of consultations and is learnt to have suggested Tata Sons as the suitable candidate to take over the national carrier. However, Ajay Singh had placed a “competitive bid” for the airline, sources said. Valuation firms RBSA Advisors and EY — the consultant for the disinvestment — had given a presentation to the committee of secretaries. They had reportedly set the reserve price in the range of Rs 15,000-20,000 crore. Tata Sons has put in its financial bids through its subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd, while Ajay Singh is heading a group of investors and is involved in his personal capacity as a businessman. Officials said the Tatas were said to have outbid the SpiceJet chairman and the ministerial panel approval  seemed like a formality. The government plans to hand over the Maharajah before the end of the calendar year.  If successful, this will mark the return of Air India to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. The Centre is offering to sell 100 per cent in Air India and low cost-carrier Air India Express and its 50 per cent stake Air India SATS Airport Services Limited. Winning bidders will be decided on the basis of who quotes the highest EV value. At least 15 per cent of this value will need to be paid in cash while the rest can be taken on as debt. The bids will be made on the basis of enterprise values. At least 15 per cent of the enterprise value needs to be paid in cash and the rest taken on as debt. Enterprise value of an entity is the equity and debt combined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Invesco renews Zee AGM demand||Invesco on Monday urged the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to pass a “mandatory order” on Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd to convene an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to vote on the removal of MD and CEO Punit Goenka and the appointment of six independent directors. At the hearing , Mukul Rohatgi, counsel of Invesco Developing Markets Fund, also requested the appointment a retired high court judge to chair the EGM even as he said it was the “mandatory duty’’ of Zee to honour the EGM requisition. Invesco and OFI Global China Fund LLC who hold close to 18 per cent in Zee had last month asked the company to hold the EGM. It subsequently approached the tribunal seeking its intervention to direct Zee to hold the meeting. On September 30, the NCLT had directed Zee to hold a board meeting to consider Invesco’s request on the EGM. The Zee board on Friday turned down Invesco’s demand even as it filed a petition in the Bombay High Court saying the demand for the EGM be declared illegal and invalid. Rohatgi said that investors should have a minimum shareholding of 10 cent to request an EGM and given that this condition has been met, the meeting should be held. He said Zee would otherwise create hindrances if funds call for an EGM independently. Invesco is not worried about the outcome of the proposed meeting, but about whether it will be called, Rohatgi said. The tribunal will resume hearing on Tuesday. Zee had cited several reasons for not acceding to Invesco’s request. It pointed out that approval of the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting is needed for any change in the board or the CEO. Rohatgi said that such an approval has to be taken by the company and not its shareholders and this happens after a resolution to appoint new directors is passed by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Sebi wants  five per cent price band in book-building route||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has proposed a minimum price band of five per cent for initial public offering (IPOs) done through the book-building route. Sebi also wants the non-institutional investor (NII) category in IPOs be divided into two sub-categories to prevent the crowding out of lower bids made in this segment. Sebi has sought the comments on these proposals till October 20. An IPO can be made either through the book- building or the fixed price method. In book-building, bids are collected at various prices that are above or equal to floor price and less than or equal to the upper cap, with the offer price fixed after the bid closing date. Sebi rules say in book building the upper end of the price band should not exceed of 20 per cent the floor price. However, the price band is extremely narrow, sometimes as small as Rs 1, Rs 2 or Rs 3. A narrow price band presents an opportunity to the issuer company to camouflage a fixed price issue as a book built issue. Sebi has suggested the upper end of the price band should be at least 5 per cent higher than the lower end. Sebi said that there were concerns on the proportionate allotment method among non-institutional investors as there is an incentive to make an application of a higher bid amount that has the effect of crowding out the lower bids. Sebi wants the segment be divided into two sub-categories. The first is applications in the Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh range, which will be allocated one-third of the NII quota. The second is applications above Rs 10 lakh, which will be allocated the rest of the quota. MF pooling ban Sebi on Monday announced banning “intermediate pooling” of funds and units by mutual fund distributors, investment advisers, channel partners, platforms and other entities. The new rule, to come into force from April 1. Asset management companies (AMCs) will have to put in place necessary systems to ensure that transactions of funds and units pertaining to subscription as well as redemption are directly done between the accounts of the investors and the mutual fund scheme accounts concerned. There will not be any intermediate pooling, Sebi said. Under the fixed price method, the issuer has to allocate at least 50 per cent to retail investors and the rest to qualified institutional buyers and NIIs. In book building, at least 35 per cent  has to go to retail investors, 50 per cent to QIBs and the rest to NIIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Adanis buy SB Energy Holdings Ltd for Rs 26,000 crore||Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) on Monday said it has completed the acquisition of SB Energy Holdings Ltd (SB Energy India) for an enterprise valuation of $3.5 billion or Rs 26,000 crore. This marks the largest acquisition in India’s renewable sector. Following the closure of the deal, SB Energy India is now a 100 per cent subsidiary of AGEL. Earlier, it was a 80:20 joint venture between Japan-based SoftBank Group Corp and the Bharti group. In May, both parties had entered into definitive agreements for the transaction. The announcement comes just days after Gautam Adani had said that the group would invest over $20 billion across the next 10 years in renewable energy generation. SB Energy India has 5GW renewable assets across four states through its special purpose vehicles (SPVs). The portfolio holds 1,700MW of operational renewable assets, 2,554MW of assets under construction and 700MW of assets near construction. Of these, the solar capacity accounts for 84 per cent of the portfolio (4,180MW), the share of wind-solar hybrid capacity is around 9 per cent (450MW) while wind capacity accounts for 7 per cent (324MW). A statement from the Adani group added that it will get one of India’s highest quality renewable portfolios, with many of the assets being solar park-based projects and constructed using best-in-class project development, construction & operations and maintenance standards. “This transaction takes us closer to becoming the global leader in renewables,” Vneet S. Jaain, MD & CEO, AGEL. He said the addition of the high-quality large utility assets from SB Energy India demonstrates Adani Green Energy’s plans to accelerate India’s efforts to transition towards a carbon neutral future and that its renewable energy foundations will enable an entire ecosystem of new industries that can be expected to catalyse job creation in multiple sectors. Shares of Adani Energy on Monday ended with gains on the announcement. On the BSE, the scrip settled at Rs 1176.20 — up 2.18 per cent over the last close. It currently has a market cap of Rs 1,83,959.36 crore. AGEL said the transaction will boost its overall portfolio to 19.8GW implying a growth of four times. “AGEL’s counterparty mix for its overall portfolio of 19.8 GW is further reinforced with 87 per cent sovereign rated counter parties. The company also ensures a thorough adherence to globally recognised principles such as UN sustainable development goals and science-based targets initiative’’, it added. Key customers of AGEL include Solar Energy Corporation of India, National Thermal Power Corporation and various state discoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Oil prices jump on Opec move||Oil prices jumped Monday after Opec and allied oil producing countries stayed with their gradual approach to restoring output slashed during the pandemic, agreeing to add only 400,000 barrels per day in November. The decision on Monday by the Vienna-based oil cartel tracks with its established schedule of adding back that amount of oil every month until deep cuts made in 2020 to support prices during the depth of the pandemic recession are restored next year. The situation has changed since then as the global economy recovers. The decision comes amid stronger demand for oil products like gasoline and jet fuel, as driving and flying pick up around the globe due to the easing of restrictions aimed at containing the Covid-19 pandemic. On top of that, unusually high prices for natural gas are pushing some electricity producers in Asia to switch from natural gas to oil-based products, helping support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India supersedes board of directors of Srei||The Reserve Bank of India has ordered the supersession of the board of directors of Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL) — the two non-banking finance entities of the Kanoria-owned Srei group. Rajneesh Sharma, former chief general manager of Bank of Baroda, has been appointed as the administrator of the two companies. A three-member advisory committee has been formed to help the administrator discharge of his duties. The committee includes R. Subramaniakumar, former MD and CEO of Indian Overseas Bank, T. T. Srinivasaraghavan, former MD of Sundaram Finance Limited and Farokh N Subedar, former chief operating officer and company secretary of Tata Sons Limited. The banking regulator exercised its powers under section 45-IE (1) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 to supersede the boards of the two entities because of corporate governance concerns and their failure to meet their loan repayment obligations. The banks are expected to initiate insolvency proceedings against the two SREI entities — only the second time that the banking regulator has done so. In 2019, the regulator had launched insolvency proceedings against Dewan Housing Finance Corp which was eventually acquired by the Piramal group for Rs 34,250 crore. “The Reserve Bank ...intends to shortly initiate the process of resolution of the ... two NBFCs under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Insolvency and Liquidation Proceedings of Financial Service Providers and Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2019 and would also apply to the NCLT for appointing the Administrator as the Insolvency Resolution Professional,” said RBI. “We are shocked by the RBI’s move as banks have been regularly appropriating funds from the escrow account they have controlled since November 2020. Moreover, we have not received any communications from banks on any defaults. Almost Rs 3,000 crore has been collected by them,” the Srei group spokesperson told The Telegraph, adding that they were exploring legal options. The Srei spokesperson said the group had submitted a proposal in October 2020 to pay the full amount to banks under a scheme filed under section 230 of the Companies Act 2013. “They have neither accepted the scheme nor proposed a payment schedule acceptable to them. The NCLT order for all creditors is still in process. There is also an order directing the creditors and the regulator not to adopt coercive measures. We will take all necessary steps as advised by our lawyers in this regard,” he added. The spokesperson said that over the past three decades the Srei Group had paid Rs 30,000 crore by way of interest and another Rs 20,000 crore as principal to banks without delay. Special audit The banking regulator’s action comes after a special audit of the two Srei group entities. The lenders have also initiated a forensic audit of the books of these companies and have supported the regulator’s move to supersede the boards. The two NBFCs saw their problems escalate after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic during which the RBI instructed all lending institutions in March 2020 to grant a moratorium on loan repayment. After the six-month moratorium ended on August 30 last year, the RBI announced a one-time restructuring of loans in the case of certain borrowers without any change in asset classification. While the NBFCs were mandated to provide the one-time restructuring to their own borrowers, they themselves were not permitted to seek any relief on their own borrowings from their lenders. This restriction created a cash flow problem for them. Srei subsequently approached the NCLT with a repayment scheme aligned to cash inflows for all its creditors. Some creditors accepted the scheme, but other including banks did not. With the asset liability mismatch, cash flows of SEFL are currently being controlled by the lenders. At present, the company’s total liabilities amount to around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. Srei’s problems deepened after more than 200 employees including several top-level executives quit because of uncertainty over salary payments.  Credit rating agencies have also downgraded the ratings of SEFL and parent company SIFL to the “default” category -- a classification that the companies have challenged. For the quarter ended June 30, 2021, Srei Infrastructure Finance reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 971 crore compared with a profit of Rs 23 crore in the year ago period. It had reported a net loss of Rs 3,555 crore in the quarter ended March. Total consolidated income for the first quarter dropped 35 per cent year on year to Rs 793.34 crore. Expenses rose 48 per cent from a year earlier to Rs 1764 crore. Finance cost of Rs 936 crore and impairment cost of Rs 439 crore were the largest contributors to the company's expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
