06-10-2021||Business||Centre peeved at Moody’s stable GDP forecast||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 555 points amid global selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 555 points on Wednesday following losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid a selloff in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 555.15 points or 0.93 per cent lower at 59,189.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 176.30 points or 0.99 per cent to 17,646. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Bajaj Auto, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, HDFC twins and Bajaj Finance were the gainers. "Weak global markets which resulted in profit booking in metals and IT stocks led domestic indices to trade in red, trimming its early gains," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Spike in crude prices is spooking the Indian market while inflation is affecting US bond yields, he noted. Further, RBI has commenced its three-day MPC meeting in which the central bank is expected to keep rates unchanged. However, it is likely to announce measures to gradually pump out liquidity from the economy, Nair said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant losses. Shanghai was closed for holidays. Equities in Europe were also trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 1.14 per cent to USD 82.19 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in HDFC, SBI and Bajaj Finance amid a positive trend in US equities. The 30-share Sensex was trading 131.76 points or 0.22 per cent higher at 59,876.64. Similarly, the Nifty rose 46.75 points or 0.26 per cent to 17,869.05. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by SBI, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Titan, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Maruti and Reliance were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 445.56 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 59,744.88, and Nifty surged 131.05 points or 0.74 per cent to 17,822.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,915.08 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. India's sovereign rating upgrade by Moody's Investors Services in the backdrop of persistent improvement in key economic indicators and faster ramp-up in vaccination bodes well and may aid India to remain resilient compared to global equities, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities witnessed sharp recovery in the overnight session as the buy-on-dips approach of investors especially in technology stocks aided the market. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Shanghai was closed for the holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.25 per cent to USD 82.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Government to allow 50 per cent sale of coal from captive mines||The government on Tuesday said it has amended rules with a view to allow 50 per cent sale of coal from captive mines. The move is likely to help over 100 captive coal and lignite blocks with an over 500 million tonnes per annum peak rated capacity as well as all coal and lignite bearing states. “The ministry of coal has amended the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 with a view to allow sale of coal or lignite, on payment of additional amount, by the lessee of a captive mine up to 50 per cent of the total coal or lignite produced in a financial year, after meeting the requirement of the end use plant linked with the mine,” the coal ministry said in a statement. Earlier this year, the Mines and Minerals (Development & Regulation) Amendment Act had been amended to this effect. This is applicable for both the private and public sector captive mines. With this amendment, the government has paved the way to release additional coal in the market through greater utilisation of mining capacities of captive coal and lignite blocks, which were only partly utilised because of limited production of coal to meet their captive needs. The availability of additional coal will ease pressure on power plants and will also aid in import-substitution of coal. The allowance for sale in the prescribed quantity of coal or lignite shall also motivate the lessees to enhance the production from the  mines. Further, additional premium amount, royalty and other statutory payments in respect of the quantity of coal or lignite sold shall boost the revenue of the state governments. The government has also made provisions for grant of mining lease to a government company or corporation for coal or lignite for a period of 50 years. Grant of mining leases for a period of 50 years shall boost seamless continuous production of coal or lignite by the government companies or corporations contributing to the coal/lignite security of the nation. The said period can be extended by 20 years at a time upon an application made to the state government. Therefore, an increase in the period of mining leases shall reduce multiplicity of applications for extensions, thereby ensuring continuity in mining operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||PMI Services Index dips in September||The PMI Services Index — one of the key gauges to measure activity in the services sector — moderated in September to 55.2, falling from August’s 18-month high of 56.7. A reading above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction in economic activity. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index, however, remained well above its long-run average. “Despite easing from August, the rate of expansion was marked and the second-fastest since February 2020,” the survey said. Buoyed by signs of improvements in underlying demand, Indian service providers took on additional staff during September. The increase in employment ended a nine-month sequence of job shedding, but was marginal overall as some panelists said they had sufficient staff to deal with their workloads. “Indian firms continued to benefit from a recovery in demand as the pandemic receded and restrictions were lifted. The improved market environment meant firms secured new work during September,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. “While forecasts of better demand supported business confidence regarding output, growth looks set to be constrained by rising inflation expectations. We saw a substantial decline in positive sentiment among service providers due to this factor,” Lima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||NCLT move backfired on Srei||The Srei group’s decision to proactively move to NCLT in a bid to recast debt and repay creditors in retrospect could have irked the bankers and prompted the Reserve Bank of India to trigger its powers to supercede the board of directors of Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL). “Unfortunately because of the Covid and the related problems, the infrastructure sector was affected badly. There was also a moratorium which we had to give to our customers. That is the reason why we went and filed the scheme so that everyone can be paid in a structured manner. But maybe some people may not have liked that. Maybe that is the reason why this reaction would have come,” said Hemant Kanoria who has headed the two NBFCs of Srei Group. “We are ourselves perplexed at the decision,” Kanoria said, adding that efforts were being made to pay full dues to all creditors in a structured manner and also rope in investors in a bid to strengthen the company. The company’s total liabilities are around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. Rewinding to 2020, the two non-bank finance companies were affected by an asset-liability mismatch amid the Covid pandemic and the changing regulatory landscape of loan moratorium and restructuring. While the borrowers of the NBFCs got the benefit, the NBFCs could not get the same benefit from the banks. Srei approached the NCLT under section 230 of Companies Act with a restructuring proposal but the lenders were not in favour. The lenders, who have initiated a forensic enquiry, took control of the cash flow of the companies in November 2020 which further affected the day-to-day business including clearance of salary. The company subsequently filed separate schemes for other creditors, besides banks, in December 2020 to make payments. Capital infusion SEFL received interest from a total of 11 global investors including Singapore's Makara Capital Partners for investment of Rs 2200 crore and from US based Arena Investors for investment of Rs 2000 crore. Cerberus Global Investments, Charlestown Capital Advisors, CarVal Investors LP, Varde Parterns Asia Pte and Maystone Capital are among the other firms who have expressed their interest to invest. The erstwhile board of directors had accepted the non-binding term sheets from Arena Investors and Makara Capital and forwarded to RBI for its approval. However the appointment of the administrator with an eventual intent at triggering insolvency puts a question mark over the fate of the proposals received. “We have to wait and see because the decision came only yesterday evening. We have to understand from the RBI what are they going to do and what would be the next step going forward,” said Kanoria. Next step The RBI has appointed Rajneesh Sharma as the administrator for the two Srei group firms and a three member committee to assist him in discharge of duties. Sharma, former chief general manager of Bank of Baroda, has taken charge following the RBI directive on Monday. Srei would likely explore its legal option but according to observers it may not be able to avoid the ignominy of seeing the two entities dragged into bankruptcy resolution - .only the second time this has happened since DHFL went through a highly controversial process. “The appointment of the administrator by the RBI paves the way for the corporate resolution process of the two Srei entities. Once the NCLT approves the same, the board of directors of these entities will stand suspended. A moratorium will be imposed on any proceedings against these entities, enforcement of any security or transfer of assets. “The CIRP will enable foreign creditors, including ECB lenders and bond holders to restructure their debts alongside domestic creditors. If a resolution plan is successfully approved under the CIRP, it will allow the companies to start on a clean slate, which is missing under the RBI stressed assets framework. This decision of RBI follows on the heels of a successful resolution process of DHFL,” said Aashit Shah, partner, J. Sagar Associates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Moody’s revises India’s rating outlook to stable from negative||Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday revised India’s rating outlook to stable from negative. It, however, retained the Baa3 rating which is the lowest investment grade. The government had pitched for a sovereign rating upgrade at a recent meeting with the global rating agency. Moody’s said in a statement that the decision to change the outlook to stable comes as solvency in the financial system has strengthened, improving credit conditions which it expects will be sustained as policy settings normalise. The rating agency added that bank provisioning has allowed for the gradual write-off of legacy problem assets over the past few years. Further, the lenders have strengthened their capital positions, pointing to a stronger outlook for credit growth to support the economy. “Following a deep contraction of 7.3 per cent in fiscal 2020 (year ended March 2021), Moody’s expects India’s real GDP to surpass 2019 levels this fiscal year, rebounding to a growth rate of 9.3 per cent, followed by 7.9 per cent in fiscal 2022. “Downside risks to growth from subsequent coronavirus infection waves are mitigated by rising vaccination rates and more selective use of restrictions on economic activity, as seen during the second wave,’’ it added. According to Moody’s, the affirmation of the Baa3 ratings balances India’s key credit strengths, which include a large and diversified economy with high growth potential, a relatively strong external position, and a stable domestic financing base for government debt, against its principal credit challenges, including low per capita incomes and high general government debt. It noted that with higher capital cushions and greater liquidity, banks and non-bank financial institutions pose much lesser risk to the sovereign than it anticipated earlier. Though risks stemming from a high debt burden remain, Moody's expects that the economic environment will allow for a gradual reduction of the general government fiscal deficit over the next few years, preventing further deterioration of the sovereign credit profile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Bond yields rise, heat on rupee as crude oil prices hit 7-year high||Bond yields rose on Tuesday and the rupee came under pressure as crude oil prices hit a 7-year high amid apprehensions of liquidity tightening by the Reserve Bank of India as it initiates gradual policy normalisation with the economy showing signs of a recovery. The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI is meeting from October 6 to October 8 Reflecting the market’s apprehensions over rising crude oil prices that could push up inflation, yields on the benchmark 10-year bond closed at 6.26 per cent on Tuesday after rising to a day’s high of 6.28 per cent. On Monday, it had settled at 6.248 per cent. Yields are inversely related to government bond prices. International crude oil prices have continued to remain firm after Opec and its allies stuck to their plans of a gradual increase in production. With India importing 80 per cent of its oil requirements, rising prices could lead to higher inflation, forcing the RBI to hike interest rates apart from posing other challenges such as a higher current account deficit. Though the MPC is widely expected to maintain its accommodative stance, market circles expect the committee to take the first steps towards winding up the easy liquidity regime since the start of the pandemic. The central bank could reduce the bond purchases of its GSAP (government securities acquisition) programme under which it had bought securities worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the first quarter of this fiscal rising to Rs 1.2 lakh crore in the July-September period. Recently, the RBI had set a higher cut-off yield for the 7 day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction at 3.99 per cent which is closer to the repo rate of four per cent. While some economists expect a hike in the reverse repo — the rate at which the RBI soaks up excess liquidity — others feel a status-quo is likely to continue. “While the economic environment has changed since the last policy, the MPC is likely to keep a status quo on interest rates and an accommodative stance,” Shanti Ekambaram, group president — consumer banking, Kotak Mahindra Bank, said. The rupee on Tuesday fell 13 paise to close at 74.44 against the dollar weighed down by a stronger greenback in the overseas market and rising crude oil prices. It fell to an inter-day low of 74.63 and finally settled at 74.44, down 13 paise from its previous close. "Some global factors such as a crude price hike because of shortages in China and the UK and the US Federal Reserve indicating it is likely to begin tapering by the end of the year could cause volatility." She said the MPC will keep a watch on all these factors, with domestic growth and inflation likely to guide its policy stance. "If the green shoots of economic recovery sustain, it is possible to expect some steps in the latter part of the year on liquidity and the reverse repo."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
06-10-2021||Business||Centre to reconsider one-time spectrum fee on telecom operators||The Centre has decided to reconsider its stand on the levy of a one-time spectrum fee on telecom operators. The Modi government has sought three weeks’ time from the Supreme Court to decide whether or not to challenge a judgment handed down by the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) in 2019 which had rejected its claim to Rs 40,000 crore from telecom operators linked to the spectrum levy. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta informed an apex court bench comprising Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna that the government wished to reconsider its stand on the spectrum fee in “public interest” and to mitigate the financial distress in the telecom industry. The one-time spectrum fee was imposed in 2012 and was supposed to be levied on telecom operators holding more than 6.2 Mhz of spectrum in a single circle between July 2008 and 2013. The unpaid dues as a result of the fee have ballooned to Rs 40,000 crore. The TDSAT had ruled that the spectrum fee could be levied only from 2013 and would have no retrospective application as contemplated by the government. If the government decides to drop its appeal against the TDSAT order, it would signal a major relief to the beleaguered telecom sector. Analysts suggest that Bharti Airtel and Vodafone would get a financial relief of Rs 8,414 crore and Rs 4,390 crore, respectively, if the government drops its appeal. It will also provide a major reprieve to companies like Reliance Communications which no longer provides services. Last month, telecom operators were granted a four-year moratorium from paying dues arising from a mix of telecom fees and spectrum levies that have swelled to over Rs 1.47 lakh crore. The government had also offered them an option to convert a part of the debt into equity. The apex court has adjourned the matter till November 17. K. Raja Raman, secretary in the Department of Telecommunications (DoT), had filed an affidavit on Monday which came up on Tuesday before the bench headed by Justice M.R. Shah. The affidavit said the Union cabinet had announced a number of decisions on September 15 to head off a situation where the viability of some telecom service providers became unsustainable “resulting in a monopolistic situation” in the industry. The affidavit was referring to Vodafone Idea without actually naming it. The struggling telecom operator had informed the government that it was on the brink of collapse and unable to pay dues worth over Rs 50,000 crore unless it was granted a moratorium. The package of reforms was announced last month because the government was aware that the collapse of Vodafone Idea would blow up into a crisis in the banking industry as well. In its affidavit, the DoT said the Indian Banks Association had also informed the government that adverse developments in telecom sector could lead to "vanishing competition, duopoly, unsustainable operations and severe loss for the banking system which has a huge exposure to this sector." It added that the government wanted to reconsider its "decision to proceed with the present proceedings of appeals." However, it asked for time to review the position as  decisions will have to be taken after the scrutiny at various levels".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
