07-10-2021||Business||Sensex surges 488 points amid global rally||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 488 points on Thursday, tracking gains in Titan, TCS and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index ended 488.10 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 59,677.83. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 144.35 points or 0.82 per cent to 17,790.35. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, zooming over 10 per cent, followed by M&M, Maruti, IndusInd Bank, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, HCL, TCS, Tech Mahindra and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, HDFC, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India and HUL were among the laggards. "Bulls stepped up the accelerator ahead of the RBI policy, led by the auto Index which was up 4.5 per cent in afternoon trade. As the festive season commenced we saw heightened activity in textiles, consumer durables and real estate stocks," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The IT Index lent good support ahead of earnings starting on Friday. "While the street would be keen to watch the RBI stance tomorrow, the market breadth was very good with the small and midcap indices buzzing with optimism," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains. Shanghai was closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.97 per cent to USD 80.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in Reliance Industries, Titan and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share Sensex was trading 571.25 points or 0.97 per cent higher at 59,760.98. Similarly, the Nifty rose 164.25 points or 0.93 per cent to 17,810.25. All Sensex components were trading on a positive note. Titan was the top gainer, soaring nearly 9 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, M&M, Maruti, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries and L&T. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 555.15 points or 0.93 per cent lower at 59,189.73, and Nifty tumbled 176.30 points or 0.99 per cent to 17,646. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 802.81 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Nifty's range of 17,500- 18,000 is likely to be broken in the next few days. Outcomes of probable Taper timelines, MPC meeting and Q2 results are likely to be market moving," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. An area of concern is the MPC sounding caution on the inflation front and gradually moving away from accommodative monetary policy, he said, adding that the Central bank will have to initiate measures to absorb the excess liquidity in the system. Globally, the US Fed's communication on the Taper timeline, which in turn will be influenced by the non-farm payrolls data, will be keenly watched by the markets, he noted. "While the bears swear by the elevated valuations in the markets, the bulls are optimistic about the prospects of steady rise in corporate earnings for the next 3 to 4 years," he pointed out. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Shanghai was closed for the holidays. Stock exchanges in the US also ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.60 per cent to USD 80.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Performance and financial bank guarantee requirements slashed for telecom operators||The Department of Telecom has slashed the performance and financial bank guarantee requirements of telecom operators by 80 per cent, which will improve the cash reserves of Vodafone Idea and other operators. The amendment has been made in old telecom licences in the UASL (Unified Access Services licensee) category and new licences that were started in 2012 — the unified licence (UL) category. Under the amended norms in UL, the operators will be required to provide a performance bank guarantee (PBG) of up to Rs 44 crore for each service for the telecom licence compared with Rs 220 crore under the old rule. They will have to give a financial bank guarantee (FBG) of maximum Rs 8.8 crore per circle now, against the previous requirement of Rs 44 crore. The rule will not be applicable in cases where bank guarantees (BG) have been furnished because of any court order or are subject to any litigation, the licence amendment note said. In UASL, there were three different amounts of financial bank guarantees that were charged — Rs 50 crore for each A category telecom circle, Rs 25 crore for B service area and Rs 5 crore for C category circles — that has been reduced to 20 per cent through the amendment, which has been issued with immediate effect. “The PBGs and FBGs of existing licensees shall be revised to 20 per cent of the current total amount held by the licensor...,” the amendment note for UASL said. The new rules will not apply to telecom operators, who are currently going through the liquidation process. “Through the amendment in license agreements, telecom service providers will be eased off the huge burdens of bank guarantees and will enable the availability of more funding for the expansion of the telecom network,” S.P. Kochhar, the director-general of the Cellular Operators Association of India said. Telecom FDI The government on Wednesday notified its decision to permit 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) under automatic route in the telecom services sector. In a press note, it said foreign investment in telecom services will be subject to the condition of Press Note 3 of 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||ZEE moves NCLAT for more time to file reply to EGM plea||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) on Wednesday moved the NCLAT seeking more time to file a reply over the requisition of minority shareholders Invesco and OFI Global China Fund to convene an extraordinary general meeting (EGM). The petition filed by Zee has been listed for hearing on Thursday before a two-member bench of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) comprising Justice Jarat K Jain and Alok Srivastava. According to the industry insiders, Zee has sought more time to file a reply over the petition filed by its minority shareholders Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund and sought a stay over the proceedings going before the Mumbai bench of the NCLT. On Tuesday, the NCLT had directed ZEEL to give a reply over the petition filed by its minority shareholders by October 7 (Thursday), the next date of hearing. Invesco Developing Markets Fund (formerly Invesco Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund) along with OFI Global China Fund LLC hold 17.88 per cent stake in ZEEL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Cooking gas, petrol and diesel prices raised||State-owned oil firms have increased the price of cooking gas by Rs 15 per cylinder, while petrol and diesel rates saw their steepest increase in recent weeks, pushing prices to all-time high across the country. Cooking gas now costs Rs 899.50 per cylinder in Delhi and Mumbai, and Rs 926 in Calcutta, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In 2021, the price of a 14.2 kg non-subsidised LPG cylinder has been hiked by Rs 205.50. The government has through periodic increases eliminated subsidies on LPG in most cities. Domestic household kitchens, which are entitled to 12 cylinders of 14.2-kg each at subsidised rates in a year, and Ujjwala beneficiaries, who got free connections, now pay the market price. A 5-kg LPG cylinder now costs Rs 502. The price of LPG sold by Saudi Arabia has gone up steeply, from $483 a tonne in May to $797 in October. Fuel rates The price of petrol was increased by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre. This is the steepest daily increase in recent weeks and follows international oil prices touching a seven-year high. The petrol price in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.94 a litre and to Rs 108.96 in Mumbai, the notification showed. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 91.42 in Delhi and Rs 99.17 per litre in Mumbai. Petrol now costs Rs 103.65 per litre in Calcutta and Rs 100.49 per litre in Chennai, respectively. While diesel sells for Rs 94.53 per litre in Calcutta, it costs Rs 95.93 per litre in Chennai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.? “The increase in crude oil price in the last few days has been caused by the sharp increase in demand as well as constraints on supply...The oncoming winter season tends to put pressure on prices in normal times too. Of late the power shortage in some geographies especially China has been caused by supply chain issues regarding coal. This in turn has increased the demand for oil,” Care Ratings said. India imports around 4.5-5 barrels per day which for the second half of the year would be 820-910 barrels. Intuitively $ 10/barrel will mean an increase in the import bill by $ 8.2- $ 9.1 bn for this period. In FY20 the oil bill was $ 130 billion and in FY21 $ 82.4 billion. In the first 6 months of FY22, oil imports were $ 70.5 billion and hence assuming a similar quantum would be imported in the second quarter there would be an increase in the half yearly bill by 11.6% to 12.9%. This will tend to impact the trade deficit too. The trade deficit for the first half was around $ 75.7 billion, it said. The share of petrol and diesel is 4.7% in WPI and combined with other products which are related to crude oil would have a weight of 9.62%. The share of petrol and diesel in the CPI is 2.33% while other related products especially for conveyance is 6.33%. “The pass through of higher prices in the CPI to the transport sector which can in turn have an indirect impact on other commodity prices,” the rating firm said, expressing concern over the inflationary pressure in the economy. The seventh increase in fuel rates by oil firms since the ending of a nearly three-week hiatus has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 a litre in most major cities of the country. International oil prices rallied to their highest level since 2014, following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 82.92 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 79.25 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. A month back Brent was around USD 72 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||SC suspends Tihar jail officials, orders investigation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered immediate suspension and a comprehensive criminal investigation against certain Tihar jail officials for allegedly conniving with ex-Unitech promoters — Sanjay and Ajay Chandra —  in running an illegal parallel secret office from within the prison . A bench of Justices D.Y.Chandrachud and M.R.Shah passed the directions after some heated exchanges with senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the Chandra brothers, who remarked that the court would “repent” if it passes orders in the Unitech row without hearing the version of the arrested promoters. The directions were passed pursuant to a report submitted by Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, stating that an investigation by police had revealed a nexus between the Chandra brothers and certain jail officials in the running of a secret office from the jail by the brothers. On August 26, the bench had expressed shock and anger over the manner in which the capital’s highly fortified Tihar jail has become a “haven” for unlawful activities as it ordered the immediate transfer of the Chandra brothers to Mumbai jails. The court ordered Sanjay Chandra to be shifted to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Ajay Chandra to Taloja. In December 2019, the apex court had directed the Centre to forthwith take over the management of real estate giant Unitech by  appointing  independent directors following a forensic audit that found the group to have diverted around Rs 5,000 crore of home buyers' money. The diversion affected the completion of at least 74 of its projects, affecting the interests of 12,000 buyers in different parts of the country particularly, Gurgaon and Noida bordering Delhi. The two key promoters, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra, are in jail since 2017 over the alleged diversion but often managed to come out on bail or parole and even otherwise operating from within jail. When the matter came up for hearing on Wednesday senior advocate Vikas Singh argued that his client cannot be subjected to any adverse orders without being given copies of the forensic auditor. “…how long will this ex parte (without hearing the other side) hearing go on? I am the second-largest real estate developer who has built around five crore square feet area and over 1 lakh units,” Singh asked the bench during the hearing. Justice Chandrachud said “This is not an ex parte hearing. You (accused) are not entitled to peruse the case diary.” Later, the bench passed an order directing a criminal investigation into the alleged connivance of the jail officials with the Chandra brothers as stated by the Delhi Police Commissioner’s report. The Commissioner in his report had stated that a criminal case be registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act against the officials of the Tihar jail. “….We direct that officials of Tihar jail who were prima facie found to be complicit will be suspended for the time being till the pendency of proceeding.” The court also turned down the request of Singh for a copy of the forensic auditor’s report. Singh responded saying “I don't want your Lordships to repent later on that you did not take timely action. I am sure the court has nothing personal against the Chandras…I should have been given the Grant Thornton report. I should have been able to show that there is no diversion of funds…. If in the trial it is found that there is no diversion of funds, then can the clock be turned backwards and put time back into my hand?” the senior counsel asked. “Shouldn't the Grant Thornton report be given to me now itself.” the senior counsel asked. However, a visibly annoyed Justice Chandrachud removed his mask and expressed strong displeasure at Singh’s arguments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Coinswitch becomes India's most valued crypto company||Crypto platform Coinswitch Kuber on Wednesday said it has raised $260 million (Rs 1,943 crore) in a funding round, valuing it at $ 1.9 billion. Coinswitch has now become the most valued crypto company in the country and the second entity to achieve the unicorn status after rival CoinDCX which was valued at $ 1.1 billion in August. A unicorn is a privately held start-up which is valued at over $ 1 billion. The Reserve Bank has expressed concerns over the spread of crypto currencies, though its use is growing among investors. Coinswitch has raised the money in a C-series funding from Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), Coinbase Ventures and existing investors Paradigm, Ribbit Capital, Sequoia Capital India and Tiger Global. The company said it was targeting to bring 5 crore Indians on its platform. Recently, it said it has registered 1 crore users to become the country’s largest crypto platform since starting operations in June 2020. Of this, close to 70 lakh users were classified as monthly active. The funds will be utilised to hire skilled personnel for [roduct development and data purposes. It will add new asset classes and bring institutional clients with the funds. Founded by Ashish Singhal, Sagar Vimal, and Govind Soni, Coinswitch Kuber allows investors to start trading in cryptocurrencies with investment of as low as Rs 100 on its platform. There is no brokerage or any lock-in period. According to its website, investors can buy, sell and trade in more than 100 cryptocurrencies on its platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Rupee witnesses biggest single-day drop in six months ||Indian markets were caught in a global selloff on Wednesday as hardening crude oil prices and supply chain bottlenecks stoked fears of rising inflation crimping economic recovery around the world. A depreciating rupee, which plunged 54 paise against the dollar, added to the woes. Snapping its two-day winning run, the 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 555.15 points, or 0.93 per cent, to close at 59189.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 176.30 points or 0.99 per cent to 17646. “Weak global markets, which resulted in profit booking in metals and IT stocks, led domestic indices to trade in the red, trimming its early gains. Spike in crude prices is spooking the Indian market while inflation is affecting US bond yields,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. S. Hariharan, head-sales trading, Emkay Global Financial Services, said the global backdrop is worrisome with surging energy prices, slowing demand conditions and a global supply chain crunch across basic materials. “Should central banks respond to rising inflation expectations by paring bond purchases and tightening monetary conditions, that could act as a trigger for sudden re-pricing of risk assets,” he added. Rupee, bonds feel heat Rupee and bonds continued to feel the heat of firm crude oil prices, with the domestic currency witnessing its biggest single-day drop in six months, and yields on the benchmark 10 year bond rising to an 18 month high. The rupee on Wednesday came close to the 75 per dollar mark as international crude prices went past $83 per barrel (though it dropped later), stoking concerns about its impact on inflation and India’s current account deficit. At the inter-bank foreign exchange market, the rupee opened at 74.63 and touched a day’s low of 74.99 against the greenback. It finally settled at 74.98 to a dollar, down 54 paise over its previous close. This was the lowest closing for the rupee since April 23 this year. “The rupee weakened against the dollar on Wednesday because Brent crude moved near three-year highs, which prompted some banks to buy dollars on behalf of oil marketing companies. The dollar also rose against major currencies as investors turned their focus to non-farm payrolls report in the US for September, due on Friday, for cues on when the US. “Better than expected jobs data could pave the way for tapering of the Fed's asset purchases, which will weigh on the Indian rupee,’’ IFA Global said in a note. Meanwhile, yields on the benchmark 10-year bond came close to 6.29 per cent — a nearly 18 month high. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. It later ended at 6.28 per cent against its previous close of 6.26 per cent. All eyes of the bond markets are now on the monetary policy due to be announced on Friday. Though the RBI is not expected to hike the policy repo rate and maintain its accommodative stance, it could take steps to mop up some of the surplus liquidity. The market is also expecting the central bank to come up with a roadmap on normalising the excess liquidity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Union cabinet approves 78-day bonus pay to rail staff||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a productivity-linked bonus equivalent to 78 days’ wage to eligible non-gazetted railway employees. The bonus for the financial year 2020-21 will benefit about 11.56 lakh employees. An expenditure of nearly Rs 1,985 crore will be incurred to pay the bonus. The bonus is usually announced ahead of Dussehra and Pujas. The wage calculation ceiling prescribed for the payment of the bonus is Rs 7,000 per month. The maximum amount payable per eligible railway employee is Rs. 17,951 for 78 days. Railway Board chairman and chief operating officer Suneet Sharma said that the bonus will be disbursed as usual before Dussehra. He said that the railways had also taken care of the kin of the personnel who had died from the coronavirus. Over 2,800 people have been given jobs on compassionate grounds, Sharma said. In case the children of those who have died are minors, they will be eligible to get a railway job once they turn 18. Around 3,256 rail officials have died due to Covid-19 since March 2020. The productivity-linked bonus covers all non-gazetted railway employees (excluding RPF/RPSF personnel). Last year, Indian Railways had also disbursed a bonus of 78 days’ wage after the cabinet had approved productivity and non-productivity-linked bonus for 2019-2020 to more than 30 lakh PSU staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
07-10-2021||Business||Government to set up 7 integrated textile parks ||The government on Wednesday approved setting up of seven mega integrated textile regions and apparel parks (PM Mitra) for a total outlay of Rs 4,445 crore over five years. The project could potentially create 21 lakh jobs and boost production and export-led growth. “PM Mitra will offer an opportunity to create an integrated textiles value chain right from spinning, weaving, processing/dyeing and printing to garment manufacturing at one location,” textiles minister Piyush Goyal told reporters after the cabinet meeting. He added the park will reduce the logistics cost of industry as the entire value chain of textiles is scattered and fragmented in different parts of the country. While cotton is grown in Gujarat and Maharashtra, spinning takes place in Tamil Nadu and processing happens in Rajasthan and Gujarat and exports are done from Mumbai and Kandla. The minister added that PM Mitra parks would be set up at varied greenfield and brownfield sites in participating states. He said the participation of states would be voluntary. The government would be extending a development capital support of Rs 500 crore to all greenfield projects and Rs 200 crore to brownfield projects under the scheme. The idea here is to facilitate the common infrastructure of the park which has been pegged at 30 percent of the total project cost. Further, Rs 300 crore would be extended as competitiveness incentive support. “For a Greenfield PM MITRA park, the GOI Development Capital Support will be 30% of the Project Cost, with a cap of 500 crore. For Brownfield sites, after assessment, Development Capital Support 30% of project cost of balance infrastructure and other support facilities to be developed and restricted to a limit of Rs. 200 Crore,” he stated. The idea behind these investments is to make the projects viable and attractive for private sector participation. The parks would have to allocate 50 per cent area for pure manufacturing activity, 20 per cent for utilities and 10 per cent for commercial development. Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) Chairman Dr A Sakthivel said the scheme will help India regain its global leadership position in the textile industry. “It will attract massive foreign and domestic investment in the sector making it globally competitive while helping create lakhs of jobs….will increase its annual exports to over $100 billion in the next few years. The sector, which is the second largest employment generator in the country, alone will play a major role in realizing Aatma nirbhar Bharat,” he said. The parks would be collectively owned by the state and central governments in a Public-private partnership (PPP) model. The master developer would also be responsible for maintaining the park during the construction period. The selection of the developer would be based on criteria that would be jointly laid out by state and central governments. It was pointed out that Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Assam Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana have expressed their interest in setting up such parks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
07-10-2021||Business||Inflation cloud over RBI bi-monthly monetary policy rate meet ||The RBI’s rate-setting panel started its three-day deliberations on the next bi-monthly monetary policy on Wednesday amid rising global commodity prices and the need to contain inflation at home. The decision of the six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) would be announced on Friday by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. Experts are of the view that the central bank will maintain the status quo on policy rates for the eighth time in a row. The policy repo rate or the short-term lending rate is at 4 per cent, and the reverse repo rate is 3.35 per cent. Ranen Banerjee, leader (public finance and economics) at PwC India, said the latest statements by the US Fed Chair on possible actions if inflation does not wear off by the first half of 2022 is a clear commencement of chatter around rate action after the clarity on taper timing. “This will have a bearing on the stance of the MPC as it will also be worried on the inflation front given that oil, natural gas and coal prices show no signs of abetting and rather have an upward bias,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
