08-10-2021||Business||Chief Economic Adviser KV Subramanian quits, says he will return to academia||Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) K V Subramanian on Friday said he has decided to return to academia after completion of his three-year term in the finance ministry. In a statement, Subramanian thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their support and inspiring leadership. "I have decided to return back to academia following the completion of my 3-year fulfilling tenure," he said. Serving the nation has been an absolute privilege. I have wonderful support and encouragement," Subramanian tweeted. "To get an opportunity to serve one's nation is an absolute privilege. Each day that I have walked into North Block I have reminded myself of this privilege while endeavouring my best to do justice to the responsibility that comes with the privilege," he said in a statement. "I have received tremendous encouragement and support from within the government and have been fortunate to enjoy a warm relationship with senior functionaries. In close to three decades of my professional life, I am yet to encounter a more inspiring leader than the Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji," Subramanian said. "His intuitive understanding of economic policy combines with an unmistakable determination to use the same to elevate the lives of common citizens," he added. "India is witnessing dramatic change. After all, as my late father had dreamt and worked so hard for, a person who was the first ever in his entire clan to step into the hallowed portals of a university gets the honour to serve the nation. Such an opportunity to 'Live the Indian Dream' manifests under a leader who takes equal pride in his humble origins. That such a savant comes away genuinely admiring the leader symbolises an India where meritocracy is in and entitlement is out. To be at the helm during such a time of spectacular change is an incredible honour that I will cherish forever," he further said in his statement. The government had appointed Subramanian, a ISB Hyderabad professor, as the CEA in December 2018. He had succeeded Arvind Subramanian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||Tatas get the pilot seat at Air India after decades||They say better late than never. For the Tatas, the original owners of Air India, bringing back the airline to its fold is worth the wait even if the attempt to privatise the bleeding national carrier by successive governments has taken over two decades. While many airlines have come and gone from the Indian skies since the time when the first move was made to privatise Air India to date, the salt-to-software conglomerate has never let the love affair with aviation, more so with Air India that its former Chairman Jehangir Ratanji Dadabhoy Tata (JRD) had, to go off the radar. It is said that Tata group executives used to complain in private that JRD -- the pioneer of the Indian aviation industry -- spent more time worrying about Air India than the Tata group when he was heading both the entities. Nevertheless, they also knew heading Air India as Chairman was never just a job but was a labour of love to him. Considering the respect for legacy that the group has, it is therefore not a surprise that the Tatas shelled out so much (Rs 18,000 crore) to take back Air India. This is a group that didn't mind investing Rs 2 lakh back then in 1932 to start Tata Aviation Service, the precursor of Tata Airlines and Air India. From the first airmail service flight from Karachi to Bombay in October 1932 with JRD steering a Puss Moth aircraft to wresting control of Air India 89 years later, the conglomerate has had a roller coaster ride in the Indian civil aviation history. Tata Airlines going public in 1946 as a 'joint stock company' named Air India and the maiden flight on June 8, 1948 of Air-India International -- the first public-private enterprise of independent India -- with its iconic mascot Maharaja to Europe, remain the breakout landmarks in the skies of the group. Air-India International became one of the best airlines in the world with staff, maintenance and services provided by Tatas' domestic airline Air India. Contrary to the time taken to privatise the current Air India, it is said that JRD was surprised when the group's proposal made in October 1947 to float Air-India International with the government holding 49 per cent, Tatas 25 per cent and the rest by public was accepted "within weeks", at a time when it took at least two years "not to make a decision". However, the flights have not been without headwinds. In 1953 when the then government of Jawaharlal Nehru nationalised Air India, JRD fought vehemently against it. There was very little the group could do when the government decided to nationalise 11 airlines, all of which except Air India were making heavy losses and merge them into a single state corporation. After the nationalisation of Air India, the group's link with civil aviation was through JRD who served as the state carrier's Chairman for 25 years. Yet, the group kept the fire of re-entering the aviation sector burning. In the 90s, when India's civil aviation sector was opened up to private players, the group's attempt to float a domestic airline in partnership with Singapore Airlines ended in disappointment with the government rejecting the proposal. In 1994, the Tata group under Ratan Tata's stewardship, had set up a joint venture with Singapore Airlines to start a domestic airline in India but it didn't take off as the then regulations did not permit foreign carriers to hold stake in domestic airlines. Also, in 2000 the two partners teamed up to purchase stakes in Air India without success. Still, the group never gave up on its hopes to fly again. In 2012 when India removed foreign investment restrictions, it came together yet again with Singapore Airlines to form a joint venture -- TATA SIA Airlines Ltd, which was incorporated on November 5, 2013, to operate a full service domestic airline under the Vistara brand. The airlines in which Tata group promoter firm Tata Sons holds 51 per cent stake and Singapore Airlines 49 per cent, had its maiden flight from Delhi to Mumbai on January 9, 2015. Since then it has spread its wings, serving 40 destinations with over 200 flights daily with a fleet of 47 aircraft. A year before Vistara took off, Tatas had entered the low-cost, no frills flying segment through a joint venture with Malaysia's AirAsia to fly under the brand AirAsia India, which had its first flight from Bengaluru to Goa in June 2014. It connects 17 destinations in the country at present. However, AirAsia India, in which the Tatas held 51 per cent stake and Air Asia 49 per cent initially, ran into losses with the COVID-19 pandemic adding to the woes. Last December, Tata Sons agreed to increase its stake in the budget carrier to 83.67 per cent by acquiring an additional 32.67 per cent for USD 37.66 million from AirAsia Investment Ltd (AAIL). The Malaysian partner had said its business in Japan and India were draining cash, causing the Air Asia Group much financial stress and therefore it was reconsidering its investments in India. While the homecoming of sorts of Air India will be a joyous moment for the 153-year-old conglomerate, it remains to be seen how would it map the future of its airlines business, considering the fact that the aviation industry crippled by the pandemic is yet to recover from the deadly blows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||Tata Sons wins bid to acquire 100 per cent stake of Air India||Tata Sons will retake Air India - the airline it founded nearly 90 years back - as the government accepted its winning bid of Rs 18,000 crore to acquire 100 per cent of the debt-laden state-run carrier. Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of salt-to-software conglomerate, made the winning bid of Rs 2,700 crore cash and Rs 15,300 crore debt takeover, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary in the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, said at a briefing on Friday. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier. The transaction is targeted to be closed by December, Pandey said. While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable and will give it access to more than a hundred planes, thousands of trained pilots and crew, and lucrative landing and parking slots all around the world. The transaction does not include non-core assets including land and building, valued at Rs 14,718 crore, which are to be transferred to government's Air India Asset Holding Limited (AIAHL). Jehangir Ratanji Dadabhoy (JRD) Tata founded the airline in 1932. It was called Tata Airlines then. In 1946, the aviation division of Tata Sons was listed as Air India and in 1948, Air India International was launched with flights to Europe. The international service was among the first public-private partnerships in India, with the government holding 49 per cent, the Tatas keeping 25 per cent and the public owning the rest. In 1953, Air India was nationalised. This was the third attempt to privatise Air India. With previous attempts since 2017 failing to get any significant interest and after receiving feedback from potential investors, the government in October last year sweetened the bid clause relating to the transfer of Air India's debt to the new investor, giving bidders flexibility to decide on the quantum of humongous debt they want to absorb. The bids that came in were made up of 85:15 ratio of debt takeover and upfront cash. Air India has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The airline will give the successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of the low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services at major Indian airports. Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata tweeted an old photograph of the company's former chairman JRD Tata getting down from an Air India aircraft, minutes after Tata Sons regained control of the government airline - nearly 70 years after its nationalisation. "Welcome Back, Air India," he said. "The Tata Group winning the bid for Air India is great news. While admittedly it will take considerable effort to rebuild Air India, it will hopefully provide a very strong market opportunity to the Tata Group's presence in the aviation industry." Tatas, he said, will have the opportunity of regaining the image and reputation it enjoyed in earlier years. "On an emotional note, Air India, under the leadership of Mr J R D Tata had at one time gained the reputation of being one of the most prestigious airlines in the world," Tata said. "Mr J R D Tata would have been overjoyed if he was in our midst today," he said thanking the government for its opening of select industries to the private sector. Pandey said seven initial expressions of interest (EoI) were received in December 2020 for buying the Maharaja but only two met the qualifying criteria. Air India and its affiliate companies had a combined debt of Rs 61,562 crore as of August 31. Out of this, Tatas will take over Rs 15,300 crore debt. The remaining Rs 46,262 crore debt will go to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. Civil Aviation Secretary Rajiv Bansal said the bidding conditions provide for Tatas to retain all employees of Air India for one year from the close of the transaction and can offer VRS in the second year. Air India has 12,085 employees - 8,084 permanent and 4,001 contractual. Besides, Air India Express has 1,434. In the next five years, about 5,000 permanent employees will be retiring, he said. Tatas cannot transfer Air India India brand or logo for five years and thereafter can do so only to an Indian entity. Pandey said the group of ministers, called Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM), headed by Home Minister Amit Shah and which included Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Civil Aviation Minster Jyotiraditya Scindia, had approved the winning bid on October 4. He, however, did not give the reason for not disclosing the approval immediately after that. "The entire disinvestment process has been carried out in a transparent manner, with due regard to confidentiality of the bidders, through multi-layered decision making involving inter-ministerial group (IMG), core group of secretaries on disinvestment (CGD) and the empowered Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) at the apex ministerial level," Pandey said. The next step will be to issue the Letter of Intent (LoI) and then sign the Share Purchase Agreement following which, the conditions precedent would need to be satisfied by the successful bidder, the company and the Government. It is expected that the transaction will be completed by December 2021, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||Sensex reclaims 60,000 mark after RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 381 points on Friday to close above the 60,000-level as investors remained optimistic after the Reserve Bank maintained its accommodative stance and kept key interest rates unchanged in its bi-monthly monetary policy review. The 30-share BSE index jumped 381.23 points or 0.64 per cent to close at 60,059.06. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 104.85 points or 0.59 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,895.20. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 4 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, TCS and L&T. On the other hand, HUL, NTPC, Maruti, Dr Reddy's, Titan and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. Rate-sensitive banking and realty indices ended in the red, while auto closed with gains. The Reserve Bank of India expectedly kept interest rates unchanged at a record low but signalled the start of tapering pandemic-era stimulus measures on economic recovery taking root. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) kept the key lending rate or the repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent while the reverse repo rate or the borrowing rate was maintained at 3.35 per cent. It voted 5-1 to retain the accommodative stance, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in an online broadcast. "With the RBI continuing with its accommodative policy, indices remained firmly bullish through the day led by the IT index as the street awaits TCS earnings and guidance, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Reliance led from the front with the broader markets seeing action across pockets, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a negative note in the afternoon session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.83 per cent to USD 82.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||RBI raises IMPS limit from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh to promote digital transactions||In a bid to promote digital transactions, the Reserve Bank on Friday proposed to increase the per transaction limit from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh through Immediate Payment Service (IMPS). IMPS managed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) is an important payment system providing 24x7 instant domestic funds transfer facility and is accessible through various channels like internet banking, mobile banking apps, bank branches, ATMs, SMS and IVRS. With RTGS now operational round the clock, there has been a corresponding increase in settlement cycles of IMPS, thereby reducing the credit and settlement risks. "In view of the importance of the IMPS system and for enhanced consumer convenience, it is proposed to increase the per transaction limit from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh," RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said while announcing measures after the bi-monetary monetary policy review. This will lead to further increase in digital payments and will provide an additional facility to customers for making digital payments beyond Rs 2 lakh, he said, adding, necessary instructions in this regard would be issued separately. In addition, the Reserve Bank also proposed to introduce a framework for retail digital payments in offline mode across the country. The Statement on Developmental and Regulatory Policies dated August 6, 2020 had announced a scheme to conduct pilot tests of innovative technology that enables retail digital payments even in situations where internet connectivity is low or not available (offline mode). Three pilots were successfully conducted under the Scheme in different parts of the country during the period from September 2020 to June 2021 involving small-value transactions covering a volume of 2.41 lakh for value of Rs 1.16 crore. "Given the encouraging experience gained from the pilot tests, it is proposed to introduce a framework for retail digital payments in offline mode across the country. This will further expand the reach of digital payments and open up new opportunities for individuals and businesses," Das said. He further said, ensuring wider availability of payments acceptance (PA) infrastructure throughout the country has been one of the priority areas for financial inclusion. To target areas with deficient PA infrastructure, he said, it is proposed to introduce a framework for leveraging geo-tagging technology for capturing exact location information on all existing and new PA infrastructure viz., Point of Sale (PoS) terminals, Quick Response (QR) Codes, etc. This would complement the Payment Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) framework of the Reserve Bank in ensuring wider geographical deployment of PA infrastructure, he added. Das said the Reserve Bank's Regulatory Sandbox (RS) has so far introduced three cohorts on Retail Payments'; Cross Border Payments'; and MSME Lending'. With a view to provide further impetus to the fintech ecosystem, he said, a fourth cohort on Prevention and Mitigation of financial frauds' is being announced. In addition, he said, based on the experience gained and the feedback received from stakeholders, it is proposed to facilitate On Tap' application for earlier themes for participating in the Regulatory Sandbox. This measure is expected to ensure continuous innovation in the fintech ecosystem of our country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||RBI maintains status quo for 8th time||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to keep benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance even as the economy is showing signs of recovery after the second COVID-19 wave. This is the eighth time in a row that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has maintained status quo. RBI had last revised its policy repo rate or the short-term lending rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. MPC decided to keep benchmark repurchase (repo) rate at 4 per cent, Das said while announcing the bi-monthly monetary policy review. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. Das said MPC voted unanimously for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance as long as necessary to support growth and keep inflation within the target. Amidst rising fuel prices, the retail inflation stood at 5.3 per cent in August. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2026, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points ahead of RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in Infosys, Reliance Industries and TCS, ahead of the Reserve Bank's policy outcome. The 30-share Sensex was trading 223.79 points or 0.37 per cent higher at 59,901.62. Similarly, the Nifty rose 77.75 points or 0.44 per cent to 17,868.10. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Dr Reddy's, L&T, Infosys and M&M. On the other hand, HUL, Asian Paints, HDFC, HCL Tech, SBI and Titan were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 488.10 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 59,677.83, while Nifty rose 144.35 points or 0.82 per cent to 17,790.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,764.25 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "Investors would be keenly watching RBI monetary policy meeting outcome later in the day, especially with regard to commentary over inflation, economic growth and more importantly comments about likelihood of fiscal tightening in future," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, festive demand, recovery in rural demand, COVID-19 positivity rates, vaccination ramp-up and September quarter earnings will be in focus in the near-term, he added. US equities extended gains for the third consecutive day mainly on positive development with regard to debt ceiling. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.13 per cent to USD 82.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Reliance Retail to launch 7-Eleven stores in India||Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) has signed a master franchise agreement with 7-Eleven Inc to introduce the well-known convenience store format in India. 7-Eleven had originally signed a deal with Biyani’s Future Retail which was torn up earlier this week. RRVL has signed the deal through 7-Eleven’s wholly-owned subsidiary 7-India Convenience Retail Ltd. The first store opens in Andheri East in Mumbai on Saturday and the format will be rolled out rapidly across Greater Mumbai before it is taken to other regions in the country. “We are proud to bring 7-Eleven, the globally trusted convenience store, to India,” said Isha Ambani, director, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. “7-Eleven is among the most iconic global brands in the convenience retail landscape. The new pathways we build together with them will offer Indian customers greater convenience and choices within their own neighbourhoods.” The Ambanis are locked in a bitter court battle with Amazon.com Inc for the assets of Future Retail. Reliance Retail did not provide financial details of the scheme. Earlier this week, troubled supermarket operator Future Retail announced the termination of an agreement with 7-Eleven Inc to develop and operate the US firm’s round-the-clock convenience stores in India. The February 2019 pact was terminated by mutual consent after indebted Future Retail was unable to open the brand’s stores or pay franchise fees. Future Group had last year agreed to sell its retail assets to Reliance but the deal has been legally challenged by Amazon. 7-Eleven will add to the expansion spree of Reliance, which already has about 13,000 stores across the country. “Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), through its wholly-owned subsidiary, 7-India Convenience Retail Ltd, has entered into a master franchise agreement with 7-Eleven Inc (SEI) for the launch of 7-Eleven convenience stores in India,” the statement said. With the launch of the 7-Eleven stores, RRVL as the country’s largest retailer takes a step further in its journey of offering a superior shopping experience and compelling value proposition for Indian customers. “The 7-Eleven stores aim to provide shoppers with a unique style of convenience, offering a range of beverages, snacks and delicacies specifically curated to appeal to local tastes, along with a refill of daily essentials, having affordability and hygiene at its very core,” the RRVL said. A rapid expansion plan is on the anvil, and 7-Eleven will also support RRVL in implementing and localising the unique 7-Eleven convenience retail business model for India, including bringing best-in-class processes and practices. DePinto said, “Our strategic relationship with Reliance Retail Ventures will bring 7-Eleven's brand of convenient products and services to millions of Indian consumers starting in the city of Mumbai.” RRVL is a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited and the holding company of all the retail companies under the RIL Group. It had reported a consolidated turnover of Rs 1,57,629 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021. 7-Eleven, which is based in Irving, Texas, operates, franchises and/or licenses for more than 77,000 stores in 18 countries and regions, including 16,000 in North America. In addition to 7-Eleven stores, 7-Eleven operates and franchises Speedway, Stripes, Laredo Taco Company and Raise the Roost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||New shipping container terminal to be developed at Khidderpore ||A new shipping container terminal is coming up at Khidderpore to handle barges and small ships with an eye to connect with north east India via the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol river route. Six companies, including Adani, are in the fray to develop the terminal which may call for Rs 180 crore investment. Once the terminal is developed and the riverine stretch on the Yamuna is navigable up to Chilmari Port — in northern Bangladesh bordering Assam — Syama Prasad Mookherjee Port , Calcutta, may play an important role in connecting north eastern India by a river route. The port and the connectivity to the north east is in focus after Sarbananda Sonowal took over as the Union shipping minister. Sonowal, who hails from Assam, is now on a two-day trip to Calcutta and Haldia, his first after taking the ministerial portfolio. At present, barges and ships are going to Bangladesh with cargo. However, vessels are unable to reach Chilmari because of low river depth. The Indian government is now funding the dredging of a 110 km stretch between Sirajgunj to Chilmari to make it navigable. “Cargo will come from north and central India by railways, loaded to barges which will go all the way up to the Indo-Bangla border. There may be demand to send edible oil from here while tea could be return cargo from Assam,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of SMP, Calcutta, said. If successful, this river route could provide an alternative gateway to landlocked north eastern states to do business with the rest of India and the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Emami Agrotech seeks to become food firm, targets Rs 25,000 crore topline||Emami Agrotech, India’s second largest edible oil company, expects to reach a topline of Rs 25,000 crore by 2025, buoyed by a pan India reach, extension of product range and soaring crude palm oil prices in the international market. The owner of Best Choice and Healthy & Tasty brands of palm, soya and mustard oils, had a turnover of Rs 12,000 crore in 2020-21, which is expected to reach Rs 20,000 crore this year alone. Even though the company, founded by promoters of FMCG major Emami Ltd, hopes to sell 25 per cent more than last fiscal, a higher crude palm oil price is likely to be more responsible for the 67 per cent jump in revenue. During the year, it commissioned a 3,000 tonne per day capacity refinery in Kandla to serve the north Indian market with a lower cost base. “Due to the distance and associated transportation cost, we were not competitive in the northern market, which was being fed from the east,” said Aditya Agarwal, director of Emami Agrotech. Emami, known to splurge on brand building with celebrities, hopes to spend onwards of Rs 200 crore annually from now on, to make its presence felt in the northern market. “We will truly be a pan India player,” Agarwal added. The company has 12,000 tonnes per day of installed refining capacity, the largest being at Haldia. It sold about 1.6 million tonnes  of oil last year and the plan is to take it up to 2 million tonnes this year. About 60 per cent of the sales is by brands to retail outlets while institutions buy the rest. On the roadmap for the future, Manish Goenka, director of Emami Agro, said it would hope to transform into a food company with many more branches of business. It launched spices in Bengal a couple of years back, and the products will now be rolled out nationally. On the soaring prices, Emami could not offer any immediate relief, except that mustard oil prices may soften when the new crop hits in February. “International market is very volatile. No one can say how the prices will move. As of now, it does not look like prices are coming down," Goenka added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Centre releases Rs 40,000 crore to states as back-to-back loan for GST shortfall||The finance ministry on Thursday released Rs 40,000 crore to states and Union territories to compensate them for the shortfall in GST revenues, taking the total amount released as loan so far this fiscal year to Rs 1.15 lakh crore. The Centre had released Rs 75,000 crore on this count in July. A government release said the Centre has borrowed and loaned out 72 per cent of the planned amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore for the fiscal to meet the shortfall in collections. The loans are in addition to the cess distributed to the states as compensation for the shortfall. The 43rd GST Council meeting on May 28, 2021 had decided that the central government would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 and release it to states and Union territories as loans to meet the shortfall in collections. A sum of Rs 1.10 lakh crore was given to the states under a similar arrangement in the last fiscal. The government said besides the loan of Rs 1.59 lakh crore, the states would get cess of more than Rs 1 lakh crore. “The release of Rs 40,000 crore made today is funded from borrowings of GoI in 5-year securities, totalling Rs 23,500 crore and 2-year securities for Rs 16,500 crore issued in the current financial year, at a weighted average yield of 5.69 and 4.16 per cent per annum respectively.  No additional market borrowing by the central government is envisaged on account of this release,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Bombay High Court junks plea challenging RBI move to supersede boards of 2 Srei group firms||The Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by a Srei entity challenging the Reserve Bank of India’s decision to supersede the board of two group companies — Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL). The RBI on Monday moved to supersede the board of the two companies, announced an administrator and appointed a committee to assist the administrator with an eventual intent to initiate resolution under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Rules . Following the regulator’s move, Adisri Commercial, a holding company of Srei with a 60.36 per cent stake in Srei Infrastructure Finance Limited, moved the Bombay high Court seeking a stay on the RBI move initiating insolvency action. A two-member division bench after hearing both sides dismissed the petition and observed that the court is not inclined to entertain the writ petition. According to bankers, among the chief concerns that have been brought to the notice of the regulator, include income recognition, asset classification, provisioning, related party transactions, governance and compliance. The parent company SIFL and SEFL were advised by the regulator to reassess and re-evaluate the relationship with certain entities. “We deny all the allegations of diversion of funds against Srei companies, and with RBI’s action and now the Bombay high court’s decision we will explore various other legal options and solutions with the guidance and directions of the RBI,” Hemant Kanoria, founder Srei group, said. As per regulatory disclosure the total exposure (net of impairment) of SEFL towards such borrowers was Rs 7,961 crore as of June 30, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Sufficient response time be given to Zee on Invesco plea: NCLAT||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Thursday cut some slack for Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. The NCLAT directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to grant Zee “reasonable and sufficient time” to file a reply to the Invesco petition seeking an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders. Zee had moved the appellate tribunal after the NCLT, on October 5, directed the company to reply to Invesco’s petition by October 7. Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China, which together hold 17.8 per cent in Zee, have been demanding the EGM to move resolutions seeking the removal of Punit Goenka as MD of the company and the election of six new independent directors. Rule 37 of NCLT Rules, 2016 says the “tribunal shall issue notice to the respondent to show cause against the application or petition on a date of hearing to be specified in the notice. Such (a) notice... shall be accompanied by a copy of the application with supporting documents.” In its order on Thursday, Justices Jarat Kumar Jain and V.P. Singh said the company law tribunal had committed an error by failing to grant Zee reasonable and sufficient time to file its reply. The appellate tribunal also said Section 98 of the Companies Act does not prescribe any time limit or limitation on the NCLT to pass an order within that time limit. “Given that Section 98 does not prescribe any time limit, the learned NCLT ought to have granted reasonable time to the appellant to file a reply,” the bench said. Invesco had filed the petition in the NCLT under Section 98(1) and Section 100 of the Companies Act, 2013. Section 98 (1) empowers the tribunal to order such a meeting. “The decision of the NCLAT today justifies our complete faith in the judicial system. The company will continue to take all the necessary steps that are in the best interests of all its shareholders and as per the applicable law,” a Zee spokesperson said. Earlier in the day, the NCLT adjourned the hearing on Invesco’s petition saying that it would wait for the appellate tribunal’s order. The hearing was adjourned to Friday. The NCLT bench also remarked to Zee’s senior counsel Navroj Seervai that they had all the time to file an appeal before the appellate court, which would run into hundreds of pages, but did not have the time to submit a 3-4 page reply before the NCLT. On Wednesday, Subhash Chandra, the founder of Zee, had alleged in an interview to Zee News that Invesco was acting in a clandestine manner. Terming its requisition for the EGM as an “illegal step being taken by Invesco”, Chandra alleged that it is “insider trading, and a takeover… There has to be someone behind this. They don’t want to remove Punit or change the board, they want to take over the company illegally and unlawfully,” he said. The Zee board has already signed a non-binding agreement with Sony for a merger that will allow Punit Goenka to stay on as MD for a period of five years. Meanwhile, Zee chairman R. Gopalan has said in an interview with a news channel that the company was open to other offers. “This (the Sony offer) is the best deal for shareholders at this point in time,” he said, adding a new twist to the battle over Zee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Paytm eyes sovereign wealth funds to become anchor investors in its IPO||One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, is reportedly in talks with sovereign wealth funds and financial firms to become anchor investors in its initial public offering (IPO). In July, the company had filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for the country’s biggest initial public offering (IPO) of Rs 16,600 crore. The issue comprises a fresh issue of equity shares aggregating to Rs 8,300 crore and offer for sale by the existing shareholders of up to Rs 8,300 crore. One97 Communications had said that it also retains the option to undertake a pre-IPO placement of Rs 2,000 crore, subject to relevant approvals. If this placement is completed, the fresh issue size will be reduced to that extent. The share float is awaiting nod from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi). According to a report in Bloomberg, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Singapore’s GIC Pte are among the firms that are looking to bid in the offering. It added that global financial firms such as BlackRock Inc and Nomura Holdings are also in discussions to bid for the IPO. Paytm was launched in 2009 as a mobile first digital payments platform to enable cashless payments. It began with assisting bill payments and mobile top ups and then set up the ‘Paytm Wallet’ in 2014. Subsequently, it has ventured into financial services such as mobile banking, lending, insurance and wealth management services. Paytm has reported the highest gross merchandise value of Rs 4.03 lakh crore in the payments industry. According to its draft papers, the company posted revenues of Rs 3,232 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 3,281 crore in 2019-20, which fell to Rs 2,802 crore in 2020-21. Though it is loss making, the net losses have come down from Rs 4,230 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 1,701 crore in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Countdown to Air India selloff, Tata Sons' bid frontrunner||The race to acquire Air India has entered the final stage with the government likely to announce the winning bid on Friday. The indications are that Tata Sons has outbid its competitor, a consortium led by SpiceJet chief Ajay Singh. The Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism  headed by home minister Amit Shah has been vetting the bids based on recommendations given by a panel of secretaries led by the cabinet secretary. The ministerial panel members include finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. Sources said Tata Group chairman emeritus Ratan N Tata and Tata Sons chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran are expected to meet the Shah panel and provide the finer details of the deal such as debt restructuring, employee takeover, mode of payment and future plans. The core group of secretaries has held several rounds of discussions, and is learnt to have suggested Tata Sons as the most suitable candidate. However, Ajay Singh had placed a “competitive bid” for the airline, sources said. Valuation firm RBSA Advisors and EY — the consultants — had earlier this week given a presentation to the committee of secretaries. They had reportedly set the reserve price in the range of Rs 15,000-20,000 crore. The financial bids were opened after technical parameters and security clearance was obtained. Officials indicated the Tatas were said to have outbid the SpiceJet chairman and the ministerial panel nod seemed like a formality. The government plans to hand over the Air India to the winning bidder before the end of this calendar year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Piramal Enterprises board approves demerger of pharma business||Piramal Enterprises Ltd is demerging its pharmaceutical business into a separately listed company. The process will see the pharma business being consolidated under Piramal Pharma Ltd which at present is a subsidiary of Piramal Enterprises. The shareholders of Piramal Enterprises will get four shares of Piramal Pharma for every share held by them. As part of the plan, two operating subsidiaries of Piramal Enterprise will be amalgamated with Piramal Pharma. Following the demerger, Piramal Enterprises will be a non-banking finance company (NBFC) offering solutions across both the retail and wholesale segments. The Piramal group had recently completed the acquisition of DHFL, with subsidiary Piramal Capital & Housing Finance Ltd being merged with DHFL. Piramal Enterprises will continue to own a 100 per cent stake in this housing finance company. The decision to segregate Piramal Enterprises’ pharmaceutical business was taken by its board of directors on Thursday. Piramal Enterprises said the move will simplify its corporate structure with two separate entities in different fields and unlock value for its shareholders. It will strengthen the governance architecture for the businesses with separate dedicated boards and management teams. The company expects the demerger will create an optimal capital structure for each business and enable their respective managements to independently pursue their plans . Piramal Enterprises after the demerger will become a financial services company with a consolidated loan book of Rs 65,000 crore. PHL Fininvest Pvt Ltd, the non-banking financial company of the group will be amalgamated with Piramal Enterprises. After the demerger, the promoters will hold 44 per cent in Piramal Enterprises with the rest held by the public. In Piramal Pharma, the promoters will hold 35 per cent and the public will hold 45 per cent. The rest will be with the Carlyle group, which had picked up a 20 per cent stake in Piramal Pharma a year ago for over Rs 3,500 crore. Shares of Piramal Enterprise ended with gains of almost two per cent on the news. At the BSE, the share ended at Rs 2,886.40 — a rise of 1.57 per cent over its last close. Piramal Enterprises posted consolidated revenues of around Rs 12,809 crore in 2020-21. The financial services business contributed 55 per cent with the remaining 45 per cent coming from pharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
08-10-2021||Business||DHFL case: Supreme Court grants interim bail for Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife and daughters||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted interim bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife Bindu and daughters Roshini and Radha in the case for illegal transfer of money by the bank to Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh granted interim bail while directing the CBI and the ED to file their respective counter affidavits within four weeks. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the accused. They argued that although the accused were granted interim bail in other grievance charges entailing life term, yet the high court chose not to grant them bail for lesser office. The court in its order said: “The petitioners are granted interim bail with no specific conditions at this stage as they were granted originally bail/interim bail subject to certain terms and conditions by the trial court which would naturally equally apply here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
