09-10-2021||Business||Diesel price in Mumbai hits century as fuel prices go up again||Mumbai on Saturday became the first metro city in the country to see diesel prices cross the Rs 100 per litre mark after fuel prices were hiked again. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The fifth straight day of price hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 100.29 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 92.47. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 103.84 a litre and Rs 109.83 per litre in Mumbai, the notification showed. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since Wednesday started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. For four days in a row, the price of petrol has been hiked by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise, the biggest rally in rates. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over USD 82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month ago, Brent was around USD 72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 3.85 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.65. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Srei group firms face insolvency process||The Reserve Bank of India has taken the Srei group firms — Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance — to the National Company Law Tribunal’s Calcutta bench on Friday. This comes a day after the Bombay high court rejected a writ petition filed by the Srei group against the central bank’s move to supersede the boards of the two non bank finance companies. The division bench of the NCLT comprising members Rajasekhar V.K. and Harish Chander Suri admitted the two petitions after seeking consent of Rajneesh Sharma on whether he is willing to act unconditionally as the administrator of the two financial service providers. Sharma, former Bank of Baroda chief general manager, has been appointed by the Reserve Bank of India as the administrator of the two companies along with a three-member committee to assist him in managing the company affairs. Srei group founder Hemant Kanoria termed the situation as “unfortunate” stating that the objective from the beginning of the crisis has been to find a resolution. Srei had moved to NCLT last year for the payment to its creditors under section 230 of the Company’s Act which was not considered by the lenders. “When the administrator was appointed this Monday, we moved to the Bombay high court primarily so that the investor process could be completed and a resolution is arrived at expeditiously and till that time the IBC proceedings could be stayed. “However, as the court did not accept and the RBI has moved to the NCLT today, we will fully co-operate with the regulator to arrive at a solution. We have full faith in our country’s regulator, government and judiciary that fair justice would be done,” said Kanoria. The RBI had conducted a special audit of the parent company SIFL and SEFL and advised to reasseses and re-evaluate the relationship with certain entities. Adherence to prudential norms, including income recognition, asset classification and provisioning, corporate governance and related party transactions were among the key issues of concern for the lenders. The company’s total liabilities are around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. The corporate insolvency resolution process will enable foreign creditors, bond holders to restructure their debts alongside domestic creditors, including banks. If a resolution plan is successfully approved, it will allow the companies to start on a clean slate. However, a section of creditors are concerned over the prospects of a haircut on account of going through the resolution process. Srei maintained that efforts were being made to revive the business that has been affected by the Covid pandemic and asset liability mismatch, before the RBI decided to exercise its powers and supersede the boards. The group was also in discussion with private equity investors for capital infusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors grants stock options to employees||Tata Motors on Friday said it has granted performance share units and stock options to employees. They carry the right to apply for equivalent number of ordinary shares of the company, subject to terms and conditions of vesting in the scheme. In 2018, Tata Motors issued stock options (ESOPs) to its employees, making it the first company in the group to do so. In June this year, the homegrown auto maker came out with another first — share units to retain talent. The board of Tata Motors had then approved the issue of performance shares or options to eligible employees of the company and its subsidiary companies under the long term incentive scheme. Performance shares is an incentive given to an employee if certain performance parameters or objectives are met whereas ESOPs are part of the compensation package. The issue of these preference shares was subject to shareholder approval. Tata Motors on Friday said that following the shareholder approval in July 30, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the board at its meeting held on Friday has approved the grant of 8,76,210 stock options and 9,64,614 performance share units in aggregate, to the eligible employees. While the performance share units will be granted to 255 employees, the options will go to 22 employees. Meanwhile, shares of Tata Motors were in demand on Friday on reports that TPG group is in negotiations with the company to invest more than $1 billion in its electric vehicle division and that the investment would value the arm at around $9 billion. The reports said Tata Motors is also in negotiations with some sovereign wealth funds like Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. On the BSE, shares of Tata Motors ended at Rs 382.95, a gain of 1.74 per cent, or Rs 6.55, over the last close. During intra-day trades, the share hit a 52-week high of Rs 398. At close, it had a market cap of Rs 1,27,151.19 crore. Last month, Tata Motors had said that its electric vehicles achieved a cumulative sales milestone of 10,000 units. Tata Motors had entered the electric vehicle space with Tigor EV as a fleet offering, and then expanded to the personal segment through Nexon EV in January 2020. The company has also increased its charging infrastructure via more than 700 installations in 120 cities across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Zee gets time till October 22 to reply to Invesco plea||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday gave Zee Entertainment Enterprises time till October 22 to file its reply to a plea by its minority shareholder Invesco, after appellate body NCLAT ordered the tribunal to give the media major reasonable opportunity to do the same. The Mumbai bench of the NCLT, comprising Bhaskara Pantula Mohan and Narendra Kumar Bhola, directed Zee Entertainment Enterprises to file its reply by October 22 for further consideration. The NCLAT had on Thursday directed NCLT Mumbai to give reasonable opportunity to the media major to reply to Invesco’s plea for holding a meeting of shareholders, and also remarked that the tribunal made an “error” by not providing sufficient response time. While the NCLT is hearing a petition filed by Invesco demanding convening of an extraordinary general meeting (EGM), Zee had approached the NCLAT seeking more time to reply to the petition. The US-based investment firm had on September 30 moved a petition seeking convening of EGM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||TCS profit rises 29% for quarter ended September 30||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Friday reported a 29 per cent growth in net profit for the quarter ended September 30, meeting Street estimates as it continued to gain from enterprises resorting to digital transformation amid the pandemic. The country’s largest IT services company posted a net profit Rs 9,624 crore compared with Rs 7,475 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts had expected the company to report profits in the range of Rs 9,600-9,800 crore. Rajesh Gopinathan, MD& CEO, TCS, said the company witnessed a robust growth across its entire ‘operating spectrum’ and that its investments in people have paid off. Gopinathan who was optimistic on the path ahead, said that the company was capitalising on the growth momentum to drive transformation not only within the organisation, but also among its corporate clients. “Each dimension of the growth momentum is adding significant tailwinds and we intend to capitalise on it,” he added. During the quarter, TCS posted revenues of Rs 46,867 crore compared with Rs 40,135 crore in the year ago period —- a rise of almost 17 per cent. Similarly operating margins showed a rise of 10 basis points to 25.6 per cent on a sequential basis. Further, all verticals showed double digit growth. At the board meeting on Friday, the directors declared an interim dividend of Rs 7 per share. The TCS board has approved the re-appointment of Gopinathan as CEO and MD for a term of five years from February 21, 2022 to February 20, 2027. It also approved the re-appointment of N. Ganapathy Subramaniam as chief operating officer and executive director from February 21, 2022 to May 19, 2024. Subramaniam is the brother of Tata group chairman N Chandrasekaran. The company said that growth was led by the manufacturing vertical at 21.7 per cent, and it was followed by life sciences and healthcare at 19 per cent, retail (18.4 per cent) and BFSI (17 per cent). Further, all major markets also showed strong growth, and this was led by North America which showed a rise of 17.4 per cent. “Strong growth and disciplined execution helped us overcome headwinds from currency and supply-side inflation and deliver expanded margins. Our industry-leading profitability and strong cash conversion give us the wherewithal to make the right investments needed to build out the business of the future’’, Samir Seksaria, Chief Financial Officer, said while commenting on the results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Delhi HC rejects IndiGo co-promoter plea on arbitration||A single judge bench of the Delhi high court has reportedly rejected a plea by IndiGo co-promoter Rakesh Gangwal to enforce an arbitration award given by the London Court of International Arbitration. The Gangwal group has a stake of around 36.63 per cent in InterGlobe Aviation — the parent of IndiGo while the Rahul Bhatia group has a shareholding of 38 per cent. Differences between the two promoters had come out in the open in July 2019 after Gangwal shot off a letter to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) seeking its intervention to address corporate governance issues in the company. In October 2019, InterGlobe Enterprises (IGE) and Bhatia had sought arbitration proceedings against Gangwal, the Chinkerpoo Family Trust and Shobha Gangwal (RG Group). Recently, the London Court of International Arbitration had given the final arbitration award, and Gangwal moved the Delhi High Court to enforce the award. Gangwal had sought a direction from the Delhi High Court for the conduct of an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) for doing away with certain transfer restrictions that came on account of a right of first refusal present in the company’s Articles of Association  (AoA). The award had said that the AoA that gives this right to both the promoters of the company on each other’s shares be amended and that an extra-ordinary general meeting be held in this regard with consensus by both the promoters. However, the Delhi High Court on Friday said that the orders has given a time of 90 days for the  implementation of its directions, and that Rahul Bhatia may also choose to contest its directions during this period. Shares of InterGlobe Aviation on Friday ended marginally higher at Rs 1961.75 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. He had also raised questions about certain related party transactions (RPTs) between IndiGo and entities belonging to the IGE group. Gangwal alleged that these transactions between IndiGo and the IGE group did not have the approval of the board and the audit committee and were often backdated. Besides, many of these RPTs undermined the interests of the airline, Gangwal said. He also said that there was misrepresentation in the company's Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) dated October 16, 2015. All these charges were rejected by the IGE group. Earlier, Gangwal’s request for an extraordinary general meeting to discuss the affairs of the company was turned down by a 4:2 vote at a board meeting on June 12 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||India chief economic adviser to step down in early December||Chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian on Friday announced that he was stepping down from his post in early December and returning to academia following  the completion of his three-year term in the finance ministry. His tenure is ending on December 6. The government had appointed Subramanian, an ISB Hyderabad professor, as CEA. He had taken over the charge of CEA on December 7, 2018, nearly five months after his predecessor Arvind Subramanian had left the role. Arvind Subramanian had stepped down before the end of his term citing “pressing family commitments". The CEA’s announcement has come ahead of the budgetary exercise for 2022-23 starting from October 12. Finance ministry officials said the government would soon start the selection process and invite applications for a new appointment. However, even if his successor is appointed on time, the person will have only a few months to pen the economic survey of 2021-22. In a statement, Subramanian thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their support and inspiring leadership. “I have decided to return back to academia following the completion of my 3-year fulfilling tenure," he said. “Being provided the opportunity to contribute during a period of tremendous uncertainty and epochal change has been the lucky icing on the cake. So, while being conscious of the enormous privilege bestowed on me, I will happily return back to serving the country as a researcher after fulfilling my three-year commitment,” Subramanian said in a long statement. A day prior to his decision to leave, Subramanian praised the Modi government for unleashing competitive forces in the economy which have helped start-ups. The focus of policies in the last seven years has been on enabling competition in the economy, he said, stressing this is partly responsible for the growth of startups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||Tata group wins bid for troubled national carrier Air India||Welcome back, Air India. Ratan Tata’s quiet, matter-of-fact tweet summed up the mood in Bombay House after the Narendra Modi government announced that the Tata group had won the bid for the troubled national carrier in a two-horse race. The announcement — anticipated for weeks — means that Air India returns to the Tata fold after 68 years. The Tatas’ bid was for an enterprise value of Rs 18,000 crore, considerably higher than the SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh-led consortium’s offer of Rs 15,100 crore. The government had set a reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore for the loss-laden airline. Tata Airlines — the precursor to Air India — was founded in October 1932. J.R.D. Tata had created history when he touched down in Bombay on October 15, 1932, in his Puss Moth on a flight from Karachi, carrying a precious mailbag that marked India’s tryst with the world of aviation. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. Even though the government took over the airline, J.R.D. Tata stayed on as chairman till he was unceremoniously dumped by Prime Minister Morarji Desai in January 1978. “Air India, under the leadership of Mr J.R.D. Tata, had, at one time, gained the reputation of being one of the most prestigious airlines in the world. Tatas will have the opportunity of regaining the image and reputation it enjoyed in earlier years. Mr J.R.D. Tata would have been overjoyed if he was in our midst today,” said Ratan Tata, the 83-year-old patriarch of the group who had unsuccessfully tried to acquire Air India in the late nineties before its disastrous merger with Indian Airlines in 2007. The winning bid came from Talace Private Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, the group’s holding company. The Tatas will be paying an upfront cash component of Rs 2,700 crore while assuming a debt of Rs 15,300 crore. The deal is expected to be completed by December. “This is a historic moment, and it will be a rare privilege for our group to own and operate the country’s flag-bearer airline. It will be our endeavour to build a world-class airline which makes every Indian proud,” said N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons. Divestment secretary Tuhin Pandey said the group of ministers headed by Amit Shah had cleared the winning bid for Air India on October 4 but didn’t say why the announcement was delayed by four days. The other ministers in the panel were finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. Civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal said the Tatas would retain all employees of Air India for one year from the close of the transaction and could offer a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) in the second year. Air India has 12,085 employees: 8,084 permanent and 4,001 contractual. Besides, Air India Express has 1,434 employees. About 5,000 permanent employees are due to retire over the next five years, Bansal said. The Tatas cannot transfer the Air India brand or logo for five years. Thereafter, it is free to do so but only to an Indian entity. There has to be business continuity for three years and the new owners will have to maintain an equity stake above 51 per cent with a lock-in period of one year, Pandey said. Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore at the end of August 31. This means that debt worth Rs 46,262 crore will remain with government entities, principally Air India Asset Holding Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India starts tightening liquidity tap||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday suspended a bond acquisition programme (G-SAP) and increased the limit of an instrument — variable rate reverse repo (VRRR), as the apex bank took the first steps towards tightening the liquidity tap. The central bank however held the key repo and reverse repo rates unchanged and retained its accommodative stance as the economic recovery is in its early stages. While all the six members of the monetary policy committee (MPC) unanimously voted to keep the repo rate unchanged, five of them supported the accommodative stance. Prof Jayanth Varma of IIM Ahmedabad was the lone dissenting voice. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said since the beginning of the pandemic the central bank has maintained ample surplus liquidity to support a speedy and durable economic recovery. Das said the potential liquidity overhang is more than Rs 13 lakh crore, which is adequate to meet the needs of a resurgent economy. As a first step, the RBI said it was suspending the Government Securities Acquisition Programme or G-SAP through which it purchased bonds from banks thereby infusing liquidity into the system. RBI bought bonds of Rs 2.2 lakh crore in the first half of this fiscal through G-SAP. The RBI also announced that it is increasing the size of the variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction. In the previous policy, the size of these auctions were raised to Rs 4 lakh crore per auction. This will now be increased to Rs 6 lakh crore per auction by December 3, 2021 in the following manner: Rs 4 lakh crore as already notified; Rs 4.5 lakh crore on October 22; Rs 5 lakh crore on November 3; Rs 5.5 lakh crore on November 18; and Rs 6 lakh crore on December 3. The Reserve Bank  may also consider complementing the 14-day VRRR auctions with 28-day variable reverse repo auctions in a similar calibrated fashion. Growth forecast The RBI has maintained 2021-22 growth target at 9.5 per cent. This comes on the back of a 7.3 per cent contraction in the previous year. The growth for 2022-23 is projected at 7.8 per cent, which is a full percentage point higher than the median growth projection of professional forecasters polled by the RBI at 6.8 per cent. Inflation outlook CPI (consumer price index) inflation is projected at 5.3 per cent for the fiscal, down from the earlier forecast of 5.7 per cent and within the target level of 4 per cent plus or minus 2 per cent. Watch on Big Tech Deputy governor M. Rajeshwar Rao on Friday said the RBI is examining whether deposit acceptance by Google and Amazon is within the prescribed laws and regulations, at a time concerns about big tech firms’ play in the financial space are at a heightened level. Both Google Pay and Amazon have announced partnerships with lenders to accept deposits in the country through their mobile  apps. “We are examining the issue regarding the regulatory implications, having regard to the applicable laws and the regulations that are prescribed for the thing. So, we are examining it,” Rao said. Sensex surges The Sensex soared past the 60000-level while the Nifty finished at an all-time high on Friday after the RBI kept the key interest rates unchanged . The Sensex jumped 381.23 points or 0.64 per cent to close at 60059.06, just shy of its lifetime high. The NSE Nifty rose 104.85 points or 0.59 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17895.20. At the bond markets, yield on the benchmark 10-year security rose to a day’s high of 6.32 per cent. It later settled at 6.318 per cent compared with the last close of 6.267 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||136 countries agree on global tax overhaul ||More than 130 nations agreed on Friday to a sweeping overhaul of international tax rules, with officials backing a 15 per cent global minimum tax and other changes aimed at cracking down on tax havens that have drained countries of much-needed revenue. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which has been leading the negotiations, said 136 countries and jurisdictions had signed on to the deal. “Today’s agreement will make our international tax arrangements fairer and work better,” Mathias Cormann, the organization’s secretary general, said in a statement. “We must now work swiftly and diligently to ensure the effective implementation of this major reform.” The agreement is the culmination of years of fraught negotiations that were revived this year after President Biden took office and renewed the United States’ commitment to multilateralism. Finance ministers have been racing to finalise the agreement, which they hope will reverse a decades-long race to the bottom of corporate tax rates that have encouraged companies to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions, depriving nations of money they need to build new infrastructure and combat global health crises. On Friday, Hungary, which had sought sweeter terms, agreed to back the new tax, joining two other important holdouts, Ireland and Estonia, which ratified the deal on Thursday. The agreement to enact a 15 per cent minimum corporate tax rate had been proposed by the United States, which has long looked for ways to minimise incentives for companies to shift profits abroad to lower their tax bills. As the Biden administration prepares to try and raise corporate tax rates in the United States, getting a global minimum tax in place has become critical to prevent companies from simply shifting their headquarters overseas. The deal goes beyond setting a global minimum tax — it also creates new rules for the digital era. Under the agreement, technology giants like Amazon, Facebook and other big global businesses will be required to pay taxes in countries where their goods or services are sold, even if they have no physical presence there. The accord would represent a sea change in the way the world’s largest corporations have been taxed for decades, and is likely to see them pay more taxes while spreading taxable revenue more evenly to countries where those businesses earn sales. Until now, profits have largely been taxed where businesses have had a physical presence. New York Times New Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
