10-10-2021||Business||Government to begin work on monetising AI subsidiaries||After completing the significant Air India privatisation process, the government will now start work on monetising its four other subsidiaries, including Alliance Air, and over Rs 14,700 crore worth non-core assets like land and building, Secretary in the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. The government on October 8 had announced that salt-to-software conglomerate Tatas have won the bid to acquire debt-laden national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. This includes a cash payment of Rs 2,700 crore and taking over Rs 15,300 crore debt. The deal, which is expected to be completed by December-end, also includes sale of Air India Express and ground handling arm AISATS. Mr Pandey told agencies that his department will now get down to working out a plan for monetising the subsidiaries of Air India which are with the special purpose vehicle AIAHL and setting off the liabilities. “There will be a plan for monetising the assets of Air India Assets Holding Limited (AIAHL). It is a very big task again of clearing of AIAHL liabilities and disposal of assets. In AIAHL there is a company of ground handling, engineering and Alliance Air which have to be privatised,” said Pandey, who spearheaded Air India privatisation. “It (sale of subsidiaries) could not be started because these all are intimately linked. Unless and until Air India goes, we could not proceed with other things,” he added. As a precursor to Air India sale, the government in 2019 had set up a special purpose vehicle (SPV) — AIAHL — for holding debt and non-core assets of the Air India group. Four Air India subsidiaries - Air India Air Transport Services Limited (AIATSL), Airline Allied Services Limited (AASL), Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) and Hotel Corporation of India Limited (HCI) - along with non-core assets, painting and artefacts, and other non-operational assets, was transferred to the SPV. Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore as on August 31. Of this, Tata Sons holding company Talace Private Limited will take over Rs 15,300 crore and the remaining Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to AIAHL. Besides, non-core assets of Air India including land and building, valued at Rs 14,718 crore, are also being transferred to AIAHL. Further, liabilities of Rs 15,834 crore towards dues to operational creditors, like those for fuel purchases, as of August 31 would be transferred to AIAHL. Pandey said between September 1 and December 31, 2021, just before closing the deal, the government will work out a balance sheet of Air India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
10-10-2021||Business||Fuel rates see hike for sixth straight day||Diesel prices on Sunday crossed Rs 100-a-litre-mark in Gandhinagar and Leh as fuel prices were hiked again in sync with firming international oil prices. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The sixth straight day of price hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 104.14 a litre and Rs 110.12 per litre in Mumbai, the notification showed. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 100.66 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 92.82. After Mumbai and Hyderabad, diesel rates cross the Rs 100 per litre mark in Gandhinagar, the capital of Gujarat state, and UT of Leh. Diesel now costs Rs 100.21 a litre in Gandhinagar and Rs 100.06 in Leh. Bhopal, Raipur and Jaipur are other state capitals where diesel is above that mark. The relentless fuel price hike has also pushed petrol above the Rs 100 mark in all but one state capital, with Dehradun, Chandigarh and Gwahati joining that list. Ranchi is the only state capital with petrol less than that mark. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. For five days in a row, the price of petrol has been hiked by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise, the biggest rally in rates. Prior to that, petrol price was increased by 25 paise and diesel by 30 paise. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over USD 82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month ago, Brent was around USD 72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.20 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.95. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||India may have to scrap Google Tax||India may have to give up its equalisation levy or the so-called ‘Google Tax’ as part of the global tax deal that 136 nations agreed on Friday. It will also have to make a commitment that it will not introduce such measures in the future once the global minimum tax deal comes through. As part of the two-pillar multilateral solution to the problem of adroit tax avoidance by the Big Boys of technology, countries like India will be conferred the right to tax digital players like Microsoft, Google, Facebook, and Netflix and set a ‘global minimum corporation tax’ of 15 per cent. The global tax deal is propped up by two pillars. Pillar One provides for the reallocation of the additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions, while Pillar Two consists of minimum tax and is subject to tax rules. Multinational enterprises (MNE) with global sales above 20 billion euros and profitability above 10 per cent will be covered by the new rules. Under the special purpose nexus rule, 25 per cent of the profit above the 10 per cent threshold will be reallocated to market jurisdictions. Analysts said this was higher than the 20 per cent allocation in the July plan. Taxing rights on more than $125 billion of MNE profits are expected to be reallocated to market jurisdictions each year. Under Pillar Two, a global minimum corporate tax rate has been set at 15 per cent which is in contrast with the July Plan that provided for “at least 15 per cent”. This new minimum tax rate will apply to companies with revenues above 750 million euros. This is estimated to generate around $150 billion in additional global tax revenues annually. Sumit Singhania, partner, Deloitte India, said: “Consensus on the global minimum tax will make tax competition amongst nations rather unfeasible by narrowing down any such opportunities to the rarest circumstances.” Nangia Andersen Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said: “The OECD has asked for an immediate and upfront withdrawal of unilateral digital services tax.” Gouri Puri, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas, said a consensus on the two-pillar solution is the key to securing a more certain and stable tax regime. “While the fine print is awaited, India is balancing its interests both as an importer and an exporter of capital, goods and services. The deal will prevent a race to the bottom amongst countries," Puri added. The agreement will now be placed before the G20 Finance Ministers meet on October 13 and then to the G20 Leaders Summit at the end of the month. “Countries are aiming to sign a multilateral convention during 2022, with effective implementation in 2023,” said the OECD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||Diesel crosses Rs 100 mark in Mumbai, fuel prices up again||Mumbai on Saturday became the first metro city in the country to see diesel prices cross the Rs 100 per litre mark after fuel prices were hiked again. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The fifth straight day of hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 100.29 a litre, while in Delhi, it costs Rs 92.47. In Calcutta, the fuel costs Rs 95.58. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 103.84 a litre and Rs 109.83 per litre in Mumbai. In Calcutta, the fuel will sell for Rs 104.52.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||$2.7 billion flash festive sales||E-commerce platforms have garnered $2.7 billion in gross merchandise value (GMV) in the first four days (October 2 to 5) of festive season sales, according to estimates of Bangalore-based Redseer Consulting. Smartphones have contributed to 50 per cent of the GMV in these four days of sales. The firm said the sector is on its track to achieve $4.8 billion GMV for the whole of the current festive week. This is a 30 per cent growth compared with $3.7 billion in the corresponding festive week in 2020. Typically Amazon holds its ‘Great Indian Festival’ and Flipkart holds its ‘Big Billion Day Sale’ at the beginning of its festive sales. The total number of shoppers in 2021 festive season is projected to peak to 75 million against 52 million in 2020. Ujjwal Chaudhry, associate partner at RedSeer, said, “With the festive sales lasting longer than last year (nine days compared with seven days) we see the customer demand being more spread out across the period than being concentrated in the first half of the festive week. To that tune, we observed sales of $2.7 billion across e-commerce platforms and we expect another $2.1 billion over the next five days.” According to a survey by Redseer around 75 per cent of customers would buy equivalent to or more than last year across categories such as mobiles, large appliances, beauty and fashion. Sellers are estimated to offer around 10-30 per cent discounts on these platforms to push higher volume sales, the firm added. Buy now and pay later is an emerging trend which is likely to account for around 10-15 per cent of the festive sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||Sanjeev Sanyal defends public sector undertakings selloff plan||Defending the Centre’s privatisation policy, principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal on Saturday said most of the public sector undertakings (PSUs) that the government intends to sell were actually created by the private sector. Stressing that this government is unapologetic about privatisation, he said “You (Opposition) made the point that this (PSUs) has been built through the blood and sweat of the public sector. So, let me put the record straight on this: Actually much of what we are attempting to privatise were actually built by the private sector.” Citing an example, he said Air India was simply taken away from the private sector and nationalised in 1953. “In 1969, banks were simply taken away and nationalised. So, when people say that these institutions were built by the blood and sweat of the Indian bureaucracy, let me point out to you that these things were originally built by private companies,” he said at India Today Conclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
