11-10-2021||Business||Nifty touches record high of 18K, Sensex remains above 60K||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 77 points to end at a record closing high of 60,136 on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and ITC. After scaling a new intraday high of 60,476.13 during the session, the 30-share Sensex closed 76.72 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 60,135.78. Similarly, the Nifty rose 50.75 points or 0.28 per cent to its all-time closing high of 17,945.95. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 4 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, ITC, NTPC, SBI, M&M, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, TCS was the top loser on the Sensex, shedding over 6 per cent, after the company's Q2 earnings missed street expectations. According to an Emkay Global note, TCS Q2 operating performance missed expectations, reporting lower-than-expected revenue and earnings before interest, taxes and corporate overhead or management (EBITM). The company on Friday reported a 14.1 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 9,624 crore in the September 2021 quarter. Following suit, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, HCL Tech and Reliance Industries fell up to 2.76 per cent. Indian markets started on a positive note following positive Asian market cues as investors took comfort on news of opening up more vaccinated travel lanes in 8 countries as COVID cases declines, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. "During the afternoon session, markets continue to trade handsomely as broad gains in rate sensitive counters, viz, auto, realty and utility. Traders also took support as data showed country's exports growing at a healthy rate. Exports have touched USD 197 billion during April-September this fiscal. "Additional optimism came in as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net buyers to the tune of Rs 1,997 crore so far in October, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 2.12 per cent to USD 84.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Indian economy on path to swift recovery, says Finance Ministry report||Strategic reforms and the rapid vaccination drive has placed the country on the path to swift recovery by enabling the economy to "navigate the ravaging waves" of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Finance Ministry's Monthly Economic Review. Sustained and robust growth in agriculture, sharp rebound in manufacturing and industry, resumption of services activity and buoyant revenues suggest that the economy is progressing well, the September review said. "India is well-placed on the path to swift recovery with growth impulses visibly transmitted to all sectors of the economy... Strategic reforms undertaken so far along with new milestones in vaccination drive have enabled the economy to navigate the ravaging waves of the COVID-19 pandemic," it said. The external sector continues to offer bright prospects to India's growth revival as the country's merchandise exports crossed the USD 30-billion mark for the sixth consecutive month in fiscal year 2021-22, it said. With merchandise trade deficit also rising in September, there is clear evidence of consumption and investment demand is also picking up in India, it said, adding, the external debt-to-GDP ratio continues to remain comfortable, declining to 20.2 per cent at the end-June 2021, from 21.1 per cent at the end-March 2021. In tandem with growth impulses witnessed across the economy, the report said, the rate of growth of bank credit stood at 6.7 per cent YoY in the fortnight ending September 10, 2021 compared to 5.3 per cent in the corresponding period of the previous year. With the restoration of supply chains, improved mobility, and softening food inflation, consumer price index (CPI) inflation retreated to a four month-low of 5.3 per cent in August 2021, clearly demonstrating that inflationary tendencies are pandemic-induced and transitory. However, it said, volatile prices in the international crude oil markets and upward-bound prices of edible oils and metal products may continue to pose concerns. Comfortable levels of systemic liquidity and softening of inflationary pressure have also lent stability to G-Sec yields in September 2021. The 10-year yield remained unchanged at 6.2 per cent compared to August. Latest trends in high-frequency economic indicators in August and September further indicate a broad-based recovery evidenced in sustained improvement in power consumption, rail freight activity, e-way bills, robust GST collections, highway toll collections posting a 21-month high, sequential uptick in air freight and passenger traffic, and quantum leap in digital transactions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 100 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. After opening over 100 points lower, the 30-share Sensex recovered the losses and gained 100.22 points or 0.17 per cent to trade higher at 60,159.28. Similarly, the Nifty rose 52.05 points or 0.29 per cent to 17,947.25. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 3 per cent, followed by NTPC, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, TCS was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 6 per cent, after the company's Q2 earnings missed street expectations. According to an Emkay Global note, TCS Q2 operating performance missed expectations, reporting lower-than-expected revenue and earnings before interest, taxes and corporate overhead or management (EBITM). The company on Friday reported a 14.1 per cent rise in consolidated net profit to Rs 9,624 crore in the September 2021 quarter. Following suit, all IT stocks in the index were trading in the red. In the previous session, the 30-share index jumped 381.23 points or 0.64 per cent to close at 60,059.06, and Nifty rose 104.85 points or 0.59 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,895.20. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 64.01 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was closed for a holiday. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.43 per cent to USD 83.57 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Time to assess one's credit health||The pandemic has had an impact on credit health. Last year, the Reserve Bank of India provided borrowers the option to defer their loan payments. The ensuing moratorium and loan restructuring options given to borrowers did ease the immediate burden of EMI payments. However, it also had an impact on the credit scores of borrowers. Those who had availed of a relief on their loans had their credit histories marked to reflect this. In the eyes of credit bureaus and lenders, these borrowers thus became high-risk as there was now a question mark over their repayment abilities and their creditworthiness. It now seems that the worst of the pandemic has been reined in and economic activity is regaining strength. And it’s also now time to assess one’s credit health. If it is weak, one must work on improving it. What our data found In a pan-India survey of salaried professionals between the ages 22 and 45 conducted by BankBazaar, we found a lack of awareness of one’s credit health. Of the respondents, 88 per cent said they currently had some form of debt such as home loan, credit card dues, or gold loan. Nearly 41 per cent said their loan payments used up 20-50 per cent of their monthly income. Thankfully, 87 per cent were aware of their credit score, and 89 per cent said they had even checked their score. Yet 27 per cent said they didn’t know their credit score impacts their loan interest rate (37 per cent in Calcutta), and 39 per cent (a similar percentage in Calcutta) didn’t know that opting for the moratorium would hurt their score. Further, 30 per cent (27 per cent for Calcutta) said they didn’t know a restructuring could hurt their score. Clearing your dues To cut a long story short, there’s no way around one’s dues. The simplest — and in this case, also the toughest —way to get your credit health in shape is to clear off your dues. Nothing else would have a higher positive impact on your credit score. As some borrowers may have ongoing challenges with loan payments, creating a plan and setting aside savings for clearing their dues would help. Mounting credit card dues are also problematic — this is a costly form of debt that compounds rapidly at 3-4 per cent per month. If you have card dues, it would be wise to avoid further use of your card and work on payment. This would improve your credit utilisation ratio and later your credit score. Delay your loan application People with loan-related problems are often the ones in need of further credit. This is a vicious spiral pulling the borrower deeper into debt. While this may be difficult, it would be wise to avoid fresh loan applications and work on clearing off existing dues through the means available to the borrower — for example, liquidating an asset to raise cash. Each new loan application leads to a ‘hard’ credit score check by the lender who wants to investigate your credit history. Each such check lowers your credit scores slightly. Therefore, making several loan applications while you’re already in poor credit health could cause further damage. Second, when you seek a loan with a bad credit history, you’re likely to be charged a high rate of interest, because you pose a higher risk to the lender. If you must take a new loan, a secured loan may be preferable since it can be taken against a collateral such as gold and would attract a relatively lower rate of interest than an unsecured loan. Concurrently, take steps to get your credit score above 750, from where you’ll start getting loans at reasonable rates again. Maintain old credit lines This may sound counter-intuitive but having a long-standing loan account up to standard is good for your credit health. For example, you may have held a credit card for the last 10 years or have a home loan going on for 15 years. The existence of these ongoing dues indicates that you’ve been able to keep up with your payments over a long period, which makes you creditworthy. In the computation of your credit score, the age of credit lines plays a moderate role. Therefore, if you can, at a time you’re looking to improve your credit score, avoid cancelling credit cards and resume making timely payment of EMIs, which would help your score tick upwards. Keeping track of your score Once you start using a credit card, take a loan, or get into any borrowing-related problems, it’s important to track your credit report every month. Credit score checks are free, and you can get them online in a couple of minutes. This will allow you to see how your credit behaviour is impacting your credit score. Any payment delays, burgeoning debts or defaults  would show up immediately on your report and have a negative impact. Conversely, timely and regular payments on your credit lines would gradually improve your score. But first, you need to know where you stand. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Blame game over power crisis||With states from Delhi to Andhra Pradesh sending warnings of a developing power crisis because of the shortage of coal, the central government on Sunday pressed all the resources at its command to ensure power plants have enough feedstock to generate electricity. Union power minister R.K. Singh reviewed the coal stock position at all thermal power plants, including those units that supply electricity to distribution companies in Delhi, the ministry of coal said “ample coal is available in the country to meet the demand” and “any fear of disruption in power supply is entirely misplaced”. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday, however, alleged that the Centre is not ready to accept that there was a coal crisis and its policy to “turn a blind eye” to every problem could prove fatal for the country. His remarks came after the coal ministry asserted that sufficient dry fuel is available in the country “Union power minister R.K. Singh today (Sunday) said there isn’t any coal crisis and that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should not have written a letter to the Prime Minister on the issue. It is sad that a Union cabinet minister has adopted such irresponsible approach,” Sisodia said at a press conference here. In a year when the country produced record coal, excessive rains in coal producing belt hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states including Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices have made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. Tata Power, which has signed contracts to supply 1850 MW of electricity to Gujarat, 475 MW to Punjab, 380 MW to Rajasthan, 760 MW to Maharashtra and 380 MW to Haryana from its imported coal-based power plant at Mundra in Gujarat, has stopped generation. After Singh’s review, the power ministry said the total despatch of coal from all sources — Coal India Limited, Singareni Collieries Company, captive coal mines and imported coal — on October 9 was 1.92 million tonnes (mt)  against the total consumption was 1.87mt. “Coal despatch have exceeded the consumption, thereby indicating shift to gradual building up of coal stock,” it said adding the coal stock at power plant is sufficient for more than 4 days' requirement and as the coal supply is being ramped up by Coal India Ltd (CIL), the coal stock at power plant would gradually improve. In a separate statement, the coal ministry said the  stock at power plant end is about 72 lakh tonnes, sufficient for four days requirement, and that the Coal India Limited (CIL) has more than 400 lakh tonnes of stocks, which is being supplied to power plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India crosses its 2020 sales||Mercedes Benz India Limited hopes to cross the 10000-sales mark in 2021, driving on the back of a revival of demand. The German car giant has already crossed its 2020 sales of 7,893 units, but will fall far short of its 2019 figure of 13,786 units. The company clocked its best quarterly sales of the year 4,101 units in July-September. With this, Mercedes sold 8,958 units in the January-September 2021 period, significantly “ahead” of BMW which sold 6,027 units in the same period and Audi, around 2,000 units, according to industry sources. Mercedes’s performance has been backed by a completely new product portfolio and resurgent customer sentiment, the sources said. Martin Schwenk, managing director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India , said, “We have had the best quarter ever. Even six months back we were not sure how we would do. But now we seem to be on track to get back to normality.” “The demand is back, it is a combination of pent-up demand due to postponed purchases and genuine demand. After-sales business has also picked up. The demand has been picking up since the second half of June.” However, the company is facing constraints in supply leading to waiting periods of four months to 16 months for some of its models. “We are facing a shortage in chips as well as supply chain issues, logistics worldwide isn’t as it was before the pandemic,” said Schwenk. The company has the longest waiting period for its SUVs. The GLS has a waiting period of 24-32 weeks, the GLE 7-8 weeks, the GLC 4-5 weeks and the GLA 8-10 weeks, said a company spokesperson. Mercedes vehicles usually have a waiting period of a couple of weeks, he said. The company said it would have sold 20 per cent higher more cars under normal conditions this year. Mercedes launched 11 products in 2021. including A-Class limousine, new E-Class, New GLA, the GLC facelift, New S-Class, GLS Maybach and a host of AMGs. It will launch two more products in the last quarter which might be the revamped  C-Class and an electric vehicles. The company will bring a fresh set of EQCs, its EV to the market. Asked if the company is looking at hybrids, which is the natural stepping stone for electrification, Schwenk said: “The government policy is fully inclined towards electric vehicles (EV)s and not hybrids. Though there are not too much charging options, the focus for Mercedes Benz India is full EVs. The electric story here is an evolving story.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Godrej eyes bigger share of sales from digital channels||Godrej Consumer Products (GCPL) is eyeing a bigger share of sales from digital channels, amid changing consumer preferences. The fast moving consumer goods company is also identifying brands and categories that can be developed for online sale. Sunil Kataria, CEO India and SAARC, GCPL said the share of e-commerce to GCPL’s total sales has increased from 2 per cent to 5 per cent and there is a potential to increase it to 10 per cent over the next four years. “During the pandemic, e-commerce journey has accelerated and now it is 5 per cent of the business. My estimate is that over the next three to four years, this 5 per cent could become 10 per cent,” said Kataria while listing the growth drivers. “Consumers are changing the way they are shopping and have become more of an omni channel shopper. Consumers are also much more inquisitive about knowing what is used in making the product before purchase,” he said. The company has also identified certain categories such as air fragrances and fabric wash in the premium end that are more amenable to developing for online. “We have built a self-sustained supply chain and there is a strong NPD (new product development) pipeline that will contribute to the growth. We are also building strong e-commerce marketing capabilities,” Kataria said. As part of its move to drive e-commerce sales, GCPL has forayed into the premium organic baby care segment through the “goodnessme” brand which will have its own direct to consumer online platform. GCPL will not follow a similar strategy for its core brands. The company is also seeing a revival in demand with the gradual opening up of the economy, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Labware maker Tarsons to expand in Bengal||Calcutta-based labware maker — Tarsons Products — is planning to put up two more units in Bengal at an estimated capital expenditure of Rs 260 crore adding to its existing base of five plants in the state. Tarsons, which has filed its draft prospectus for its maiden public offer, is engaged in the designing, development, manufacturing and marketing of consumables, reusables and equipment such as centrifuge and hot plate stirrer used in various laboratories. Tarsons’ clients include Dr. Reddy’s Labs, Syngene, Dr. Lal Path Labs and Metropolis among others. The company’s sixth unit is coming up at Panchla in Howrah district where it has acquired 5 acres to enhance production capacity in existing products such as micro pipette tips, cryo vials and launch new products including PCR plates, deep well plates, screw cap tubes, volumetric flasks among others.. The company is also in the process of finalising land acquisition at Amta, Howrah, where it has planned to set up a fulfilment centre and in- house sterilisation centre for captive consumption. The plastic labware market in India is estimated at Rs 1,225 crore as of 2020 in value terms and expected to expand at a compounded annual growth rate of 16 per cent to reach approximately Rs 2,575.5 crore by year 2025, according to a study of Frost & Sullivan. Tarsons clocked a total revenue of Rs 234.3 crore as of March 31, 2021 and a net profit of Rs 68.87 crore. Around a third of the total revenue is from exports to 40 countries. The company has seen the demand for labware products increase in the Covid pandemic. According to the draft prospectus of Tarsons, the company has proposed a fresh issue of Rs 150 crore and there is an offer for sale of 1.32 crore shares including promoters Sanjive Sehgal, Rohan Sehgal and private equity investor Clear Vision Holdings. Part of the capital expenditure in Panchla would be funded by the proceeds from the fresh issue while internal accrual would be used to fund the rest. Tarsons’ existing five manufacturing facilities are located at Jangalpur, Dhulagarh,  Burroshibtolla (2 units) and Kasba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Air India staff express VRS concern in Tata agreement ||The employees of Air India expect the Tatas to address their pressing concerns in a benevolent manner. The Tatas on Friday won the race to to take over the troubled national carrier, with the government choosing its bid over that of a consortium of investors led by SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh in his personal capacity. The employees have expressed concern over the terms of the agreement that say the Tatas have the obligation to retain them for just a year and after that, some of them will have to take VRS. This would be a challenging task for the Tatas given the strong unions that exist in the airline for pilots, cabin crew, engineering and others. After VRS, the employees would have to vacate their housing accommodation provided by the airlines within six months. A large chunk of these are in Mumbai and Delhi. Air India has a total of 12,085 employees, with 8,084 permanent and 4,001 contractual staff, while Air India Express has 1,434 employees. In the next five years, about 5,000 permanent employees will retire, which may help the Tatas in reducing the wage cost. “The Tata group is well known for taking care of its employees. Even during the pandemic, the employees of Vistara were better looked after than Air Indians… we have great hopes from the new employer and are excited and apprehensive at the same time,” Praveen Keerthi, general secretary, Indian Commercial Pilots Association, said. Keerthi said the ICPA “looks forward to meeting the new employer and to take Air India to its former glory. In this they have our complete support”. The All India Cabin Crew Association, which claims to represent a majority of the cabin crew members in Air India, said in a tweet, “it is a Gharwapasi for our great #Airline... historic #aviation moment". However, the cabin crew were the most apprehensive about the takeover by the Tatas as they fear the new owners in their bid to stay competitive would try to go for younger members. Monetising subsidiary After the Air India privatisation, the government will now start work on monetising its four other subsidiaries, including Alliance Air, and over Rs 14,700 crore worth non-core assets such as land and building, Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. The subsidiaries are under SPV Air India Assets Holding Limited and the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) will work on the plan, Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Airbus pitch to new airline Akasa ||Airbus is in conversation with Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed new airline Akasa for an aircraft procurement deal, a top official of the European plane manufacturer has said. Akasa has been in discussions with US plane manufacturer Boeing to procure its B737 Max planes, multiple media reports had said two months ago. Airbus’s A320 series of aircraft competes with Boeing’s B737 series of planes in the aviation market. “We are not in the business of countering offers but we are having conversations with Akasa. Of course, we do,” Airbus’s chief commercial officer Christian Scherer replied, asked if he plans to counter the offer put by Boeing to Akasa. Akasa is backed by ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and has former IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh on its board. It aims to start operations by the summer of 2022 and plans to operate approximately 70 planes in the next four years. When asked if he can tell what stage the negotiations are with Akasa, Scherer replied: “That is really private. What I can tell you is that when you start an airline in India, what is the benchmark you are looking at. It is pretty obvious, isn’t it? It is IndiGo and to some extent Go First and SpiceJet, but the big guy is IndiGo.” IndiGo flies the most successful single aisle airplane in the world and it is also the most modern, which is the A320 and now the A321, he mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Calcutta High Court stalls action against Lodha baiters||The Calcutta High Court has stayed criminal proceedings against three individuals linked to the M.P. Birla group that were initiated in the aftermath of the annual general meeting of Birla Corporation Ltd late last month. Justice Kaushik Chanda stayed for three weeks the proceedings that flowed from orders of a judicial magistrate of Alipore Court. The case will come up after the puja vacations. The individuals who faced criminal charges before the Alipore Court were S. K. Daga, Krishna Damani and Vinay Sureka and two officials of three wholly-owned subsidiaries of Vindhya Telelinks Ltd, a cable company of the M.P. Birla Group. The developments over the past fortnight have added another chapter in the 17-year-long legal battle over the control of M.P. Birla group between the family of late Rajendra Singh Lodha and the Birla family members. Harsh V. Lodha, son of late R.S. Lodha, is the chairman of M.P. Birla group. The Birlas are challenging the legitimacy of his appointment. There is a question mark over the status of Daga, Damani and Sureka who continue to occupy key positions within the M.P. Birla group even though they appear to have fallen out with Harsh Lodha. The Lodha camp filed the complaints against the five persons immediately after the AGM of Birla Corporation, accusing them of falsifying documents over a sustained period of time and misrepresenting themselves as directors of group entities. At the AGM, votes were cast on behalf of these three companies that together hold over 23 per cent stake in Birla Corporation Ltd by people who, the Lodha side claimed, were not authorised to vote on behalf of the three companies. The votes were later rejected by the poll scrutiniser. On October 1 and 4, the lower court passed separate orders instructing the police to conduct a search and seizure operation at Birla Building, erstwhile registered address of these three companies, and  the headquarters of several key Birla companies, in central Calcutta on October 5 and 6 during which documents seized. Sureka moved the high court against the lower court orders. Senior advocate and former Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and advocate Mahesh Jethmalani represented these directors. Staying the lower court order, Justice Chanda said in his order: “The plain reading of the complaint does not disclose ingredients of the offences under Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 since it is not the case of the complainant that the accused persons being entrusted with the relevant documents dishonestly misappropriated or converted to their own use or dishonestly used or disposed of the said documents. The allegation is of withholding the documents.” Justice Chanda added: “I am also of the view that without receiving the search report from the police and without ascertaining the entitlement of the possession of the documents, the learned Magistrate ought not to have directed the return of the seized documents to the complainant.” The high court judge directed the complainants/investigating agency to hand over the seized documents to the joint commissioner of crime, Calcutta Police within 48 hours from the date of his order. The public prosecutor has been directed to produce the seized documents before the court at the next date of hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Reliance takes 40% in Sterling and Wilson ||Mukesh Ambani is set to snap up a 40 per cent stake in Sterling and Wilson Solar Ltd (SWSL) for Rs 2,845 crore -- an acquisition that will enhance its presence in the renewable energy space. The transaction will see Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd (RNESL) becoming one of the promoters of the pure-play, end-to-end solar engineering, procurement, construction (EPC) solutions provider. The subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) will have the right to nominate two individuals on the board of SWSL. The Mistry and the Khurshed Daruvala families will stay on as promoters of the company. Their combined holding currently stands at 69.36 per cent in SWSL. This acquisition will be sealed through a multi-stage transaction. To begin with, SWSL will issue 2.93 crore preferential shares at a price of Rs 375 per share. After this issue, the current promoters of SWSL — Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd and Daruvala — will sell 1.84 crore shares out of their holding at the same price. RNESL will also come out with an open offer to acquire around 26 per cent of SWSL’s equity at the price of Rs 375 per share. Under the terms of the share purchase agreement, the two promoters of SWSL will sell additional shares to ensure that RNESL will have a 40 per cent stake in the company. The deal price of Rs 375 per share is at a discount of 13.75 per cent to the closing price of the SWSL scrip at the BSE on Friday. Second pact This is the second major transaction that the cash-strapped Shapoorji Pallonji group has struck after the Rs 4,400 crore deal for Eureka Forbes that was reached with Advent International last month. “We welcome SWSL as a strategic partner towards building our new energy platform. SWSL, with its engineering talent, deep domain knowledge, global presence, and experience of executing some of the most complex projects globally, will become an important part of our solar value chain. This will enable us to deliver our comprehensive, end-to-end ecosystem leading to cost-efficient green energy for Indian consumer,” Mukesh Ambani, Chairman of RIL said. SWSL has executed more than 11GW of solar turnkey projects globally and has over five decades of engineering experience. It is known for international EPC (engineering, procurement & construction) and O&M (operations & maintenance) service provider in the renewables sector. The company has a 3,000 strong team and presence across 24 countries. Reliance said the partnership with SWSL will provide it access to world-class talent, engineering and project management skills and complement its proven strengths in digital technology, engineering, and procurement and project execution which are key ingredients to deliver high quality, cost-efficient and time-bound implementation of giga-scale green energy capacity, in India and across the world. "Reliance, with its integrated new energy vision, and a commitment to put India on the global green energy map, provides us a great opportunity to further establish SWSL as the leading EPC solutions provider globally," SWSL chairman Daruvala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||RIL acquires Europe’s solar panel leader ||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) signalled its ambitions in renewable energy with the announcement on Sunday of its acquisition of REC Solar, Europe’s largest solar panel manufacturer for $771 million (Rs 5,782 crore). The acquisition will be done through Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd (RNESL), Reliance’s newly formed 100 per cent subsidiary. RNESL will acquire the 100 per cent shareholding of REC Solar Holdings AS (REC Group) from China National Bluestar (Group) Co Ltd at an enterprise value of $771 million, Reliance said on Sunday. Formed in 1996, REC has its headquarters in Norway and operational base in Singapore and regional hubs in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia-Pacific. According to the group’s website, it has manufactured over four crore solar panels, producing energy of 11GW for its customers. Reliance’s announcement is in line with the ambitious plans in clean energy announced by chairman Mukesh Ambani at its annual shareholder meeting in June. Reliance, which is locking horns with the Gautam Adani-led group in this segment, is planning to invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy over the next three years. The oil-to-telecom giant is setting up one of the world’s largest renewable energy facilities at Jamnagar in Gujarat. It plans to establish four “giga factories” that will manufacture and fully integrate all the critical components of the new energy ecosystem. In solar energy, RIL is planning to build an integrated factory to make solar photovoltaic modules or solar panels. It will also build an advanced energy storage battery unit, apart from an electrolyser factory to manufacture green hydrogen. The acquisition of REC Solar comes just days after Gautam Adani said that the group will invest $20 billion in green energy over the next decade. Reliance said REC is part of a group known for its technological innovations and  long-life solar cells and panels. The 25-year-old company has three manufacturing facilities — two in Norway for making solar grade polysilicon and one in Singapore making PV (photovoltaic) cells and modules. The combination of REC’s strength in research & development and the scale of Reliance will further accelerate technological developments and introduction of new products, the company said. REC has more than 1,300 employees globally. They will become members of the Reliance group after the successful completion of the transaction. Reliance said it would strongly support REC’s expansion plans including a 2-3 GW facility in Singapore to make cells and modules apart from another such unit in France of 2 GW capacity and a 1 GW plant in the US. In India, Reliance plans to use REC’s technology in their proposed fully integrated factory at Jamnagar, with initial annual capacity of 4GW, which will eventually expand to 10GW. “It is in line with our strategy of investing in new and advanced technologies and operating capabilities aimed at achieving Reliance’s goal of enabling 100 GW clean and green energy before the end of this decade,” Reliance chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani said on the acquisition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
