12-10-2021||Business||No capacity restrictions for airlines from Oct 18, announces Centre||Airlines can operate domestic flights without any capacity restriction from October 18 onwards, the Ministry of Civil Aviation announced on Tuesday keeping in mind the "passenger demand for air travel". The carriers have been operating 85 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic services since September 18, according to the ministry's order. The capacity cap stood at 72.5 per cent between August 12 and September 18, 65 per cent between July 5 and August 12 and 50 per cent between June 1 and July 5. On October 9, the Indian carriers operated 2,340 domestic flights, which is 71.5 per cent of their total pre-COVID capacity. The ministry stated in its order that "it has been decided to restore the scheduled domestic air operation with effect from October 18, 2021, without any capacity restriction". The order noted that the decision was taken "after a review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel". When the government resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December 2020. The 80-per cent cap remained in place till June 1 this year. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 149 points to new record||Extending its gains to the fourth consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped around 149 points to mark yet another record close of 60,284 on Tuesday, tracking gains in primarily banking and consumer durables stocks. After a volatile trading session, the 30-share Sensex ended 148.53 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 60,284.31. Similarly, the Nifty rose 46 points or 0.26 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,991.95. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Nestle India, ITC, Axis Bank and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement, TCS and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. Following selling in IT stocks as a result of a weak start to the earnings season and weakness in global markets, the domestic market traded in the negative zone, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. However, with strong support from PSU banks on revamped hopes of privatisation and continued buying interest in consumer goods, metals and auto, indices managed to end on a positive note. While global markets traded with cuts in fears of rising inflation due to soaring commodity prices and energy crunch," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.26 per cent to USD 83.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Tuesday, tracking weakness in index heavyweights Infosys, ICICI Bank and HCL Tech amid a negative trend in global markets. After swinging over 200 points in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 34.62 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 60,101.16. Similarly, the Nifty slipped 2.45 points or 0.01 per cent to 17,943.50. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Titan, Dr Reddy's, SBI and ITC were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index closed 76.72 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 60,135.78, and Nifty rose 50.75 points or 0.28 per cent at its all-time closing high of 17,945.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,303.22 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the resilience of the market in general, and the momentum in the broader market in particular, can be explained only by one factor - the exuberance and dominance of the newbie retail investors. Institutional selling is easily getting absorbed by retail investors who are not concerned about valuations, he noted. Weakness in IT and strength in banking which expectedly played out in the previous session need not become a trend. Results of Infosys, Wipro and HCL Tech may not disappoint the market like TCS, he said, adding that results of TCS were good - only fell short of market expectations. "Now, INR at 75.35 to the dollar is becoming a major tailwind for IT. So, investors should remain invested in IT and even buy on declines since the demand environment for the sector remains robust. Crude at USD 84 and its potential inflation fall out are areas of concern," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US too ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.07 per cent to USD 83.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Future Group calls for vote on merger||Future group firms are convening meetings of their respective shareholders and creditors in November to seek approval to their proposed merger into Future Enterprises as part of the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. Several listed transferor firms, including Future Retail, Future Consumer, Future Enterprises, Future Lifestyle Fashions, Future Markets Networks and Future Supply Chain Solutions, have informed their shareholders and creditors about the meetings which will take place on November 10 and 11. The meetings of the equity shareholders, secured creditors and unsecured creditors will be held through video conferencing/other audio-visual means, said Future group companies, adding that remote e-voting facility will be offered to all participants. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail, announced in August last year entails consolidation of Future Group’s 19 companies operating in retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd. Future Enterprises is the transferee company to Reliance Retail. The meetings are being called in keeping with the order passed by the Mumbai Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on September 28 that had asked the Future group to take approval from its shareholders and creditors for the scheme of arrangement. E-commerce giant Amazon, which is contesting the deal, did not respond to e-mailed queries seeking comments on the shareholders and creditors’ meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Airtel and Vodafone moved telecom tribunal to challenge DoT fines||Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have moved the telecom tribunal to challenge telecom department’s demand notices for payment of Rs 3,050 crore cumulative penalties in the points of interconnect matter, a source said. The department of telecommunications (DoT) had recently issued demand notices to both the telcos to pay cumulative Rs 3,050 crore in penalties in three weeks’ time for violating norms by denying Reliance Jio points of interconnect way back in 2016. Industry sources said that both Airtel and Vodafone Idea have now moved the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) challenging the DoT’s demand notices and penalty and that the matter could come up for hearing on Tuesday. E-mails sent to Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea Ltd did not elicit a response. The DoT had slapped a penalty of Rs 2,000 crore on Vodafone Idea and Rs 1,050 crore on Bharti Airtel based on sector regulator Trai’s recommendation five years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Three US-based economists win Nobel prize||David Card, Joshua D. Angrist and Guido W. Imbens have made a career of studying unintended experiments — Card in labour economics and Angrist and  Imbens in analysing cause and effect. On Monday, their work earned them the 2021 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. All three winners are based in the United States.  Card, who was born in Canada, works at the University of California, Berkeley. Angrist, born in the United States, is at MIT. and Imbens, born in the Netherlands, is at Stanford University. “Uncovering causal relationships is a major challenge,” said Peter Fredriksson, chairman of the prize committee. “Sometimes, nature, or policy changes, provide situations that resemble randomised experiments. This year’s laureates have shown that such natural experiments help answer important questions for society.” Card’s work has challenged conventional wisdom in labour economics — including the idea that higher minimum wages led to lower employment. He was a co-author of influential studies on that topic with Alan B. Krueger, who died in 2019, including one that used the natural geographical border between New Jersey and Pennsylvania to test the effect of a minimum wage change. Comparing outcomes between the states, the research found that employment at fast food restaurants was not affected by  an increase in New Jersey’s minimum wage. Angrist and Imbens have contributed to the way researchers think about and analyse natural experiments. They showed that it is possible to identify a clear effect from an intervention in people’s behaviour — like a subsidy that might encourage people to ride bicycles to work — even if a researcher cannot control who takes part in the experiment, and even if the impact varies across various individuals. The pair also came up with a transparent framework for such research that has increased  trust in it. “The challenge, for me, has always been trying to understand, when people do empirical work, what exactly the methodological challenges are,” Imbens said, speaking to the announcement’s news conference via telephone. Imbens said he was asleep when he received the call from the prize committee — around 2 a.m. —  and was “absolutely stunned” to hear the news. He noted that Angrist was the best man at his wedding. The award, formally called the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel, has been given out since 1969. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman embarks on week-long US trip||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has embarked on a week-long US trip to attend the annual meet of the World Bank and IMF as well as meetings of G20 finance ministers and a meeting of central bank governors. The visit which begins on Monday will be Sitharaman’s first overseas official trip after the Covid-19 outbreak. This is also the first time since the viral outbreak that the World Bank and International Monetary Fund are going for in-person annual meetings. The finance minister will co-chair the US India Economic and Financial Partnership Dialogue with US treasury secretary Janet Yellen. She will also address investors, including large pension funds and private equity players. Inflation worry The finance ministry in its monthly economic report said volatility in the prices of crude oil, edible oils and metal products could pose concerns for India’s economy even though inflation is expected to ease in the coming months. “The volatile prices in the international crude oil markets and upward-bound prices of edible oils and metal products may continue to pose concerns,” the report said. The economy is recovering fast from the pandemic. Strategic reforms and the rapid vaccination drive has placed the country on the path to swift recovery by enabling the economy to “navigate the ravaging waves” of the Covid-19 pandemic, the report said. Latest trends in high-frequency economic indicators in August and September also indicate a broad-based recovery evidenced in sustained improvement in power consumption, rail freight activity, e-way bills and robust GST collections, and highway toll collections. China trade meet Meanwhile, trade minister Piyush Goyal will have a one-on-one meeting with his Chinese counterpart on Tuesday at a G20 summit in Italy, the government said in a statement. Goyal will also meet other trade ministers, including those from the United States, South Korea, Australia, South Africa, Brazil and Canada, among others, the statement said on Monday. Relations between India and China have been strained due to border related issues. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Invesco questions aspects of proposed Zee-Sony merger||Invesco, the largest shareholder of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL), today raised questions over certain aspects of the proposed merger with Sony that it believed would enrich Subhash Chandra and his family at the cost of other shareholders. The institutional shareholder, which holds almost 18 per cent in Zee along with OFI Global China Fund LLC, has requisitioned an extraordinary general meeting where it intends to move resolutions seeking to remove the company's managing director and CEO Punit Goenka and induct a new slate of six independent directors. Zee has been stalling on the EGM, triggering a vicious legal dispute between the Chandras and Invesco. In an open letter to shareholders of Zee, Invesco said the Zee promoters had worked in a non-compete clause into the merger deal that entitled them to an additional 2 per cent stake which would give them a 4 per cent holding in the merged entity. Moreover, the promoters of Zee also have the option of raising their stake to 20 per cent at a later date. It added that the proviso was silent on how this would be done and whether it would change the majority control of Sony in the merged entity. “This is dilutive to all other shareholders, which we consider unfair. At the very least, we would expect such largess to be contingent on the MD/CEO leaving (the) said position (thus raising the scenario of “non-compete”) or be structured in the form of time vesting and performance-linked ESOPs, which we as shareholders welcome as a transparent way to reward performance and leadership,” the letter said. The two clauses in the deal, Invesco argued, would harm the interests of  the other shareholders. The institutional investor said the company’s current board and management had destroyed shareholder value. The fund’s chief investment officer, Justin M. Leverenz, said he wanted to reiterate the urgent need for “independent perspectives” on Zee’s board given its governance failures and prolonged underperformance. Goenka will stay on as the MD and CEO of the merged entity for the next five years -- an outcome that Invesco felt was entirely unjustified. Pointing out that it was prepared to evaluate the transaction constructively if additional information was made available, Invesco said the timing of the merger announcement and its non-binding nature was questionable. Invesco said if its proposal to overhaul the Zee board was approved by other shareholders, the  newly- constituted board would decide the future leadership of the company. “Should the Board so decide, it could appoint an interim CEO from among the exceptional talent available within Zee itself. In parallel, it might approve a formal search for a CEO from within the vibrant Indian media industry... The new board could appoint an investment bank to evaluate all proposals for strategic alignments that might be probable, including the Sony proposal in its current or any revised format, as Sony might choose to present,” the fund said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Benchmark indices score new record; Nifty crosses 18000||Benchmark indices on Monday scored a new record with the broader Nifty hitting 18000 for the first time on optimism over the economy and corporate earnings. However, in the forex and bond markets, inflation concerns saw the rupee grinding to a 15-month low and bond yields rising to their highest level in 18 months. The rupee tumbled 37 paise to close at 75.36, dragged by rising crude oil prices and a strong greenback in the overseas market. This is for the first time in this year that the domestic unit is ending below 75. The benchmark 10-year bonds closed at 6.34 per cent, up from the previous close of 6.318 per cent. Stocks rose for the third consecutive session because of gains in banking, auto and power shares. Market circles said the mood remains positive despite taper concerns because of the steady decline in daily Covid cases, increasing vaccinations and relief measures by the government. Despite a lukewarm beginning to the results season with TCS, the expectation is that corporate India will report good earnings growth for the quarter ended September 30 and guide towards a better performance ahead. Reflecting this confidence, the broader Nifty on Monday  surpassed the 18000 mark for the first time in its history to touch an record high of 18041.95. The index later rose 50.75 points, or  0.28 per cent, to its all-time closing high of 17945.95. Similarly, the 30-share Sensex, which began in the green at 60099.68, scaled a new intra-day high of 60476.13. The gauge closed 76.72 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 60135.78 — a new closing high as well. “The Nifty touching an all time high level of 18000 is a journey. It is not a destination. The market is driven by the triveni sangam of positive sentiment, fund flow from domestic and global investors and improving corporate profitability. Festival season has begun with a bang and supported positive momentum,’’ said Nilesh Shah, group president & MD, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company. Maruti Suzuki was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 4 per cent. However, TCS was the top loser on the Sensex, shedding over 6 per cent, as its second quarter earnings did not impress the Street. Analysts here said that expectations have risen for the technology sector and there could be correction in these counters if their performance does not meet expectations. Birla AMC debut Shares of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC made a muted market debut on Monday and settled nearly 2 per cent lower against its issue price of Rs 712. The stock listed at Rs 712 on the BSE. Later, it touched a high of Rs 721 and low of Rs 696 during the day. It settled at Rs 699.65, lower by 1.73 per cent. On the NSE, it debuted at Rs 715, a marginal gain of 0.42 per cent from the issue price. The stock settled at Rs 698, registering a decline of 1.96 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Nitish Kumar becomes first NDA ally to raise spectre of blackout||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday became the first NDA ally to raise the spectre of a blackout during the festival season a day after the Union power minister R.K. Singh claimed there was no coal crisis in the country. Kumar said not only Bihar but the entire country was facing a power crisis and the state was spending heavily on purchasing electricity from the open market. “It is a fact that electricity is not being supplied as per the requirement of the state. NTPC or the private companies are not able to supply power as per the agreement provisions. It is completely correct that there is a problem and not only Bihar but the entire country is affected,” Nitish said while talking to reporters on the sidelines of his janata durbar in the state capital. He  pointed out that the decrease in supply meant that the production of electricity was less and there must be “some reasons behind it”. “We are trying to meet the situation by buying electricity at high prices from the power exchange. We have bought 5.7 crore units at a cost of Rs 90 crore in the last five days. At present, we are getting around 5,500 megawatt (mw) to 5600mw during the peak hours,” he added. Nitish is the first chief minister of any National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ruled state to publicly and categorically accept the power crisis that has gripped the country for around a week now. However, the chief minister expressed optimism that the problem would be addressed soon. The Union government has fielded its ministers to assure people that there was nothing alarming about the power situation in the country and the shortage of coal for thermal power production was being addressed. Bihar government officials said that the peak hour demand in the state touches 6500mw. The deficient supply has led to blackouts in the rural areas across the 38 districts. Many parts are getting just around 10 to 12 hours of electricity supply these days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Amit Shah meets power minister and coal minister||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting with power minister R.K. Singh and coal minister Pralhad Joshi amid reports that the coal shortage in the country was worsening, officials said. During the hour-long meeting, the three ministers were believed to have discussed the availability of coal to power plants and the current power demands. Top officials of the power and coal ministries attended the meeting. Shah reviewed the situation and asked everyone present to ensure adequate supplies of coal to thermal power plants . Officials said the power and coal secretaries will make a presentation on the availability of power and coal at the Prime Minister’s Office on Tuesday. They would also present the steps being taken to boost the availability of coal at the power plant and meet the energy demand during the festive season. The meeting came in the wake of several states warning of a possible power crisis due to the shortage of coal, officials said. Latest data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed as many as 70 non-pithead plants having less than four days of stocks (supercritical stock) as of October 10 against 64 a week ago (See chart). The depleting coal stock has brought out fears of a total blackout that was witnessed in Lebanon and several cities in China. Several states, including Delhi, Punjab, Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Bihar, have warned of load shedding and called for judicious use of electricity. Coal India defence Coal India on Monday said that supply to power utilities has been scaled up to 1.51 million tonnes (mt) per day in the last four days amid concerns over low fuel stock at power plants. The PSU miner said that it has produced 126mt during the July-September quarter, posting a 9.6 per cent year-on-year growth. During the first 10 days of October, Coal India’s output was 6.5 per cent higher than a year ago. The miner expects production to further increase as attendance at coalfields improves after the festival holidays. “The aim is to ramp up supplies to the power sector even higher which we hope to achieve post Puja. Once the despatch rate is maintained the stock build up will help tide over the tight situation,” said S.N. Tiwary, director marketing, Coal India. Railway evacuation has been ramped up and during the first six months of the fiscal, loading to the power sector at 225.3 rakes per day was up 28 per cent  compared with 176.3 rakes of last year in the same period. The miner expects power demand to ease once October and major festivals are over. “With 40 MT stock at our pitheads and increasing production, availability of coal would not be a problem,” said a senior official of the company. The sharp rise in fuel demand coupled with imported coal based power plants scaling down their generation due to skyrocketing fuel prices in international markets meant that domestic coal based thermal power plants had to step in to fill in the generation shortfall. According to Coal India officials, this placed an unfactored load of around 10mt on the miner. Had this not happened the stocks at power plants would have been around 1718 mt instead of the bleak 7mt now. Coal India Ltd accounts for over 80 per cent of the domestic coal output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
