13-10-2021||Business||Air India under Tata Group will be real challenge, says IndiGo CEO||A revamped Air India under the Tata Group will be a real challenge while new airline Akasa Air will be a far less competitive force for the next two-three years, IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said on Wednesday. Akasa Air, which is backed by former IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh, ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and former Jet Airways CEO Vinay Dube, got the no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Ministry of Civil Aviation on Monday. “Akasa is a far less competitive force for now or for the next two-three years. They will have to grow and grow slowly, get the slots, get the planes. They are not going to come out of the box, raring to go. There will be a slow build,” he said. "And against that, I think we have good defences. We are the lowest cost carrier. It will be tough for anyone to get their costs lower than us," Dutta said in a pre-recorded interview at an event organised by aviation consultancy firm CAPA. Whatever numbers anyone looks at, "we are running a damn good airline" with very low costs and with a great network, he added. "In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, we opened nine new domestic stations," Dutta said. "So, for a new entrant, it will be tougher to compete with us. But (new) Air India -- that is the real challenge for us," he added. On October 8, the government announced that Talace Private Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, has beaten a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh by offering Rs 18,000 crore to win the bid to acquire debt-laden Air India. Dutta said Air India will be a formidable force under the Tata Group and IndiGo does not take it lightly at all. “Internationally, they will be a strong competitor. Domestically, they have now three carriers -- Vistara, AirAsia India and Air India -- all put together. So they will be tough competition. I see them as a formidable force," he noted. Dutta said IndiGo is currently operating approximately 85 per cent of its pre-Covid domestic flights and around 40 per cent of its pre-Covid international flights. "We are not growing a lot in the next 18 months or so. After that, we start growing," he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Global debt has jumped to new peak of $226 trillion, says IMF||Due to the COVID-19 and policies put in place to respond to it, the global debt has jumped to a new high of USD 226 trillion with India's dues projected to rise to 90.6 per cent in 2021, the International Monetary Fund said on Wednesday. Advanced economies and China contributed more than 90 per cent to the accumulation of world-wide debt in 2020. The remaining emerging economies and low-income developing countries contributed only around seven per cent. "Because of COVID 19, and of policies put in place to respond to it, debt levels increased fast and reached high levels. High and rising levels of public and private debt are associated with risks to financial stability and public finances," IMF Director of Fiscal Affairs Department Vitor Gaspar told reporters during a release of the 2021 Fiscal Monitor Report. "The debt of governments, households and non-financial corporations added up to USD 226 trillion in 2020 USD 27 trillion above 2019. This increase is, by far, the largest on record," he said. This figure includes both public and non-financial private sector debt. In its 2021 Fiscal Monitor report, the IMF said India's debt increased from 68.9 per cent of its GDP in 2016 to 89.6 per cent in 2020. It is projected to jump to 90.6 per cent in 2021 and then decline to 88.8 per cent in 2022, to gradually reach 85.2 per cent in 2026. Constraints on financing are particularly severe for poorer countries, Gasper said. Noting that in 2020, fiscal policy proved its worth, he said the increase in public debt, in 2020, was fully justified by the need to respond to COVID-19 and its economic, social, and financial consequences. But the increase is expected to be one-off, he said. Gasper said debt is expected to decline this year and next by about 1 percentage point of GDP per year. After that it is projected to stabilise at about 97 per cent of GDP. These debt dynamics are driven by a strong contribution from nominal GDP growth, accompanied by a much more gradual reduction in the primary deficit, he said. In its report, the IMF said risks to the fiscal outlook are elevated. A scaling up of vaccine production and delivery, especially to emerging markets and low-income developing countries, would limit further damage to the global economy. On the downside, new variants of the virus, low vaccine coverage in many countries, and delays in some people's acceptance of vaccination could inflict new damage and increase pressures on public budgets. The realisation of contingent liabilities including from loan and guarantee programmes may also lead to unexpected increases in government debt, it said. Further pressures could come from social discontent, with the crisis estimated to have thrown between 65 and 75 million people into poverty in 2021 relative to pre-pandemic trends. Large government financing needs are a source of vulnerability, especially in emerging markets and low-income developing countries, where financing conditions are sensitive to global interest rates and central banks have begun to raise short-term reference rates, IMF said. Fiscal policy will need to respond nimbly to these challenges and facilitate the transformation of the global economy to make it more productive, inclusive, green, and resilient to future health or other crises, it said. At the same time, it will be crucial to ensure transparency and accountability, plot a medium-term path to rebuilding fiscal buffers, and make progress toward the Sustainable Development Goal, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 453 points to new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 453 points to touch a new closing high of 60,737 on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ITC and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. After scaling a record peak of 60,836.63 during the session, the 30-share Sensex settled 452.74 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 60,737.05, taking its winning run to the fifth consecutive day. Similarly, the Nifty rallied 169.80 points or 0.94 per cent to 18,161.75. It touched an intra-day record of 18,197.80. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, zooming over 5 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, ITC, L&T, Tech Mahindra, Titan and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Maruti, HUL, Nestle India, Axis Bank and SBI were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained steady and witnessed sharp up-move with benchmark Nifty and Sensex recording fresh all-time highs amid mixed cues from global equities," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Sustained rebound in financials and Reliance Industries supported broader indices. Tata Group stocks were in focus especially Tata Motors after company announced USD 1 billion investment from TPG in Electric Vehicle division valuing EV business strong at USD 9.1 billion. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.54 per cent to USD 82.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade to hit a fresh lifetime high on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and M&M despite a weak trend in global markets. After touching a record of 60,621.72, the 30-share Sensex was trading 261.17 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 60,545.48. Similarly, the Nifty surged 97.75 points or 0.54 per cent to a new intra-day peak of 18,089.70. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 3 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Bharti Airtel, L&T, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, HUL, HCL Tech, SBI and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 148.53 points or 0.25 per cent higher at record 60,284.31, and Nifty rose 46 points or 0.26 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,991.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 278.32 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Sharp contraction in CPI print at 4.35 per cent for September despite elevated oil prices and sustained IIP growth (11.5 per cent growth for August) certainly offer comfort. We also believe that 2QFY22 corporate earnings are going to be quite crucial for the market, he stated. Retail inflation fell to a five-month low of 4.35 per cent in September from 7.27 per cent in the year-ago period as prices of vegetables and other items declined. Industrial production grew 11.9 per cent in August mainly due to a low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors that surpassed the pre-COVID level. In the US, the equity market contracted for the third consecutive day in a choppy trading day ahead of crucial inflation data and September quarter earnings. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.31 per cent to USD 83.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Domestic flights can operate at full capacity from October 18||The government on Tuesday said airlines can operate domestic flights without any capacity restrictions from October 18, with  daily traffic crossing the 3-lakh mark over the weekend. The cap had been in force on domestic flight capacity since May 2020 and currently it stands at 85 per cent. The ministry of civil aviation announced revoking the cap “after a review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel”. Airlines will be allowed to not just return to pre-pandemic levels but go beyond that as well depending on demand. This means that from the winter schedule — that comes into effect at the end of next month — airlines can have a full complement of domestic flights. “After review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel... it has been decided to restore the scheduled domestic air operations with effect from October 18, 2021, without any capacity restriction,” the government said in the official notification. “The airlines/airport operators shall, however, ensure that the guidelines to contain the spread of Covid are strictly adhered to and Covid appropriate behaviour is strictly enforced by them during the travel,” the circular added. The capacity cap stood at 72.5 per cent between August 12 and September 18, 65 per cent between July 5 and August 12 and 50 per cent between June 1 and July 5. On October 9, the Indian carriers operated 2,340 domestic flights, which is 71.5 per cent of their total pre-Covid capacity. When the government resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December 2020. The 80-per cent cap remained in place till June 1 this year. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 per cent to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken due to “sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country”, the ministry had said. From next week, the restrictions will be relaxed and domestic flights can operate at full capacity. International flights are being operated under air bubbles. With the government allowing foreign tourists on charters from this month and non-charters next month, airlines are wondering if the restrictions on international flights will also partially ease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Govt increases fertiliser subsidy by another Rs 28,655 crore ||The government on Tuesday increased the fertiliser subsidy by another Rs 28,655 crore to insulate the farmers from the spike in global prices for the winter crop (rabi season) 2021-22. “Cabinet approves Nutrient Based Subsidy (NBS) rates for Phosphatic & Potassic (P&K) Fertilisers for the year 2021-22 (from 1st October, 2021 to 31st March, 2022). Net subsidy of Rs 28,655 crore for Rabi 2021-22,” an official release after the meeting of the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA) said. The release said this will enable the smooth availability of all P&K fertilisers to the farmers during Rabi Season 2021-22 at the subsidised  / affordable prices of fertilisers and support the agricultural sector by continuing the present subsidy levels and giving special packages of additional subsidy for DAP and three mostly consumed NPK grades. The subsidy on of di-ammonium phosphate is being raised by Rs 438 per bag and Rs 100 per bag for nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilisers so as to maintain prices of these fertilisers affordable to the farmers, the release said. The increase in subsidy is an attempt to win over farmers agitating against the three farm laws that allow private businesses to procure agricultural produce directly. The support of the peasants are crucial for the ruling BJP to win the key polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab next year. With this, fertilisers subsidy for the current fiscal has touched Rs 122,960 crore. The government has increased the fertiliser subsidy outlay for the year by 14,775 crore in May to soften the impact of global prices.  In the budget fertiliser subsidy outlay for 2021-22 was Rs 79,530 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Edtech startup Creative Galileo raises $2.5 million ||Edtech startup Creative Galileo on Tuesday said it has raised $2.5 million (around Rs 19 crore) in a funding round led by Kalaari Capital. Kalaari Capital has invested $2.1 million in the funding round. Angel investors such as Harish Bahl, Shashin Shah, Jinesh Patel, Atul Nishar, Ashwin Puri and Giridhar Malpani also participated in the round. Creative Galileo, which focuses on early learning of children, plans to use the funds for scaling, product development and enhancement, creating new engaging content, forging partnerships with leading animation houses, and hiring talent. “We are also looking to expand business overseas, particularly in South East Asia. Our company has already started developing content in local languages for some of the markets,” Creative Galileo founder Prerna A Jhunjhunwala said. Creative Galileo app has seen over four million downloads in the first 12 months of its launch, she added. Apart from the Indian subcontinent, the app is gaining traction in international markets, with 10 per cent downloads recorded from Nepal, Bangladesh, UAE, the USA and other countries, she added. "We are also looking at going deeper in the Indian market with vernacular content," she said.     The app provides content by mixing education and entertainment to create personalised, integrated learning experiences for children. It provides narrative videos using famous cartoon characters and gamifies content for the learning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||RBI issues SFB licence to Centrum and BharatPe consortium||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday issued a Small Finance Bank (SFB) licence to the consortium of Centrum Financial Services Ltd (Centrum) and Resilient Innovations Pvt Ltd (BharatPe). The development is likely to clear the decks for the merger of PMC Bank with the SFB. In September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and imposed various regulatory restrictions after financial irregularities came to light. In June this year, it granted an in-principle approval to the Centrum BharatPe combine to acquire the cooperative bank through a merger with the small finance bank. Speaking to reporters at the customary post monetary policy press conference, RBI deputy governor Rajeshwar Rao said once the final licence for the SFB is approved, the RBI will proceed with the scheme of amalgamation and obtaining the approvals. While the new SFB has been incorporated as ‘Unity Small Finance Bank’, a statement from the Centrum group said the proposed business model is one of collaboration and open architecture that will unite all its stakeholders to deliver a seamless digital experience. “We are delighted to receive the license and excited to partner with BharatPe to create this new age bank, with a strong team. We aspire to be India’s first digital bank,’’ Jaspal Bindra, executive chairman, Centrum Group, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||TDSAT asks DoT to not encash bank guarantees in Voda, Airtel case||Telecom tribunal TDSAT on Tuesday asked the department of telecom to put on hold the encashment of bank guarantees in the penalty case of Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea till the next date of hearing. The Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) bench headed by Justice Shiv Kirti Singh listed the matter for hearing on October 26. “... No encashment of bank guarantee shall be resorted to till the next date,” Singh said. As per the Department of Telecom, companies are required to pay the penalty by October 21. The telecom tribunal did not grant a stay on the penalty notice. Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea moved the telecom tribunal to challenge Telecom Department's demand notices for payment of Rs 3,050 crore cumulative penalties in the points of interconnect matter. The Department of Telecom (DoT) has slapped a penalty of Rs 2,000 crore on Vodafone Idea and Rs 1,050 crore on Bharti Airtel based on sector regulator Trai's recommendation five years ago, for violating norms by denying Reliance Jio points of interconnect (PoIs) way back in 2016. The PoI are required to interconnect networks of telecom operators. Lawyers representing Vodafone Idea argued that the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) recommended a penalty based on just one day reading of quality of service data and even did not average it over the period of 30 days as per the norms. In October 2016, Trai had recommended imposing a total penalty of Rs 3,050 crore on Airtel, Vodafone and Idea (now merged) for allegedly denying inter-connectivity to Reliance Jio. The regulator had, at that time, stopped short of recommending cancellation of their telecom licences saying it may lead to significant consumer inconvenience. Trai's recommendation had come on a complaint by Reliance Jio that over 75 per cent of calls on its network were failing as incumbents were not releasing sufficient numbers of PoIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors to raise up to $1 billion in passenger EV business||Tata Motors is raising up to $1 billion (Rs 7,500 crore) in its passenger electric vehicle (EV) business from TPG Rise Climate and its co-investor ADQ at a valuation of up to $9.1 billion. The investors will take a stake of 11-15 per cent in the arm that will be newly incorporated. While 50 per cent of the committed amount will come in by March 2022 after setting up of the EV company, the balance will flow in by the third quarter 2022 on achieving certain actions, Tata Motors said on Tuesday. They will be subscribing to compulsory convertible preference shares which will convert to ordinary shares in the EV unit after achieving certain revenue thresholds. Tata Motors said that the new company will leverage all its existing investments and capabilities and will channelise the future investments into electric vehicles, dedicated BEV (battery electric vehicle) platforms, advanced automotive technologies and catalyse investments in charging infrastructure and battery technologies. The company added that over the next five years, this arm will create a portfolio of 10 EVs and in association with Tata Power Ltd, catalyse the creation of a widespread charging infrastructure to facilitate rapid EV adoption in India. “I am delighted to have TPG Rise Climate join us in our journey to create a market-shaping electric passenger mobility business in India. We will continue to proactively invest in exciting products that delights customers while meticulously creating a synergistic ecosystem. “We are excited and committed to play a leading role in the government’s vision to have 30 per cent electric vehicles penetration rate by 2030,’’ N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Motors, said. Speaking to reporters, Shailesh Chandra, president-passenger vehicle business unit, Tata Motors, said EV adoption has risen in India over the last five years. He pointed out that the growth drivers have been favourable government policies, launch of aspirational mainstream EVs, positive word of mouth by existing customers, increase in prices of internal combustion engine vehicles and huge rise in fuel prices. He added that Tata Motors has been leading the EV revolution in India and it now has a market share of 70 per cent in India’s electric vehicle segment. It has also increased its reach to touch more than 2,500 customer touch points, set up more than 700 charging stations, expanded to 60 cities from 22 earlier. Last month, the company had said that its electric vehicles achieved a cumulative sales milestone of 10,000 units. P Balaji, chief financial officer, Tata Motors here added that while Tata Motors wants to lead the EV charge in the Indian market, it is also looking to catalyse charging infrastructure and invest proactively in drive trains, products and platforms. Explaining the rationale for roping in investor like TPG Rise Climate, he said that the growth plans in EV will require $ 2 billion of investment over the next five years. While its passenger vehicle subsidiary will be constrained to support the aggressive EV aspirations, given the latter’s core net zero emission credentials, a different segment of investors who focus on the long term, carbon free world are accessible. Moreover, there is also a potential for significant value unlock and ability to fund the requirements of the business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||RBI bars Srei auditor from undertaking any assignments ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday barred the chartered accountant firm Haribhakti & Co LLP from undertaking any type of audit assignments for entities regulated by it for a period of two years beginning April 1, 2022. The central bank took this action under Section 45MAA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. This is the first time that it has acted against an auditor using this provision of the RBI Act. Back in June 2019, the RBI had barred SR Batliboi & Co from carrying out audit assignments in commercial banks for an year, citing lapses identified in a statutory audit assignment carried out by the firm of a bank. Haribhakti & Co LLP was the auditor of Srei Infrastructure Finance Limited (SIFL), whose board was superseded by the RBI and insolvency proceedings were initiated last week. The term of the firm expired with the conclusion of the 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on September 19, 2020. The banking sector regulator said in a statement that it has taken this action against the firm for failure to comply with a specific direction issued by the RBI with respect to its statutory audit of a Systemically Important Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC), Section 45MA of the RBI Act deals with powers and duties of auditors. ``Where any auditor fails to comply with any direction given or order made by the Bank (RBI) under section 45MA, the Bank (RBI), may, if satisfied, remove or debar the auditor from exercising the duties as auditor of any of the bank regulated entities for a maximum period of three years, at a time,’’ says Section 45MAA. The RBI added that its action will not impact the audit assignments of Haribhakti & Co LLP in regulated entities by it for the financial year 2021-22. On October 4, the RBI had superseded the boards of Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance Ltd (SEFL) citing governance concerns and defaults by the  companies in meeting their various payment obligations. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday admitted the insolvency pleas moved by the RBI against the two Srei group firms and appointed an administrator to run the companies. This came a day after the Bombay high court rejected a writ petition filed by the Srei group against the banking regulator’s move to supersede the boards of the two NBFCs. The company’s total liabilities reportedly amount to around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore through external commercial borrowings and bonds. Earlier, the RBI had constituted a three-member advisory committee to assist Rajneesh Sharma, administrator of SIFL and SEFL in discharge of his duties. The members of the panel include R. Subramaniakumar, former MD & CEO, Indian Overseas Bank, T.T. Srinivasaraghavan, former managing director, Sundaram Finance Ltd, Farokh N Subedar, former chief operating officer and Company Secretary, Tata Sons Ltd. In November 2019, the Reserve Bank had superseded the board of directors of DHFL owing to governance concerns and defaults by DHFL in meeting various payment obligations. It was the first finance company to be referred to NCLT by the RBI using special powers under Section 227 of the IBC. Recently, the Piramal group had completed the acquisition of the housing finance firm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||Industrial production grows 11.9 per cent in August||Industrial production grew 11.9 per cent in August mainly due to a low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors that surpassed the pre-Covid level. Retail inflation declined to 4.35 per cent in September, mainly due to lower food prices, according to government data released on Tuesday. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew 9.7 per cent in August, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Tuesday. The mining sector output rose 23.6 per cent in August, while power generation increased 16 per cent. In August 2021, the IIP stood at 131.1 points compared with 117.2 points in the same month last year. The index stood at 126.2 points in August 2019, as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered and surpassed the pre-pandemic level of August 2019. The IIP had contracted by 7.1 per cent in August 2020. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, grew 19.9 per cent in August 2021. It had witnessed a contraction of 14.4 per cent in the year-ago period. Consumer durables manufacturing increased 8 per cent in the month under review against a decline of 10.2 per cent in August 2020. Consumer non-durable goods production grew 5.2 per cent in August over a 3 cent contraction in the year-ago period. Consumer price The consumer price index-based (CPI) inflation was at 5.30 per cent in August and at 7.27 per cent in September 2020. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), the inflation in food basket eased to 0.68 per cent in September 2021, significantly down from 3.11 per cent in the preceding month. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which mainly factors in CPI-based inflation while arriving at its bi-monthly monetary policy, has been tasked by the government to keep it at 4 per cent, with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||If states sell electricity on power exchanges, Centre to curb supplies||The Centre on Tuesday warned states that power PSUs will curb their supplies if they are found selling electricity on power exchanges to cash in on surging prices. On Tuesday, the power ministry asked utilities, reliant on local coal, to import up to 10 per cent of coal needs to blend with the domestic grade to meet increased power demand. The power ministry on Tuesday also asked states to utilise unallocated power of the central generating stations (CGS) to meet the requirements of their own consumers amid the ongoing coal shortage crisis in the country. “It has been brought to the notice of the Ministry of Power that some states are not supplying power to their consumers and imposing load shedding. At the same time, they are also selling power in the power exchange at high price,” a power ministry statement said. As per the guidelines for allocation of power, 15 per cent power from CGS is kept as “unallocated power” which is allocated by the central government to needy states to meet the requirement of power of the consumers. The responsibility to supply power to the consumers is of the distribution companies and they should first serve their consumers who have the right to receive 24x7 power. Thus, the distribution companies should not sell the power in the power exchange and starve their own consumers, it stated. “The states have therefore been requested to use the unallocated power for supplying electricity to the consumers of the state. In case of surplus power, the states have been requested to intimate to the government of India so that this power can be reallocated to other needy state,” it said. In case any state is found that they are not serving their consumers and selling power in the power exchanges at higher rate, the unallocated power of such states shall be withdrawn and allocated to other needy states, it added. PMO meet Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Tuesday reviewed the coal supply and power generation scenario as the government looks at ways to defuse the energy crisis being faced by several states. At the meeting over coal shortage at power plants which have led to blackouts in some states, power secretary Alok Kumar and coal secretary A.K. Jain made a presentation on coal and power availability, sources said. NCP fumes The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday alleged the Modi government was responsible for the current shortage of coal in the country, which has caused a shortfall of the fuel supply to several power plants, according to PTI. Talking to reporters, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said many power plants are not operational due to the shortage of coal. Despite importing the fuel, the shortfall remains. This is also leading to spending the foreign exchange, he said. During the tenure of the erstwhile UPA government, the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had come up with a coal policy keeping in mind the electricity requirements of the country in the future, he said. But the BJP, then in the Opposition, alleged a coal scam and the policy had to be rolled back, said Malik, a senior minister in the Maharashtra government. India is the world’s second largest coal producer, with the world’s fourth largest reserves, but a steep surge in power demand that has outstripped pre-pandemic levels means state-run Coal India’s supplies are no longer enough. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the pandemic has driven up demand for coal leading to a supply shortage, forcing north Indian states like Bihar, Rajasthan and Jharkhand to undertake power cuts for up to 14 hours a day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
