14-10-2021||Business||Moritz Herbert: 5 Lessons to Learn from Both Successes and Failures||As you gain life experience, you’ll learn life lessons along the way. Both your successes and your failures can teach you things about the world and yourself. Moritz Herbert is a crypto enthusiast who runs a YouTube channel called CryptoMo, and he wants to share what he’s learned during his journey. Do what you’re passionate about If you’re passionate about something, Moritz Herbert thinks you should go for it. “You can’t get your time back if you do a job you hate,” he said. “Work towards living the sort of life you’ll love.” Don’t let obligations hold you back from your dreams Moritz Herbert was running a successful YouTube channel, but he felt held back by high school. He stopped going and watched his success on YouTube and in crypto skyrocket. “Of course, you can’t abandon everything, but don’t be limited by what’s going on in your life right now. Look forward to the future.” Invest your money when you can Herbert is an expert cryptocurrency trader, and he’s quickly learned how important it is to invest your money so it can grow. He’s made huge trades and secured millions of dollars simply by investing. “Crypto is amazing, but it’s not for everyone,” he said. “Even just investing in some mutual funds and your retirement account can be helpful.” Failure is normal Over time, Moritz Herbert had trades that didn’t go well or sold currency before its peak. However, he knew that failure didn’t have to make him quit or set him back. “Don’t give up simply because you’ve had some setbacks. Really believe in yourself and your journey.” Don’t forget to have fun with your money Many investing experts want you to invest every penny and spend nothing. Moritz disagrees. “I’ve spent money on private jets and parties,” he said. “I wanted to live it up while I was a teenager and lived that dream. Don’t forget to have fun!” Moritz Herbert is an expert crypto trader, and you might notice more prosperity in your life if you implement his advice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
14-10-2021||Business||Rahul Kaul, an eminent entrepreneur offers some advice for a thriving business start-up||Today, the markets are crowded leaving no space for any new business to enter. There is cutthroat competition between already existing companies. In such a scenario, not only market entry becomes a challenge but so does survival. However, there are always a few exceptions who know how to play well. Rahul Kaul is one such remarkable player who is the business owner of multiple ventures. He is a jack of all trades. This Dubai-based entrepreneur knows how to mount a cash cow. He is well versed with the art of starting a new company and he shares a few tips too. Kaul says, “An extensive market research will give you a glimpse of what the actual demand of people is. When you know the problem pitch your business as a solution.” Besides, one should also learn about his competitors and their market strategies. As sometimes lessons from one become an experience for others. He also asks to study the target audience so that the company knows where exactly to drop the bomb. Startups require enormous funding. However, the story has changed today. With the advent of digital media, the cost of working space could be reduced. Rahul adds, “There are banks , sponsors & investors who will only fund a business which is already money making. Your idea / business needs to be unique and need to find the perfect market gap”.   Rahul Kaul being an eager beaver realised the increasing demand for influencer marketing and therefore he founded IMDDXB Influencer Agency that connects influencers and brands. He started this company during the lockdown when big brands were struggling to stand still. He created employment opportunities for thousands. He also owns Dejavu Entertainment and Events, Wrecking Ball Dubai and  The Dejavu Yacht. He is the person behind the most famous B-Town parties in Dubai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 569 points to fresh record||Extending its winning run to the sixth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 569 points to close at a new peak on Thursday, driven by gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and ITC amid positive macro cues and upbeat global markets. Closing above the 61,000-mark for the first time, the 30-share Sensex settled 568.90 points or 0.94 per cent higher at 61,305.95. Similarly, the Nifty surged 176.80 points or 0.97 per cent to a new lifetime closing high of 18,338.55. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, TCS, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finance and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "The Indian market sustained its upbeat mood supported by positive global market, favourable inflation data and upmove in IT stocks following strong earning scorecards by sector majors, Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services, said. The wholesale price-based inflation eased to 10.66 per cent in September, helped by moderating food prices even as crude petroleum witnessed a spike. Retail inflation in September too slowed to a five-month low of 4.4 per cent on moderating food prices. "Banking stocks also contributed to the rally and remained in focus as the sector is set to kickstart its earnings season," Nair added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended with strong gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.02 per cent to USD 84.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Important for India to focus on green investment post-pandemic, says IMF||As the Indian economy recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic that hit it hard, it is important for the country to focus on public investment, particularly in green sectors, the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday. "As we move towards the recovery, it is also important to focus on public investment, particularly on green investment, so that the recovery can be inclusive and green," IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department Deputy Director Paolo Mauro told reporters during a news conference here. He said India's debt is at the ratio of about 90 per cent, and it is important to give a signal that there is a medium-term fiscal framework in place that ensures investors that the debt ratio will decline in the medium term. Responding to a question, Mauro said the situation is improving when it comes to the epidemic. It is very different from a few months ago, he said, adding, fortunately, the number of cases is declining and the vaccination is becoming more widespread. On the economic front, therefore, even though the situation is improving, the priority remains to address the health emergency. It remains to provide ample support, particularly to the poorer segments of the population through social protection, employment benefits, and so on, Mauro said. In terms of more recent reforms, one that I would like to highlight is the National Asset Reconstruction Company, the so-called bad bank. This is potentially very promising because it is important to tackle non-performing loans, he said. This has been a long-standing drag on credit, and potentially this is very promising, he added. It is very important that both the governance and the independence of such so-called bad banks be in place so that the costs to public finances can be kept under control and one can go back to promoting inclusive growth, Mauro said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation eases to 10.66 per cent in September||The wholesale price-based inflation eased to 10.66 per cent in September, helped by moderating food prices even as crude petroleum witnessed a spike. WPI inflation remained in double-digit for the sixth consecutive month. In August, it was 11.39 per cent. In September 2020, inflation was 1.32 per cent. The high rate of inflation in September 2021 is primarily due to rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, non-food articles, food products, crude petroleum & natural gas, chemicals and chemical products etc. as compared the corresponding month of the previous year, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement. Inflation in food articles eased for the fifth straight month, recording (-) 4.69 per cent in September from (-) 1.29 per cent in August, mainly due to easing vegetable prices. Pulses prices continued to spike at 9.42 per cent. Inflation in the fuel and power basket was 24.91 per cent in September, against 26.09 per cent in the previous month. The rise in crude petroleum and natural gas prices was 43.92 per cent in September over 40.03 per cent in the previous month. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 11.41 per cent during the month. The RBI, which mainly takes into account retail inflation in its monetary policy, earlier this month kept interest rates unchanged at record lows. Retail inflation in September too slowed to a five-month low of 4.4 per cent on moderating food prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 350 points to hit 61K for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points in opening trade on Thursday to cross the 61,000-mark for the first time, driven by gains in index heavyweights Infosys, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a record of 61,159.48 in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 356.73 points or 0.59 per cent higher at 61,093.78. Similarly, the Nifty surged 119.75 points or 0.66 per cent to a new intra-day record of 18,281.50. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, SBI, NTPC, HDFC Bank, Maruti, ITC and Titan. On the other hand, HCL Tech, TCS, M&M, IndusInd Bank and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 452.74 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 60,737.05, taking its winning run to the fifth consecutive day, and Nifty rallied 169.80 points or 0.94 per cent to 18,161.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 937.31 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Strong results from Infosys, Wipro and Mindtree indicate that the market disappointing results from TCS was a one-off. Even though high attrition is a challenge for the sector, strong deal wins and robust demand are clear positives, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. IT is likely to resume its leadership position since the prospects of the sector look bright for the next many years on the back of accelerating digitisation by businesses globally, he said, adding that the strong performance of HDFC Bank indicates good Q2 results and the banking major joining the bull rally. Globally, the US FOMC minutes indicate that tapering is on course, possibly starting November and ending by mid-2022. This is a known event, hence, markets are likely to discount it before the actual announcement, he noted. Since there are no known triggers for a sharp correction in the short run and the market momentum continues to be strong, the exuberant retail investors are likely to drive the markets further up even though seasoned investors are worried about the excessive valuations," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.61 per cent to USD 83.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Finance minister categorically denies any power crisis in India||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has categorically denied any power crisis in India — even as grid data showed the situation to be the worst in five years. Amid reports of the ongoing coal shortage in the country, Sitharaman stressed that there is no shortage and termed these as “absolutely baseless”, saying India is a power surplus country. “Absolute baseless! There is no shortage of anything. In fact, if I recall the minister’s (power minister R.K. Singh) statement, every power producing installation has the next four days’ stock absolutely available within their own premises and the supply chain has not broken at all,” Sitharaman said here at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday. However, a Reuters report said India’s power supply fell about 750 million units short of demand during the first 12 days of October, largely due to a coal shortage, a deficit of 1.6 per cent that was the worst since March 2016, data from grid regulator POSOCO (Power System Operation Corporation) showed. The October shortfall was already the biggest in absolute terms for a single month since November 2018, even with 19 days of October still left. Northern states such as Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and the eastern states of Jharkhand and Bihar, were the worst affected, registering supply deficits of 2.3 per cent to 14.7 per cent. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has driven up demand for coal leading to a supply shortage, forcing northern states such as Bihar, Rajasthan and Jharkhand to cut power for up to 14 hours a day. India has asked power producers to import up to 10 per cent of their coal needs to blend with domestic coal and has warned states of electricity supply curbs if they are found selling on power exchanges to cash in on surging prices. read more India’s dependence on coal-fired power increased to 69.6 per cent in October from 66.5 per cent in September, the data showed, exacerbating the coal shortage amid a decline in output from other sources such as wind and hydro. More than 60 per cent of India’s 135 coal-fired power plants have fuel stocks of less than three days. The share of output from renewable energy so far in October fell to 8.34 per cent from 11.33 per cent in September, while hydro energy output fell by 1.3 percentage points, the data showed. With inputs from Reuters and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Govt scraps basic customs duty on crude palm, soya and sunflower oil||The government on Tuesday scrapped basic customs duty as well as slashed agri cess on crude varieties of palm, soyabean and sunflower oil till March 2022. This is expected to help cool prices and increase domestic availability in the festive season. However, industry players said the timing of the duty cut is likely to impact domestic farmers and consumers may not benefit much as exporters have factored in and hiked the prices. The duty cuts will be effective from October 14 and will remain in force till March 31, 2022, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said in a notification. Crude palm oil will now attract cess of 7.5 per cent, while the cess will be 5 per cent each for crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil. Earlier, the cess was 20 per cent, while basic customs duty was 2.5 per cent. B.V. Mehta, executive director, Solvent Extractors’ Association of India said “the timing of reduction of import duty is a cause of concern as farmers are now harvesting record kharif soya and groundnut crop and reduction in import duty may affect the farmers’ realisation for their produce.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||narendra Modi launches 'PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan'||In a move to fast-track infrastructure project implementation worth Rs 100 lakh crore across the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday  launched the ‘‘PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan’’ for multi-modal connectivity. “We are laying a foundation for the next 25 years. This national master plan will give ‘gatishakti’ to development plans of the 21st century and will help in the timely completion of these plans,” Modi said, unveiling the GatiShakti National Master Plan. PM Gati Shakti targets to cut logistic costs, increase cargo handling capacity and reduce the turnaround time, Modi said at a function to launch the plan. The plan aims to lend more power and speed to projects by connecting all concerned departments on one platform, he said, adding the infrastructure schemes of various ministries and state governments will be designed and executed with a common vision. Officials said the projects being targeted in the first phase includes a network of 2 lakh km of national highways, trains handling cargo of 1,600 million tonnes (mt), doubling gas pipeline network to 35,000 km, and having total 220 airports, airstrips and aerodromes. The plan encompasses a 25000-acre area developed for industries, including 11 industrial corridors, achieving a Rs 1.7 lakh crore turnover in defence production and having 38 electronics manufacturing clusters and 109 pharma clusters by 2024-25. Ashish Gupta, deputy MD, Texmaco Rail and Engineering, said: “The institutional approach in the shape of one central portal will help in cutting down costs, give a big fillip to supply chains, and provide an integrated approach for the movement of people and goods.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Twin Reliance deals in renewable energy||Reliance Industries Ltd continued to strike deals in its clean energy push. Its 100 per cent subsidiary Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd (RNESL) will be a strategic lead investor in a German firm making photovoltaic solar wafers. RNESL has also entered into a separate deal with a Denmark based firm to make hydrogen electrolyzers in India. In a late evening announcement on Tuesday, RIL said that its arm will invest $45 million in NexWafe GmbH. In a separate statement, NexWafe announced the induction of RNESL as a strategic lead investor in its euro39 million Series C financing round with an investment of euro25 million in the first phase. The other investors joining Reliance in the funding round include InnoEnergy, Lynwood, Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures and other incumbent and new investors. Reliance and NexWafe also entered into an India strategic partnership agreement providing for joint technology development and commercialisation, of high-efficiency monocrystalline “green solar wafers.” Reliance said that through this partnership, it will secure access to NexWafe’s proprietary technology and that it also plans to build large-scale wafer (which goes into making solar cells) manufacturing facilities in India using the NexWafe processes and technology. Mukesh Ambani, chairman, RIL  said that the partnership with NexWafe is a step towards meeting the affordable green energy needs of India's rapidly growing economy. “Our investment in NexWafe signals an important step towards accelerating India's green energy transition and positioning India as a global leader in photovoltaic manufacturing,’’ he added. In another move, RNESL has signed a co-operation agreement with Denmark-based Stiesdal A/S (Stiesdal) for technology development, and manufacturing of the latter’s hydrogen electrolyzers in India. Electrolysers are used for producing green hydrogen, through the electrolysis of water where the hydrogen is separated. RIL said that Stiesdal’s new technology for hydroGen electrolyzers has the potential to deliver significant cost reduction compared with currently available methods thereby paving the way for rapid decarbonisation and commercialisation of affordable green hydrogen which will be a key enabler in achieving India’s green energy transition. Ambani had earlier announced ambitious plans of setting up a giga factory for manufacturing of hydrogen electrolysers in Jamnagar, Gujarat. Through this agreement, RNESL and Stiesdal will combine their strengths and capabilities and collaborate to further advance the technology development of hydroGen electrolysers and scale it up to set up manufacturing facilities, RIL disclosed. As part of this agreement RNESL and Stiesdal have also agreed to extend their collaboration to the development and implementation of other climate change technologies which include offshore wind energy, next generation fuel cells for conversion of hydrogen to electricity for mobile and static electricity generation, long duration energy storage and production of carbon negative fuels among others. The announcement comes just days after Reliance said that its subsidiary will be picking up 40 per cent in Sterling and Wilson Solar for Rs 2,845 crore. RNESL is also acquiring REC Solar, Europe’s largest solar panel manufacturer for $ 771 million or Rs 5782 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Wipro posts 17 per cent jump in consolidated net profit||IT company Wipro has posted a 17 per cent jump in consolidated net profit to Rs 2,930.6 crore for the quarter ended on September 30, 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 2,484.4 crore in the same period a year ago. Wipro said that it has surpassed $10 billion (around Rs 75,300 crore) annualised revenue run rate. The consolidated revenue of Wipro increased by about 30 per cent to Rs 19,667.4 crore during the quarter compared with Rs 15,114.5 crore it registered in the corresponding quarter of 2020-21. “The Q2 results demonstrate that our business strategy is working well. We grew at over 4.5 per cent organic sequential growth for a second quarter in a row, resulting in a 28 per cent YoY growth in the first half of this financial year. I thank our customers, partners and colleagues as we surpassed the $10 billion milestone of annualised revenue run rate,” Wipro CEO and MD Thierry Delaporte said. Mindtree profit Mindtree on Wednesday posted a 57.2 per cent increase in its net profit to Rs 398.9 crore in the September quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 253.7 crore a year ago. Consolidated revenue from operations increased 34.27 per cent to Rs 2,586.2 crore from Rs 1,926 crore in the year-ago quarter of FY21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Infosys beats estimates, raises revenue guidance for full year||Infosys on Wednesday beat Street estimates for the quarter ended September 30 and raised revenue guidance for the full year as it benefited from enterprises going digital and from large deal wins. The country’s second largest IT services firm on Wednesday reported a net profit of Rs 5,421 crore for the period ended September 30, 2021 compared with Rs 4,845 crore in the year ago quarter — a rise of almost 12 per cent. Analysts were expecting the company to report net profits in the region of Rs 5,200 crore. With the second quarter continuing with the strong trend seen at the beginning of the fiscal, Infosys raised the constant currency guidance for the full year to 16.5-17.5 per cent from 14-16 per cent earlier. However, the company retained the margin guidance at 22-24 per cent. During the quarter, Infosys reported a 20.5 per cent growth in revenues at Rs 29,602 crore against Rs 24,570 crore in the same period of the previous year. In constant currency terms, it showed an increase of 19.4 per cent over the preceding year. The company added that revenues from digital offerings such as cloud showed a rise of 42.4 per cent and it now accounts for 56.1 per cent of the total revenues. Speaking to reporters from its headquarters in Bangalore, Salil Parekh, MD & CEO of Infosys, said the company has upped its revenue guidance as it expects a strong growth ahead. “We feel that the deal pipeline looks strong today and that has given us the confidence, in addition to what we have done in the past, to increase the guidance,’’ he said. While the company saw large deal signings of $2.15 billion in the July-September period compared with $2.6 billion in the preceding three months, Parekh was of the view that this trend is unlikely to go away soon. Citing a good pipeline ahead, he added that this is more evident in digital transformation areas like cloud which are witnessing a good traction. Parekh also disclosed that after being with the company for 35 years, Pravin Rao, chief operating officer will retire. “This will be the last full quarter before Pravin retires,’’ he said, while adding that Infosys will announce a new structure before he steps down. The quarter saw most of the verticals reporting a solid performance. While financial services saw a growth of 21.8 per cent in revenues, it stood at 18.8 per cent in the case of retail and 44 per cent in manufacturing. Geographies like North America, Europe, rest of the world and India also posted higher growth during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
14-10-2021||Business||Invesco tried to forge Zee-Reliance merger and retain Punit Goenka||The battle between the founders of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd and activist shareholder Invesco blew up into a massive controversy on Wednesday after a string of revelations showed that the institutional shareholder had tried to mediate a merger with Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance group back in February that promised to retain Punit Goenka as MD and CEO of the merged entity. The latest developments ripped to shreds Invesco’s claim that it had been driven by a well-intentioned desire to remove Goenka as MD and CEO of the company because of weak leadership and poor corporate governance standards at Zee. Invesco’s claim sounded even more hollow when the sordid details of Invesco’s overture made on February 23 this year tumbled out, triggered by Goenka’s letter to the Zee board on Tuesday that the company promptly revealed in a regulatory filing with the bourses. The Invesco plan — made in a hard-nosed, take-it-or-leave-it manner — offered terms in the proposed merger with Reliance group entities that mirrored provisions worked into the non-binding merger pact reached last month between Sony and Zee. Late in the evening, the Reliance group tried to distance itself from the escalating war when it admitted that it had been approached by Invesco to discuss a merger but claimed the discussions had broken down over Zee’s demand for the issue of preferential warrants to raise its stake in the merged entity. Strategic investor In his letter to the Zee board, Goenka said he had been approached by Aroon Balani and Bhavtosh Vajpayee, representatives of Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, with the offer of a merger with a “large strategic group”. Goenka said he was “surprised” that a public shareholder, holding around 18 per cent in Zee, was “negotiating a merger deal on behalf of the company without any authority or involvement of the board”. The Zee chief  executive did not reveal the name of the strategic group. The Reliance group’s name tumbled out later when Invesco came out with its response to Zee’s shocking revelations. Goenka said Invesco had negotiated the commercial terms of the merger and told him that these could not be re-negotiated when he expressed strong reservations about the valuations. Under the terms of the offer, the strategic group would hold a majority stake in the company but Goenka would stay on as MD and CEO. Zee was valued at Rs 21,129 crore at a share price of Rs 220 per share — at a premium of roughly 9 per cent above the prevailing market price. The entities of the strategic group that would be part of the merger were valued at Rs 17,500 crore. The strategic group offered to invest Rs 14,000 crore in cash in the merged entity which would give the new owner a 60 per cent stake. The Zee founder group would hold 3.99 per cent and would be offered employee stock options without any vesting period for another 4 per cent, which would raise their stake to roughly 8 per cent. The Zee MD also claimed that he was asked to obtain the board’s approval “within a period of just five days”. Goenka claimed that the valuation of the strategic group’s entities was inflated by about Rs 10,000 crore. When he baulked, the Invesco representatives said the deal would be consummated “with or without me”. In his letter to the Zee board, Goenka said subsequent developments including Invesco’s demand for an extraordinary general meeting seeking to pass resolutions to oust him as MD and CEO of the company and induct six new independent directors into the Zee board “was a blatant attempt by Invesco to assume de facto control of the company in violation of applicable takeover regulations”. Invesco responds On Wednesday, Invesco disclosed the strategic group was none other than Reliance . The fund said that its role was only to “facilitate” a possible deal between Reliance and Zee. Invesco, however, rejected claims it had pushed for the transaction at a lower valuation. “We wish to make clear that the potential transaction proposed by Reliance (the strategic group referenced but not disclosed in the 12 October 2021 communication by Zee) was negotiated by and between Reliance and Goenka and others associated with Zee’s promoter family. The role of Invesco, as Zee’s single largest shareholder, was to help facilitate that potential transaction and nothing more,” the fund said. It added that various sincere efforts were made over the last two years to bring Zee back to good health and that discussions around strategic alignments have been just one part of this effort. “Zee’s (October 12) disclosure is yet another tactic to delay an EGM that will give shareholders their right under Indian law to vote for a slate of independent trustees and pave the way for a healthier future for Zee,” Invesco said. Reliance riposte In a statement, Reliance expressed regret over the manner in which it had been dragged into the dispute between Zee and Invesco. Reliance disclosed that it made a broad proposal for the merger of its media properties with Zee at fair valuations. The note said that Invesco had assisted it in arranging discussions directly between its representatives and Goenka. “The valuations of Zee and our properties were arrived at based on the same parameters. The proposal sought to harness the strengths of all the merging entities and would have helped to create substantial value for all, including the shareholders of Zee,” RIL said. The Reliance note said differences between Goenka and Invesco when the Zee founding family wanted to raise their stake by subscribing to preferential warrants. The Reliance group turned that request down as it believed the “founders could always increase their stake through market purchases”. In his letter, Punit Goenka said the Zee promoters had offered to pump cash into the merged entity against the issue of warrants “at the same value which the strategic group attributed to the company (Zee)”. Reliance wasn’t prepared to offer these warrants at existing valuation — and the deal fell apart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
