15-10-2021||Business||PNB Housing calls off Rs 4,000-crore share sale plan to Carlyle-led group||PNB Housing Finance on Thursday decided to terminate a Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle Group, citing legal and regulatory difficulties which may delay its capital raising plans. In May this year, the housing finance company had announced that the Carlyle group will lead the capital infusion with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD & CEO of HDFC Bank. Pluto Investments S.a.r.l. (Pluto Investments), an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, L.P. and Carlyle Asia Partners V, L.P. were to invest up to Rs 3,185 crore through a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants, at a price of Rs 390 per share in the housing finance company. However, soon after the announcement, proxy advisory firms expressed concerns on the deal. Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES), raised a number of questions on the transaction wondering if Punjab National Bank (PNB) has willingly surrendered control without extracting a fair compensation. It had said that the deal is unfair to   the shareholders of PNB Housing Finance while adding that the board of the company had agreed to price the preferential offer at a discount to book value. Subsequently, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) had asked the company to halt the preferential issue. However, this order was challenged by PNB Housing Finance at the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) which passed a split verdict in August. Following this, the market regulator had appealed against the SAT verdict at the Supreme Court. In a late evening statement on Thursday, PNB Housing Finance said that its board discussed that the proposed preferential issue has been held up for more than four months due to the pending legal proceeding before the SAT. As per the interim order of the tribunal on June 21, while the shareholders of the company were allowed to cast their vote at the extraordinary general meeting on June 22, the results were not be declared and kept in a sealed cover. “There continues to be no visibility or certainty as to the timeline for judicial determination of the legal issues, in particular as a third member of the SAT is yet to be appointed,’’ PNB Housing Finance said. According to the company, its board further noted that due to the protracted litigation and the continuing interim order of the SAT, there is no clarity on the shareholders’ approval for undertaking the preferential issue. “In addition, regulatory approvals required for the Preferential Issue, are pending and it is unclear whether such approvals will be forthcoming while the legal proceedings are ongoing. Therefore, the company’s capital raising plans will be further delayed and such uncertainty will continue,’’ the housing finance firm added. It pointed out that the board’s main objective is to raise capital to support the growth of the company, and the board believes that the current situation is not in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Passenger vehicles sales fall 41 per cent in September ||Passenger vehicles sales fell by 41 per cent to 160,070 units from 272,027 units a year ago in September due to high commodity prices and semiconductor crunch, industry body SIAM said on Thursday. According to the latest data by Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), two-wheeler dispatches to dealers also witnessed a dip of 17 per cent at 15,28,472 units, compared with 18,49,546 in September 2020. Motorcycle dispatches declined 22 per cent last month to 9,48,161 units against 12,24,117 in the year-ago period. Scooter sales were also down 7 per cent at 5,17,239 units from 5,56,205 units a year ago. Vehicle sales across categories last month declined year-on-year by 20 per cent to 17,17,728 units from 21,40,549 units. Last month, the total production of passenger vehicles, three-wheelers, two-wheelers and quadricycles stood at 21,25,304 units, a drop of 19 per cent compared with September 2020. Kenichi Ayukawa, president, SIAM said, “Indian automobile industry continues to face new challenges. While on one hand, we are seeing a revival in vehicle demand, on the other hand, shortage of semiconductor chips is causing a major concern for the industry. Many members have curtailed their production plans.” “Coupled with the festive season demand, this has led to long waiting time for the customers on popular models of some segments. High raw material prices also continue to be a challenge,” he added. “Industry is taking all possible measures to mitigate the impact of such supply chain issues and optimise production,” he added. Rajesh Menon, director General, SIAM, said: “Owing to the semiconductor shortage, in September 2021 there was a drop in production of about (-) 37.46 per cent for Passenger Vehicles and (-) 17.15 per cent for Two-Wheelers. On the sales front, barring the Covid period, H1 sales of passenger vehicles are still below 2016-17 levels, that of two-wheelers are below 2011-12 levels, that of commercial vehicles are below 2010-11 levels and that of three-wheelers are still below 2000-01 levels.” In the July-September quarter, passenger vehicle wholesale, however, witnessed a marginal increase of 2 per cent to 7,41,300 units as compared with 7,26,232 units in the same period of last fiscal. Two wheeler dispatches during the September quarter stood at 41,13,915 units, down 12 per cent from 46,90,565 units in Q2 of 2020-21 financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty continue record-setting spree on upbeat macro data||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty raced to fresh record highs by notching their sixth straight session of gains on Thursday as participants cheered improving macroeconomic data and positive global cues. Going past the 61000-mark for the first time ever, the BSE Sensex soared 568.90 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at a new closing peak of 61305.95. The index also marked its fresh intraday record of 61353.25 during the day’s trade. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 176.80 points or 0.97 per cent to a new lifetime closing high of 18338.55. Intraday, the gauge touched a new record of 18350.25 before easing some gains towards the fag-end of the session. On the Sensex chart, ITC was the top gainer with around 3 per cent rise, followed by HDFC Bank, PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, TCS, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. Of the Sensex constituents, 22 closed with gains and 8 ended with losses. In the past six trading sessions, the Sensex has added over 2116 points or 3.57 per cent, and the Nifty has gathered more than 692 points or 3.92 per cent. On a weekly basis, the Sensex rallied 1246.89 points or 2.07 per cent, and the Nifty soared 443.35 points or 2.47 per cent. Market will remain closed on Friday for Dussehra. Sectorally, BSE bankex, finance, metal, realty, capital goods and basic materials rose up to 1.67 per cent, while auto index ended in the red. Broader midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 0.54 per cent. “The Indian market sustained its upbeat mood supported by positive global market, favourable inflation data and upmove in IT stocks following strong earning scorecards by sector majors,” Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said. The wholesale price-based inflation eased to 10.66 per cent in September, helped by moderating food prices even as crude petroleum witnessed a spike. Retail inflation in September too slowed to a five-month low of 4.4 per cent on moderating food prices. “Banking stocks also contributed to the rally and remained in focus as the sector is set to kickstart its earnings season,” Nair added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Government approves 31 proposals for telecom PLI scheme ||Nokia India, HFCL, Dixon Technologies, Flextronics, Foxconn and Coral Telecom are among the 31 firms approved by the government under the production linked incentive scheme for the manufacturing of telecom equipment entailing Rs 3,345 crore investment and bringing in incremental production of about Rs 1.80 lakh crore over five years. The 31 companies comprise 16 MSMEs and 15 non-MSMEs (8 domestic and 7 global companies) have got approval. The DoT notified the PLI scheme for telecom on February 24, 2021, with a financial outlay of Rs 12,195 crore over five years. The scheme for telecom gear manufacturing in India is expected to encourage the production of equipment worth Rs 2.44 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||India steps towards convertibility: RBI deputy governor||India is nearing a big shift in its long-term goal of achieving open access to and convertibility in its markets with greater global integration and freer non-resident access to debt, Reserve Bank of India deputy governor T. Rabi Sankar said. “India has come a long way in achieving increasing levels of convertibility on the capital account,” Sankar said in a speech at a forex dealers event on Thursday, referring to the ability to convert local financial assets into foreign financial assets and vice versa. Sankar said there was an effort to liberalise foreign portfolio investor flows into Indian debt further with the introduction of the fully accessible route (FAR), which places no limit on non-resident investment in specified benchmark securities. “Since over time, virtually all securities will fall under the FAR category, the move is unambiguously towards an eventual unfettered access for non-residents into government securities,” he added. He also said efforts to get the country included in global bond indexes and a move towards placing government securities under global custodians, once implemented, will encourage debt flows in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Coal supply to power units only: CIL||Coal India has temporarily curtailed fuel supply to non-regulated sectors such as aluminum and cement in a bid to prioritise supply to fuel starved thermal power plants with a low coal stock. The move from the public sector miner comes at a time 112 thermal power plants had critical fuel stocks as on October 13, 2021 as per data from the Central Electricity Authority. The stock at 135 plants monitored by the CEA stood at 7.42 million tonnes or a stock of 4 days only. This is against a normative stock requirement of 22 days. Coal India officials told The Telegraph that the measure is temporary and supply through auctions will be scaled up as soon as the coal stock situation at power plants stabilises. Non power consumers however were peeved at the decision and have urged the coal miner to resume supply at the earliest. “This is only a temporary prioritisation in the interest of the nation, to tide over the low coal stock situation at stressed power plants and scale up supplies to them. It does not mean stoppage of e-auction format,” said a Coal India official. The public sector miner, which supplies the majority of the coal consumed in India, said production and offtake has been steadily increasing. “For the past four days, supplies to the power sector are consistently at 1.61mt per day. Once the situation stabilises and stock at coal fired plants attains a comfort level, other sectors will be brought back to their regular supply norm,” the official said. “Non regulated sector, particularly MSME consumers who do not have the financial and operational means to import has to depend on the auction windows of Coal India and is always worse off whenever there is demand-supply crunch in the power sector,” said a city-based coal trader. Industry body Aluminum Association of India has already written to Coal India to resume supply as the recent decision to stop supplies and rakes for the non-power sector was detrimental for the industry and would jeopardise sustainability as these continuous process based plants were not designed for ad hoc shut down and start of operations. Coal India officials, however, said had the power utilities stocked up coal from October till February 2021 the stock position would have been better. Supply to non power sectors during the first six months of the ongoing fiscal was a little over 62mt and grew by 10 per cent over same period last year and 11 per cent over the same period in 2019, when there was no Covid pandemic. Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday reviewed coal production and offtake of Coal India subsidiaries Central Coalfields and Bharat Coking Coalfields. He gave out directions to ensure sustained coal production and dispatch to the power plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Punit Goenka hurls governance barb at Invesco||Punit Goenka, MD and CEO of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd, on Thursday chose to break his “silence” on the controversy that has engulfed Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) after startling revelations about a failed takeover attempt by Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance group that was mounted in February. In a statement issued on Thursday, Goenka raised serious questions about the probity of institutional shareholder Invesco and its role in mediating a merger between the beleaguered media giant and a clutch of Reliance group entities whose identities have still not been revealed by either side. Under fire from Invesco for fostering a culture of weak corporate governance at Zee, Goenka riposted: “Why didn't Invesco make its plans public earlier? Does good corporate governance only apply to corporates and not their institutional shareholders?" Goenka’s note opens with a justification for coming out with his first public statement on the raging controversy. “Silence may be the best answer at times, but I have realised that in certain situations it is better to break it at the right time, so the truth comes to the fore,” he wrote and went on to assert that he was only driven by the motivation “to preserve the future of this company (ZEEL) and not my position”. Goenka also turned the guns on Invesco for trying to diminish the value of ZEEL while pursuing a possible merger with Reliance without informing the Zee board — countering the institutional shareholder’s accusation that Goenka’s actions were responsible for weak shareholder returns. “We should not let anyone impact the future of Zee or diminish the shareholder value it has been consistently generating over the years,” Goenka said. The Zee stock closed at Rs 319.20 on the Bombay Stock Exchange on Thursday, an increase of 0.65 per cent of the previous day's close. The deal with Reliance was valued at Rs 220 per share which had valued ZEEL at Rs 21,129 crore — a figure that the Zee board characterised as a lowball estimate of the company’s worth. In his letter to the board, Goenka had claimed that the Reliance-Invesco offer had undervalued the company by roughly Rs 10,000 crore. “We will ensure that no one maligns the intrinsic value of this company for their own benefit,” Goenka said in his latest missive. Other offers? ZEEL has signed a non-binding agreement with Sony to pursue a merger that will give founder Subhash Chandra's family a 4 per cent stake in the merged entity with the option to raise it to 20 per cent at a later stage. The details of this option mechanism remain under the wraps and will be learnt only after the 90-day period ends in mid-December during which Sony executives will access Zee’s books as part of a due diligence exercise. But ZEEL chairman R. Gopalan had claimed recently that there were other offers on the table besides the one under negotiation with Sony. Goenka’s letter appeared to fan the speculation with a cryptic remark that was pregnant with possibilities. He said: “It has only made me proud to note the interest from leading companies across the globe to partner with us and be a part of our extraordinary future.” Legal battle Goenka said he wasn’t spoiling for a fight but would aggressively defend ZEEL’s stand before the courts of law. “My demeanour is not to indulge in an ill-natured fight. Such battles are best handled by legal experts...Our lawyers will do the needful in the court of law as deemed necessary,” he said. He went on to add: “Under the guidance of the board and in line with the advice sought from our legal counsel, I will continue to take the required steps to safeguard Zee and its future.” Goenka, however, did not explain why he chose to keep quiet when he received an overture from Invesco on February 23 that alluded to a possible merger with certain Reliance group entities. If Invesco chose not to inform the Zee board, then Goenka also faces questions about his continued silence on the subject until Wednesday’s sudden revelations. However, an expert from a proxy advisory firm said Goenka was not obligated to share discussions on a possible merger with the board. “A company’s management usually keeps getting such offers. Only when it agrees on the terms, does it have to take it to the board,” the source said. During his briefing to the ZEEL board on Wednesday, Goenka said he had drawn attention to the “imbalance” in the valuation of the merger proposal emanating from Invesco. “The only reason I did not agree to the proposal was because the shareholder value was getting compromised. I will withstand any amount of pressure to preserve Zee’s intrinsic value and ensure that nothing impacts the returns being delivered to all the shareholders,” the note said. Sony proposal Meanwhile, Zee has defended its decision on the non-compete fee proposed in the merger plan with Sony that will see its founders’ stake rising to 4 per cent from 2 per cent. It also justified the clause that gives the promoters the option to raise their stake to 20 per cent in the merged entity at a later stage. It may be recalled that Invesco had raised questions on both these terms of the deal. Responding to the open letter issued by Invesco earlier this week, Zee said the deal with Sony contemplates a situation where the Subhash Chandra family could emerge as the majority shareholders of the merged company. It pointed out that in order to ensure that they can build value in the merged company, Sony insisted that the erstwhile promoters of the company do not engage in any competing business with the merged entity. “In lieu of such non-compete obligations being undertaken by the present promoter group, the promoters of Sony will be transferring approximately 2.11 per cent shares in the merged company to the promoter group. We would like to highlight here that this will be a secondary transfer from the promoters of Sony (not a primary issuance) and, accordingly, will not be dilutive to any of the shareholders of the company as it is a private arrangement between two shareholders,” Zee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
