16-10-2021||Business||Home registrations jump in Calcutta by 2 times over stamp duty cut||Registration of residential properties in Calcutta metropolitan area jumped more than twofold to 15,160 units during July-September period mainly driven by stamp duty reduction by the state government, according to Knight Frank. Property consultant Knight Frank said that a total of 15,160 residential sales deeds were registered in Calcutta metropolitan area during July-September 2021, up 122 per cent from the corresponding period of last year. Registrations in July, August and September increased year-on-year by 39 per cent, 268 per cent and 80 per cent, respectively. As many as 7,316 units were registered in August 2021, the highest monthly sales this year. The Bengal government announced a 2 per cent rebate on stamp duty for registration of all documents (except the documents of amalgamation of contiguous land) in its state budget in July 2021. The stamp duty cut benefit is available for documents which complete registration between July 9, 2021 to October 30, 2021, the consultant said. The stamp duty cut coupled with a 10 per cent reduction in circle rates has brought fence sitters back to the market, it added. Swapan Dutta, Senior Branch Director, Calcutta , Knight Frank India, said the stimulant announced by the state government was critical for the growth of the market. "We expect this move will further propel fence sitters to make their purchase decisions," he added. In the first nine months of the calendar year of 2021, 35,149 residential sales deeds were registered, marking a 102 per cent annual increase over the same period in 2020. Commenting on the rise in housing demand, Emami Realty MD and CEO Nitesh Kumar said the reduction in stamp duty and circle rates have spur the registrations in Calcutta by 2-3 times compared to last year. "The demand for residential real estate has also risen owing to the pentup demand and lowest home loan interest rates in two decades. The affordability index has risen due to this," he said. "We have also seen a lot of demand from NRIs who were fence sitters and now taking active decisions for their future security," Kumar said. The Emami CEO hoped that the state government may extend the 31st October deadline, which would further improve the real estate sentiment in the state. "With the comfortable win in the recent elections and stable government, Bengal is now seen as a great investment destination which will further catalyse real estate scenario in the state," Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||IMF hails India's 'swift and substantial' response to Covid crisis||Describing the Indian government's response to the COVID-19 situation as "swift and substantial", the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said the country continued with labour reforms and privatisation despite the pandemic. The IMF in its report based on "consultations" among members, however, sounded a note of caution saying that the economic outlook remains "clouded" due to pandemic-related uncertainties, contributing to both downside and upside risks. In its "Article IV" consultations report, it further said that a persistent negative impact of COVID-19 on investment and other growth drivers could prolong the economic recovery. On the Indian government's handling of the pandemic, the multilateral agency said it was "swift and substantial...has included fiscal support, including scaled-up support to vulnerable groups, monetary policy easing, liquidity provision, and accommodative financial sector and regulatory policies". "Despite the pandemic, the authorities have continued to introduce structural reforms, including labour reforms and a privatisation plan," the report said. The IMF has projected India's economic growth at 9.5 per cent in FY2021-22 and 8.5 per cent in 2022-23. Headline inflation is projected at 5.6 per cent in 2021-22, amid elevated price pressures. "The economic outlook remains clouded due to pandemic-related uncertainties contributing to both downside and upside risks. A persistent negative impact of COVID-19 on investment, human capital, and other growth drivers could prolong the recovery and impact medium-term growth," the IMF said. It further said that while India benefits from favourable demographics, disruption to access to education and training due to the pandemic could weigh on improvements in human capital. At the same time, the recovery could also be faster than expected, it said adding that faster vaccination and better therapeutics could help contain the spread and limit the impact of the pandemic. In addition, successful implementation of the announced wide-ranging structural reforms could increase India's growth potential, the IMF noted. Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Recovery seen in office space absorption in 2022||Real estate pundits are factoring in a modest recovery in office space absorption in 2022 on the back of rapid pace of vaccination, gradual opening up of international travel and select corporates recalling their employees back to office. Net absorption of office space may go up to 26.8 million square foot (msf) in 2022, ICICI Securities in a recent note to its clients said, compared with 18.5 msf expected in this year. Net absorption of commercial real estate (office space) stood at about 20 msf in 2020, more than halved from the previous year as Covid-19 forced employees to work from home leading corporates to either defer planned leasing or scrap them altogether. As India continues to offer competitive rentals of about $1 per sq foot a month compared with other competing countries, the southern states, NCR and Pune where the hub of IT and ITeS companies are mostly located may see leasing activities pick up from January onwards. Key risk to the forecast would obviously be a possible third wave of Covid-19 in India and in the United States and European Union, which together account for two-third office absorption in India, the report added. There appears to be a broad consensus among pundits that 15-20 per cent of the workforce will always work from the office and 10-15 per cent of the employees permanently work from home. The balance 60-70 per cent of the workforce is expected to follow a hybrid model of working partly from home and partly from office. International real estate consultancy JLL concur with the view of gradual revival. “The office market has been progressive in Q3 2021 and this momentum is expected to continue in the coming quarters as the demand for office spaces will continue to expand backed by consolidation and expansion of office spaces by occupiers and increasing demand for satellite offices,” Radha Dhir, CEO and country head of JLL, said. JLL noted the markets of Bangalore, Delhi NCR and Hyderabad accounted for about nearly 60 per cent of the net absorption during the quarter. “Around 35 million sq ft of Grade A office space was completed in January-Sept 2021 which is a 53 per cent increase when compared with the same period last year. “The growth pace of new completions show that developers are confident of a strong revival in office leasing activity once business as usual is reinstated,” said Samantak Das, chief economist and head research and REIS, India, JLL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||US Senator Elizabeth Warren urges Amazon breakup||US Senator Elizabeth Warren called for breaking up Amazon.com Inc and Indian retailers demanded a government probe of the company after a Reuters investigation showed the e-commerce giant had copied products and rigged search results in India. The Reuters report, reviewing thousands of internal Amazon documents, found that the US company ran a systematic campaign of creating knockoffs and manipulating search results to boost its own private brands in India, one of the company’s largest growth markets. Wednesday’s report showed that, at least in India, manipulating search results to favour Amazon’s products, as well as copying other sellers’ goods, were part of a formal strategy at Amazon” and that at least two senior executives had reviewed it. The Reuters investigation drew bipartisan criticism of Amazon from US lawmakers. Warren, a long-time critic of Amazon, said “these documents show what we feared about Amazon’s monopoly powers” that the company is willing and able to rig its platform to benefit its bottom line while stifling small businesses and entrepreneurs.” Warren, a prominent Democrat, advocated the breakup of Amazon and other tech giants in 2019 when she was running for president. Since then, as a senator from Massachusetts, she has continued to apply pressure on companies like Amazon. Ken Buck, a Republican on the House of Representatives antitrust subcommittee, also shared the story on social media: “These documents prove Amazon engages in anticompetitive practices such as rigging search results and self-preferencing their own products over competitors.” Asked for comment on the reactions, Amazon issued a statement similar to one it provided for the Reuters investigation. “These allegations are incorrect and unsubstantiated,” it said. “We display search results based on relevance to the customers, irrespective of whether such products are private brands offered by sellers or not.” Amazon said it “strictly prohibits the use or sharing of non-public, seller-specific data with sellers, including with sellers of private brands,” and investigates reports of its employees acting contrary to that policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Reliance Brands to pick 40% stake in Manish Malhotra's MM Styles||Reliance Brands Ltd (RBL) will pick a 40 per cent minority stake in renowned fashion designer Manish Malhotra’s MM Styles Pvt Ltd, for an undisclosed sum, the two companies said on Friday. This is the first external investment for the brand, which had so far been privately held by the designer. The strategic partnership is aimed at accelerating the 16-year-old couture house’s growth plans in India and across the globe, they said in a joint statement. “RBL has signed a definitive agreement to invest in founder and creative director Manish Malhotra’s eponymous brand for a 40 per cent minority stake,” it added. Commenting on the investment, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd director Isha Ambani said, “Our strategic partnership with Manish Malhotra is anchored on our immense respect for his craft and our deep commitment to Indian art and culture. Being an entrepreneur, Manish, the man behind the brand, has always been nimble and ahead of his times.” She further said, “Recognition and appreciation for Indian couture is at an inflexion point globally and we are excited to partner in this journey with Manish.” Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd is the holding company of all retail companies in Reliance Industries Ltd group. “Launched in 2005, Manish Malhotra luxury-retail has four flagship stores in Mumbai, New Delhi, and Hyderabad, two shop-in-shop besides a virtual store. The brand's design language is brought to life by a team of 700 artisans and professionals, led by Malhotra himself,” the statement said. “The collaboration with Reliance Brands Ltd was a natural decision for me, as it represents both Reliance’s astute vision and the family's deep affinity for crafts and culture. As the brand aims for international expansion, business diversification, and renewed creative growth, there could have been no better strategic partner to accompany us on this journey,” Malhotra said. The coming together of the partners aims to develop a corporate framework that sustains Manish Malhotra’s legacy for generations to come. Besides physical retail expansion, the partnership will work on creating a strong technology backbone for the business, developing phygital and experiential ecommerce opportunities, the statement said. The brand will continue to be led by Manish Malhotra, managing and creative director, it added. Freshpik launch Reliance Retail on Thursday forayed into ultra-premium grocery segment in India with the launch of brand 'Freshpik', offering an exquisite range of food products sourced from select local and international destinations. Designed keeping in mind the refined tastes and delicate aesthetic sensibilities of food connoisseurs and well-travelled gourmands, the Freshpik store offers a melange of food products and beverages presented through a bevy of immersive shopping concepts, said a Reliance Retail statement. It has opened its first Freshpik experiential gourmet food superstore at Jio World Drive in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai, the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd added. The range of food items offered at Freshpik include staples, freshly picked fruits and vegetables – with specially curated exotic and organic varieties and live microgreens, apart from essential ingredients for international cuisines such as Italian, Thai, Japanese, Korean and a rich selection of finest breads, artisanal cheese, ice creams, frozen desserts and chocolates from local and international producers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||India to remain accommodative in its monetary policy: RBI governor||India, which is experiencing robust economic recovery which remains uneven across sectors, has decided to remain accommodative in its monetary policy, the Reserve Bank of India Governor told the international community on Thursday. India is witnessing a very robust economic recovery, but there is still unevenness across sectors, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in his address to the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Video of the excerpts of his speech were posted and released by the IMF. “We have therefore decided to remain accommodative in our monetary policy, while being closely watchful of the evolving inflation scenario,” Das said in the short video.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Nirmala, US treasury secretary discuss combating terror funding||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her American counterpart Janet Yellen have discussed ways to enhance bilateral co-operation in fighting illicit finance, money laundering and terror financing and agreed on the importance of effective implementation of the FATF standards. The two dignitaries held a wide-ranging discussion to step up bilateral cooperation during the eighth India-USA Economic and Financial Partnership meeting held here on Thursday. The meeting reflected the growing importance of the US-India relationship and the increasing economic and financial ties between the two economies. The importance of fighting illicit finance and the need for continued cooperation in tackling money laundering and combating the terror funding was underpinned by Sitharaman and Yellen, the finance ministry said in a tweet, as the two countries issued a detailed joint statement after the meeting. “We continue to strengthen our cooperation in tackling money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism through increased information sharing and coordination,” said the joint statement. “Both sides agree on the importance of fighting financial crimes and on the effective implementation of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) standards to protect our financial systems from abuse,” it added. It assumes importance as the Paris-based global body against money laundering and terror financing in June retained Pakistan on its “grey list” for failing to check money laundering, leading to terror financing. The FATF asked Pakistan to investigate and prosecute UN-designated terrorists based in the country like Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Masood Azhar and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed and also asked Islamabad to work to address its strategically important deficiencies. During the first India-US Economic and Financial Partnership meeting since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the two countries also agreed on further engagements on emerging financial sectors such as cross-border payments, payment systems and the development of an International Financial Services Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Captive coal mines for power||In a move to boost coal stocks in power plants, the coal ministry on Friday said it has taken various measures including diverting the output from captive coal mines to augment fuel supply. “The ministry of coal has taken all efforts to augment coal supplies to the power sector and decided to divert and augment the supplies to the power sector from captive coal blocks,” the coal ministry said in a statement. Captive mines are those that produce coal or mineral for exclusive use by the company that owns the blocks. The ministry offered coal supply from NLC India's Talabira II & III mines in Odisha to NTPC. Both the companies worked together to commence the supply of coal from Talabira II & III open cast project (OCP) to NTPC (Darlipali & Lara Power Plants). With timely support and necessary coal delivery permits from the department of mines, Government of Odisha, the coal delivery to the Darlipali power station has commenced, within 24 hours from the directives from the Ministry of Coal. NLC India Limited, a navratna company under the administrative control of the Ministry of Coal, is operating Talabira II & III coal mines having annual capacity of 20 million tonnes in Odisha. Talabira II& III OCP has commenced production from the financial year 2020-21. State-owned NLC India this week said it is making efforts to ramp up coal output from one of its mines in Odisha to up to 10 million tonnes per annum this year. The company aims to increase coal production to up to 20 million tonnes (mt) per annum from next year onwards, according to a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Coal bar spooks non-power players||The decision of Coal India to prioritise the supply of coal to power plants over non-power consumers has set alarm bells with the downstream paper and aluminium. Corrugated box manufacturers anticipate a further rise in kraft paper prices by paper mills with the industry already reeling under the impact of an increase in GST rates from 12 per cent to 18 per cent at the 45th GST Council meet in Lucknow last month. Members of industry body Federation of Corrugated Box Manufacturers of India said that the price of its principal raw material - kraft paper – has already increased by around Rs 5 per kilogram in the last one month and more in the northern  markets. This is primarily on account of a rise in raw material costs led by rise in prices of imported waste paper, increased price of starch and other raw materials at paper mills including coal and oil, freight and labour. “With coal supply being prioritised to power stations, it will create a shortage for paper mills where coal is a key raw material. We anticipate a further rise in prices of kraft paper,” said Milan Kumar Dey, president, Federation of Corrugated Box Manufacturers of India. Around 250 kgs of coal is estimated to be consumed to produce a ton of paper. “Corrugated boxes are a vital input without which no product can reach the end consumer. The industry caters to the demand of e-commerce packaging. Hence, the federation appeals to all the stakeholders including the government to take necessary steps to help this industry out of this crisis,” Dey said. Aluminium fears Aluminium plants in the country are grappling with critically low level of coal stocks and if the fuel supply is not restored immediately it would lead to irrevocable collateral damage, industry body AAI warned on Friday. The statement comes at a time the supply of coal by CIL to non-power sectors has been kept suspended temporarily amid electricity generating plants in the country facing fuel shortages. “Today also, aluminium industry has not received any relief with respect to the ongoing coal supply crisis. Indian aluminium plants are grappling with critically low levels of coal stock, with no recourse or alternative means to meet their power needs and keep the plants operational,” Aluminium Association of India (AAI) said. It further warned that if coal supply is not restored immediately, it would lead to an irrevocable collateral damage of these national assets. “Any power outage in aluminium plants will lead to catastrophic impact & complete shutdown which will take minimum 12 months of recovery, resulting in job loss of more than 8 lakh people. Banks will have debt exposure of over Rs 1 lakh crore and additional national forex loss of Rs 90,000 crore,” it warned it a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Petrol, diesel prices rally to highest ever levels across India||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday rallied to their highest ever levels across the country, as fuel rates were hiked again by 35 paise a litre. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.14 a litre and Rs 111.09 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.78 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.87. This is the second straight day of 35 paise per litre increase in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Since the ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 14th increase in petrol price and the 17th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at $84.61 per barrel for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at $73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.25 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.25. Before that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
16-10-2021||Business||Oil prices hit three-year high on back of supply deficit forecasts||Oil prices hit a fresh three-year high on Friday, climbing above $85 a barrel on forecasts of a supply deficit over the next few months as rocketing gas and coal prices stoke a switch to oil products. Brent crude futures were up 82 cents, or 0.98 per cent, at $84.82 a barrel at 1333 GMT. Front-month prices, which earlier touched their highest since October 2018 at $85.10, are set to climb for the sixth straight week, heading for a 3 per cent hike this week. US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures rose 81 cents, or 1 per cent, to $82.12 a barrel. The contract is heading for a 3.5 per cent gain on the week, up for the eighth consecutive week. Strong stock markets on both sides of the Atlantic, often traced by oil prices, also gave a boost. Analysts pointed to a sharp drop in OECD oil stockpiles to their lowest level since 2015. Demand has picked up with the recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, with a further boost coming from industry turning away from expensive gas and coal to fuel oil and diesel for power. “The fact that Asian markets are content to chase prices higher at weekly highs, instead of lurking on price dips, is a strong signal that energy demand remains robust,” OANDA senior analyst Jeffrey Halley said in a note. The International Energy Agency on Thursday said the energy crunch is expected to boost oil demand by 500,000 barrels per day (bpd). That would result in a supply gap of around 700,000 bpd through the end of this year, until the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies, together called Opec+, add more supply, as planned in January. “Record coal and gas prices as well as rolling blackouts are prompting the power sector and energy-intensive industries to turn to oil to keep the lights on and operations humming,” the IEA said in its monthly oil report. “Higher energy prices are also adding to inflationary pressures that, along with power outages, could lead to lower industrial activity and a slowdown in the economic recovery.” As a result, global oil demand next year is now projected to recover to pre-pandemic levels, the Paris-based agency said. It made upward revisions to its demand forecasts for this year by 170,000 bpd, or a total addition of 5.5 million for the year, and by 210,000 bpd in 2022, or a total addition of 3.3 million. An upsurge in demand in the past quarter led to the biggest draw on oil products stocks in eight years, it said, while storage levels in OECD countries were at their lowest since early 2015. Investors shrugged off a higher than expected gain in US crude stocks last week as refinery crude runs fell. Crude inventories rose by 6.1 million barrels in the week to Oct. 8 to 427 million barrels, compared with analysts’ expectations in a Reuters poll for a 702,000-barrel rise, the Energy Information Administration said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
