18-10-2021||Business||Markets at new peak as Sensex rallies 460 points||Taking its winning streak to the seventh session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 460 points to finish at a fresh lifetime peak on Monday, tracking heavy buying in banking, IT and metal stocks despite a weak trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 61,963.07 during the session, the 30-share BSE index ended 459.64 points or 0.75 per cent higher at its new closing record of 61,765.59. Similarly, the Nifty surged 138.50 points or 0.76 per cent to its all-time closing high 18,477.05. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,543.15. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 4 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, ITC, Maruti, SBI and Axis Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, M&M, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. "The domestic market traded at record highs withstanding the weak trends in the global market due to disappointing Chinese GDP numbers and global inflationary pressure as a result of energy shortage," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Chinese GDP grew by just 4.9 per cent during the July-September quarter owing to lower-than-expected growth in industrial activity. However, the trend in the Indian market was bullish as PSU banks, metals, IT and energy stocks took charge of the rally, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while Hong Kong was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.82 per cent to USD 85.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points to hit new peak||Extending its record-setting streak, equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in opening trade on Monday on account of widespread buying despite a weak trend in global markets. After touching an all-time high of 61,894.33 in opening deals, the 30-share Sensex was trading 511.54 points or 0.83 per cent higher at 61,817.49. Similarly, the Nifty surged 157.40 points or 0.86 per cent to 18,495.95. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,521.10 in initial deals. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Titan and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto, Dr Reddy's and HCL Tech were trading with losses in early deals. In the previous session on Thursday, the 30-share index settled 568.90 points or 0.94 per cent higher at 61,305.95, and the Nifty surged 176.80 points or 0.97 per cent to a new lifetime closing high of 18,338.55. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,681.60 crore, as per exchange data. Market remained shut on Friday on account of Dussehra'. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.07 per cent to USD 85.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Look for the silver lining||Silver, gold’s poor cousin, has found an advocate in the securities regulator. The latter has recently allowed the creation of exchange traded funds based on the white metal, a move that has been welcomed by asset management companies. The latter would now be expected to roll out silver ETFs, just the way they had initiated gold ETFs a decade and a half ago. The Sebi go-ahead has come at a time when demand for exchange-traded investment products is burgeoning, a trend that is reflected well in the introduction of new funds based on a variety of indices. The near-monopoly enjoyed by Nifty and Sensex, the two main indices, seems to be waning in so far as index funds and ETFs (taken together, they are a unique sub-set of passively-managed alternatives) are concerned. Investors too are believed to be keen on smarter options in the current context. Silver ETFs, which would help fund houses extend their product basket and offer investors with a contemporary diversifier, would naturally be based on the ruling price of silver, keeping in sync with the exchange-traded nature of the category. It, nevertheless, remains to be seen how the average participant views the newly-formed category, and whether it gains acceptance in the market, at least in the initial phase. Gold funds, I must mention in this context, have not really met with all-round approval — the relatively small asset bases of the average product in this category underscores their rather low-key image (compared to equity, which of course remains the most high-profile asset class). Gold, as you will no doubt agree, is seen as a classic hedge against inflation. This is especially true in our country. Indians have by and large trusted the noble metal. We have traditionally hoarded it, handed it over to children, amassed it in our temples, sold it during financial crises. A mountain of historical evidence points to these trends. Silver, by contrast, is valued as a far simpler adornment of sorts in popular spheres; ordinary users often take to the metal for ornaments. Elsewhere, the metal has wide industrial applications. In sum, India is an importer of the metal, although recent indications suggest that demand for imported silver has decreased. Silver prices, it is moreover said, has not really kept up with expectations. The average priceline has remained static in recent times, while in some years, it has fallen behind its previous marks. The pros and cons are laid out fairly evenly. Those who wish to allocate to the new-fangled ETF, I suggest the following: Speaking of inflation, the question of interest rates invariably comes up — after all, we are discussing gold too. The fact of the matter is that the central bank has, in its latest policy announced a few days ago, not changed its key policy rates. The repo, about the most significant determinant in the banking sector, remains at 4 per cent. The RBI’s accommodative stance is being seen in the backdrop of rising prices of commodities. Fossil fuel and other commodities, for instance, have generally added to the inflationary trends that currently prevail in the economy. All these aspects, not to mention the general bullish sentiments that have impacted the securities market, will have a bearing on the metals space. And silver will not be too far away from it all. Its price in India will be tracked closely by all concerned in the coming days, and both domestic and international participants will, I hope, take strategic exposure on this front. Only then, perhaps, will the ordinary retail investor appreciate the rationale. Whether you are a nimble-footed opportunist or just plain curious, you may then embellish your portfolio with a shiny metal, courtesy an ETF worth its salt. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Stellar Value Chain Solutions draws up expansion plans for the East||Stellar Value Chain Solutions, the consumer supply chain start-up, has drawn up ambitious plans for the East as it looks at ratcheting its warehousing capacity to 50 million square feet over the next five years against 12 million square feet now. Around 5-7 million square feet of the new capacity will come up in cities in the East such as Calcutta, Siliguri, and Guwahati, catering to the supply chain requirements of a variety of industries . The Warburg Pincus-backed entity has a warehousing facility of 0.5 million square feet at Dankuni, which was launched four months ago. It is now setting up a similar capacity at Panchla, which will come up over the next three months. “It (the Eastern India market) is an important growth area for us and I have been giving equal importance to this geography apart from the other three zones. Over the past few years, we have understood the market very well. It presents us a great opportunity to capture, build presence and capability and fulfil our mission to be a value chain transformation company,’’ Anshuman Singh, chairman & managing director, Stellar Value Chain Solutions, told The Telegraph. He said the planned expansion would require an investment of around Rs 25,000 crore, some of which will be from its development partners. The company runs a fleet of 2,500 trucks and this is expected to jump to 50,000 vehicles in all formats such as express, temperature controlled transportation and LTL (less than truckload that transports small quantities of freight) over the next five years. “We will also be deploying a large fleet in the East to take care of the supply chain requirements in the market’’, he said. Singh founded Stellar Value Chain Solutions in July 2016 and in just a month raised $125 million (Rs 830 crore) from Warburg Pincus. The company has also used the inorganic route to grow — Stellar has acquired Kelvin Cold Chain in 2016, Innovative Logistics, a Calcutta-based company in 2018 and Patel Roadways the following year. He said the facility in Calcutta will largely cater to fashion, lifestyle, retail, automotive and consumer durable segments, while the focus in the North East will be on pharmaceuticals in addition to FMCG, consumer durables and fashion. According to Singh, growth has now returned back to the pre-Covid levels for supply chain firms. “Last year, those catering to e-commerce did well and a lot of other sectors were hit. However, now in the warehousing front, the growth has come back to pre-Covid levels. At Stellar Value we are adding capacities both in the e-commerce and non-e-commerce space. We are also bullish on e-groceries’’, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||VLCC Health Care Ltd raises nearly Rs 37 crore by selling shares||VLCC Health Care Ltd, which is set to come out with an initial share sale, has raised nearly Rs 37 crore by selling shares to a foreign entity. As many as 6,27,804 equity shares have been issued for around Rs 37 crore to Bahamas-based Zall Holdings Ltd, according to a filing made by the company to the corporate affairs ministry. A leading homegrown beauty and wellness company, VLCC will utilise the funds towards working capital requirement and for expanding its business . The allotment was approved by the company’s shareholders during their meeting on September 27, as per the filing. In August, the company filed the draft papers with markets watchdog Sebi. The IPO will comprise fresh issuance of equity shares worth Rs 300 crore and an Offer For Sale (OFS) of 89.22 lakh equity shares by promoter and existing shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Automobile demand picks up particularly in urban areas||The automobile sector may be in for a good festive season with strong demand particularly in the urban areas, though sales growth may be hit by the ongoing semiconductor shortage. According to a note from Emkay Global Financial Services (Emkay), which spoke to dealers from segments such as  two-wheelers, passenger vehicles (PVs), commercial vehicles (CVs), and tractors, while a good demand is expected in two-wheelers, PVs and CVs, the same trend is not expected with regard to tractors. Here, volumes are expected to decline because of a high base and moderation in consumer sentiments. The brokerage indicated that the biggest beneficiary might be two-wheelers, which have not been, impacted much by the chip shortage. Its analysts pointed out that there is some supply impact on premium motorcycles, which has severely affected Royal Enfield. However, dealers expect double-digit growth in urban areas, thanks to the pickup in business activity and the re-opeening of educational institutions.  But on the other hand, demand is expected to be subdued in rural areas as customer sentiments are yet to normalise after the second Covid wave. In anticipation of a good festive season, dealers have built inventory levels of up to two months. Another positive factor is that financing availability is adequate and financiers are more forthcoming in recent months. The analysts added that inquiries and bookings are increasing for electric two-wheelers, considering the incentives given by the central and state governments and increasing petrol prices. “Among OEMs, Honda, Suzuki, Bajaj Auto, and TVS Motors are expected to do better than Hero MotoCorp during the festive period, owing to higher exposure to urban markets. Royal Enfield is expected to be severely hit by semiconductor shortages’’, Emkay said. PVs, too, are witnessing strong order bookings and according to the note, there is a waiting period of up to six months for models such as Ertiga, XL6, Swift, Dzire, and Brezza. Moreover, dealers are not getting adequate stock to meet the pending order book. While semiconductor supply issues may hit festive volumes, its analysts, who spoke to dealers of two rival OEMs, said that there could be a flat festive period or a double-digit decline. However, with petrol and diesel prices remaining firm, demand for CNG vehicles has risen due to lower costs of running. This is also expected to see the share of such vehicles rising in the coming months. On Thursday, auto industry body SIAM said that passenger vehicle wholesales in the country showed a decline of 41 per cent in September over last year as the manufacturers struggled to produce adequate units because of the semiconductor shortage. Passenger vehicle sales in the month stood at 1,60,070 units as compared with 2,72,027 units in the year-ago period. “The Indian automobile industry continues to face new challenges. While on one hand, we are seeing a revival in vehicle demand, on the other hand, the shortage of semiconductor chips is causing a major concern for the industry. Many members have curtailed their production plans. Coupled with the festive season demand, this has led to a long waiting time for the customers on popular models of some segments. High raw material prices also continue to be a challenge,’’ Kenichi Ayukawa, President, SIAM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Auto makers offer bevy of models for festive season||Manufacturers across the automobile spectrum launched new models and variants to woo customers during the festive season amid a sharp drop of 40 per cent in September sales. Hero MotoCorp launched the new Xtreme 160R Stealth Edition bike, while Tata Motors is offering subcompact SUV Punch which will be launched on Monday. SUV maker Mahindra and Mahindra has made its presence felt with the XUV700, while South Korean brand Kia launched the first anniversary edition of Sonet, its compact SUV. Premium bike makers KTM and Triumph also updated some of their range. The Hero Xtreme 160R Stealth with new elements such as  LED winkers and Side stand engine cut-off, integrated USB charger and LCD brightness adjustment and a new gear indicator feature on the speedometer will retail at a price of Rs. 1.16 lakh. Malo le Masson, head of strategy and global product planning, Hero MotoCorp, said: “The Xtreme is the sporty and urban brand in Hero MotoCorp’s X-range of premium motorcycles.” Naveen Chauhan, head sales, after sales and parts, Hero MotoCorp, felt, “The new Xtreme will surely brighten-up the festive season in coming weeks.” Tata Motors announced its most recent addition to its “New Foreve’ range of SUVs.  The Tata Punch has become the latest recipient of the five-star rating (16.453) for adult occupant protection and 4-star rating (40.891) for child occupant protection from Global NCAP. The Punch is third car from Tata Motors to receive this recognition after Altroz in January 2020 and Nexon in December 2018. Rajendra Petkar, president and chief technology officer, Tata Motors, “It is an industry first achievement in the sub-compact SUV segment. This  is in line with our philosophy that vehicle safety should be made accessible to all..” Kia India announced the launch of the Kia Sonet 1st anniversary edition to celebrate the first successful year of its smart urban-compact SUV. It will retail at a price band of Rs 10.79 lakh to Rs 11.89 lakh. The Sonet 1st anniversary edition is available in four powertrains options, 1.0 T-GDi petrol engine with Smartstream 6iMT & 7DCT and 1.5-litre CRDi diesel engine with 6MT (in WGT configuration) & 6AT (in VGT configuration), starting a price of Rs 10,79,000 (ex-showroom, pan India) and are limited edition variants. Tae-Jin Park, managing director and chief executive officer, Kia India said, “The Sonet has been one of our breakthrough products that have contributed to Kia's success in India. We have sold more than one lakh units in less than a year.” The Mahindra XUV700 was launched right before the festive season. Available with multiple powertrain options and seating configurations, XUV 700 is available in variants that include diesel and petrol, manual and automatic transmissions and with 5 and 7 seater capacity. It is also available in an optional All-Wheel-Drive (AWD) spec. The price range is between Rs 12.49 lakh to Rs 22.99 lakh. The 2022 KTM RC Range, a supersport model in the KTM lineup, consists of the KTM RC 125, KTM RC 200, and KTM RC 390. The India version of the KTM RC 200 Gen-2 retains all the features as in the international version and comes in with an additional upgrade of all-new full LED headlamp unit. Speaking on the occasion, Sumeet Narang – President, Pro-Biking Business unit at Bajaj Auto Ltd. said – “The KTM RCs are race-bred machines with its technology and form inspired from the MotoGP racer– KTM RC 16. While the KTM RC range Gen-2 will be available in global markets by 2022, the KTM RC 200 Gen-2 will be available for the Indian motorcycle enthusiasts from October 2021. The KTM RC 125 Gen-2 will be available from November 2021. We are celebrating 10 years of KTM’s presence in the Indian market this year, and we are excited to announce the all new KTM RC 200 and KTM RC 125 at a special introductory price of Rs. 2.09 lacs  and Rs. 1.82 Lacs (Ex-SR, Delhi) respectively to mark the occasion.” Triumph Motorcycles launched the latest edition of Street Scrambler with a Euro 5 engine update priced at INR 9.35 lakh ex-showroom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||Govt seeks applications for judicial and technical members at NCLT||The government has sought applications for a total of 20 positions of judicial and technical members at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) as well as the appellate tribunal NCLAT. At least 15 posts, including that of nine judicial members and six technical members, are to be filled up at the NCLT. Besides, applications have been invited for the three positions of judicial members and two of technical members at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). The last date for submission of the applications online is November 12, according to public notices issued by the corporate affairs ministry. In recent weeks, the government has been filling up vacancies at various tribunals, including NCLT and ITAT (Income Tax Appellate Tribunal). Last month, at least 31 people were appointed as judicial, technical, and accountant members at NCLT and ITAT. On September 6, the Supreme Court said the Centre was testing its “patience” and “emasculating” tribunals by not appointing officials to the quasi-judicial bodies which are facing a severe crunch of presiding officers as well as judicial and technical members. The apex court had also emphasised that it did not want any confrontation with the government. Among other requirements for the positions at NCLT and NCLAT, the applicants should be at least 50 years old. A person should have been a judge of a high court or a district judge for at least 5 years or has a minimum 10 years experience to be considered for the post of the judicial member at the NCLAT. In the case of a technical member, those who have been practicing as a chartered accountant, cost accountant for at least 15 years will be eligible for the post at the tribunal. People with a minimum of 15 years as a member of the Indian Corporate Law Service or Indian Legal Service and holding the rank of secretary or additional secretary to the central government can also apply. Besides, individuals who have served for at least five years as presiding officers of a labour court, tribunal, or national tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 will be eligible, according to public notice. Those with “proven ability, integrity and standing having special knowledge and professional experience, of not less than 15 years, in industrial finance, industrial management, industrial reconstruction, investment, accountancy...” will also be able to apply for the post of the technical member at the NCLAT. The principal bench of NCLAT is in the national capital and another bench is in Chennai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||BoI announces cut in interest rates on home and vehicle loans||State-run Bank of India on Sunday announced a cut in its interest rates on home and vehicle loans by 35 basis points and 50 basis points, respectively. The interest rate on home loans starts at 6.50 per cent against earlier 6.85 per cent, and at 6.85 per cent against 7.35 per cent prior on vehicle loans, the bank said in a release. This special rate, which is effective from October 18, 2021, till December 31, 2021, is available for customers applying for fresh loans and also for those seeking transfer of loans, it said. The lender said it has also waived processing charges for both home and vehicle loans till December 31, 2021. State-owned Bank of Maharashtra last week said it has reduced lending rate by up 10 basis points, a move that will make housing, car, and other loans cheaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||Cargo handled by all govt-owned ports reach pre-Covid level||Cargo handled by all government-owned major ports of India in the first half of this fiscal has nearly reached the level seen before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, signalling that the external trade of the nation is slowly limping back to normal. While some of the 12 ports handled more cargo during April-September of 2021 than in the corresponding period of 2019, others have yet to pick up steam, notably Shyama Prasad Mookerjee Port (SMP), Calcutta (the erstwhile Calcutta Port Trust) which operates the twin dock system at Haldia and Calcutta. Data collected by government agencies show that these ports handled 347 million tonnes (MT) of traffic in April-September 2021 compared with 348.2 MT recorded during the same period of 2019, a marginal decline of 0.17 per cent. (See chart) In the first half of 2020, cargo movement was badly hampered by the severe restrictions that had been clamped in the wake of the first wave of the pandemic. However, in the current fiscal, traffic was  much higher despite a lethal second wave. Thus, a 16.12 per cent rise in traffic was observed over the first six months of 2020 when only 298.84 MT cargo was handled. JNPT, Kandla, Mormugao, Ennore and Paradip recorded cargo traffic growth rates ranging between 0.55 per cent to 10.93 per cent while CPT, Chennai, Vizag and Mumbai saw a decline. Coal & container The loss of a major customer, subdued trading activity in coal and disruption in the container business meant that Calcutta port fared the worst among major ports if only the first half of 2021 is considered. Top officials at CPT, however, exuded confidence that the twin dock system would be able to close the gap in the second half and attain levels seen in 2019. “We always do better in the second half because we can take advantage of the fair weather in winter when large ships come calling at Sandheads for lighterage operations. In fact, it has already started and we just handled on the high seas an LPG tanker that carried a higher parcel load (Details below),” said Vinit Kumar, chairman, SMP Kolkata. Tamilnadu’s power utility Tangedco used Haldia port to procure coal from Eastern Coalfields Ltd till 2019-20. Not anymore. It now procures coal from Mahanadi Coalfield Ltd of Odisha using ports in that state, leading to a loss of over 2 MT in cargo volume for SMP. Haldia port also saw a dip in coal movement. While the end-users like steel plants bring coal directly for their requirement, coal traders also actively use the port for stock and sell purpose. As coal prices zoomed from April this year in the international market, traders have become less active. While Haldia was hamstrung by coal, Calcutta suffered on account of the disruption in container movement. The port depends on Colombo and Singapore as the transhipment hub for container movement. Due to Covid, there were substantial delays in port operations there and the resultant backlash was felt in Calcutta. Shipping rates have gone through the roof and it has become a problem in securing containers. Calcutta port chairman Vinit Kumar believes the port should be able to attain volumes seen in 2019-20 through greater high sea operations as was seen this weekend. Ship to Ship transfer The port authority, in partnership with importer Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), transferred LPG from a large ship (mother vessel) to a smaller ship (daughter vessel) and brought it together at Haldia. Earlier, daughter vessels were either sent to Male (capital of Maldives) or the mother vessel used to discharge cargo to some other ports before coming to Haldia. The two-port operation was required since ships could not bring more than a parcel load of more than 25,000 tonnes up the river due to low draft. However, such operations are not cost efficient. “There has been a steady growth of LPG movement at Haldia due to demand from the hinterland. While we have been doing such transhipment for bulk cargo (coal), this is the first time that an operation for liquid cargo was carried out. We hope more customers will now come forward and an ecosystem can then be created,” Kumar explained. Such cost effective operations can be carried out at least 6-8 months of the year. Haldia handled 4.8 MT LPG in 2020-21, compared with 2 MT in 2016-17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||SPV push for monetisation of land and non-core assets of CPSEs||The finance ministry will soon move the cabinet to seek approval for setting up a company for the transfer and subsequent monetisation of land and non-core assets of privatisation-bound CPSEs, an official said. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) in the form of a company would be set up to hold these assets which would be monetised to fetch value to the exchequer, department of investment and public asset Management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. “We are talking about a company which will be there for many years, which will specialise in handling surplus land and non-core asset monetisation. We are expecting it shortly. As soon as we get Cabinet approval,” Pandey said. There are some CPSEs for strategic disinvestment and “we feel certain portion of land is not really worth going with the company and those assets could be monetised”, he said. Post cabinet nod, the department of public enterprises , which is now under the finance ministry, will be entrusted with doing the asset monetisation. The government is targeting to conclude strategic sale of BPCL, Shipping Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans and Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd this fiscal. In the 2021-22 budget, the government announced the PSE (public sector enterprises) privatisation policy as per which all PSUs will be privatised, barring four strategic sectors of atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. In these strategic sectors, the government will retain only a bare minimum number of PSUs. AI selloff On the acquisition of Air India, Pandey said what the Tatas are getting is not a cash cow but an airline which is bleeding where money needs to be pumped in to refurbish obsolete aircraft and dust up strangled ones while being unable to touch any employee for one year and only be able to resize staff after paying a VRS. “It won’t be a very easy task there. Only advantage is they (new Air India owner) are paying the price which they think they can manage. They are not taking the excessive debt accumulated to fund years of losses. We are continuing it as an ongoing concern.... This process has also saved huge amount of taxpayers money going forward,” Pandey said. Earlier this month, the government had accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of salt-to-software conglomerate Tata group, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline’s debt. As on August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore. About 75 per cent of this debt or Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle AIAHL before handing over the loss-making airline to the Tata Group. The Tatas would not get to retain non-core assets such as the Vasant Vihar Housing colony of Air India, Air India Building at Nariman Point in Mumbai and Air India Building in New Delhi. “We have only allowed (Tata group) for use for two years, but within two years we have to work out a monetisation plan for it to be sold so that the money can be used to set off AIAHL liabilities,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||Sheaf of corporate results to drive market sentiment||A sheaf of corporate results will be the main driver for the Sensex and Nifty which are on a record run, egged on by a rapid opening up of the economy and global cues though rising oil prices are a concern. The Sensex on Thursday raced past the 61000 mark to end at at 61305, while the Nifty also ended a life-time high of 18338. The markets were closed on Friday for Dussehra. “Quarterly results will dictate market sentiment and will be the talk of this week as they pick up the pace. D-Street will be all ears to any management insights to forecast the future earnings trajectory,” said Yesha Shah, head (equity research) at Samco Securities. “With the anticipation that companies would keep up their momentum from the previous quarter into the second quarter, investors may see whipsaw movements (sudden reversal of direction) in the stock this week as results beat or miss market expectations,” he said. Among major earnings to be announced this week are from Reliance Industries, UltraTech Cement, ACC, Hindustan Unilever Ltd, ICICI Pru Life, Nestle, Asian Paints, JSW Steel, ICICI Bank, Hindustan Zinc, IDBI, Bank of Maharashtra, South Indian Bank and  Federal Bank. “If we talk about the cues for this week then quarterly earnings will dominate the market where the market will react to HDFC Bank and Avenue Supermarts earnings on Monday,” Santosh Meena, head (research) at Swastika Investmart Ltd, said. He said other than earnings, global cues will be important where global markets have started to do well after a period of correction. Last week, the BSE benchmark rallied 1246.89 points or 2.07 per cent. Eight of the top-10 most valued companies together added Rs 1,52,355.03 crore in market valuation last week, with HDFC Bank and SBI the biggest gainers. “Banking will be the key sector under focus in the coming days as the sector is set to kick-start its earnings season. With the expectation of a strong recovery in corporate earnings, the Indian market is positioned to continue its bull run,” said Vinod Nair, head (research) at Geojit Financial Services. “However, any deviation from market expectation may lead to short-term correction in the respective segments,” Nair said. Markets will also track the movement of the rupee, foreign institutional investors and brent crude. Policy makers at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank annual meetings have warned of supply chain woes and growing inflation concerns. Foreign portfolio investors (FPI), meanwhile, have turned net sellers in the capital markets in October so far, reversing the trend of net investments in the previous two months because of the depreciation in the rupee and global factors.  According to the depositories’ data, FPIs have pulled out Rs 1,472 crore from capital markets on a net basis in the current month so far. However Ajay Kejriwal, president at Choice Broking, said he expected a kneejerk reaction on inflation but overall it will be considered as positive by investors. Telecom show The second quarter of the fiscal is likely to be a “healthy quarter” for telecom companies, where Jio’s performance will be driven by subscriber additions, and Bharti and Vodafone Idea will benefit from tariff hikes and some recovery post-severe wave of Covid-19, according to some analysts. The urgency around tariff hikes has come down with Vodafone Idea Ltd’s near-term cash outflow significantly reduced, IIFL Securities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
