19-10-2021||Business||Market snaps 7-day winning run on profit-booking||Snapping their seven-session rising streak, equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended with marginal losses on Tuesday as investors booked profits at record levels. After touching its lifetime high of 62,245.43 during the session, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 49.54 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 61,716.05. Similarly, the Nifty shed 58.30 points or 0.32 per cent to close at 18,418.75. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,604.45 in early deals. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, tanking over 6 per cent, followed by HUL, Titan, Tata Steel, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Infosys, Bajaj Finserv, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank were among the gainers. "Indices met with profit-taking even as the IT Index stood tall through the day which indeed had several bouts of volatility," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Market breadth too was weak with declines outpacing advances led by the big names of the FMCG sector as the street awaits a slew of primary market offerings in the near term, he noted, adding that the broader markets clearly witnessed profit booking in several top-performing midcap names. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in the afternoon session. International oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.66 per cent to USD 84.89 per barrel. The domestic currency market was closed on account of Id-E-Milad' holiday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies nearly 400 points to soar past 62k-mark||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied nearly 400 points to soar past the 62,000-mark in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, L&T and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. Extending its record-setting run, the 30-share index touched an all-time high of 62,159.78 in opening deals. It was trading 357.88 points or 0.58 per cent higher at 62,123.47. Similarly, the Nifty surged 101.05 points or 0.55 per cent to 18,578.10. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,604.45 in early deals. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, HUL, Axis Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, ITC, UltraTech Cement, Titan, PowerGrid and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 459.64 points or 0.75 per cent higher at its new closing record of 61,765.59, and Nifty surged 138.50 points or 0.76 per cent to its all-time closing high 18,477.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 512.44 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended largely positive in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.05 per cent to USD 84.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Rains may disrupt coal supply||The prospect of torrential rains in some of the country’s major coal producing regions is threatening to extend the shortage of stocks at power plants. According to a Indian Meteorological Department bulletin on Monday, heavy rain is forecast over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic Bengal and Odisha — all big producing states — on Tuesday, which will continue on Wednesday. The adverse weather forecast comes at a time Coal India is looking to step up its production to keep pace with the fuel demand of the thermal power plants. According to industry sources, rain on Monday has already impacted operations at Eastern Coalfields and some mines of Bharat Coking Coalfields and Central Coalfields. The major problem arising from heavy rainfall is the inundation of coal mines, given that Coal India has mostly open cast mines. While dewatering has to be done to resume operations, prolonged rainfall further complicates and delays the process. “Continuous rain makes it difficult because water keeps getting into the mines,” a source said. Coal India’s daily production has been around 14-15 lakh tones in October which is an improvement over the production of 11-12 lakh tones in mid-September. Sources said the public sector miner was looking to aggressively step up production after Durga Puja and take the production per day to beyond 16 lakh tones by the end of October to cater to the high demand. However, the adverse weather and torrential rain could play a dampener and delay the process. Coal stock at domestic power plants have gone down as demand for power surged with the economy emerging from the pandemic at a time international coal prices are surging. Power plants have utilised their already low stocks for generation to meet demand. Vedanta worry Rahul Sharma, CEO of the aluminum business of Vedanta, told CNBC TV18 on Monday that coal supplies, which were more than 90 per cent of the company’s demand in August have dropped to 30 per cent at present. He said the coal price increase will hurt the aluminium industry from the third quarter of the fiscal. Coal India had prioritised supply to the power plants by cutting down supplies to the non-power sectors such as aluminium, cement and sponge iron. As of October 15, 2021, the stock remained at critical level in 112 power plants out of the 135 plants monitored by the Central Electricity Authority. Total stock was at 7.5 million tonnes which is enough to meet the  generation requirement of only 4 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Bengal govt seeks bids to build a deep sea port at Tajpur||The Mamata Banerjee-government is hoping to award the contract to build a deep sea port at Tajpur to an eligible developer by early next year. The West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, which is the state nodal agency in port development, on Monday sought a request for qualification and proposal from interested parties. The last date of bid submission is December 20. The developer will be given the flexibility to design the port and fix the tariff, according to the guidelines laid down by the agency . While Port of Singapore Authority (PSA) and DP World of Dubai had shown interest in the past, more port developers such as Adani are anticipated to participate in the bidding, government sources said. Developing a greenfield port is always fraught with challenges. Tajpur will be no less, experts said, especially because of the location. Natural deep draft (12-16 meters) is only available 20 kilometre inside the sea, not on the shore. The operator has to decide whether to build a port facility 20 kilometre inside the sea or create a channel to navigate the large ships to the shore. While building a port inside the sea and infrastructure to bring the cargo to the shore will be a one-time large expenditure, creating a channel and maintaining it by annual dredging will be a recurring one. Moreover, the developer will also have to get at least three crucial clearances from the Modi government at the Centre. The developer will be responsible to get environment clearance, rail connectivity and possible approval from the Centre-owned Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Calcutta to use the river channel to bring the ships. The political equation between the state and the Centre will, thus, play a crucial part in Tajpur port development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors launches sub-compact SUV ‘Punch’||Tata Motors on Monday launched its sub-compact SUV ‘Punch’ in the country, with prices starting at Rs 5.49 lakh (ex-showroom). Designed across Tata Motors’ studios in India, the UK and Italy, the model has been developed to herald an entirely new category — the sub-compact SUV, to address a growing customer need for a small in size SUV which is big on space, safety, performance and features. Built on the company’s Agile Light Flexible Advanced (ALFA) Architecture, Punch would sit below Nexon in the company’s product line-up. It comes with a 1.2-litre petrol engine mated to both manual and automatic transmissions. According to Tata Motors, the manual trims of the model deliver an ARAI certified fuel efficiency of 18.97 kmpl while the AMT (automated manual transmission) variants offer 18.82 kmpl to a litre. The model comes with SUV attributes like tall seating, high ground clearance, 370 mm water wading capability and traction feature to aid recovery in off-road situations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||RBI slaps fines on State Bank of India and Standard Chartered Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday imposed a monetary penalty of Rs 1 crore on the State Bank of India (SBI) and a Rs 1.95 crore fine on Standard Chartered Bank for the violation of various guidelines. The fine levied on the SBI is for non-compliance with the directions contained in ‘Reserve Bank of India (frauds classification and reporting by commercial banks and select FIs) directions 2016’, the RBI said in a statement. In a separate statement, the RBI imposed a Rs 1.95 crore penalty on Standard Chartered Bank for non-compliance of the directions issued by the RBI on ‘Customer protection – limiting liability of customers in unauthorised electronic banking transactions’, ‘cyber security framework in banks’, ‘credit card operations of banks’ and code of conduct in outsourcing of financial services by banks’ among others, the central bank said in a statement. These monetary penalties have been imposed in exercise of powers vested in the RBI under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, it said. These actions are based on the deficiencies in regulatory compliance and are not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any transaction or agreement entered into by the bank with its customers, it added. After considering replies from both banks to the notices, oral submissions made during the personal hearing, and additional submissions made by the lenders, it said the RBI came to the conclusion that the charge of contravention of/ non-compliance with various norms were valid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||UltraTech Cement Ltd reports net profit of Rs 1,310.34 crore||UltraTech Cement Ltd on Monday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,310.34 crore for the quarter ended in September 2021 against Rs 1,310.06 crore in the year-ago quarter, which fell short of analyst estimates. The Aditya Birla company said coal and pet coke prices nearly doubled during the quarter. “The resulting impact on the company’s operations were partly offset by reduction in power consumption and continuing focus on operational efficiencies,” the company said . Revenue from operations was up 15.69 per cent to Rs 12,016.78 crore during the quarter under review against Rs 10,387.14 crore in the corresponding period of the last fiscal, which was in line with analyst estimates. The company expects to commence mining operations at its Bicharpur coal block in Madhya Pradesh during the third quarter which will help it to reduce the dependence on coal. During the quarter, UltraTech’s consolidated sales volume was at 21.64 million tonnes (mt), registering a year-on-year growth of 8 per cent. “The unexpectedly virulent second wave of Covid-19, looks to be receding almost as quickly as it was rising. Nevertheless, UltraTech continues to closely monitor the situation and the impact on its operations, while according utmost primacy to the safety and well-being of its employees and business partners,” the company said. During the quarter, the company commissioned cement capacity of 1.2mt in October at Patliputra Cement Works, Bihar and Dankuni Cement Works, Bengal. Over the outlook, UltraTech said factors such as recovery in rural housing, higher MSP (minimum support price) for kharif crop, improved food grain production in rabi harvest, a third consecutive normal monsoon and pick-up in infrastructure-led construction activity are likely to drive cement demand off-take. The company warned a “continuous increases in input costs like coal, pet coke and diesel pose a challenge for the industry”. “UltraTech is confident of weathering the storm of increase in prices of coal, diesel and other inputs, with its sustainable efficiency improvement programs, accompanied by increase in selling prices to absorb the increase in costs,” it said. Shares of UltraTech Cement Ltd on Monday closed marginally down at Rs 7,397.70 on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Benchmark indices continue rally for seventh consecutive session||Benchmark indices continued their rally for the seventh consecutive session and hit record highs, buoyed by optimism over the economy and good corporate results. While the 30-share Sensex touched a lifetime intra-day high of 61963.07, it later ended at a new closing peak of 61765.59 — a gain of 459.64 points, or 0.75 per cent, led by banking, IT and metal stocks. Records were also set on  the NSE where the Nifty rose 138.50 points, or 0.76 per cent, to its all-time closing high of 18477.05. The index hit a new intra-day record of 18543.15. These gains came despite weak global cues in the form of disappointing news from China and firm crude oil prices. Latest data showed that during the third quarter ended September, the world’s second-largest economy grew 4.9 per cent — down almost three percentage points from a GDP growth of 7.9 per cent in the second quarter. Even as the period was marked by the Evergrande crisis, and restrictions on power consumption, observers warn that the declining growth trends (GDP growth in the first quarter stood at 18.3 per cent), could adversely impact the global economy as well. Shares of PNB Housing Finance on Monday dived 5 per cent to their lower circuit limit after the company said it has aborted the Rs 4,000 crore-share sale plan to Carlyle Group and others. The stock tumbled to its lower circuit limit of Rs 607.10 on the BSE. Meanwhile, crude prices continued to remain firm with Brent futures rising 1.11 per cent to over $85.80 per barrel. A rally in base metal prices also supported metal stocks. The rupee ended 9 paise lower at 75.35 against the US dollar on Monday, tracking a stronger greenback against key rivals overseas and rising global crude oil prices. CDSL glitch Many investors were unable to execute their sell orders earlier in the day because of a technical issue with the Central Depository Services Ltd (CDSL). Investors took to social media platforms like Twitter to highlight their plight. Online brokerages such as Zerodha and Upstox later clarified that the problem was at CDSL’s end. The issue, which took around four hours to resolve, saw investors unable to authorise their brokerages to debit shares earmarked for sale from their demat account through the TPIN-a password (provided by CDSL).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
19-10-2021||Business||NCLT asks Reliance to seek creditor approval on Future acquisition||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday allowed two Reliance group companies to seek the approval of their creditors on the acquisition of Future group entities, brushing aside Amazon’s objections. The approval comes just three weeks after the tribunal allowed the Future group to seek the approval of its shareholders and creditors on the merger with Reliance Retail. The Mumbai bench of the NCLT, led by Suchitra Kanuparthi, allowed the application by Reliance to hold meetings of its creditors and shareholders seeking their approval for the deal. It rejected the objections by Amazon, saying it is premature in light of the Supreme Court ruling that rules out any final order by the tribunal. The order by the top court and the permission by the NCLT allow the companies to convene meetings and vote on the merger. However, the NCLT cannot give its approval to the merger till the Supreme Court gives its order. Two arms of Reliance Industries Ltd which represent its retail business — Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd and Reliance Retail & Fashion Lifestyle Ltd — can hold EGMs seeking approval of their creditors. Earlier, on a similar petition by Future Group, the NCLT had allowed the meetings of the creditors and shareholders. Various companies of the Future group are set to hold their EGMs next month seeking approval from their equity shareholders, secured and unsecured creditors for the proposed transaction with Reliance. Future Retail, Future Consumer, Future Enterprises and Future Enterprises will hold the meetings with equity shareholders on November 10, and with secured and unsecured creditors on the following day. Though there no official comment from Reliance, observers said that the two Reliance group companies may hold their meetings next month. On October 1, Reliance Retail had extended the long-stop date for the completion of its deal with the Future Group by another six months to March 2022 because of the delays ensuing from the ongoing legal battle with US-based Amazon. Long stop is a timeframe in which parties agree on which all the conditions precedent for a transaction need to be fulfiled and the transaction completed. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd — and then transferring them to Reliance Retail. The apex court had earlier ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the award by the emergency arbitrator was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. This comes even as the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has concluded hearing of the matter between Amazon and Future Group and has reserved its final order. After the Future group entered into a Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Industries in August last year , the US retail giant had dragged the Kishore Biyani-led group into arbitration at the SIAC. In October 2020, an interim award was passed by the emergency arbitrator in favour of Amazon. Since then Amazon and Future group had pursued the merits of the case at the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
19-10-2021||Business||Taiwan chip giants set terms for investment||The Centre plans to come out with a request for proposal (RFP) to set up semiconductor manufacturing facilities in the country at a time a raging chip crisis has derailed the production plans across sectors ranging from cars to consumer durables. Sources said the government was in talks with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, which has a 50 per cent share in the global market, and other companies in that country to set up units. India and Taiwan are keen to conclude a bilateral trade deal which would incentivise the Taiwanese companies to set up units  A trade deal could see tariff cuts on components and other raw materials. “There has been positive feedback from the firms on the trade talks and the measures that they expect the Indian government to take for setting up the units in the country,” sources said. The Taiwan side has flagged concerns on the supply of water and electricity and has suggested India should focus on chip design first before proceeding to fabs. The government is searching for locations where huge quantities of fresh water are available and also adequate manpower. A mega IT park with space for 100 Taiwanese companies has also been planned as part of the trade negotiations. The government had earlier come out with the expression of interest (EoI) for semiconductor fabs, with around 20 firms showing interest. The ongoing global chip crisis is hurting industries across sectors as electronic items are needed in every segment these days. Maruti backlog Maruti Suzuki MD Kenichi Ayukawa has said the company has pending orders of 2.6 lakh bookings — largely because of the chip shortage. Chip shortages have delayed the much anticipated launch of a smartphone by billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries that has been co-engineered with Google. India’s semiconductor demand is is expected to reach $100 billion by 2025 and the demand at present is entirely met through imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
19-10-2021||Business||Vodafone, Airtel and Jio get October 29 deadline on 4-year moratorium||Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio must decide by October 29 on whether they want to opt for a four-year moratorium on their dues. In a letter to the telecom players, the department of telecom (DoT) also said the operators must decide within 90 days whether they would want to convert into equity the accrued interest during the moratorium. “The option of conversion of the interest amount into equity shares shall apply only to those instalments covered by the moratorium and not to the subsequent instalments,” the letter said. “The conversion of interest dues to equity will be a one time option to be exercised upfront. (Telcos) may opt for moratorium without opting for conversion of the interest into equity.” “In that case, the interest shall be payable along with the AGR and spectrum dues on the due dates as per the term of the moratorium,” the letter said. A copy of the letter is available with The Telegraph. Giving details of the shares, the letter said the present value of the accrued interest will be treated as a loan, which will be converted into equity. “The present value of the interest on the deferred AGR-related and spectrum auction dues during the moratorium period shall be treated as a loan to the company and then converted from loan to equity shares in the company. The equity shares would be issued by the company to the government on a preferential basis.” The relevant date for pricing of equity shares will be August 14, 2021. The price of the equity or preference shares shall be the higher of the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price of the equity shares during the last 26 weeks preceding the relevant date or the two weeks preceding the relevant date, the letter said. The DoT said “the NPV of the interest amount will be calculated as on the date of exercise of option. The interest amount will continue to be treated as a loan to the company till the completion of the equity infusion process”. The letter covers one of the most important aspects of the relief package which was announced mid-September and is expected to be a lifeline for cash-strapped Vodafone Idea. The letter made it clear that the telcos which opt for the equity conversion option must provide their historical audited financial statements.  “Listed companies would also need to provide their historical share value,” it said. Vodafone Idea and Airtel have made it clear that they would opt for the payments moratorium on their dues. The cabinet approved a blockbuster relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies such as Vodafone Idea, that have to pay thousands of crores in unprovisioned past statutory dues, also include the scrapping of spectrum usage charge for airwaves acquired in future spectrum auctions. Voda Idea owes Rs 220-230 billion in annual spectrum and AGR liabilities, which will now be spread over the next four years, brokerage UBS said. “This solves 80 per cent of its next two year’s problems. It still needs a capital infusion to address cumulative liabilities of Rs 120 billion over 2021-22 and 2022-23,” UBS said. “Of this, Rs 64 billion is towards NCD repayments in 2021-22, starting Dec 2021 and Rs 49 billion in 2022-23. For Bharti, the annual savings from spectrum and AGR deferrals will be Rs 11,000-11,500 crore," UBS said in a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
