20-10-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 456 points to close at 61,259||The BSE Sensex slumped 456 points on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank as market participants continued to book profits at high levels. The 30-share index ended 456.09 points or 0.74 per cent lower at 61,259.96. Similarly, the NSE Nifty dropped 152.15 points or 0.83 per cent to 18,266.60. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by HUL, NTPC, Bajaj Finserv, L&T and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank were among the gainers. "Indices corrected quite meaningfully led by the expensive side of the market where valuations had got stretched," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Almost all sectoral indices ended in the red although PSU banks were seen bucking the trend with investors cherry-picking for value in that pocket, he noted. Further, he said the street is taking note of the cost pressures emanating from higher input costs in companies that do not possess the pricing power. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.82 per cent to USD 84.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
20-10-2021||Business||IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath to leave job and return to Harvard University||IMF's Chief Economist Gita Gopinath will leave her job in January next year and return to the prestigious Harvard University's Economics Department, according to the global financial institution. The 49-year-old prominent Indian-American economist had joined the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as the Chief Economist in January 2019. She was the John Zwaanstra Professor of International Studies and Economics at Harvard University when she joined the Washington-based global lender. IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva on Tuesday announced that the search for Gopinath's successor would begin shortly. Gita's contribution to the Fund and our membership has been truly remarkable - quite simply, her impact on the IMF's work has been tremendous, Georgieva said. Mysuru-born Gopinath is the first-ever woman Chief Economist of the IMF. She was also the Director of the Research Department of the IMF. Harvard University had extended her leave of absence on an exceptional basis by one year, which has allowed her to serve as Chief Economist at the IMF for three years. She made history as the first female Chief Economist of the Fund and we benefited immensely from her sharp intellect and deep knowledge of international finance and macroeconomics as we navigate through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Gita also won the respect and admiration of colleagues in the Research Department across the Fund, and throughout the membership for leading analytically rigorous work and policy-relevant projects with high impact and influence, Georgieva said. The IMF said that as part of her many significant initiatives, Gopinath co-authored the Pandemic Paper on how to end the COVID-19 pandemic that set globally endorsed targets for vaccinating the world. This work led to the creation of the Multilateral Task Force made up of the leadership of the IMF, the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation and the World Health Organisation to help end the pandemic and the establishment of a working group with vaccine manufacturers to identify trade barriers, supply bottlenecks, and accelerate delivery of vaccines to low- and lower-middle-income countries, the IMF said in a statement. Among her other key accomplishments, Gopinath helped set up a Climate Change team inside the IMF to analyse, among other things, optimal climate mitigation policies. I would like to express my personal appreciation to Gita for her impressive contributions, her always wise counsel, her devotion for the mission of the Research Department and the Fund more broadly, as well as her widely recognised inclusive and accessible approach to colleagues and staff, Georgieva added. Later, in a tweet, Gopinath thanked her colleagues for making her stint at the IMF truly gratifying. "My immense gratitude to all my amazing colleagues at @IMFNews who make working at the IMF truly gratifying. I look forward to continuing working with them the next few months before my return to @Harvard," she wrote. Born in December 1971 to Malayalee parents, Gopinath had her schooling in Kolkata and graduated from the Lady Shri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi. She did Masters from the Delhi School of Economics as well as from the University of Washington. Gopinath did her Ph.D in economics from Princeton University in 2001 and she was guided by Kenneth Rogoff, Ben Bernanke and Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas. She joined the University of Chicago in 2001 as an Assistant Professor before moving to Harvard in 2005. She became a tenured Professor there in 2010. She is the third woman in the history of Harvard to be a tenured professor at its esteemed economics department and the first Indian since the Nobel laureate Amartya Sen to hold that position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 200 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors TCS, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank as market participants booked profits at higher levels. The 30-share index was trading 209.46 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 61,506.59 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty dropped 85.45 points or 0.46 per cent to 18,333.30. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, HUL, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 49.54 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 61,716.05, and Nifty shed 58.30 points or 0.32 per cent to close at 18,418.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 505.79 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to market experts, investors are booking profits at every peak, adding volatility to the market. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.52 per cent to USD 84.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Moody’s revises outlook for banks to stable from negative||Moody’s Investors Service has revised the outlook for banks to stable from negative, citing receding downside risks to the economy and the financial system. The deterioration of asset quality since the onset of the pandemic has been moderate and an improving operating environment will support asset quality. The level of problem loans for rated Indian banks has moved down to 7.1 per cent in 2020-21 from 8.5 per cent in 2018-19. Declining credit costs as a result of improving asset quality will lead to improvements in profitability and capital will remain above the pre-pandemic levels. The rating agency observed that the quality of corporate loans has improved because of provisioning for legacy problems, while  the quality of retail loans has deteriorated but to a limited degree. 9% NPA: Crisil Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks are expected to increase to 8-9 per cent in the current financial year, Crisil has said in a report. This will be well below the peak of 11.2 per cent seen at the end of fiscal 2018. According to the agency, the Covid-19 relief measures such as the restructuring dispensation and the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) will help limit the rise in banks gross NPAs. With around 2 per cent of bank credit expected under restructuring by the end of this fiscal, stressed assets comprising gross NPAs and loan book under restructuring should touch 10-11 per cent this fiscal, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Domestic economy may need policy support for longer period: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said the domestic economy may need policy support for a longer period amid upbeat business expectations across capacity utilisation, demand and jobs, with improvement in financing and credit. In its monthly report on the economy, the RBI warned the recovery was  uneven and trudging through soft patches. “Looking ahead from here, the main downside to the prospects for the Indian economy, abstracting from the pandemic, is the possibility of a sudden accentuation of global risks.” “First, there are now clearer indications that the momentum of global growth is slowing, especially in the countries that were to be its key drivers,’’ the RBI said. Retail sales spending, global car sales, industrial production and world merchandise trade have moderated, with shortages widening in key sectors such as semi-conductors and shipping. Moreover, longer supplier delivery times are also holding back output in some industries, the RBI said. Calling for the continuation of support, the RBI said the choice of policy mix will need careful consideration and sensitivity, keeping in mind the employment situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever Ltd reports 9% rise in standalone net profits||Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL) on Tuesday reported a 9 per cent rise in its standalone net profits for the quarter ended September 30, thus meeting analysts estimates. The FMCG giant posted a net profit of Rs 2,187 crore against Rs 2,009 crore in the same period of the previous year. Brokerages such as Axis Securities had forecast that the company would report net profits of around Rs 2,171 crore for the period. During the quarter, sales at HUL grew 11 per cent to Rs 12,516 crore from Rs 11,276 crore in the year ago period. However, higher raw material prices impacted its margins which came in at 25 per cent — a 40 basis points fall from 25.4 per cent in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. According to Sanjiv Mehta, chairman & managing director, HUL, though the operating environment improved after the second wave, it has also become challenging. The HUL stock closed lower as investors were disap-pointed by the volume growth which came below the 5-7 per cent growth expected by analysts. Market circles added that profit booking was also responsible for the stock falling almost 7 per cent from the intra-day peak of Rs 2,732. Nestle profit up 5% FMCG major Nestle India Ltd on Tuesday reported a 5.15 per cent rise in net profit at Rs 617.37 crore for the third quarter ended September 2021, driven largely by a high single-digit volume and mixed growth in the domestic market across brands. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had posted a profit of Rs 587.09 crore in the same period a year ago, Nestle India said in a BSE filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Volvo Car India launches two petrol mild-hybrid models||Volvo Car India on Tuesday launched two models — S90 and XC 60 — with petrol-mild hybrid powertrains as part of its plans to shift to the petrol-only portfolio by this year-end. The new S90 B5 Inscription sedan and XC60 B5 Inscription SUV now feature a 1,969cc petrol engine paired with a 48-volt battery. Both the Volvo S90 and the XC60 are priced at Rs 61.9 lakh, ex showroom. Audi Q5 Audi on Tuesday  started bookings for the new Audi Q5 in India. The local assembly of Q5 began in its Aurangabad plant last week. It can be booked with an upfront payment of Rs 2 lakh. Toyota Innova Toyota Kirloskar Motor on Tuesday announced the launch of Toyota Innova Crysta Limited Edition with new tech features such as Apple Car Play and Android Auto with a new display, loaded with advanced connectivity functions and a new grille.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Axis AMC and Inversion to invest in underperforming companies||Axis Asset Management Company Ltd (Axis AMC) has joined hands with Inversion Advisory Services (Inversion) to invest in underperforming companies. Inversion is promoted by telecommunications veteran Akhil Gupta, who was earlier with the Bharti group, while Axis AMC is promoted by Axis Bank. Axis AMC and Inversion are planning to raise up to Rs 3,500 crore for the proposed fund under its Alternative Investment Fund registration. They aim to acquire a controlling stake primarily in pre-stressed, stressed, distressed and other underperforming assets, a statement said on Tuesday. Under the partnership, the duo are planning to take advantage of the strong fund management expertise of Axis AMC and operational and turnaround expertise of Inversion to offer a unique platform for investors. They will look to take controlling equity stakes in underperforming companies before working with them to turn them around. This is also expected to help companies with strong performance and operational capabilities, which are hampered by temporary headwinds due to special circumstances, including unsustainable debt and temporary disruptions to get on a credible turnaround path. Axis AMC added that the partnership seeks to help fill the gaping shortage of high quality equity capital in the country’s stressed company ecosystem, which has seen a number of debt offerings but lacks strong equity investors with an operational skill set.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Delhi Police cyber cell busts bid to siphon money out of NRI account||Twelve persons, including three employees of HDFC Bank, have been arrested by the cyber cell of Delhi Police after they  allegedly tried to siphon money out of an NRI’s dormant account that had about Rs 200 crore . The fraudsters attempted an unauthorised withdrawal of Rs 5 crore. Initial investigation has revealed that the accused persons tried 66 times to transfer money from the dormant account to their accounts. HDFC Bank said it detected unauthorised and suspicious attempts to transact in certain accounts following which it filed an FIR. The bank said three of its employees, including a woman staff, were among those arrested. “We have suspended bank staff pending outcome of the investigation,” the lender said, adding there is zero tolerance for any misconduct, financial or otherwise, at the lender. K.P.S. Malhotra, deputy superintendent of police (DCP) (cyber cell), said as many as 66 attempts of unauthorised online transactions were made by the group on the high-value account. “The accused had fraudulently obtained a cheque book, which has been recovered. Mobile phone number identical to that of account holder’s US-based phone number was also procured by the fraudsters,” the DCP said. Attempts were also made to get an update of the mobile phone number in the KYC of the same bank account by replacing the already registered US mobile phone number with an identical Indian mobile phone number. Malhotra said raids were conducted at 20 locations across Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Of the 12 arrested, three including a woman are HDFC bank employees who were involved in issuing the cheque book, updating the mobile phone number and removing the debt freeze of the account. During interrogation, the accused told police that one of them came to know that the alleged NRI account is dormant and has huge funds. The mastermind along with his associates gathered information regarding the account and with the help of a female employee of HDFC Bank  they were issued a cheque book of the said account and also got the account changed to active. “The investigation has revealed that an HDFC Bank employee was promised Rs 10 lakh and insurance business of Rs 15 lakh (which was the target assigned to her by the bank for appraisal). In the earlier instances, there were attempts of withdrawal of money from this account,” said Malhotra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Godrej and Boyce to generate 30% revenue from eco-friendly products||Godrej group flagship — Godrej and Boyce — on Tuesday said that the diversified company is aiming to generate one-third of its revenue in 2021-22 from environment friendly products. The target is part of the company’s environment, social and governance (ESG) goals in the next 10 years. Godrej and Boyce chairman Jamshyd N. Godrej said that the company has invested more than Rs 500 crore towards ESG initiatives over the last 10 years with a 16 per cent year-on-year growth. The company has invested Rs 18 crore in skilling initiatives and has facilitated green building footprints of more than 300 million square feet across projects, including manufacturing facilities and buildings of its own. “We are working relentlessly to contribute towards India’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030, while simultaneously creating value for our business, the communities and the planet through our unique and scalable initiatives,” said Godrej. Among the other ESG initiatives that the company plans to follow are reduction of carbon intensity by 60 per cent by 2030, introducing recycled content up to 25 per cent in plastic product packaging and remaining water positive. Kamal Nandi, EVP and business head of Godrej Appliances, said the business uses 50 per cent renewable energy in its manufacturing facilities across the country. The company has also collected and recycled 39,900 MT of e-waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business|| Indian Energy Exchange soars 20 per cent to a record high ||Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) soared 20 per cent to a record high on Tuesday, after the energy trading platform said it would consider a bonus issue of shares, adding to nearly 24 per cent of gains so far this month as demand for electricity ramps up. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the coronavirus has resulted in a shortage in coal supply and driven up electricity demand, proving a boon for New Delhi-based IEX which controls 95 per cent of the power exchange market. IEX’s plan to issue bonus shares, which will be considered at an October 21 board meeting along with its quarterly earnings, comes on the heels of a 72 per cent surge in its shares in the three months ended September 30, significantly outperforming a 16 per cent rise in the S&P BSE Power Index. “Over the next decade, with India increasingly looking at EVs (electric vehicles) and big companies like Tata Power focusing in that area, the demand for energy is going to rise, and IEX is rightly placed for this kind of outlook,” said Gaurav Garg, head of research at CapitalVia Global Research. Shares of Tata Power have risen 62 per cent this month as of last close. In its latest monthly update, IEX, which is used by power producers, distributors and corporates to buy and sell electricity, said electricity volume traded in October was 59 per cent higher than a year ago. A top court move earlier this month, which allows electricity to be traded as other commodities with forward contracts and derivatives on exchanges, would help boost volumes at power exchanges like IEX, ICICI Direct Research in a note. Power for aluminium India’s aluminium producers are drawing expensive power from the national grid and adding to pressure on utilities with low coal stock, the Aluminium Association of India (AAI) told Reuters on Tuesday as state-run Coal India has curbed supplies. A crippling shortage across the country has pushed state-run Coal India to impose temporary supply curbs to non-power consumers, including the energy-intensive aluminium industry, pushing producers to draw electricity from the grid. Indian aluminium producers such as Hindalco Industries Ltd and Vedanta Ltd largely use power generated from the so-called captive utilities — which are not connected to the national grid — where the companies generate electricity for self-use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Group to bring together state-run and private refiners||India is forming a group that brings together state-run and private refiners to seek better crude import deals, oil secretary Tarun Kapoor said on Tuesday, as the country grapples with soaring oil prices. The world’s third largest oil importer and consumer, India depends on imports for about 85 per cent of its crude and buys most of it from West Asian producers. Initially the group of refiners will meet once in a fortnight and exchange ideas on crude purchases. “The companies can form joint strategies and they can even go for joint negotiations wherever possible,” Kapoor, the top bureaucrat in the petroleum ministry, told Reuters. Indian state refiners already jointly negotiate some crude oil purchases. To date the one effort at a joint negotiation bringing together not only state-run but private refiners resulted in a deal that secured supply of Iranian oil at a deep discount. With local gasoline and gasoil prices rising to a record high amid India’s worst power crisis in years, the nation wants to redouble its efforts to buy wisely. India’s trade deficit in September surged to a record $22.6 billion, its highest in at least 14 years, driven by expensive imports. Kapoor said the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, together known as Opec+, should raise production to bring down global oil prices. “Opec+ should realise that this is not the right approach, they must step up production. If the demand is going up and you are not increasing production, you are trying to create a gap,”  he said. “Due to this, prices are going up and that’s not fair.” Opec+ producers recently agreed to stick to a plan to increase November output by 400,000 barrels per day (bpd) as it looks to phase out output curbs of 5.8 million bpd over time. Kapoor said rising oil prices would prompt consumers to “seriously start thinking of shifting to other forms or curtail their demand for OPEC oil somehow”. “These kind of prices are not sustainable.” India is already reducing the share of Opec oil in its crude mix. High oil prices are spurring investment in upstream activities, that could lead to higher production from regions other than the Gulf, Kapoor noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
20-10-2021||Business|| Reliance to acquire majority stake in Ritu Kumar's company||Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd, is acquiring a majority stake in the company founded by well known fashion designer Ritu Kumar for an undisclosed sum. RRVL will acquire around 52 per cent in Ritika Pvt Ltd which owns Ritu Kumar, Label Ritu Kumar, RI Ritu Kumar, aarké and Ritu Kumar Home and Living. A statement from RRVL said the acquisition in Ritika includes the buyout of  private equity firm Everstone’s 35 per cent stake in the company. The Ritu Kumar business includes four fashion brand portfolios which retail out of 151 point of sales globally. The classical ‘‘Ritu Kumar’’ brand is  symbolic of how the contemporary Indian woman dresses since 1970’s. Label Ritu Kumar, launched in 2002, is for a younger, global consumer of western pret, RRVL said. The third RI Ritu Kumar is a luxury bridal couture and occasion wear line, while latest addition aarké is meant to reach a larger consumer base. Ritu Kumar Home & Living is a category extension that aims to define comfortable luxury for homes. ‘‘We are delighted to partner Ritu Kumar, who possesses strong brand recognition, potential for scale and innovation in fashion and retail – all key ingredients to build a complete lifestyle brand,” Isha Ambani, director, RRVL, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
20-10-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks close with modest losses on Tuesday||Equity benchmarks closed with modest losses on Tuesday after a seven-session winning streak as investors opted to pocket some gains at record levels. FMCG counters led the losses after Hindustan Unilever’s Q2 earnings missed estimates, while IT and private bank stocks stood tall. After scaling the 62000-mark for the first time, the 30-share BSE Sensex succumbed to selling pressure at the fag-end of trade to close 49.54 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 61716.05. The Nifty shed 58.30 points or 0.32 per cent to close at 18418.75. It touched a new intra-day record of 18604.45 in early deals. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, followed by HUL at 4.06 per cent. Titan, Tata Steel, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid were among the other losers. Tech Mahindra, L&T, Bajaj Finserv, Infosys, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank were among the gainers, spurting up to 4.12 per cent. “The stretched rally booked some gains by the end of the trading day. The IT sector continued to hold the gains while the rest of the recent performers like realty, PSU banks and auto went into a sell-off,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. “Our advice is to transform personal equity portfolios into a balanced basket with high weightage on defensive stocks. The Indian market is expected to get more stocks and sector specific as parameters are extremely stretched,” he said. RIL downgrade A foreign brokerage has downgraded Reliance Industries Ltd just days ahead of its second quarter earnings report citing rich valuations. Anil Sharma and Aditya Bansal, analysts at Nomura, cut RIL’s rating to neutral from buy, though they lifted the target price to Rs 2,850 from Rs 2,400. RIL shares on Tuesday closed at Rs 2731.50 — a gain of 0.91 per cent over the previous close. Over the past three months, the scrip has inched up 28 per cent, outperforming the benchmark Nifty, which was up 12 per cent. “Apart from the improving outlook for its operating business, we believe the recent strength has also been coming from investors taking Reliance’s recent forays into new energy and new materials businesses a lot more positively… There is still limited clarity on RIL’s new energy plans, overall capex, returns’’, the brokerage said. Nomura said that though the outlook for each of its key operating business has been improving, valuations have become expensive after the recent strong upward movement. “We downgrade RIL to Neutral on our expectation of limited near-term upside,’’ the analysts added. Tobacco tanks Tobacco stocks fell on Tuesday on news the Centre has formed a panel to suggest a future taxation policy on tobacco from a public health perspective. The ITC stock fell over 6.32 per cent to end the day at Rs 245.95. Godfrey Phillip was down 0.93 per cent to Rs 1,302.55, VST 2.64 per cent to Rs 3,703.95 and Golden Tobacco 0.93 per cent to Rs 153.65. The panel will analyse the existing tax structure for all forms of tobacco — smoking and smokeless — and develop a road map for taxation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
