21-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops 336 points to close at 60,923||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 336.46 points on Thursday following losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index declined 336.46 points or 0.55 per cent to 60,923.50. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 88.50 points or 0.48 per cent to 18,178.10. Asian Paints was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking around 5 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Infosys, Tata Steel, TCS and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and NTPC were among the gainers. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, domestic headwinds like high valuations have become unsustainable and rising commodity inflation will impact the margins of firms. "Sustained selling by institutions -- both DIIs and FIIs -- indicates that smart money regards the market as overheated and overvalued," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the in the red, while Shanghai was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.12 per cent to USD 84.86 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
21-10-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in opening trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 265.84 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 61,525.80 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 93.45 points or 0.51 per cent to 18,360.05. Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, NTPC, HDFC, Kotak Bank and M&M. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 456.09 points or 0.74 per cent lower at 61,259.96, and Nifty dropped 152.15 points or 0.83 per cent to 18,266.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,843.09 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street largely ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.08 per cent to USD 85.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
21-10-2021||Business||Stress for micro finance lenders worsen during Covid second wave||Portfolio at risk, a measure of stress for micro finance lenders, has worsened during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Dues in excess of 30 days were at 15.4 per cent as of June 30, 2021 against 9.7 per cent as of March 31, 2021, according to data compiled by CRIF High Mark. The dues were less than 2 per cent before the pandemic, while they stood at 14.5 per cent at the end of December. Assam (32.1 per cent), Bengal (19.7 per cent), Karnataka (18.4 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (17.1 per cent) were among the states where the dues were higher at the end of June. The portfolio quality was affected across ticket sizes and lenders including banks, non bank finance institutions and small finance banks. The gross loan portfolio outstanding for the microfinance industry as of June 2021 was Rs 2,36,109 crore, which was 7 per cent lower than March, 2021 and higher by 1 per cent from June 2021. All the top 10 states recorded a quarterly decline in gross loan portfolio — the highest in Assam of 14.4 per cent, while Bengal saw a decline of nearly 10 per cent. “Braving Covid 19 pandemic impact, the microfinance sector was quick to recover to pre pandemic level by Q4 FY21. “However, with Covid 19 second wave and reimplementation of lockdown in several parts of the country, the sector took a major blow again in Q1 FY22, with a steep decline in disbursements and high delinquencies,” CRIF High Mark said in its quarterly report. Micro-finance lenders said the stress level was expected to ease in the second half of the fiscal with the removal of restrictions and opening up of the economy if the infection rate does not go up again. In line with a decline in gross loan portfolio, the number of active microfinance borrowers came down to 5.9 crore for the period ending June 30, 2021, posting 3.2 per cent quarter-on-quarter decline, while on a year-on-year basis, there was a growth of 7.5 per cent. Average balance per unique microfinance borrower at Rs 40,300 witnessed a quarter on quarter decline of 3.8 per cent while on a year on year basis there was a growth of 7.4 per cent. Banks continue to dominate the market with a portfolio share of 42.2 per cent followed by NBFC MFIs at 30.6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
21-10-2021||Business||Covid: ICICI Prudential steps up provisions for mortality claim||ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has stepped up provisions for mortality claims amid delayed Covid claim intimation. The life insurer has made a provision of Rs 412 crore as of September 30, 2021 against Rs 332 crore as of March 31, 2021. The total claims on account of Covid during the first six months stood at Rs 1,879 crore, which net of reinsurance was Rs 862 crore. “As of September 2021, we hold reserves of Rs 412 crore towards potential Covid-19 claims. This includes provisions for claims that have been incurred but not reported as well as new claims over the balance six months of the financial year. “Unless Covid claims exceed Rs 1,274 crore, we would not expect any further negative impact,” Satyan Jambunathan, chief financial officer, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, said at the earnings call. He said that even as there is a reduction in new Covid infections, insurers continue to receive claims during the second quarter of 2021-22 for cases pertaining to the first quarter of the fiscal, indicating delayed intimations. “We have also seen a declining trend in these intimations across the month of this quarter (October). As a result our Covid 19 claims net of reinsurance stood at Rs 862 crore for H1 FY22. Each and every claim notified at our touch points is accounted for in this number even as they are being processed,” he said. N.S. Kannan, MD and CEO, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, said the increased awareness on the need of life insurance has aided the growth in new business for the insurance company. “Our absolute value of new business grew by 45 per cent year on year to Rs 873 crore for H1 FY22, demonstrating our progress towards achieving the stated objective of doubling of FY2019 value of new business by FY2023.” The company has posted a net profit of Rs 445 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, 2021 against Rs 303 crore in the corresponding quarter of last year. Reinsurance rates ICICI Prudential said that reinsurance rates are expected to go up even as negotiations between life insurance companies and reinsurance companies continue. The Telegraph had reported last month that term life insurance policies are expected to become costlier amid high mortality claims. “As we speak today while discussions with the reinsurer are underway. We expect the final outcome to be a combination of price increase and applicable underwriting norms in line with emerging experience. We would like to maintain the profitability of the overall protection segment intact. In terms of business impact over the short term, we don't expect it to be material given the pandemic situation is still live and the constraints in the environment continue,” said Jambunathan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||SC dismisses Sebi appeal against SAT order in PNB Housing case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed as infructuous the appeal filed by capital markets regulator Sebi against the Securities Appellate Tribunal’s order in a matter related to PNB Housing Finance Ltd’s Rs 4,000 crore equity capital raise plan. A bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao was informed by counsel for PNB Housing Finance Ltd that it has decided not to proceed with the issue and moved an application before the appellate tribunal to withdraw the appeal. “Counsel for the respondent submits that an application has been moved before the appellate tribunal to withdraw the appeal. In view of the subsequent developments, where the respondent does not want to pursue the matter, this appeal is dismissed as infructuous,” the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai said. A two-member bench of the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on August 9 gave a split verdict, saying there was a difference of opinion between the members of the bench. The SAT directed that its interim order of June 21, 2021 will continue till further orders, restraining PNB Housing Finance from disclosing the voting results by the shareholders on the fund raise plan. The voting was part of a special resolution to seek shareholders’ approval for the Rs 4,000 crore equity raise plan of PNB Housing by allotting preference shares and warrants to a handful of investors led by US-based private equity player Carlyle Group. On May 31, the housing finance company promoted by state-owned lender Punjab National Bank (PNB) had announced the capital raise plan. However, it soon hit a roadblock after a proxy advisory firm red flagged the preference issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Trifecta Capital invests Rs 400 crore from its maiden equity fund||Trifecta Capital on Wednesday said it has invested Rs 400 crore (about $53 million) across four companies from its maiden equity fund, Trifecta Leaders Fund-I. The fund has invested in ixigo, Good Glamm Group (MyGlamm), API Holdings (PharmEasy), and Meesho, in line with its strategy to back growth to late-stage category-leading tech companies, a statement said. The fund was launched in May this year with a target corpus of Rs 1,500 crore (about $200 million) and announced its first close in July. ixigo is a multi-modal travel platform, while Good Glamm Group is a D2C (Direct-to-Consumer) beauty and personal care company and Meesho is a social-commerce company. API Holdings (PharmEasy) is an omnichannel healthcare platform spanning medicines, diagnostics, consultation, and information. Pharmeasy is preparing to file a DRHP with Sebi for its upcoming IPO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||India nudges Opec nations to work towards affordable supplies||India, the world’s third-largest energy consumer, on Wednesday warned that high oil prices will undermine global economic recovery and nudged Saudi Arabia and other Opec nations to work towards affordable and reliable supplies. “Crude oil accounts for nearly 20 per cent of our import bill. Our fuel import bill has jumped from $8.8 billion (in quarter ending June 2020) to $24 billion in quarter ending June 2021,” oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri said at the India Energy Forum by CERAWeek. “Rising prices impact all economies. In large developing countries such as India, you could see a surge in inflation which could also increase the cost of producing and transporting goods,” he said. Petroleum secretary Tarun Kapoor said the price volatility is not good for both producers and consumers. “This just does not work. The price of natural gas has shot up. There is a natural gas supply mismatch of just 5 per cent but the price went up 10 times,” Kapoor said. Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said crude prices were being led higher by other commodities such as natural gas and coal. “For the first time, we see our role limited. The issue is not the lack of crude oil. Even if we supply it, ... where are the refineries that will convert the oil?” Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the CEOs of global oil and gas firms and pitched for collaboration and investment in the country’s energy sector. Among those who attended the meeting included Mukesh Ambani, Igor Sechin, chairman and CEO, Rosneft and Amin Nasser, president and CEO, Saudi Aramco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Foxconn to make electric vehicles in India, Europe||Taiwan tech giant Foxconn is looking at making electric vehicles (EVs) in Europe, India and Latin America, including “indirectly” cooperating with German auto makers, chairman Liu Young-way said on Wednesday. Foxconn, formally called Hon Hai Precision Industry Co Ltd, aims to become a major player in the global EV market and has clinched deals with US. startup Fisker Inc and Thailand’s energy group PTT PCL. Speaking to reporters at a business forum in Taipei after unveiling three EV prototypes on Monday, Liu said that due to disclosure restrictions he couldn’t provide any details of its plans for Europe, India and Latin America. “Europe will be a bit faster, I agree with that. But as to where, I can’t tell you," he said. Asked if they would be cooperating with German car firms he said “indirectly”, saying the timeline would be Europe first, then India and Latin America, adding that Mexico was “very possible”. Liu has previously mentioned Mexico as a possible EV production site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Sensex falls 456 points, Nifty ends below 18300 mark ||The Sensex on Wednesday cracked by 456 points, while the Nifty ended below the 18300 mark as market participants resorted to profit booking amid concerns over rich valuations. This is the second straight session that the benchmark indices are closing in the red, which has resulted in investor wealth eroding almost Rs 6.82 lakh crore. The sharp rise in equity values has led to apprehensions that the markets may have run ahead of fundamentals. The broader Nifty has gained more than 30 per cent this year, moving ahead of its Asian peers. On Wednesday, UBS said that the Indian equity markets look unattractive on account of extremely expensive valuations. The foreign brokerage, which is now ‘underweight’ on India added that the country, apart from Taiwan and Australia, is unattractive particularly on valuations even as Asean looks positive. UBS said that the earnings momentum in India is seen fading and that there is less scope for an economic rebound this year. Though there has not been any big shocks in the earnings season, some of the big companies such as TCS and Hindustan Unilever Ltd  have disappointed the street. On Wednesday, the shares of the FMCG giant fell 2.63 per cent after a 4 per cent drop on Tuesday. Market circles said that while there are concerns over high valuations, the selling is on account of higher commodity prices that pose an headwind to such companies. In Wednesday’s trading, the 30-share Sensex began in the green at 61800.07 and hit a high of 61880.36 after which profit booking set in. It later settled at 61259.96 — a drop of 456.09 points or 0.74 per cent. Barring seven stocks in the index, the rest ended in the red with losses of up to 3 per cent. While Titan led the list of losers, it was followed by HUL, Bajaj Finserv, NTPC and Larsen & Toubro. Similarly, on the NSE, the Nifty sank by 152.15 points, or 0.83 per cent, at 18266.60. Mid-cap and small cap stocks also felt the heat with the Nifty Midcap index dropping 1.91 per cent while the small-cap index cracked by 2.42 per cent. “Indices corrected quite meaningfully led by the expensive side of the market where valuations had got stretched,” said S. Ranganathan, head of research at LKP Securities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||L&T Finance Holdings reports 10% decline in consolidated net profit||L&T Finance Holdings (LTFH) on Wednesday reported a 10 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit at Rs 223 crore for the second quarter ended September 2021. The non-banking financial company had posted a net profit of Rs 248 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. Total income during July-September 2021 fell to Rs 3,134.46 crore against Rs 3,508.91 crore in the year-ago period, LTFH said in a regulatory filing. LTFH said it witnessed the highest-ever disbursement in rural finance during the reported quarter, while retail disbursements grew 55 per cent quarter-on-quarter. In the second quarter of FY22, all LTFH businesses witnessed robust disbursement momentum. Rural finance business saw the highest-ever Q2 disbursement at Rs 4,987 crore, a jump of 51 per cent quarter-on-quarter, it said. Jubilant profit jumps Jubilant Foodworks on Wednesday reported a 58.11 per cent jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 119.82 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, 2021, driven by continued strong momentum in delivery and takeaway channels. The company, which operates popular fast food chains such as Domino’s Pizza and Dunkin’ Donuts in India, logged a profit of Rs 75.78 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 1,116.19 crore compared with Rs 816.33 crore in the same period a year ago. Tata Steel BSL Tata Steel BSL has reported a five-fold jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 1,837.03 crore for the September 2021 quarter, mainly on account of higher income. The company had clocked a net profit of Rs 341.71 crore a year ago. Total income rose to Rs 8,329.68 crore from Rs 5,545.35 crore a year ago. Expenses stood at Rs 6,492.97 crore against Rs 5,203.33 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Gita Gopinath to leave IMF in January 2022||International Monetary Fund chief economist Gita Gopinath will return to Harvard University in January as planned when her public service leave of absence from the university ends, the IMF said on Tuesday. Gopinath, the IMF’s first female chief economist, joined the fund in October 2018 and led new IMF analytical research on the Covid-19 pandemic and vaccination targets as well as on climate change mitigation. She was the John Zwaanstra Professor of International Studies and Economics at Harvard University when she joined the Washington-based global lender. IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva cited Gopinath’s “tremendous” impact on the IMF’s work. “She made history as the first female Chief Economist of the Fund and we benefited immensely from her sharp intellect and deep knowledge of international finance and macroeconomics as we navigate through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. “Gita also won the respect and admiration of colleagues in the research department, across the Fund, and throughout the membership for leading analytically rigorous work and policy-relevant projects with high impact and influence,” Georgieva said. Gopinath won praise for drafting a $50 billion proposal on ending the pandemic by vaccinating at least 40 per cent of the population in all countries by the end of 2021, a plan later endorsed by the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation and the World Health Organisation. Gopinath helped set up a climate change team inside the IMF to analyse, among other things, optimal climate mitigation policies. Later, in a tweet, Gopinath thanked her colleagues for making her stint at the IMF truly gratifying. Her departure from the global crisis lender is unrelated to the ethics scandal that had raised questions about Georgieva’s future as the IMF’s leader, according to a person familiar with the matter. Gopinath’s leave from Harvard, already extended by one year, was ending, and her family had remained in Boston, the person said. She will remain at the IMF to oversee the release of the fund’s next World Economic Outlook forecasts in January. The IMF executive board last week cleared Georgieva of any wrongdoing related to allegations that in 2017, as the World Bank’s chief executive, she put undue pressure on bank staff to alter data to favour China. The US Treasury Department continues to press for changes at the institutions to safeguard their integrity. Gopinath told a news conference last week that the IMF takes data integrity “incredibly seriously” and has robust systems in place but is always looking for ways to improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea agrees to accept govt moratorium offer on spectrum fees||Vodafone Idea on Wednesday said its board has agreed to accept the government offer of a moratorium on the payment of spectrum fees for four years. In a filing to the stock exchanges, the beleaguered telecom operator said it will give its response to the department of telecom’s (DoT) proposal on AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues and the conversion of accrued interest to equity within the deadline set by the DoT. “We wish to inform you that the board of directors of the company has approved the exercise of the option of deferment of the company’s spectrum auction instalments for a period of four years (October 2021 to September 2025) in accordance with ...the notification dated 14 October 2021 issued by the department of telecommunications (DoT) to the company,” it said. “The other options offered in the said notification by DoT will be considered by the board of directors of the company within the stipulated timeframe,” the company said in the regulatory filing. The DoT has given the telecom operators time till October 29 to decide on the moratorium on spectrum payments and the AGR dues. The operators must also inform the DoT on whether they want to convert their accrued interest into equity within 90 days of the issuance of the letter. The government has offered the option to defer payment of the spectrum auction instalments due up to four years, with immediate effect, excluding the instalments due for auction held in 2021. These deferred amounts will be spread equally over the remaining instalments to be paid, without any increase in the existing time period specified for making the instalment payments. Interest as stipulated in the relevant year of auction of spectrum will, however, be charged so that the Net Present Value (NPV) of the payable amount is protected. Vodafone Idea shares rose 6.4 per cent to Rs 10.64 on the BSE following the board decision. Vodafone owes almost Rs 23,000 crore in annual spectrum and AGR liabilities, which will now be spread over the next four years. Subscribers quit The latest data of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) showed Vodafone Idea losing 8.33 lakh subscribers in August against the loss of 14.30 subscribers in July. Reliance Jio added 6.5 lakh subscribers  against the addition of 65.19 lakh subscribers in July, while Bharti Airtel added 1.38 lakh subscribers against the addition of 19.43 lakh in July. An increase in entry-level prepaid tariffs in July led to the fall in subscriber additions in August. The data showed that telecom companies lost more than a lakh subscribers (1.13 lakh) in August against the addition of 60 lakh subscribers in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
