22-10-2021||Business||Sensex falls 102 points to close below 61,000||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 102 points on Friday, tracking losses in ITC, Maruti and Infosys amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index fell 101.88 points or 0.17 per cent to 60,821.62. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty shed 63.20 points or 0.35 per cent to close at 18,114.90. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slipping over 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, Infosys, NTPC, HCL Tech and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HDFC, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, Titan and Axis Bank were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Shanghai ended in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo settled with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the rupee slipped 3 paise to close at 74.90 against the US dollar. International oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.52 per cent to USD 85.05 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Thursday, offloading shares worth Rs 2,818.90 crore, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in opening trade on Friday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Titan and Bajaj Auto amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 207.09 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 61,130.59 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 65.65 points or 0.36 per cent to 18,243.75. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising about 2 per cent, followed by Titan, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, NTPC, Infosys, HCL Tech, Tata Steel and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 336.46 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 60,923.50, and Nifty dropped 88.50 points or 0.48 per cent to 18,178.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,818.90 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Shanghai and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a mixed note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.54 per cent to USD 84.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Sensex extends losses; Reliance Industries, Asian Paints slip||The benchmark Sensex on Thursday remained under pressure, falling more than 336 points, led by Reliance Industries and Asian Paints as investors grappled with concerns over hyper valuations and disappointing results. Over the past three sessions, the gauge has taken a hit of around 793 points and during intra-day trade on Thursday, it fell to a low of 60485.65 points — a drop of around 1230 points from the levels prevailing on Tuesday. Market circles feel that had it not been for some buying in financial stocks, the index would have settled deep in the red as well. While the markets have been cruising at record levels till early this week, results from Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL), which reflected the adverse impact of elevated commodity prices, have impacted sentiment. On Thursday, Asian Paints reported disappointing numbers because of high raw material prices. It posted a 28 per cent fall in consolidated net profits to Rs 596 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, thus missing Street estimates. “Steep inflation seen in raw material prices since the beginning of this calendar year has been phenomenal and has impacted gross margins across all businesses in the quarter,’’ Amit Syngle, managing director & CEO of Asian Paints said while commenting on the results. On the BSE, shares of Asian Paints fell 5.21 per cent to Rs 3003.50 and it led the losers list in the Sensex. It was followed by RIL, which settled 2.85 per cent lower at Rs 2,623. The stock has also come under pressure recently due to apprehensions of expensive valuations. RIL will declare results on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Reliance shareholders approve appointment of Aramco Chairman on board||Shareholders of Reliance Industries (RIL) backed the company’s proposal to appoint Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir al-Rumayyan as an independent director on its board. The development comes at a time a rise in shareholder activism has seen some crucial resolutions placed by other listed firms being rejected. The oil-to-telecom giant on Thursday said a resolution proposing al-Rumayyan’s appointment got the support of over 98 per cent of the votes polled. Earlier, the California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) had decided to vote against the resolution. Its decision was based on the recommendation of global proxy advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co, which raised concerns about al-Rumayyan being designated as independent director. The voting to confirm al-Rumayyan’s appointment for a period of three years began on September 20 and ended on October 19. In a statement on Thursday, RIL said the resolution was passed with the requisite majority. A regulatory filing showed that 544,29,95,170 votes were polled in favour of the resolution, while 10,89,04,522 (1.96 per cent) were against the plan. While the proposal got the full support of the promoter and promoter group, among public institutions it was at 94.90 per cent or 202 42 65 266. Similarly, among the non-institutions segment, the votes polled in favour was 20 81 29 930 or 99.91 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Amazon in Supreme Court to stall Future merger moves||US retail giant Amazon has filed a fresh petition in the Supreme Court seeking the top court’s intervention to set aside a September order by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) that allowed Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to hold a meeting of its shareholders and creditors for the proposed merger with Reliance. Amazon’s plea follows the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) stating that FRL is a party to the arbitration between Amazon and the Future group. The partial award on Wednesday had dismissed the jurisdictional objection application filed by FRL. FRL had contended before the SIAC it should be excluded from the arbitration proceedings because it was not a party to the the dispute between its promoter Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and Amazon. Following this partial win from the SIAC, Amazon has filed an interim application in the apex court. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Thursday, FRL disclosed that Amazon has appealed to the Supreme Court to set aside the September 28 order of the NCLT which allowed FRL to convene a meeting of its shareholders and creditors. FRL had then announced it will hold the meeting with equity shareholders on November 10 and with the creditors on November 11. Reacting to the development, shares of Future Retail fell almost four per cent at the stock exchanges on Thursday. At the BSE, the FRL scrip settled 3.83 per cent lower at Rs 51.50. The NCLT has also allowed two Reliance group firms to seek creditors approval for the acquisition of Future group entities, brushing aside Amazon’s objections. Permission by the NCLT mean that while the companies can hold the meetings, the tribunal cannot give a final approval to the merger, till the Supreme Court gives its order. In October 2020, an interim award was passed by the emergency arbitrator of the SIAC in favour of Amazon. Later in August this year, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the award by the emergency arbitrator was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. The SIAC has reportedly concluded hearing of the matter between Amazon and Future Group and has reserved its final order. After the Future group entered into a deal with Reliance Industries in August last year, the US retail giant had dragged the Kishore Biyani led group into arbitration at the SIAC. Early this month, Reliance Retail Ventures, the retail arm of Reliance Industries, for the second time extended the timeline for completing the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Future Group to March 31, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||Centre rules out any proposal of fuel duty cut||The Modi government is not considering any proposal to cut the duties on petrol and diesel even as global crude prices hover around multi-year highs of $85 per barrel, finance ministry officials said. Ministry officials said revenue considerations far outweigh the benefits of an excise duty cut and any decision to slash duties will be politically driven. A one rupee cut in excise duty on fuel will cost the central exchequer almost Rs 14,000 crore annually, which the government cannot  afford at a time growth needs a push. Price hikes Petrol and diesel prices on Thursday were hiked for the third consecutive day that took pump rates across the country to record high levels. In Calcutta, a litre of petrol costs Rs 107.11, and diesel is sold at Rs 98.38 per litre While petrol has hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over a dozen states. . Coal reserves Power Secretary Alok Kumar on Thursday stressed on the need to have strategic fuel reserves to insulate the nation from supply shocks for at least a month, in the backdrop of the ongoing coal shortage at power plants in the country. Addressing a Confederation of Indian Industry event, Kumar said the higher price of coal, especially imported, was the main reason for the coal crisis in the country. His comments assume significance in view of ongoing coal shortage at power plants in the country. Oil storage India has started selling crude oil from its strategic reserves to state refiners with a view to soften the blow from surging global crude prices, while also creating space for leasing out to private and international companies. “We have started selling to oil marketing companies. This will help to create space that we will then offer for leasing,” Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd CEO H P S Ahuja said on Thursday. As much as 0.3 million tonnes of Upper Zakum crude stored at the Mangalore cavern has already been emptied and the remaining 0.45 million tonnes will be sold by the end of the year. ISPRL will lease out Mangalore cavern of 0.75 million tonnes capacity to state-owned Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd “MRPL has bought the crude the government had stored at Mangaluru at market rate,” he said adding that MRPL wants to store Saudi crude at Mangaluru SPR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||JSW Steel posts sharp rise in profit and revenue in Q2||JSW Steel posted a 68 per cent rise in revenue from operations and a 350 per cent jump in net profit on a consolidated basis in the second quarter of the fiscal compared with the same period last year on the back of strong margins for the metal. The revenue of Rs 32,503 crore and profit of Rs 7,179 crore during July-September period was the highest ever achieved by the Sajjan Jindal led company. While the performance is comprehensively better than the same period of last fiscal when India was slowly coming out of a stringent lockdown, it is notably higher on a quarter-on-quarter basis, indicating the company managed to sequentially expand margin. The subsidiaries of the company, especially the previously loss making US operations, did well this quarter. JSW Steel Ohio Inc reported an EBIDTA of $48.28 million during Q2 compared with a loss of $10.52 million. The plate and pipe mill in Texas also made $13.16 million EBIDTA. The Italy operation, however, remained in loss. Saleable steel sales for the quarter on a consolidated basis stood at 3.83 million tonnes (mt) , an increase of 10 per cent quarter on quarter. JSW Steel, along with overseas subsidiaries and entities jointly controlled by the company viz. Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL) reported 4.83 mt of sales. During the quarter, BPSL became an indirect step down subsidiary of JSW Steel where the company now holds a 83.28 per cent stake after the conversion of optional fully convertible debentures (OFCDs). The company also expanded the capacity of its Dolvi Works plant by commissioning a 5mt blast furnace at the unit in Maharashtra.During the quarter, JSW spent Rs 3,639 crore on capex. ICICI Securities said consolidated topline and EBIDTA were in-line with expectation while PAT came in higher than the estimate on higher than expected other income. JSW booked a Rs 702 crore fair valuation gain on remeasurement of OFCDs held by the company in one of the JVs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||India lost 35,000 HNIs during Modi regime: Amit Mitra||India may have lost 35,000 high net-worth individuals to other countries in the past six years during the regime of Narendra Modi, a troubling trend highlighted by Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Thursday. Mitra quoted multiple sources to arrive at the mind boggling number, which underlines the flight of capital, puncturing the chest-thumping claims of the Modi government that India has become one of the most sought after destinations for investors. The Bengal FM questioned if the departure is linked to “fear psychosis” which prompted the millionaires to look for greener pastures . “Under Modi govt 35,000 Indian Entrepreneurs of High Net Worth LEFT India between 2014-2020, as NRI/Immigrants. India RANKED No 1 IN EXODUS IN THE WORLD. WHY? ‘Fear psychosis’?? PM must place WHITE PAPER to Parliament on massive flight of entrepreneurs during his Regime,” tweeted Mitra. Continuing with the thread, Mitra wrote how some of the haloed names of India Inc came under severe criticism during a recent event of a business chamber. “Recall 19 minutes of TIRADE against Indian business by Piyush Goyal, reportedly saying business practices of INDIAN INDUSTRY WENT AGAINST NATIONAL INTEREST — short of calling them ANTI-NATIONAL. Breeds ‘fear psychosis’, motivating EXODUS? But, PM did not rebuke Goyal. Why?” Mitra tweeted.  During the CII event, Goyal chastised many, most notably the Tata group, drawing sharp criticism on social media. The video of the event was taken down from social media and it remains unavailable. Speaking to The Telegraph this afternoon, Mitra explained that an environment of fear has engulfed Indian entrepreneurs under the Modi regime and they are fearful of speaking up against the government . “I also hear tales of tax terrorism and demands being faced by the industry on various counts. Put together, many of them are relocating,” Mitra said. Industry sources said legal firms are receiving requests from clients to guide them through the transition to NRI status or taking up citizenship of other countries. The US, UAE, Canada, Australia and New Zealand are said to be the preferred destinations. India ranks 6th globally in the number of millionaires (individuals having wealth of over $1 million), according to New World Wealth. There were 330,000 millionaires in India and 120 billionaires with net assets over $1 billion. Some of the data quoted by Mitra is taken from the NWW study which it did for Mauritius based AfrAsia Bank. Even though the firm forecast an 80 per cent jump in the number of millionaires by 2030 to 600,000 in its latest report, it counted ongoing migration of HNIs amongst country risk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||Merlin Group announces launch of residential township in Rajarhat||Calcutta-based realtor Merlin Group announced the formal launch of a residential township in Rajarhat, promising to add over 6 million square feet of built-up space over the next decade to the city’s landscape. The 45-acre township is going to be based on the theme of sports. The developer intends to build pitches for football and cricket apart from a swimming pool and indoor sports arena for the residents of 10,000 dwelling units which will come up there. Infrastructure cost of the project is going to be around Rs 250 crore, Saket Mohta, managing director of Merlin Group, said. Merlin is promising to hand over the first phase of 2,529 units in five years. The builder has priced the 2-BHK and 3-BHK apartments between Rs 29 lakh and Rs 40 lakh. Mohta said Merlin’s aim was to become a full-fledged real estate company having residential projects in the luxury and affordable segments, office space, mall and industrial parks. However, affordable housing will have the biggest pie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||S&P Global upgrades ratings of five Tata group companies ||S&P Global on Thursday upgraded ratings of five companies of the Tata group, including Tata Steel, Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), reflecting its reassessment of the ongoing influence and the potential for ‘extraordinary financial support’ from parent Tata Sons. Under the revised exercise, S&P Global said ratings on Tata Steel and its 100 per cent-owned financing subsidiary ABJA Investment Co Pte Ltd have been upgraded to ‘BBB-’ from ‘BB’ with stable outlook. Similarly, Tata Motors and its wholly-owned arm TML Holdings Pte Ltd have been upgraded to ‘BB-’ from ‘B’ ratings with stable outlook. Also, the ratings of the group’s British luxury vehicles maker Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC (JLR) has been revised upwards to ‘B+’ from ‘B’. The outlook is stable, S&P Global Ratings said in a statement. “The upgrades reflect our view that the credit profiles of the various Tata Group entities are strengthened by their importance to Tata Sons, with potential for financial support, if required,” the ratings agency said. It further said, “We also expect Tata Sons to have a positive influence on the long-term strategy, financial policies and funding access of its group entities. We regard the credit quality of Tata Sons to be strongly investment grade.” S&P said the incorporation of group support into the ratings followed a revision to its approach to treating Tata Sons as a conglomerate rather than as an investment holding company. “We have observed that Tata Sons and its subsidiaries and associates have become a more cohesive group in recent years,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||Zee directed to convene EGM to consider Punit Goenka’s removal and induction of 6 new directors||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) has been directed to convene an extraordinary general meeting to consider resolutions seeking to remove Punit Goenka as CEO and MD of the media giant and induct six new independent directors. The EGM has been sought by the company’s largest shareholder Invesco which holds roughly 18 per cent of the company’s equity — a move that sparked a raging legal battle with the Subhash Chandra family, the founders of Zee. Invesco has insisted that its move was motivated by weak corporate governance at Zee and plummeting shareholder returns. Last week, Punit Goenka — who has negotiated a non-binding merger agreement with Sony India that he hopes to close by the end of December — created a stir when he claimed that Invesco had been trying to negotiate a takeover of the company by the Reliance group without authorisation from the Zee board. On Thursday, a single judge bench of the Bombay high court asked the warring parties to suggest a neutral chairperson who would conduct the EGM and gave them the freedom to pick a retired judge, senior lawyer or anyone from the corporate world. At the hearing on Thursday, Gopal Subramanium, senior counsel for Zee, said he would seek instructions from the company and will inform the court on Friday morning about the date for the EGM. Earlier this month, Zee had moved the Bombay high court praying that the demand for an EGM made by Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund be declared “illegal and invalid”. Under company law, any shareholder holding more than 10 per cent of the equity can requisition an EGM. The judge said that if Invesco was denied the right to call an EGM, it would set a “ferocious precedent” that would spark a flurry of petitions in courts seeking to assert the democratic rights of the shareholder. The court observed that it was premature to presume that the resolutions would be passed. Even if they were, the judge said he would direct that the result would not be enforced for a week, giving the company time to file an appeal in the courts. “The order that Zee seeks is in the teeth of a statutory provision (of the Companies Act, 2013). I can’t see ... why I should presume that it (the resolution seeking to oust Goenka) will be passed,” Justice GS Patel said. He also suggested that even as the EGM is held, Zee’s right to contest the validity of the resolution after the meeting can be reserved. The two sides have also locked in battle before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Recently, the tribunal had given Zee time till October 22 (Friday) to reply to Invesco’s plea to hold the EGM. This order was issued after the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) directed NCLT Mumbai to give the company reasonable opportunity to reply to Invesco’s petition insisting on an EGM. The NCLAT had observed that the tribunal had committed an error by failing to grant reasonable and sufficient time to Zee to file its reply. It added that this was in complete violation of Rule 37 of NCLT Rules, 2016 and the principles of natural justice. Invesco had submitted on September 11 its demand for an EGM which was rejected by the Zee board. It then sent out an open letter to Zee shareholders in which it argued that “weak governance and a permissive board” had perpetuated a situation where the affairs of Zee had become entangled with the “the financial distress of the founding family”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
