23-10-2021||Business||Zee digs in for a fight, stalls on EGM||Punit Goenka-run Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) is digging its heels in for a bruising legal battle with institutional shareholder Invesco. On Friday, ZEEL stuck to its guns and maintained that Invesco’s requisition for an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of shareholders was illegal and invalid, effectively spurning the Bombay High Court’s directive yesterday to call a shareholders’ meeting. Invesco plans to move a resolution seeking to oust CEO and MD Goenka and induct six new independent directors — a move that the Subhash Chandra family, the founders of Zee, believe is a ploy to push for a takeover of the media house by the Reliance group. Zee has already struck a non-binding agreement with Sony India for a merger of the two entities that it hopes to close by the end of December. Goenka had informed the Zee board about 10 days ago that Invesco had been trying to bring in the Reliance group as a strategic partner and made its first overture in February. The Bombay High Court has reserved its order on Zee’s petition till Tuesday. ZEEL has argued that Invesco’s demand for an EGM is not compliant with rules and regulations governing media companies made by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and also some clauses of the Companies Act. On Thursday, Justice GS Patel of the Bombay High court had asked the board of Zee to look into the requisition notice made by Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund. Zee’s senior counsel Gopal Subramanium had said that he would seek instructions from the company and inform the court about the date of the EGM on Friday morning. At the hearing on Friday, Subramanium reiterated the Zee board’s concerns, indicating that the company was not prepared to call the EGM. Subramanium said prior permission must be taken from the I&B ministry before trying to effect any changes to Zee’s board. Counsel for Zee said a certain procedure needs to be followed when it comes to the appointment of independent directors. While the nomination and remuneration committee proposes the names of independent directors to the Board, the latter then takes a view on whether or not they should be appointed. He averred that the proposal to induct six new independent directors into the board tantamounts to a change in control and, if this happens, then a open offer has to be made. He further observed that a board of a company should have a optimum mix of executive and non-executive directors. Kapil Sibal, who appeared for Punit Goenka, said Invesco was seeking the appointment of six independent directors and the removal of Goenka. However, a listed company cannot have a board without a managing director and the CEO. Janak Dwarkadas, who appeared on behalf of Invesco, said the shareholders have the right to seek an EGM as they hold more than 10 per cent in the company. He also did not agree with the view that the Invesco move would lead to a change in control since this is a proposal that may or may not be accepted by the shareholders. Early this month, Zee had claimed that it had sought legal opinion from a wide range of legal eagles, including retired Supreme Court judges who endorsed the view that Invesco’s notice seeking the convening of an EGM was illegal and invalid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
23-10-2021||Business||Tata Consumer Products reports 4.62% rise in consolidated net profit||Tata Consumer Products Ltd (TCPL) on Thursday reported a 4.62 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 285.80 crore for the September quarter, helped by growth in domestic beverages and food businesses. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 273.18 crore in the July-September period a year ago, TCPL, earlier known as Tata Global Beverages Ltd, said in a BSE filing. Revenue from operations increased 9.05 per cent to Rs 3,033.12 crore against Rs 2,781.34 crore a year ago. Total expenses of the Tata Group’s FMCG arm were at Rs 2,708.91 crore, up 10.02 per cent from Rs 2,462.20 crore in the second quarter of FY2021. Biocon net dips Biocon on Friday said its consolidated net profit declined  18 per cent to Rs 138 crore for the September quarter from Rs 169 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations, however, increased by 5 per cent in the second quarter to Rs 1,840 crore from Rs 1,750 crore in the year-ago period, Biocon Ltd said in a statement. Hind Zinc profit up Vedanta group firm Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) has reported a 3.9 per cent rise in its net profit at Rs 2,017 crore for the  September quarter, on the back of higher revenue from operations.  The company had posted net profit of Rs 1,940 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations in the July-September quarter increased to Rs 5,958 crore, from Rs 5,533 crore in the year-ago period, the filing said. The total expenses of the company during the quarter increased to Rs 3,571 crore  against Rs 3,428 crore in the year-ago period. Federal Bank Federal Bank’s net profit jumped 55 per cent to Rs 488 crore for the second quarter of this fiscal ended September 30.   The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 315.70 crore in the year-ago period. Total income (consolidated)  however, was down at Rs 4,013.46 crore against Rs 4,071.35 crore in the same period of 2020-21. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
23-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank remains focused on bringing back retail inflation to 4%||The Reserve Bank remains focused on bringing back retail inflation to 4 per cent over a period of time in a non-disruptive manner, governor Shaktikanta Das stressed while voting for status quo in interest rates, according to  minutes of the October policy meeting released on Friday. The central bank has been mandated by the government to ensure the Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation is at 4 per cent, with a band of 2 per cent on either side. Retail inflation, which was above 6 per cent during May and June, has started moving down and stood at 4.35 per cent in September. According to the minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting held during October 6 to 8, Das said in its August 2021 meeting, the panel was faced with the challenges posed by headline inflation exceeding the upper tolerance threshold for the second successive month. The actual inflation outcomes for July-August have vindicated the MPC’s outlook and monetary policy stance, he noted. The more-than-expected softening of inflation in July and August this year was underpinned by the significant lowering in food price momentum, especially in August. Going forward, the governor said if there are no spells of unseasonal rains, food inflation is likely to register significant moderation in the immediate term, aided by record kharif production, more than adequate food stocks, supply-side measures and favourable base effects. “Volatile crude prices, particularly the resurgence since mid-September, is pushing pump prices to new highs, raising risk of spillover of high transportation cost into retail prices of goods and services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
23-10-2021||Business||Short shrift to Play Store relief||Google’s decision to slash Play Store fee for developers selling subscription service has come in for a strong reaction from digital startup associations, which  term it as nothing but a reduced ‘lagaan‘ (tax). Google has announced that it is lowering its app store fees for all subscription-based services to 15 per cent from the existing 30 per cent starting January 1, 2022. However, the Alliance of Digital India Foundation (ADIF) says the tech firm is trying to “deflect and distract" from what developers have been asking for so far. This move only addresses the issue of high prices charged from app developers while the bigger issue of anti-competitive practices still remains unaddressed. “What developers are asking for is fairness and not benevolence in the form of ‘reduced’ commission percentages. It has never been about the percentages. Price discovery should be left to the market forces. As long as Google gets to unilaterally dictate prices and people don’t have choices, it’s still a lagaan—be it 30, 15 or even 2, the percentages do not matter,” Sijo Kuruvilla George, executive director, ADIF, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||HDFC Life heads into second half of fiscal with EMR of Rs 204 crore||HDFC Life Insurance is heading into the second half of the fiscal year with an excess mortality reserve (EMR) of Rs 204 crore to cover for claims from the Covid pandemic. The insurer said it will monitor the adequacy of the reserve during the period. The life insurer had allotted Rs 700 crore as mortality reserve at the end of June, while it utilised Rs 556 crore of the reserve from July to September. HDFC Life added Rs 60 crore to the reserves, leaving it with Rs 204 crore at the beginning of the second half of the fiscal. The additional provisions have impacted the bottomline of HDFC Life Insurance which fell 15.93 per cent to Rs 275.91 crore in the second quarter from Rs 327.83 crore a year ago, though profit was higher by around 2 per cent on a sequential basis from Rs 269.55 crore in the first quarter. “We settled around 2 lakh claims in the first half of 2021-22. Gross and net claims amounted to Rs 3,640 crore and Rs 2,466 crore respectively. While individual claims have tapered off, group claim intimations were high in the second quarter,” said Vibha Padalkar, MD & CEO of HDFC Life Insurance, at the earnings call. With awareness around insurance at a high in the pandemic, the life insurer continued to grow its business. “Our business performance remains strong with 22 per cent growth in new business premium and private market share of 16.2 per cent in terms of individual weighted received premium in the first half,” said Padalkar. She said the life insurer is awaiting final approval from the IRDAI and CCI for the acquisition of the Exide Life Insurance business and is in discussions with the authorities having received  shareholder approval in September. The HDFC Life share was down 0.61 per cent on Friday at the Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||SIAC rejects Future Retail plea to lift interim stay on Reliance deal||The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has rejected a plea of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to lift the interim stay on its proposed deal with Reliance, in yet another setback for the Kishore Biyani-company. Earlier this week, the arbitrator said FRL is a party to the current arbitration between Amazon and the Future group. Following the partial award, Amazon approached the Supreme Court urging the order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on September 28 be set aside. The tribunal had permitted FRL to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors for the Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance. In a communication to the stock exchanges on Friday, FRL said it has received SIAC’s decision dated October 21, 2021 with regard to its plea on vacating the interim award of  Emergency Arbitrator (EA) given on October 25 last year. Pointing out that the arbitration tribunal has passed a decision dismissing its application, FRL while quoting parts of the order, said “the tribunal is satisfied that the orders set out in the EA Award were correctly granted, and have not been vitiated by any subsequent events or proceedings. Further or alternatively, the respondents have not demonstrated that circumstances have materially changed to justify any change to the EA Award’’. “The tribunal’s decision to reject the application to vacate the EA Award has re-affirmed the grounds of the EA in specifically injuncting any application by FRL (and the other respondents) from taking any steps in relation to the impugned transaction including the filing and pursuing of any application before the NCLT,’’ the filing said. FRL added that it would be deciding on its future course of action based on the legal advice and available remedies in law. Shares of the company on Friday extended losses as it fell  2.62 per cent to Rs 50.15 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||Yes Bank reports 74.30% jump in net profit for quarter ended Sep 30||Lower provisions helped Yes Bank report a 74.30 per cent jump in net profit for the quarter ended September 30. The private sector lender posted a net profit of Rs 225.50 crore against Rs 129.37 crore a year ago. Ahead of its numbers, there were wide variance in analyst estimates with brokerages such as Anand Rathi forecasting that its bottomline would spike by 247 per cent to Rs 448.4 crore, while others expected it to come between Rs 150 crore and Rs 200 crore. Some analysts had also pencilled in a loss for the period. For Yes Bank, the rise came on account of a sharp fall in provisions. The lender said that provisions came down to Rs 377.37 crore from Rs 1,078 crore in the year ago period. Asset quality of the bank also improved with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) coming at Rs 28,740.59 crore against Rs 28,505.95 crore in the preceding three months and Rs 32,344.36 crore in the year ago period. The percentage of gross NPAs declined to 14.97 per cent from 15.60 per cent on a sequential basis, while the net NPA ratio stood at 5.55 per cent from 5.78 per cent in the April-June quarter. Fresh slippages were lower compared with the preceding quarter at Rs 1,783 crore, of which corporate slippages stood at Rs 750 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||Paytm IPO gets Sebi approval||The decks have been cleared for the country’s largest initial public offering (IPO) — with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Friday giving its approval  for the share float of One97 Communications, the parent of digital financial services firm Paytm. The country’s second most valuable start-up after Byju’s is set to make an initial public offer of Rs 16,600 crore. The company which is backed by SoftBank and Alibaba’s Ant Financial is likely to hit the markets by the end of this month. One97 Communications had filed its draft prospectus with the market regulator in July. The IPO will be a fresh issue aggregating to Rs 8,300 crore and an offer for sale of a similar amount by the existing shareholders. While filing for the share sale, the company had said it retains the option in discussion with book running lead managers to undertake a pre IPO placement of Rs 2,000 crore However, it is now learnt that Paytm is unlikely to go ahead with this pre IPO placement. Market circles expect interest in Paytm to remain high though the secondary markets have come under pressure over the past few sessions because of concerns over valuations and rising  input prices Since Zomato’s share float in July, new age tech companies are tapping the primary market. Zomato’s IPO which had come in the price band of Rs 72-76 per share was subscribed over 38 times. Recently, hospitality firm OYO filed preliminary papers with Sebi to raise Rs 8,430 crore through an initial share-sale. Some of the others that are set to raise funds include Policybazaar, Nykaa and Mobikwik Systems. The top five shareholders of One97 Communications are ANT Financial through Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V with 29.6 per cent stake. SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Ltd or SoftBank Vision Fund holds 18.3 per cent and SAIF III Mauritius Company Ltd, 12.1 per cent. Founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma holds 9.6 per cent stake and Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Pvt Ltd has a 7.2 per cent stake. Sharma, ANT Financial, Alibaba, SoftBank and SAIF are expected to sell some their shares. Paytm was launched in 2009 as a digital platform to enable cashless payments, starting with assistance in bill payments and offering mobile top ups. It then set up the “Paytm Wallet” in 2014 and built a payments platform. According to the company, it has the country’s largest payments platform based on the number of consumers and merchants, number of consumer-to-merchant transactions and revenues as of March 31, 2021. The previous record for India’s largest IPO was held by Coal India which mobilised Rs 15,000 crore, more than a decade ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||Reliance Industries posts 43 per cent jump in net profit||Reliance Industries silenced its doubters to post a 43 per cent jump in net profit to Rs 13,680 crore in the second quarter of the fiscal against Rs 9,567 crore a year ago, much ahead of analyst estimates of profits of around Rs 12,500 crore. The oil-to-telecom (O2C) and the retail businesses drove profit growth even as telecom reported lower net  subscriber additions. Reliance’s topline at over Rs 1.74 lakh crore for the quarter also beat estimates. Concerns have been raised  among analysts over  the steep valuation of the Reliance stock. The scrip was a laggard over the past few trading sessions after outperforming the broader indices this year. The O2C business stole the show with a 58 per cent leap in revenues to Rs 120,475 crore compared with Rs 76,184 crore a year ago. In telecom, average revenue per user (ARPU) at Rs 143.6 beat estimates of Rs 140 per user but there was some disappointment in additions. RIL said it added 23.8 million subscribers (net) in the quarter to raise its user base to 429.5 million by the end of the second quarter, much lower than the 42.3 million added in the preceding quarter. Digital services business Jio Platforms posted a 15.2 per cent growth in gross revenues at Rs 23,222 crore in the second quarter against Rs 21,708 crore a year ago. Net profit stood at Rs 3,728 crore  against Rs 3,019 crore a year ago, with the share of Jio Infocomm at Rs 3,528 crore an increase of 24.05 per cent. It was the O2C business which was the star of the show reporting a nearly 44 per cent rise in earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation (EBITDA) to Rs 12,720 crore. The sharp rise in revenues was largely because of improved realisation on the back of an increase in oil prices and higher volumes. However, higher feedstock prices affected the margins of some items. Reliance said it benefited from the rise in the prices of  polypropylene by 30 per cent, polyethylene by 26 per cent and poly vinyl chloride (PVC), 54 per cent. But on a sequential basis, their margins softened because of a rise in feedstock prices. The retail business also contributed to the good performance by clocking a 10.5 per cent growth in revenues to Rs 45,426 crore compared with Rs 41,100 crore a year ago. Net profits of the business grew 74 per cent to Rs 1,695 crore. According to RIL, revenues in retail are higher than the pre-Covid period. With the relaxation of restrictions, business recorded higher store operating days at 89 per cent compared with 61 per cent last quarter even as footfalls recovered to 78 per cent of pre-Covid levels compared with 46 per cent in the preceding three months. Retail witnessed  a strong growth across all consumption baskets following a revival in sentiments amid festivities, lesser curbs and a rise in the pace of vaccinations. Reliance saw growth momentum getting re-established in fashion & lifestyle with sales closing above pre-Covid levels. Further, consumer electronics and grocery maintained strong growth momentum. Meanwhile, RIL continued to be net debt free. While the outstanding debt as on September 30, 2021 was Rs 255,891 crore, the cash and cash equivalents were higher at Rs 259,476 crore. “I am pleased that Reliance has posted a strong performance in the second quarter of 2021-22. Our operational and financial performance reflects sharp recovery in the retail segment and sustained growth in O2C and digital services business,’’ Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
