24-10-2021||Business||Govt announces new rules to ease power sector woes||The ministry of power on Saturday announced new rules to sustain economic viability of the sector, ease financial stress of various stakeholders and ensure timely recovery of costs involved in electricity generation. The ministry notified rules for the sustainability of the electricity sector and promotion of clean energy to meet India’s commitment towards climate change, a statement said. Investors and other stakeholders in the power sector had been concerned about the timely recovery of the costs because of change in law, curtailment of renewable power and other related matters. The rules notified by the ministry of power under the Electricity Act, 2003 are in the interest of the electricity consumers and stakeholders, it added. “At present, the pass through under change of law takes time. This impacts the viability of the sector and the developers get financially stressed. The rules would help in creating an investment friendly environment in the country,” it stated. “The energy transition is happening across the globe. India has also made commitments to bring about energy transition. India has also announced international commitment to set up 175 GW of RE capacity by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
24-10-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz opts for direct sales||India is the fourth country after South Africa, Sweden, and Austria where Mercedes Benz India is rolling out its new retail format called the Retail of the Future The new retail format, where the German company will sell cars directly to its customers instead of through dealerships, has improved customer satisfaction in the markets where implemented. That in turn was leveraged to  increase sales. Mercedes Benz India processed 1,700 orders in the last couple of weeks in this new retail format, said Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO of Mercedes Benz India Ltd at the launch on Friday. “The retail format was first launched in South Africa about four years ago. Thereafter, it was introduced in Sweden. India is the first country with CKD production which will have the new retail structure. So whenever we face difficulties, we can fall back on the experience of our counterparts in these two countries,” said Schwenk. When asked what were the tangible benefits of the new way of selling cars, Schwenk said: “It improved the financial position of Mercedes Benz. With customers directly purchasing from the company, a lot of incidental charges like handling charges are done away with. “The customer can see the entire stock position and there is complete transparancy in the sales process. Mercedes-Benz India will retain the ownership of the entire stock of cars and retail them via appointed Franchise Partners, by invoicing them directly to the customers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
24-10-2021||Business||Jio conducts 5G trials, explores partnerships with global integrators||Reliance Jio is conducting trials for 5G and exploring partnerships with global system integrators. It has also entered into partnerships with leading automobile OEMs to provide automotive solutions designed to deliver an array of consumer and enterprise services. Jio 5G field trials have started at various locations with competitive positions and capabilities comparable with global Tier 1 vendors. Jio 5G is a comprehensive homegrown 5G stack for both Radio (5G NR) and Core Network (5G CN) compliant to latest standards. Jio reported a 23.5 per cent growth in net profit at Rs 3,728 crore as telecom user revenue grew Rs 143.6 per month in the second quarter. It was Rs 138.4/month in the previous quarter. Reliance said it is working with Google to launch the low-priced smartphone JioPhone Next, to be available around Diwali. Reliance Jio has also entered into partnerships with “leading automobile OEMs in both the two-wheeler and four-wheeler segments” to provide automotive solutions designed to deliver an array of consumer and enterprise services. “Jio’s new-age connected vehicle solution is a combination of hardware, software and connectivity that will enable users to access trending infotainment and real time telematics on the go as it brings the benefits of digital life to a vehicle and to people on the move,” the company said. Gas production Natural gas production from the MJ field in the KG basin is expected to start flowing from the third quarter of 2022-23, RIL has said. “MJ development project is on track for first gas by 3QFY23. The construction activities at various locations are progressing on schedule with the second offshore campaign expected to commence in 3QFY22,” RIL said in its second quarter earnings presentation. The MJ-1 gas find is located about 2,000 metres directly below the Dhirubhai-1 and 3 (D1 and D3) fields — the first and the largest fields in KG-D6 block. MJ-1 is estimated to hold a minimum of 0.988 Trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of contingent resources. The field also has oil deposits which would be produced using a floating system called FPSO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
24-10-2021||Business||ICICI Bank posts a 30 per cent growth in net profits||ICICI Bank on Saturday beat analyst estimates as it posted a 30 per cent growth in net profits on higher core income even as provisions declined. The private lender posted a standalone net profit of Rs 5,511 crore against Rs 4,251 crore in the same period of the previous year. Ahead of the results, the Street was expecting ICICI Bank to report a net profit in the region of Rs 5,300 crore. This growth in its bottomline came as the net interest income (NII-interest earned minus interest expended) gained 25 per cent over the corresponding previous period to Rs 11,690 crore. Non-interest income, excluding treasury income, showed a rise of 26 per cent to Rs 4,400 crore from Rs 3,486 crore in the same period of the previous year. The asset quality of the bank also improved with the percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 4.82 per cent from 5.15 per cent in the April-June period. The net NPA ratio fell below the 1 per cent mark to 0.99 per cent which is a seven- year low. It stood at 1.16 per cent in the preceding quarter. In value terms, the amount of gross NPAs stood at Rs 41,437.41 crore compared with Rs 43,148.28 crore in the preceding three months. Provisions at the bank declined to Rs 2,713.48 crore from Rs 2,851.69 crore on a sequential basis. ICICI Bank disclosed that it restructured loans worth Rs 3,737.66 crore in terms of the RBI’s resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress announced in August last year. Of this, Rs 61.22 crore slipped into NPAs in the first half. Similarly, under the RBI’s second such package announced in May 2021, it recast loans worth Rs 840 crore of which Rs 601 crore were from the retail segment. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Sandeep Batra, executive director, ICICI Bank said the lender is optimistic about the growth of the Indian economy on the back of increased vaccination and the deleveraging of corporate India. He added that ICICI Bank is not risk averse in terms of lending to any sector. ICICI Bank said with the increase in economic activity, disbursements across all retail products increased sequentially during the quarter. Mortgage disbursements were close to the level seen in the quarter ended March 31, 2021, reflecting the increase in demand coupled with its seamless customer onboarding experience through pre-approved offers and digitisation. Disbursements of personal loans and auto loans were also close to the levels prevailing in the quarter ended March 31, 2021. In credit cards too, the bank continued its strong performance with the value of spends rising 47 per cent sequentially. During the period, its retail loan portfolio grew 20 per cent over the previous year and comprised 62 per cent of the total loan portfolio as on September 30, 2021. Similarly, the SME business, which includes borrowers with a turnover of less than Rs 250 crore, grew 42 per cent over the year-ago period. Growth in the domestic wholesale banking portfolio was 14 per cent over the previous year period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
