25-10-2021||Business||Air India: Govt signs share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for Rs 18,000-crore||The government on Monday signed a share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for sale of national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. Earlier this month, the government had accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of the salt-to-software conglomerate, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. Following that, on October 11 a Letter of Intent (LoI) was issued to the Tata Group confirming the government's willingness to sell its 100 per cent stake in the airline. "Share Purchase Agreement signed today by Government with Tata Sons for strategic disinvestment of Air India," Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. The deal also includes the sale of Air India Express and ground handling arm AISATS. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier. While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable -- it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises 145 points to close just below 61,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 145 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and SBI amid a largely positive trend in global markets. After a choppy session, the 30-share index ended 145.43 points or 0.24 per cent higher at 60,967.05. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 10.50 points or 0.06 per cent to 18,125.40. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring nearly 11 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Dr Reddy's, SBI, M&M and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, HCL Tech, Asian Paints and Maruti were among the laggards. Indian markets opened lower following mixed Asian cues as global investors track inflation and supply chain bottlenecks converge, sending euro zone inflation to multi-year high in September and raising concerns of earlier than expected rise in policy rates, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. "During the afternoon session markets bounced from lows and traded in green on sustained buying by funds and investors," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading largely positive in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.73 per cent to USD 85.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex opened on a choppy note on Monday and dropped over 100 points tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank, despite a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index opened on a positive note but soon pared the gains and was trading 114.93 points or 0.19 per cent lower at 60,706.69 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty declined 58.55 points or 0.32 per cent to 18,056.35. Asian Paints was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Bharti Airtel, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, ICICI Bank zoomed 8 per cent on strong earnings. Axis Bank, M&M and NTPC were among the other gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index fell 101.88 points or 0.17 per cent to 60,821.62, and broader NSE Nifty shed 63.20 points or 0.35 per cent to close at 18,114.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,697.70 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be muted as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "High input costs have adversely impacted margins and profitability of select consumer and manufacturing companies despite steady volume and sales growth. "This essentially raises concerns about the sustainability of earnings rebound in subsequent quarters, which has weighed on sentiments. However, despite that overall performance so far has been good with sharp growth in revenue aiding double-digit growth in earnings," he said. In his view, the market may remain volatile with downward bias in the near-term and investors will track pricing power of the industries. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.79 per cent to USD 85.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||JSW plans big expansion, banks on cash flow to limit debt||JSW Steel is on the cusp of a major expansion, aiming to double capacity to 36.5 million tonnes a year. Basking in the after-glow of record-breaking profits, the company says it may not need to take on any more debt if it continues to generate at the current run rate. The company joint managing director & CFO Seshagiri Rao tells The Telegraph that there is no way JSW will slip into the red even if steel cycle turns. Rao also spoke about cost pressure and floated the idea of levying a surcharge to cover spiralling coking coal prices. JSW Steel’s EBIDTA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) has gone up in absolute terms but EBIDTA per tonne has come down in n Can you explain? Our blended sales realisation has gone up by 5 per cent while cost has gone up by 19 per cent. Coking coal prices trebled; from $110-120 a tonne, it went up to $400 a tonne. Iron ore prices came down globally but it did not come off to the same extent in India. Every other input cost, power, ferro alloy etc, has gone up. As a result, EBIDTA per tonne went down by about Rs 2,500 a tonne. However, sales volume was up which contributed to absolute EBIDTA going up. The same story will continue in thefuture as the new 5 MT expansion at Dolvi will come into production. Absolute EBIDTA will go up (this year). How much production are you guiding for in 2021-22? Our production will be 22.9 million tonnes (mt), which includes 18.5mt  from JSW Steel, 2.8mt from BPSL, 0.6mt from Monnet and 1mt from the US operation. The sales guidance stands at 21.6mt. The second half will be better due to the Dolvi expansion and BSPL integration. Why did JSW integrate BPSL even though it was not planned at the time of the acquisition? BPSL did extremely well. It made an EBIDTA of Rs 2,020 crore in Q2. There was a debt of Rs 13,300 crore at the time of the acquisition. We have repaid Rs 3,300 crore from the cash flow already, plus there is a Rs 2,000 crore cash balance. The net debt is Rs 8,000 crore which means almost a 1:1 debt to annualised EBIDTA. So, the need to have a separate structure does not make sense. JSW now holds about 87 per cent in BPSL. Will it be merged in future? We keep a company separate till the turnaround. In the case of BPSL, a case is going on in the Supreme Court. Till the judgment comes, it will remain separate. JSW is considering a raw material surcharge to mitigate cost pressures. Can you walk us through the proposal? We have to devise a way to manage volatility. Globally, the surcharge is there in the US where steel prices are linked to scrap prices. In Europe, a major producer announced a $50 a tonne energy surcharge. But this is new in India. The success of the idea is contingent on customers accepting it. We will discuss it with them. Are you only looking at the OEM customers who are in long term contracts for the surcharge? Yes, but not in the retail or exports market. (OEM is 50 per cent of JSW’s sales). What will be the impact on account of coking coal in Q3? It will be a cost pressure of $ 100 a tonne as compared with $30 a tonne which we had absorbed. For the surcharge, we will take a base price as on July 1. Then we (the supplier and the buyers) have to agree on what will be the impact of any increase over the base price on per tonne of steel. Iron ore prices are coming off. Will JSW benefit from it? Iron ore prices have halved from the high of $230 a tonne to $110-120 a tonne globally. In India, prices have come down from Rs 6,500 a tonne by Rs 1,800 a tonne, this will be reflected in Q3. How is the demand scenario expected to play out over the next two quarters? Pick-up in the demand in Q2 was not good. But we are very optimistic of the pick-up in the second half. Solar, appliances, packaging will do well and construction is picking up. We expect robust steel demand from transition to renewable energy globally. What is the roadmap for JSW over the next three years? We will go up to 36.5mt by 2024 from 18mt. The Vijaynagar operation will be 19.5mt from 12mt, Dolvi is doubling to 10mt. At Bhushan, capacity is going up to 5mt. This means JSW will not be able to bring down debt... I don’t look at it that way. If the company makes annual EBIDTA of Rs 50,000 crore, (it did close to Rs 24,000 crore in Q1), the cash flow will be enough to fund the expansion, after factoring in dividend, interest and tax. Debt is not going up. But what if the steel prices fall from this historic level? JSW’s annual interest and depreciation cost is Rs 5,000 crore. Our Ebidta was Rs 26,000 a tonne. This company is never going to tumble into the red even if steel prices come down. If we consider the last 7 years average EBIDTA, factor in the structural changes made during the period in terms of increasing the share of value added product in sales, and cost reduction programmes, JSW is a solid proof company. JSW still may have to take on debt for expansion if prices come off? Our net debt to EBIDTA is 1.58 times as on September 30, 2021 but our commitment is not to go beyond 2.75 times. So, there is enough headroom for us (in the event cash generation comes down or if it takes on fresh debt). Total cost of expansion (from 18mt to 36mt) will be Rs 51,500 crore while net debt will be Rs 65,000 crore (assuming no fresh borrowing). This is very competitive. There is no way this company can falter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||RIL makes wave of partnerships to shape green energy business||Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd has made a wave of partnerships to give shape to its green energy business that spans solar, battery and hydrogen investments and could contribute almost 10 per cent of the company’s pre-tax profits in five years, a report said. The company announced a wave of partnerships with REC, NexWafe, Sterling and Wilson, Stiesal and Ambri for total costs of $ 1.2 billion. “With these investments, Reliance has acquired the expertise and technology portfolio to start to build a fully integrated end-to-end renewables energy ecosystem through solar, batteries and hydrogen,” brokerage Bernstein said in a report. “Reliance will commercialise the acquired technologies and set up manufacturing plants in India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Smartworks eyes ambitious expansion plans in the country||Smartworks — the managed and flexible office space provider — is eyeing ambitious expansion plans in the country, with the strategy to tap large companies paying off  for the firm. Amid an upsurge in demand for such spaces  after the  pandemic and the trend expected to sustain, Smartworks expects this number to rise to 6 million square feet by the end of this fiscal year and 20 million sqft in the next 36 months. Smartworks is looking to double its capacity in Bengal from 200,000sqft at present. It is also targeting a presence in eastern cities  such as Ranchi, Patna and Bhubaneswar. “When we commenced operations, co-working was perceived as having small offices, a floor in a building catering to start-ups or SMEs. However, we realised that while co-working is a big segment, in India, the managed office space that caters to enterprises offers a bigger opportunity. So, we thought of creating a flexible model for such enterprises,’’ Neetish Sarda, founder of Smartworks, said.  This strategy has yielded results with Smartworks that commenced operations in 2016-17, turning profitable in 2019. It now has over 450 clients, 95 per cent of which are enterprises like Microsoft, Amazon, EY, Starbucks, and Samsung to name a few in different locations. Sarda disclosed that while Smartworks raised Series A funding of $ 25 million from Keppel Land, Singapore in 2018-19, it may go for another round of equity infusion in the next financial year. He admitted that the firm might also look at an initial public offering (IPO) though this may happen in the next three to four years. His growth plans come at a time when corporates are seeking more flexible or managed offices (a workplace that is entirely managed by another operator), thanks to the pandemic. “The pandemic had a seminal effect on how occupiers reviewed their real estate strategies. Given the still-evolving situation around return to the office and a hybrid workplace strategy, cost optimisation, specialised services, and flexibility are key perspectives for occupiers as they plan ahead,’’ says a CII-JLL report. The report added that the flex space industry found the initial days of the pandemic tough and a still prevailing and extended work from home scenario continuing to impact center-level occupancies. “The sector, however, has pivoted during this period as demand from enterprises and big corporates has seen a surge’’, it observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Govt to launch next tranche of Bharat Bond ETF by December ||The government is likely to launch the next tranche of the Bharat Bond ETF by December and expects to raise over Rs 10,000 crore to fund growth plans of central public sector enterprises, according to a senior finance ministry official. The official said the fund requirements of CPSEs are being worked out and the third tranche of the exchange-traded fund (ETF) will be launched by the end of the calendar year. “We are finalising on the amount to be raised but it would be over Rs 10,000 crore,” the official said. Bharat Bond ETF is an exchange-traded fund that invests in debt of public sector companies. The ETF currently invests only in “AAA”-rated bonds of public sector companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Banks intensify efforts to alert customers of internet frauds||Banks have intensified their efforts to alert their customers of internet frauds that have swirled in numbers and varieties amid rise in digital payments. Bankers have stepped up their vigil on scamsters who are using sophisticated tools such as SIM swaps, juice jacking, frauds using search engines and QR code scams to dupe customers. In SIM swaps, fraudsters  call customers by posing as officials from a telecom operator  requesing details for a free upgrade of the SIM card. Existing SIM cards are deactivated and replaced by a clone SIM   through which accounts can be accessed and OTPs generated to authenticate transactions. “A mobile number has actually become an identity and anything from a banking perspective can be done if somebody takes control of SIM card and mobile numbers,” said Manish Agrawal, head credit intelligence and control, HDFC Bank. “At a bank level we are telling customers that if your phone suddenly stops working for a considerable period of time in a regular environment immediately, the customer should inform the mobile operator and ensure no duplicate SIM has been issued.” In juice jacking, once a mobile phone is connected to an unknown/unverified charging port, fraudsters gain access to sensitive information such as email, text messages, and saved passwords. “Most people have their financial credentials saved in a mobile phone or laptop. If connected with an unknown public wifi, data can be extracted from those devices,” said Agrawal. In an advanced form of phishing attack, contact details on search engines are camouflaged by fraudsters and customers trying to contact the banks or insurance companies or Aadhaar service centres end up contacting unknown numbers. QR codes have embedded account details in them for easier payments to bank accounts and wallets.  Fraudsters  contact customers under various pretexts and trick them into scanning QR codes using payment apps. Several banks have started campaigning to create cybersecurity awareness. “HDFC Bank has been doing secure banking campaigns through social media, text messages, e-mails and periodic notifications to its customers,” said Agrawal. “By highlighting through the campaign that the customer can tell when their information is under threat and respond appropriately, the bank hopes to bring them to share the critical role of protecting their information and transactions,” said Jasneet Bachal, chief marketing officer, Yes Bank. This allows them to withdraw money from the customer's account. “Official websites of banks/companies must be used to get the contact details,” said Agrawal. Not just seniors Data compiled by HDFC Bank show that around 85 per cent of customers with net banking and UPI fraud disputes between April -June 2021 were in the age group of 22-50 and supposedly more tech savvy. Around 75 per cent of the cyber frauds have happened between 7am and 7pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors eyes No.2 spot with sub-four metre SUV Punch||Tata Motors hopes to move up to the second place in the sales pecking order with its sub-four metre SUV Punch. The company at present sits in third place after Maruti and Hyundai. Tata Motors aims to sell more numbers of the Punch than its highest seller compact SUV Nexon. The company has sold 9,211 units of the Nexon in September this year, 1,00,06 units in August, and 1,02,87 units in July. In the financial year 2021-22, till date, Tata Motors has sold 5,09,14 units of Nexon. “With Punch, we hope to increase our market share. In FY22, we have an 11.5 per cent market share in the SUV space. With Punch we expect it to grow more as we think Punch will be the largest seller in our portfolio.” said Vivek Srivatsa, head, marketing, Passenger Vehicles Business Unit (PVBU) “You already know what kind of sales Nexon is generating and Punch should be equal to Nexon or slightly higher. So you can expect a jump in our market share,” Srivatsa said. Till September, Tata’s SUV sales for this fiscal stood at 74,000 units, and it occupied the fifth position in the segment  after Hyundai, Maruti, Mahindra, and Kia. “With Punch, we should be close to the next higher manufacturer,” said Srivatsa. While the company now has a presence in the sub-four metre SUV space, in the compact SUV space with Nexon, and two high SUVs, Safari and Harrier, it still has no product in the mid-SUV and premium SUV categories. “Mid-SUV is 32 per cent of the market and the Multi-Utility Vehicle (MUV) is 5 per cent, so we are not playing in 37 per cent of the market space. We cover only 58 per cent of the SUV space,” said Srivatsa. The company is planning to launch a mid-SUV, as it will also have an electric Punch. “An electric powertrain for Punch is in the making, '' he said, adding it will be part of the 10 new EVs that the company plans to launch by 2023. Tata Motors has increased its market share from 7.4 per cent in September 2020 to 13.9 per cent in September 2021. Though the company is also facing the effects of the global chip shortage it has managed to “dramatically increase its production ability,” said Srivatsa. When asked how it managed to do so, the director said: “We operate in the same ecosystem as other OEMs, we face similar challenges. But we have managed to optimise several aspects of the supply chain, we have better relations with our suppliers and we have optimised our product mix according to what is available.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Government may introduce two key financial sector bills||The government may introduce two key financial sector bills, including the proposed law to facilitate the privatisation of public sector banks, announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget. The government is also likely to table amendments to the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013, to enable the separation of the National Pension System Trust (NPS) from the PFRDA for universal pension coverage. It is likely to table amendments in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, during the forthcoming winter session of Parliament, sources said. Amendments would be needed in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, for the privatisation of banks, sources said. These Acts led to the nationalisation of banks in two phases and provisions of these laws have to be changed for the privatisation of banks, they said. A month-long winter session of Parliament is expected to start by the end of the next month. The second batch of supplementary demands for grants, allowing the government to undertake additional expenditure other than the Finance Bill, would also be introduced for approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
25-10-2021||Business||Drone swarms find beneficial use||The concept of an army of drones that Mysterio used to trick Spider Man in the movie Spider Man: Far From Home, or the swarm of drones moving like birds in the popular video game Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, isn't far from reality. In the virtual world, the bad guys use drones to attain sinister objectives. But a Bangalore-based startup — VFLYX India which carries out research and development on unmanned aerial vehicles in the country  — has found noble civilian goals to use drone swarms in the areas of geo-mapping, agriculture sector, disaster management and even aerial entertainment. The Telegraph spoke with Rohit Dey chief technology officer and Vishal Saurav chief executive officer of VFLYX, who said changing regulations have unlocked myriad opportunities for the indigenous development of the sector in India. Born in Calcutta, Dey (24) is a former Nasa scientist who has studied aerospace science from University of Central Florida, US and a B.Sc. CME (advanced computer electronics and theoretical mathematics) from Christ University Bangalore. He said that the list of use cases for drones is growing by the day and VFLYX has a differentiated objective to customise a basic drone platform for different end-uses. Governments and enterprises are at present the main users for hi-tech drones. “We have incorporated peer to peer communication in drones. That way drones in a swarm can talk with themselves. That’s where artificial intelligence and machine learning comes into picture. We can use this in case of natural disasters where personnel on ground can cover more area with a swarm of drones than individual units. Drones can also be used as aerial platforms to enable connectivity in disaster hit areas where power and network is affected,” said Dey. “Besides mapping and surveillance, we can also incorporate crop health management systems that can help farmers detect and spray specific areas in the field thus saving a lot of money and time,” he said. Saurav, in his early 30s, is an entrepreneur from Ranchi with a B.Tech in electrical and electronics engineering from Dayanand Sagar College, Bangalore. He said VFLYX, a new business vertical of the ecommerce gadget startup Xboom Utilities, is having a scalable manufacturing base in Bangalore. “We wanted to start manufacturing drones earlier but due to stringent regulations, we couldn’t do it and were waiting for the right moment.” This changed when the union ministry of civil aviation notified liberalised Drone Rules 2021. “The new regulation is giving a lot of emphasis on research and development without which we cannot build a manufacturing base,” Dey said. The global drone market is dominated by the US and China. According to BIS Research, a global intelligence agency, the market will touch $28.47 billion this year, in which India’s share will be about 4.25 per cent. The new rules are expected to aid growth of the industry with several startups already looking at early-stage funding. Excited at the growth prospects of the company, Dey signed off with a unique end use of drone swarms. “Firecrackers can cause a lot of pollution on Diwali. We can use drones instead for a lighting show in a completely eco-friendly way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
25-10-2021||Business||Centre announces rules to maintain overhead optical fibre cables||The Centre has announced guidelines to maintain overhead optical fibre cables by amending the Indian Telegraph Right of Way (RoW) Rules (November 2016), giving a boost to broadband and 5G infrastructure in the country. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has notified it has amended the Act to prescribe various terms and conditions to lay the overhead optical fibre cables. Nominal one-time compensation and uniform procedure to lay the cables has been introduced, it said. The amount of one-time compensation to establish the  overhead cable will be a maximum Rs 1,000  per km. The paperwork for the right of way application has been made simple. There  will be no fee other than administrative fees and restoration charges to establish the cables, maintain them, transfer or shift them to overground. The amendments will ease the  right of way-related permissions and procedures, the DoT said. The RoW Rules had earlier covered only underground optic fibre cables and mobile towers. “Optical fiber is a fundamental and structural part of both mobile and fixed broadband networks. Faster rollout of fibre is important for backhauling a large amount of data at high throughput, improving reliability, and reducing latency,” said Digital Infrastructure Providers Association. The fiberisation of telecom networks is essential to achieving universal broadband connectivity at 50Mbps to every citizen. “With this amendment in place now, desired clarity for laying overhead OFC is also available which will go a long way in creating necessary infrastructure to cater to forthcoming 5G rollouts in the country,” DIPA said. “We applaud the DoT for its progressive approach in amending its Indian Telegraph RoW Rules 2016 to include aerial fiber.This directive stipulates that necessary infrastructure be built at the lowest logistical costs,” the Cellular Operators Association of India   said . Biswapriya Bhattacharjee, executive vice-president, insights division at Kantar Research, said, “The Indian market is expected to register a greater number of rural internet users than urban internet users by 2025. In line with this, the digital ecosystem would require capabilities to meet the particular demands of rural Internet users.” “ Key areas that are expected to emerge as a game changer include video, voice and vernacular,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
