26-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 383 points to close above 61,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 383 points on Tuesday, buoyed by Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance amid a largely positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share index ended 383.21 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 61,350.26. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 143 points or 0.79 per cent to 18,268.40.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting around 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and Tech Mahindra.  On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, PowerGrid, HUL, Dr Reddy's and TCS were among the laggards.  "Markets managed to end higher in a volatile trading session, thanks to firm global cues. Upbeat earnings announcements from the US markets set the tone in the beginning however choppiness in the index majors, especially from the banking pack, in the middle kept the participants on their toes," said Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking.  Indications are in favour of a further rebound, but a lot would depend on the earnings announcement scheduled in the following sessions, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.29 per cent to USD 84.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
26-10-2021||Business||Indians are Not Saving Anymore, They are Investing Everywhere, Especially Cryptocurrencies!||Traditionally, Indian culture was based on ancient practices that come from the agricultural foundations of our society. This was ingrained in the personal economics as saving for tough times, as the society relied on stocking food to mitigate uncertainties. And the practice continued till the modern-day and the savings extended to money plus valuable assets like gold. This has been the cornerstone of stability for most Indians until recent times. Fun Fact: Indian households are estimated to hold almost 11% of all of the world's gold. However, the newer generation is living in a world of complicated economics and much more open opportunities than before. Add to it the information available to us all through the internet plus the ease and accessibility through technology. Gone are the days when investing in different financial instruments required time and effort with less accessible institutions. Now we can invest in almost all these opportunities with just our fingertips. And Indians have realized this in the last decade as everything got easier with every advancement in technology and policies. In the last five years, India has seen a tremendous rise in industrialism and had been witnessing the startup economy grow for many more. This has led the younger generations, especially those under 40 years of age to explore opportunities beyond conventional sources of income. While the opportunities themselves were present for a long time, it was a matter of accessibility for everyone to partake in it. And then, in 2017, came the explosion of Bitcoin and blockchain technology that gave the final push to the nation to start investing and earning beyond their regular incomes. Dev Sharma, founder of the Canadian crypto marketing agency, Blockwiz told us, "India is witnessing a financial revolution at the moment. Indian markets saw steady growth even during the pandemic, partly due to technology-enabled services that helped to invest right from home. As part of the Blockchain industry, we have also witnessed deep interest in Indian markets through our clients. Crypto exchanges, in particular, consider the Indian market among the highest potential for growth and business which is evident in their marketing strategies and targeting. Plus there is a steady rise in investment in mutual funds and stock markets as well. India is considered among the fastest-growing economy of our time and Indians have started realizing that dream." Currently, India has some of the best technology-based financial services, from mobile banking to investments in various financial instruments. You can see roadside stalls accepting online payments, ATMs remaining practically unused, and a surge of capital in the markets including cryptocurrency. Technology is often called out for its negative impacts on societies but we often overlook the vast potential for growth they can harness, from an individual standpoint to the whole nation's. You can open a Demat account in minutes with a few simple steps, opening a cryptocurrency wallet takes even less time. They say time is money. Up until a decade or two back, most Indians believed in investing time and saving money. But now, we have a new radical mantra: save time, invest money!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
26-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Tech Mahindra amid strong quarterly earnings and a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 318.7 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 61,285.75 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty surged 93.75 points or 0.52 per cent to 18,219.15. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, after the software exporter reported a 26 per cent increase in its September quarter net at Rs 1,338.7 crore. Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finance, Tata Steel, L&T, ITC and SBI were also trading with gains. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, PowerGrid, HUL and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 145.43 points or 0.24 per cent higher at 60,967.05, and Nifty advanced 10.50 points or 0.06 per cent to 18,125.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,459.10 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.15 per cent to USD 85.30 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
26-10-2021||Business||ICICI Bank shares leap almost 11% following stellar Q2 numbers||Shares of ICICI Bank on Monday leaped almost 11 per cent following stellar second quarter numbers, but the gains have led to one key question among investors — has HDFC Bank finally met its match at least in the valuation game in the markets? The ICICI Bank scrip on Monday rose to a new high of Rs 850.70 during intra-day trades — a gain of 13.25 per cent after which it settled at Rs 841.05 — a rise of 10.80 per cent, or Rs 81.95, over the previous close on the BSE. Based on the closing price, the counter had a market cap of Rs 5,83,350.85 crore. Rival HDFC Bank closed 1.49 per cent lower at Rs 1,656.86. The most valued lender has a market cap of Rs 7,24,803.45 crore. ICICI Bank on Saturday reported a record standalone net profit of Rs 5,511 crore. Net NPA ratio fell below 1 per cent to 0.99 per cent — a seven-year low.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Groww raises $251 million in funding round led by Iconiq Growth||Digital firm Groww on Monday said it has raised $251 million (around Rs 1,885 crore) in a funding round led by Iconiq Growth, at a valuation of $3 billion. The series E funding round also saw participation from investors such as Alkeon, Lone Pine Capital and Steadfast. Groww’s existing investors Sequoia Capital, Ribbit Capital, YC Continuity, Tiger Global, and Propel Venture also participated. “The financial services market in India is already large, growing rapidly, and ripe for disruption. During the last couple of years, Groww has demonstrated that they are ready to seize that opportunity,” Iconiq Growth partner Yoonkee Sull said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Venture capital funding in India reaches $14.4 billion during third quarter||Venture capital funding in India followed the global trend and reached a high of $14.4 billion during the third quarter of calendar year 2021, according to KPMG. There were 496 deals during the July-September quarter, up from 376 during the previous quarter. The deal value during the third quarter was 113 per cent higher compared with the second quarter (April-June) of 2021, where the amount was $6.7 billion. According to KPMG’s Venture Pulse report, in addition to substantial raises by Flipkart and Byju of $3.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, both PharmEasy and Ola raised $500 million during the quarter. The country saw nine new unicorns during the quarter including fintechs BharatPe and CoinDCX and edtechs UpGrad and Eruditus. While payments firms continue to attract most of the venture capital funds, there is investor interest in the insurtech space given the low penetration of insurance in India. “The money pouring into consumer tech companies, D2C (direct-to-consumer) companies, fintech companies and others is only going to get stronger. Already we had more unicorns this year than in the last seven or eight years put together,” said Nitish Poddar, partner and national leader, private equity, KPMG in India. “Looking forward, there are a few big IPOs coming down the pipe and assuming they go well, that is only going to strengthen investor confidence even further.” “We are seeing a lot of strategic investments in India — not only from global corporates looking to get into the market, but also from some of the larger Indian conglomerates. Over the last few quarters, we have seen big companies focusing on investing in and acquiring other companies and startups in different areas, ” said Amarjeet Singh, partner KPMG in India. “They are slowly trying to move into the area of something called the super app: an app that fits all the purposes that a consumer might need.” Globally, the total venture financing in Q3 was $171.7 billion against $166 billion in Q2. “In Q3 2021, investors continued to pour money into late stage mega deals, including a record 11 deals of $1 billion,” said Jonathan Lavender, global head, KPMG Pvt Enterprise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Tech Mahindra reports 26 per cent increase in September quarter net ||Software exporter Tech Mahindra (TechM) on Monday reported a 26 per cent increase in its September quarter net profit at Rs 1,338.7 crore and expects to maintain the trajectory. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,064.6 crore in the July-September quarter of 2020. The Mahindra Group company’s overall revenue was up 16.1 per cent to Rs 10,881.3 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal and higher by 6.4 per cent — highest in a decade —when compared with the preceding June quarter. The company’s rate of attrition climbed to 21 per cent at the end of September from 14 per cent in the year-ago period and 17 per cent in June. Tech Mahindra’s managing director and chief executive C.P. Gurnani said attrition is a “complex” situation arising out of the higher demand for talent but expressed satisfaction at how the company has been able to manage it. The company has acquired Lodestone, a digital engineering quality assurance provider for new age digital companies, for up to $105 million (about Rs 789 crore). The Mumbai-based company has also acquired WMW by Born London Limited, UK for £9.4 million. Birla AMC numbers Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC on Monday reported a 38 per cent jump in profit at Rs 173.1 crore for September quarter 2021-22. The company had posted a profit after tax of Rs 125.4 crore in the year-ago period. Total revenues rose 28 per cent to Rs 372.2 crore from Rs 291 crore a year ago. The company has declared an interim dividend Rs 5.60 per share for 2021-22. “We continue to focus on increasing our overall assets under management by growing across different asset categories,” managing director and CEO A. Balasubramanian said. HDFC AMC profit HDFC Asset Management Company (AMC) on Monday reported a nearly 2 per cent growth in profit after tax at Rs 344.38 crore for the three months to September 2021. ? In comparison, the firm had posted a PAT of Rs 338.06 crore in the same quarter of the preceding fiscal. The company’s total income increased to Rs 608.4 crore during the period from Rs 569.95 crore a year ago. HDFC AMC, investment manager to HDFC Mutual Fund, said its average assets under management surged by 17 per cent to Rs 4.39 lakh crore as of September 2021, from Rs 3.75 lakh crore in the same quarter of the preceding financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||SpiceJet asks Bengal govt to remove weekly flight restrictions||Budget airline SpiceJet has written to the Bengal government to remove the restrictions on the number of flights per week, which is three days at present. The airlines in a letter to the chief secretary of the state government has urged “approving daily flight operation to Bengal (Calcutta, Bagdogra, Andal) from Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Pune”. “At present, flights are permitted three days a week (on Monday, Wednesday and Friday) and passengers have to take a via flight/connections on other days to reach their destination in Bengal. Permission of daily flight operations from the above mentioned cities will help passengers and also reduce travel time to reach destination,” the letter said. The airline has sought the daily flight operation at a time  the ministry of civil aviation has allowed airlines to operate 100 per cent of their scheduled capacity October 18 onwards, removing a key restriction imposed when domestic flight operations resumed in May 2020 after a two-month lockdown. However, restrictions on fare bands continue to be in place and a call on that too is likely to be taken soon. The country’s domestic passenger volume in September rose to a robust 70.66 lakh — compared with 39.43 lakh passengers in the same month of 2020 — aided by increased vaccination rates, easing some more travel restrictions and demand bolstered by the festive season. Moreover, the domestic air traffic reached its highest single-day level at 327, 923 on October 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Eicher Motors to re-appoint Siddhartha Lal as MD||Eicher Motor shareholders have approved a proposal to re-appoint Siddhartha Lal as the company’s managing director for a period of five years with effect from May 1 this year. The members also cleared the proposal to increase Lal’s remuneration. In the latest round of voting, 93.75 per cent votes favoured the re-appointment, while 6.25 per cent votes opposed the proposal. “The resolution was passed with requisite majority,” Eicher Motors said in a regulatory filing. Similarly, 98.56 per cent of the votes favoured an increase in Lal’s remuneration while 1.44 per cent votes went against the proposal. The agenda was cleared by the shareholders under the ‘ordinary resolution’ mechanism. In August, Eicher Motors’ shareholders had rejected a proposal for re-appointment of Lal as the company’s managing director for a period of five years with effect from May 1 this year. During the company’s 39th AGM, which was held in August, the members had also rejected the proposal of increasing Lal’s remuneration. While 73 per cent of the votes had favoured the re-appointment, the rest 27 per cent were against it. As a special resolution, it needed support from 75 per cent of the votes cast to pass the proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Rising crude prices, shift to clean energy pose hurdles to BPCL sale||The bid to cross the finishing line on the sale of BPCL by March is facing the twin hurdles of a global crude price spike and the growing shift away from fossil fuels to clean energy. The rapid-fire final rounds of the Air India strategic sale had encouraged the Modi government to wrap up the BPCL exercise quickly. Analysts said the government’s nudges to state-owned refiners on the pricing of petrol and diesel could dissuade bidders unless they get a categorical assurance from the Centre to allow the full play of market forces. State-owned refiners continue to price petrol and diesel keeping in mind political considerations as they do not increase product prices during the poll period. “This would result in unfair competition as the new private buyers of BPCL would have to price their products similar to the state-owned refiner, which would not be market determined,” the analysts said. The growing shift away from fossil fuel has emerged as a new challenge to the government’s strategic sale of the refiner. Global energy firms and other investors are keen to be associated with the green fuel which would make it a difficult task for the bidders to rope in firms with technical and financial muscle to clinch the deal. Saudi Arabia, the world's top crude oil exporter, has announced plans to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2060, setting out an initial $190 billion spending plan and joining a growing list of nations and firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business|| Govt signs share purchase deal with Tata Sons for Air India sale||The government on Monday signed the share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for the sale of national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. Earlier this month, the government had accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of the salt-to-software conglomerate, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline’s debt. On October 11, a letter of intent was issued to the Tata Group confirming the government’s willingness to sell its 100 per cent stake in the airline. “Share Purchase Agreement signed today (Monday) by Government with Tata Sons for strategic disinvestment of Air India,” Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. Air India director — finance Vinod Hejmadi, civil aviation ministry joint secretary Satyendra Mishra and Supraprakash Mukhopadhyay from the Tata group signed the share purchase agreement. Now, various regulatory clearances, including from the CCI, would have to be taken by Tata Sons before the actual handover of the airline takes place by December-end. The government is divesting its 100 per cent ownership of Air India and Air India Express along with its 50 per cent stake in AISATS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||India invites retaliatory US tariff by refusig to withdraw Google tax ||India has exposed itself to retaliatory tariff from the US by its refusal to immediately withdraw the 2 per cent digital equalisation levy tax on global internet players.  However, it intends to do so when the global minimum tax deal is in place. Speaking to Bloomberg while on an official visit to the US, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the equalisation levy — also called the Google tax — was introduced by India when there was no agreement on the global tax deal that seeks to thwart large digital companies from escaping tax in several countries despite earning significant revenues in these countries. “Naturally after all of us have agreed on a global minimum tax that (equalisation levy) will have to be withdrawn,” she said. However, the US may impose retaliatory tariffs on India next month over the 2 per cent digital tax on foreign tech  majors as it has not joined the agreement to immediately restrict the use of such unilateral measures in light of the global digital taxation deal finalised by 136 countries at the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) earlier this month. Under the agreement, any digital taxes the countries collect from such firms after January 2022 that exceed what they would have to pay under the new rules would be credited against the firms’ future tax liabilities in those countries. In exchange, the US agreed to drop its planned tariff retaliation against five countries on the grounds that their taxes discriminated against American companies. The agreement does not include two other countries that have imposed digital services taxes and face tariff threats: India and Turkey, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai has said in a statement. The office of the US Trade Representative (USTR) had in June decided to suspend by 180 days additional tariffs of up to 25 per cent ad valorem on aggregate level of trade on a slew of items including basmati rice, sea food, bamboo, semi-precious stones, and pearls, hoping for a multilateral solution on the issue of digital taxation at the OECD. However, trade experts said the tariffs may have little impact on Indian exports and the overall economy, considering limited significance of these items in India’s export basket and demand inelasticity of most of the items the list. Besides, the tariffs against India are aimed to mop up $55 million, which is as much as what India will collect from the US firms through equalisation levy, according to US estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Plan to launch Jio-Google budget smartphone during Diwali||Reliance Jio is targeting to launch its budget smartphone in collaboration with Google during Diwali as it looks to halt the drop in subscriber additions in the second quarter. Jio lost 11 million subscribers in Q2 ratcheting up pressure on the telecom player which has been looking to dominate the field. Although ARPU (average revenue per user) rose by 4 per cent to Rs 144, several brokerages expect things to improve only if the company raises tariff — as Airtel and Vodafone already have. The churn at the bottom of the subscriber pyramid is worrisome and it isn’t clear where these users are heading. ICICI Direct believes that Jio will be able to arrest the subscriber decline once it launches its JioPhone. The JioPhone Next is powered by Android Pragati OS . Markets are speculating the 2GB RAM powered phone would be priced around Rs 3,500, attractive enough to encourage migration from 2G mobile phones. Analysts at Jefferies said Jio’s performance during the second quarter was little to cheer about as revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and profits missed estimates even as the subscriber decline of 11 million was the key disappointment Nomura said the operators will shift focus from market share gains to ensuring adequate returns for future network rollouts. With a high subscriber base, ARPU increase is likely to be the main growth driver, thus making tariff hikes inevitable. JM Financial said a part of the subscriber loss could have been due to the impact of  users moving out after their three-year lock-in period. According to JP Morgan, Jio’s performance depends on tariff hikes, while Emkay said the operator suffered a churn in the low end.  Motilal Oswal pointed to Jio’s lack of tariff action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Airtel accepts 4-year moratorium on AGR and spectrum dues||After Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel has accepted the Centre’s offer of a four-year moratorium on the payment of AGR (adjusted gross revenue) and spectrum dues. Airtel is yet to decide  whether it will convert the interest component of the dues into an equity stake held by the Centre in the company. A decision will be taken within the 90-day period stipulated by the department of telecom (DoT), sources said. They said the company has communicated to the DoT that “it will take the four-year moratorium on AGR and spectrum dues with the option of prepaying as per NIA (notice inviting application) norms”. Airtel had time till October 29 to communicate with the government on the moratorium. Bharti Airtel chairman  Sunil Mittal had said the moratorium would help the telecom operator to conserve a cash outgo of Rs 35,000-40,000 crore over the next four years. Last week, Vodafone had accepted the moratorium offer on spectrum dues. It is yet to convey its stand on AGR dues and the interest-swap. The option of the dues moratorium was offered by the government to the operators as part of a recently announced relief package for the sector. Among the top three players, Reliance Jio is yet to announce its position on the government offer. The moratorium, applicable from October 1, 2021, is an optional scheme and the company that decides to avail itself of the scheme will pay interest at the rate of the marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) plus 2 per cent. MCLR is the minimum lending rate for banks. A moratorium of up to four years in annual payments will protect the net present value (NPV) of the dues. The deferment is on payments of spectrum purchased in past auctions — excluding the auction of 2021 — for up to four years Dues amendment The government on Monday amended the telecom licence norms to reduce the tax burden on operators by exempting all non-telecom revenues, income from dividends, interest, property sale and rent, among others, for the calculation of levies such as licence fees and spectrum usage charges. The amendments will apply from this month and were part of the telecom reform package. 5G trial extension Telecom operators have asked the DoT to extend the 5G trial period by six months. The current trial period ends in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
