27-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops 207 points to close at 61,143||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 207 points on Wednesday, weighed by losses in Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Finance amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 206.93 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 61,143.33. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 57.45 points or 0.31 per cent to 18,210.95. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking over 6 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, HUL and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, Infosys, SBI and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. Markets traded on a lacklustre note, tracking mixed cues. Initially, weak Asian markets were weighing on the sentiments and mixed trend across sectors kept the participants guessing as the session progressed, said Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking. A sharp dip in select index majors from banking, metal and energy sectors pushed the benchmark lower in the final hour, he noted. "Markets are closely watching earnings for cues and we'll see the reaction to the numbers of select index majors in early trade on Thursday. Besides, volatility is expected to remain high due to the scheduled monthly derivatives expiry," Mishra added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slumped 1.09 per cent to USD 84.72 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
27-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index heavyweights like Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Asian Paints. The 30-share index was trading 106.71 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 61,456.97 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 26.70 points or 0.15 per cent to 18,295.10. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's and TCS. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Tech Mahindra and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 383.21 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 61,350.26, while Nifty surged 143 points or 0.79 per cent to 18,268.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,368.66 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. High input costs have adversely impacted margins and profitability of select consumer and manufacturing companies despite steady volume and sales growth, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. This essentially raises concerns about sustainability of earnings rebound in subsequent quarters, which has weighed on sentiments recently, he noted. However, "despite that overall performance so far has been good with sharp growth in revenue aiding double digit growth in earnings," he said, adding "in our view, the market may remain volatile with downward bias in the near term and investors will track the pricing power of industries". Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.47 per cent to USD 85.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
27-10-2021||Business||Bengal extends cut in stamp duty and circle rate  till December 31||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to extend till December 31 the 2 per cent relief on stamp duty and 10 per cent reduction in the property circle rate. The decision was announced by the chief minister at an administrative review meeting in Kurseong on Tuesday. “It has been extended by three months,” Mamata said in response to a question. The original measure, aimed at stimulating demand in the residential real estate segment and filling up government coffers through a resultant rise in the volume of transactions, was announced during the budget in July this year and was supposed to be in place until October 30. The stamp duty now stands at 4 per cent and 3 per cent in urban and rural areas for properties up to Rs 1 crore and 5 per cent and 4 per cent for properties above that ceiling, respectively. A report published earlier this month by property consultancy Knight Frank suggested that the duty cut had had the desired effect in the market. During the July-September period, as many as 15,160 residential sales deeds were registered in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area, marking a 122 per cent growth over the same period a year ago. Buoyed by the response, developers had been pleading with the government for an extension, and Credai West Bengal had written a letter to the chief minister on October 9. “Buyers could not take full advantage of the scheme. There was a technical glitch initially for a fortnight, and then in October, there were Puja holidays. Moreover, because of Covid, registration could not be done in full swing,” Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, said. Nandu Belani, head of Credai in Calcutta, said the extension may not come into effect from November 1 as the decision has to be ratified in the Assembly. “The government should consider extending it till March 31. Many other states, like Maharashtra, have done it,” Belani added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Canara Bank makes provisions for exposure to two Srei group NBFCs||Canara Bank on Tuesday said it has made additional provisions for its exposure to the two Srei group non bank finance companies. The bank’s profit, however, has surged 200.22 per cent to Rs 1,333 crore despite an increase in fresh slippages during the quarter. The Reserve Bank of India has taken the Srei group firms — Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance — to the National Company Law Tribunal’s Calcutta bench and the cases have been admitted by the NCLT. “With regard to these two NBFCs, our exposure in these two accounts has been around Rs 3,200 crore. We have already declared them as NPA and we have provided additional provisions at around 50 per cent against the regulatory requirement of 15 per cent,” said Debashish Mukherjee, executive director, Canara Bank, at the bank’s earnings call. On a sequential basis, the bank’s net profit during the second quarter was up 13.25 per cent from Rs 1,177 crore in the first quarter of the ongoing fiscal. Gross non performing assets at 8.42 per cent during the quarter were lower than 8.5 per cent during the April-June quarter but increased from 8.23 per cent in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. Fresh slippages during the quarter were at Rs 6,525 crore and the bank made NPA provisions of Rs 2,678 crore during the quarter. Net NPA during the quarter was at 3.21 per cent against 3.46 per cent during the April-June quarter and 3.42 per cent during the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. The growth in profit was attributed by the bank’s MD and CEO L.V. Prabhakar to non-interest income, even as interest income fell marginally by 3.55 per cent to Rs 17,063 crore compared with the year-ago period. “Wherever necessary provisions have to be made, we have done so aggressively. Non interest income has grown significantly by 37 per cent. Fee based income has grown by 20 per cent. This has contributed to the operating profit which has grown by more than 20 per cent,” Prabhakar said. The bank’s capital adequacy during the quarter was at 14.37 per cent, increasing from 13.36 per cent during the first quarter of 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||India Post Payments Bank and HDFC to offer home loans||India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) and HDFC have entered into a strategic alliance to offer home loans to nearly 4.7 crore customers of the payments bank. Leveraging its country-wide network of 650 branches and over 1,36,000 banking access points (post offices), IPPB aims to make HDFC’s home loan products and its expertise available to its customers across India, HDFC said in a statement. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the strategic alliance was signed between IPPB and HDFC Ltd on Monday. “The partnership aims to facilitate HDFC’s home loans to customers, especially in unbanked and underserved areas with many of them having little or no access to finance, to fulfill their dream of owning a home. IPPB will offer housing loans through nearly 190,000 banking service providers (Postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks),” it said. According to the MoU, credit, technical and legal appraisals, processing and disbursement for all home loans will be handled by HDFC, while IPPB will be the responsible for the sourcing of loans, it said. Union Bank Union Bank on Tuesday said it has reduced its home loan rates with the minimum rate of 6.40 per cent. The reduced rate will be effective from October 27. The new rates will be applicable to customers applying for new loans or those who wish to transfer their existing loans, including balance transfers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Axis Bank reports net profit of  Rs 3,382.78 crore for Sep quarter||Axis Bank on Tuesday reported a net profit of Rs 3,382.78 crore on a consolidated basis for the September quarter, driven by lower loan provisions as asset quality improved. The third largest private sector lender reported a net profit of Rs 3,133.32 crore for the July-September period on a standalone basis, which is its highest ever for any quarter. Managing director and chief executive Amitabh Chaudhry exuded confidence that the second half will be better as consumer and business confidence is returning on the back of vaccinations and asserted that all the legacy asset quality issues were behind it. Net slippages declined 82 per cent compared with the preceding June quarter at Rs 707 crore and helped the gross non-performing assets ratio to improve to 3.53 per cent against 4.13 per cent in the year-ago period. Gross slippages during the quarter were Rs 5,464 crore. Consequently, the overall provisions were also down at Rs 1,735 crore against Rs 4,342 crore in the year-ago period, and none of the over Rs 5,000 crore of Covid provisions were drawn down during the quarter. Kotak profit flat Kotak Mahindra Bank Group on Tuesday reported a flat consolidated net income of 2,989 crore for the September quarter against Rs 2,947 crore a year ago, hit by worsening asset quality and higher operational costs, even though subsidiaries reported robust earnings. On a standalone basis, the fourth largest private sector lender reported a 7 per cent fall in earnings at Rs 2,032 crore from Rs 2,184 crore a year ago on higher credit cost and resultant provisions. The bank accounted for 68 per cent of the group’s bottomline for the quarter, while the subsidiaries and associates chipped in with the remaining 32 per cent, it said. Total consolidated income rose to Rs 15,341.65 crore from Rs 13,548.33 crore earlier. Gross NPAs spiked to 3.19 per cent or Rs 8,564.19 crore, from 2.55 per cent or Rs 6,055 crore a year ago. Net NPAs jumped to 1.06 per cent or Rs 2,897 crore from 0.7 per cent or Rs 1,637 crore. Bajaj Fin net jumps Bajaj Finance has reported a 53 per cent jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,481 crore for the quarter ended September on healthy interest income. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 965 crore in the same quarter of the previous fiscal. Total income rose 19 per cent to Rs 7,732 crore during the July-September period of 2021-22, as against Rs 6,520 crore in the same quarter of FY21, Bajaj Finance said in a release. Interest income grew by 16 per cent to Rs 6,687 crore from Rs 5,763 crore. Central Bank Central Bank of India on Tuesday reported an over 55 per cent jump in net profit at Rs 250 crore for the September quarter. The lender had posted a net profit of Rs 161 crore during the same quarter of the previous fiscal. However, total income was down at Rs 6,503.39 crore from Rs 6,762.36 crore in the year-ago period. Net interest income rose 5.99 per cent to Rs 2,495 crore, as against Rs 2,354 crore earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Fino Payments Bank to evaluate option of converting to SFB||Fino Payments Bank will evaluate the option to convert to a small finance bank in the future but expansion of the payments ecosystem in the country will offer an immediate scope of growth for the bank, which is heading for its initial public offer on Friday. The maiden offer, which includes fresh issuance of equity shares and an offer for sale by the promoter, has a price band of Rs 560-577 per equity share. The IPO size at the upper band is around Rs 1,200 crore, comprising Rs 900 crore from an offer for sale of 1.56 crore shares and Rs 300 crore from fresh issue. The net proceeds from the public issue is proposed to be used to augment the bank’s tier-1 capital base to meet its future capital requirements. Managing director and CEO Rishi Gupta said that the bank has already garnered more than 2.6 million current and savings bank accounts and onboarded more than 6.4 lakh merchants since the bank was incorporated in April 2017. “We are going to scale up with more merchant additions as well as getting more customers on board. Growth in the payments ecosystem itself will be a big driver for the next couple of years. Small finance bank is an option which is available and at a relevant point of time we will decide what to do with the option. But right now we are not focusing on conversion to a small finance bank,” said Gupta. “The ATM network and the branch network are not growing because of high fixed costs. This augurs well for Fino because this gives an opportunity to spread ourselves in a very asset light and scalable model,” he said. Fino Payments Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of Fino Paytech Limited (FPL), primarily engaged in providing technology-based solutions and services related to financial inclusion. FPL is backed by marquee investors like Blackstone, ICICI Group, Intel Capital Corporation, Bharat Petroleum, HAV3 Holdings (Mauritius) Limited and World Bank arm International Finance Corporation among others. Axis Capital Limited, CLSA India Private Limited, ICICI Securities Limited, and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Private Limited are the book running lead managers to the offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Applications invited to post of chief economic adviser||The finance ministry has invited applications to the post of chief economic adviser in place of Krishnamurthy Subramanian who now will be in office for a little more than a month till December 6. The timing of the sudden resignation of IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath led to speculation that the Modi government could pick her, but her US citizenship could pose a hurdle. Among the other names doing the rounds is Sanjeev Sanyal, who is the principal economic adviser in the finance ministry. Subramanian made a surprise announcement earlier this month that he would step down in early December and return to academia after completing his three-year term on the job. Subramanian, an ISB Hyderabad professor, had taken over as CEA on December 7, 2018, nearly five months after his predecessor Arvind Subramanian stepped down citing “pressing family commitments”. The next CEA will just have a few months to prepare the Economic Survey of FY22 to be tabled in Parliament on the last working day of January. The vacancy comes at a time the economy is coming out of its pandemic-induced shell, and the next incumbent has the challenging task to draw up a vision document in the Survey with the ravages of the pandemic and the economic recovery in the backdrop. The chief architect of the last three Economic Surveys, Subramanian had come out with interesting concepts such as “Thalinomics”, “V-shaped economy” and “virtuous investment cycle”. According to the eligibility criteria set out by the ministry, a doctorate in economics or finance is desirable but not essential, though a master’s degree is required. The maximum age limit for applying for the post is 56 years. The notification did not specify the tenure of the position. The candidate should also have at least six years of experience in economic research, including one-year administrative experience in central or state governments, state-owned entities, the RBI or recognised universities or autonomous bodies. The post is open to government officials as well as those from academia, research, regulatory bodies and private financial institutions. The last day for the submission of applications will be 15 days from the publishing of the advertisement, which will be mid-November. “The selection committee reserves the right to invite and short-list suitable individuals from outside the list of applicants for the posts,” the notification said. The eligibility criteria is similar to the one floated when the Centre was seeking a replacement for Arvind Subramanian. The search committee, headed by former RBI Governor Bimal Jalan had picked Subramanian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Bombay HC restrains Invesco from calling EGM||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd won a major battle after the Bombay High Court on Tuesday temporarily restrained Invesco from calling an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to move  a resolution seeking to remove Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd MD & CEO Punit Goenka and appoint six of its nominees on the company’s board. “There will be an injunction...restraining defendants nos 1 and 2 (Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund)... from... holding an EGM under Section 100(4) of the Companies Act, 2013,’’ Justice G.S. Patel said in a 44-page order. Invesco can appeal against the order before the Supreme Court. The reprieve for Zee came on a day that the media giant decided to cancel its board meeting on  Wednesday to consider the second quarter results for the period ended September 30 because of a lack of quorum. The company said it would issue a fresh notice setting the date for its board meeting. A quorum requires at least three of the seven members of the board to be present at the meeting, sources said. Zee must hold the meeting within 45 days from the end of the second quarter. Justice Patel, who agreed with all the points made by Zee’s senior counsel Gopal Subaramaniam, went on to say “sometimes, it happens that a company must be saved from its own shareholders, however well-intentioned’’. Zee had argued that the Invesco bid to move resolutions at an EGM to remove Goenka and induct six new independent directors on the board  were “all misbegotten — illicit in conception, illegal in form and iniquitous in result”. The judge said that Invesco’s demand for an EGM had a “fundamental flaw” in as much as it was premised on the belief that “an EGM requisitioned by shareholders are somehow more special or sacrosanct than resolutions proposed by the Board itself.”. Zee had argued that Invesco’s demand was illegal and invalid as it violated provisions of the Companies Act, Sebi’s listing regulations and the guidelines of the ministry of information and broadcasting in so far as these related to media companies. The court upheld Zee’s contention that resolutions to remove Goenka and introduce a new slate of independent directors could “bypass or jettison” mandatory provisions that required approvals from the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) and the approval of the Board. Invesco and OFI Global together hold 17.88 per cent in Zee. A shareholder with more than 10 per cent can call an EGM. On Invesco’s demand to remove Punit Goenka, the single judge  said that Section 203 of the Companies Act requires every firm to have an MD or CEO or manager, and failing any of these, a whole-time director. “The requisition demands his ouster — but without proposing a replacement. This puts Zee into a statutory black hole, for it would then be totally in violation of Section 203(1); and its directors, would have to face the liabilities, including fines, set out in Section 203(5). No shareholder can be permitted  to drive his company into a state of non-compliance and penalty,’’ Justice Patel said. Invesco counsel Janak Dwarkadas said shareholders have an unfettered right to propose a resolution they choose at an EGM. “If a shareholder resolution is bound to cause a corporate enterprise to run aground on the always treacherous shoals of statutory compliance, there is no conceivable or logical reason to allow such a resolution even to be considered. Shareholder primacy or dominion does not extend to permitting shareholder-driven illegality. A perfectly legal resolution, if carried, may well result in the diminution of the company’s profits or business. That is not a court’s concern. But the resolution must be legal,” Justice Patel observed. Justice Patel in his interim order also chose to “ignore’’ the proposed merger transaction between Zee and Sony. “This has no relevance to the discussion at hand and I have chosen to ignore it entirely. Both sides may have quite a lot to say about it; I do not see the need to hear any of it.” “If the Board itself proposes an EGM to consider these very resolutions, or ones equally vulnerable, it is entirely possible for anyone with sufficient legal standing, even a shareholder in a derivative action, to ask of a court precisely that which Zee does today.” “The decision taken by the court is a huge win for all the stakeholders of the company,’’ a spokesperson for Zee said. Speaking to The Telegraph, Shriram Subramanian, founder & MD, InGovern Research Services, a proxy advisory firm,  said that while the interim injunction is positive for Zee, it remains to be seen if Invesco will appeal in a higher court against the order or in a win-win step, back the proposed merger of Zee with Sony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
