28-10-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives 1,159 points to close below 60,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 1,159 points on Thursday following an across-the-board selloff as monthly derivatives expired amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share index tanked 1,158.63 points or 1.89 per cent to close at 59,984.70. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plummeted 353.70 points or 1.94 per cent to 17,857.25. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tumbling over 5 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, L&T, UltraTech Cement and Asian Paints were among the gainers. "Domestic equities witnessed heavy selloff with high volatility mainly led by sharp correction in heavyweight financials and IT, which wiped out around Rs 4.5 lakh crore from investors wealth," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. All key sectoral indices fell sharply, with Nifty PSU Bank falling over 4 per cent. In addition to weak global cues, unwinding of long positions especially in financials on F&O expiry, which had seen a sharp rally in recent period were the prime reasons for the sharp market correction, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 1.11 per cent to USD 82.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
28-10-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex drops over 300 points in early trade on Thursday tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and Infosys, amid a weak trend in global markets and unabated foreign fund outflow. The 30-share index was trading 306.32 points or 0.50 per cent lower at 60,837.01 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 89.50 points or 0.49 per cent to 18,121.45. ICICI Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, ITC, SBI, HDFC and Titan. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, L&T, Bajaj Auto and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 206.93 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 61,143.33, and Nifty fell 57.45 points or 0.31 per cent to 18,210.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,913.36 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 2.25 per cent to USD 81.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
28-10-2021||Business||Altair Colombo formally inaugurated on Wednesday||Altair Colombo, the landmark residential development which was at the centre of a corporate slugfest between a clutch of top Calcutta-based developers and a little known businessman, was formally inaugurated on Wednesday. The evening event to mark the culmination of one of the largest FDI in real estate to Sri Lanka was attended by Namal Rajapaksa, the youth and sports minister of Sri Lanka and son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. The Indian High Commissioner in SL, Gopal Baglay, was present at the inauguration along with the developers, who came together a decade back to undertake the $290 million project which has enviable views of Indian Ocean and Beira Lake on either sides. Conceived by Israeli-Canadian architect Moshe Safdie, best known for Marina Bay Sands integrated resort and Jewel Changi Airport of Singapore, the project consists of two towers —- one 63-storied tower leaning over a 68-storied tower — comprising 404 luxury apartments. The promoter of the 1.5 million-square-foot project is Indocean Developers Pvt Ltd (IDPL), a step-down subsidiary of South City Projects (Kolkata) Ltd, well known in Bengal for several prominent residential and commercial real estate projects. While the directors and shareholders of South City, namely Sushil Mohta, Jugal Khetawat, Rajendra and Prakash Bachhawat, were in Colombo along with Manmohan Bagree, a director of IDPL, the notable absentee was one Jaideep Halwasiya. The controversy In 2020, the relatively unknown Alipore resident was blamed by the South City owners, which include some of the top business families of the city, for hijacking Altair by unlawfully taking control of IDPL.  A Calcutta-based firm AA Infraproperties Pvt Ltd (AAI) used to own 100 per cent share of IDPL. It came down to 13.84 per cent after Halwasiya issued fresh shares in the SL subsidiary to entities linked to him. SCPL, which holds 87.5 per cent in AAI — the rest 12.5 per cent is with Halwasiya — claimed that issuance of shares in IDPL was an act of fraud perpetrated by Halwasiya to wrest control of Altair. The claim was vehemently opposed by Halwasiya, who said he had to step in with the investment to save the project from further delay. Multiple legal disputes followed on either side of Palk Strait. Cases were filed at company law courts in India and some of them reached all the way up to the Supreme Court. In Sri Lanka, the legal battle was fought at the Commercial High Court in Colombo. The settlement After close to one-and-half years of legal dispute, the two warring sides sat down for mediation under the aegis of some of the top businessmen of the city. Sources said, South City owners have again wrested control of IDPL and in turn, the Altair Colombo after Halwasiya was paid off. However, there still appears to be some dispute over the settlement amount and payment terms. Relief for buyers The 250-odd buyers can now reasonably hope to move into the property which has already been delayed for over three years. A statement from IDPL/SCPL said customers would now be able to initiate the fit-outs of the apartments through a phased out schedule with the total sold apartments ready to be handed over within the next few weeks. Commenting on the event today, Prakash Bachhawat, director of SCPL said: “Altair has been one of the challenging projects but I am glad that we have been able to complete this with all the obstacles. It is very fulfiling to see the end result and completion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
28-10-2021||Business||I-T Department expands scope of information included in Form 26AS||High-value financial transactions and additional information like foreign remittances, off market transactions, information about purchase of mutual funds among others would be reflected in the Form 26AS. The Income Tax Department has expanded the scope of information included in Form 26AS in a move to make income tax filing more accurate. Form 26AS is an annual consolidated tax statement that taxpayers can access from the Income Tax Department website using their Permanent Account Number (PAN). The decision to add more information to the document is likely to facilitate faceless assessments. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has issued an order under Section 285BB of the I-T Act expanding the scope of information reported in the new Form 26AS. The Section 285BB was added to the Income-tax Act in Union Budget 2020-21 to revamp Form 26AS to an ‘Annual Information Statement’, which apart from TDS/ TCS details, would contain comprehensive information of specified financial transactions. These would include payment of taxes and demands or refunds and pending/ or completed proceedings undertaken by a taxpayer in a particular financial year that has to be mentioned in income tax returns. Additional information recommended by CBDT includes foreign remittance made by any person through an authorised dealer, breakup of the salary with deductions claimed by the employee, information in ITR of other taxpayers, interest on Income Tax Refund, information published in Statement of Financial Transactions. Additionally, off market transactions reported by depository/ registrar and transfer agent, information about dividend of mutual fund reported by RTA, and information about purchase of mutual fund reported by RTA too would be included in Form 26AS. The CBDT has authorized the Director General of Income-tax (Systems) to upload information...in their possession, in the Annual Information Statement in Form 26AS in the electronic filing account registered by the assessee in designated portal, within three months from the end of the month in which the information is received by them. As per the rules, mutual fund investments exceeding Rs 10 lakh are required to be reported in Form 26AS as per the amended version from last year. Similarly, dividend income has become taxable from FY 2020-21 and tax has to be deducted on it if it exceeds Rs 5,000 in a financial year. Thus, any tax deducted on dividend income in the last year must be reflected in Form 26AS. “At present, the form 26AS mainly reflects information like TDS, TCS, tax payments, SFT transaction, tax demand, refund, etc. The scope of Form 26AS has been steadily expanded from the last few years and incorporating more information in it will be a beneficial tool for the taxpayers. The updated Form 26AS will allow the taxpayer to self-awareness about the reportable transactions well in advance, and assist them in correct ‘disclosure and income computation’ while filing the return of income. This will also help them in reducing the non-disclosure/ non-reporting penalties,” Om Rajpurohit (Director - Corporate & International Tax), AMRG & Associates, said. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said the new Form 26AS will now have details about foreign remittances made by taxpayer, as reported by Authorized Dealer in Form 15CC, more comprehensive details about allowances, deductions claimed by taxpayers in respect of their salary income as reported to the employer. “This new reporting in Form 26AS will help both taxpayers as well as tax authorities in assessing a taxpayer's profile and bring better flow of information between taxpayer and the tax authorities," Kumar said. “With all the information/ details available at one place, it will also assist tax authorities doing e-assessment and having no/ limited interaction with taxpayers, as tax authorities will be able to easily compare information available in Form 26AS vis-á-vis information reported by taxpayer in ITR and any mismatch may be easily flagged by the systems to tax authorities. It will also assist the taxpayers to identify and take corrective action, in case any incorrect information/ detail is reported in Form 26AS,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||PB Fintech sets aside funds from maiden offer to expand offline||PB Fintech Limited, which operates through its online insurance and credit aggregator platforms — Policybazaar and Paisabazaar — will set aside Rs 375 crore from its maiden public offer to expand offline through physical retail outlets and point-of-sale presence. The IPO of PB Fintech will open on November 1 and at a price band of Rs 940-980 per share of face value of Rs 2 each. The Rs 5,710-crore offer consists of a fresh issue aggregating up to Rs 3,750 crore and an offer for sale of around Rs 1,960 crore, which includes Softbank entity SVF Python II (Cayman) Limited offloading a stake worth Rs 1,875 crore. PB Fintech has been valued at around $$6 billion. According to the company’s prospectus, as of September 30, 2021, it had 21 physical retail outlets which will be scaled up to 200 by the end of fiscal 2024. These outlets will serve as experience centres for consumers and will allow on ground claims support. The company further said it plans to develop point of sales presence in strategic locations over the next three fiscal years. Direct selling and agencies are the prominent sales channels for insurance in the country. PB Fintech CEO Yashish Dahiya said in 2009 the company’s marketing spend on health and life insurance policies were more than earnings. This came down in a major way when the call centre operations were started which aided conversion of enquiries into policy purchase and premium per enquiry numbers started moving up. “In the category of health and life insurance call centres have played a pivotal role in the growth of Policybazaar. We now plan to further scale up. The objective is the consumers who come online, can we convert them at a higher rate and get more premium out of the same inquiries,” said Dahiya. “Our strategy will be to invest in developing the brands, technology and infrastructure. We are expanding our offerings to SMEs and corporate clients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||ITC Ltd reports 10.09% increase in consolidated net profit||ITC Ltd on Wednesday reported a 10.09 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit to Rs 3,763.73 crore for the second quarter ended in September 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 3,418.69 crore during the July-September quarter of the previous fiscal, ITC said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations was up 12.14 per cent at Rs 14,662.59 crore during the quarter under review against Rs 13,075.14 crore a year ago. Total expenses were at Rs 10,258.26 crore up 11.93 per cent in the quarter  against Rs 9,164.68 crore of the corresponding period. Shares of ITC Ltd on Wednesday settled at Rs 238.40 on BSE, up 0.68 per cent from the previous close. L&T net drops 67% Larsen & Toubro on Wednesday reported a 67 per cent drop in consolidated net profits for the quarter ended September 30. The conglomerate posted a net profit of Rs 1,819.45 crore  compared with Rs 5,520.27 crore in the same period of the previous year. The numbers were, however, ahead of Street estimates. During the period, revenues rose to Rs 34,772.90 crore from Rs 31,034.74 crore in the year ago period. L&T disclosed that it  bagged orders worth Rs 42,140 crore during the quarter which marked a robust growth of 50 per cent over the corresponding period of the previous year. Bajaj Auto profit up Bajaj Auto saw its standalone net profits rising by 12 per cent for the quarter ended September 30, 2020. The two wheeler major posted a net profit of Rs 1,274.55 crore against Rs 1,138.20 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Turnover of the company was up by 22 per cent to Rs 9,081 crore from Rs 7,442 crore in the previous year. Bajaj Auto said that the quarter was marked by an increase in raw material costs, which was offset by higher product prices. Meanwhile, at a board meeting today, the directors of the company approved the incorporation of a captive finance subsidiary (NBFC) to undertake the business of only financing the customers of the products manufactured or marketed by the company and its subsidiaries or associates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Government receives final dividend of Rs 6,665 crore from BPCL||The government has received a final dividend of Rs 6,665 crore from privatisation-bound Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) for the 2020-21 fiscal, the Dipam secretary said on Wednesday. “Govt received final dividend of Rs 6,665 crore from BPCL for the FY 2020-21. This includes special dividend on account of gains especially on sale of BPCL’'s stake in Numaligarh Refinery in March 2021,” department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted on Wednesday. In March, BPCL had sold its entire 61.5 per cent stake in Numaligarh Refinery in Assam to a consortium of Oil India Ltd and Engineers India and the Assam government for Rs 9,876 crore. Diesel hits 100 in city Motorists and public transports in Calcutta will have to cough up over Rs 100 a litre for diesel for the first time on Thursday. The fuel will retail at Rs 100.14 a litre at Indian Oil Corporation pumps in the city, after 36 paise per litre hike overnight. Diesel scored a century 113 days after petrol touched the Rs 100-a-litre mark. On July 7, petrol price stood at Rs 100.23 a litre in the city. Petrol will retail at Rs 108.79 a litre in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation pumps in Calcutta on Thursday, rising around 34 paise per litre. With international crude oil prices hovering at a multi-year high and the Modi government’s reluctance to slash duties on fuel, consumers are likely to pay even higher for these essential commodities, stoking inflation and turning common man poorer. Fuel prices are continuing with their upward journey from May 3, a day after results from the state assembly elections, including Bengal, were declared. Diesel prices have moved up Rs 16.53 a litre since then, translating into an increase of 19.7 per cent in less than 6 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Iconix buys IP rights of Lee Cooper||Iconix Lifestyle India Pvt Ltd, an equal joint venture between Reliance Brands and Iconix Brand Group Inc, on Wednesday announced the acquisition of IP rights in India of the iconic British brand Lee Cooper for an undisclosed sum. The acquisition will allow Iconix Lifestyle India to expand Lee Cooper’s presence in the country by enabling the brand’s distribution across all retail channels apart from strengthening marketing and brand management. At present, the JV owns 24 fashion and home brands from the Iconix portfolio for the Indian market, across fashion, lifestyle, and home. They include Candie’s, Bongo, Badgley Mischka, Rampage, Mudd, Danskin, Ecko Unltd, Ocean Pacific, London Fog, Starter, Ed Hardy, Joe Boxer, Umbro and Rocawear. “Lee Cooper’s brand history makes it the most prestigious acquisition for the JV. It’s the go-to denim brand that liberalised India grew up with and its affinity among consumers gives us a strong foundation to rebuild the brand in the country,” Darshan Mehta, managing director, Reliance Brands, and director on the board of Iconix Lifestyle, said. Born in 1908, Lee Cooper is today a multi-category, dual gender brand with a presence across 126 countries and 7,000 points of sale. As the original British denim brand, its journey began in a local factory in London’s East End as a leading maker of workwear, providing uniforms for the British troops in World War 1 and World War 2. By 1945, the brand had moved its focus from military wear to fashion and denim. “Gaining Lee Cooper’s IP rights aligns with our long-term strategic approach to growing our brand presence in India,’’ Bob Galvin, chief executive officer and president of Iconix Brand Group Inc and director on the board of Iconix Lifestyle India Private, said. We have a very strong commitment to the ongoing success, and this development provides the opportunity to operate directly in a quickly expanding market and to bring this iconic high-quality brand to a new audience Reliance Brands was recently in the news when it acquired a 40 per cent stake in fashion designer Manish Malhotra’s MM Styles Pvt Ltd. So far, Reliance Brands, the arm of Reliance Retail has bought in more than 35 international brands in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business|| Maruti Suzuki India reports 65.3% decline in net profit during Q2||The country’s largest car manufacturer Maruti Suzuki India reported a 65.3 per cent decline in net profit to Rs 475.3 crore in the second quarter of 2021-22 against Rs 1,371.6 crore in the corresponding period last year. Consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs 20,551 crore in the second quarter compared with Rs 18,756 crore in the year-ago period. Vehicle sales were down 3 per cent to 3,79,541 units against 3,93,130 units a year ago. “The quarter was also marked by an unprecedented increase in the prices of commodities like steel, aluminium and precious metals within a span of one year. The company made maximum efforts to absorb input cost increases offsetting them through cost reduction and passed on a minimum impact to customers by way of car price increase,” Maruti said. Material costs stood at an all-time high of 80.4 per cent of net sales, MSIL chairman R.C. Bhargava said. “Increase in material costs by 6.4 percentage points  is a huge impact.” A steady rise in the prices of commodities such as steel, aluminium and other precious metals has forced Maruti to raise prices thrice this year. In the last hike in August, prices were raised 1.9 per cent. Bhargava said the company did not pass on the entire additional cost burden to the customers. The management intends to keep car prices in check through cost optimisation measures. The company has no plans to raise car prices. Bhargava expects the forthcoming months to be better. “We are hoping that November production will be higher. On CNG, we’re going to increase production to meet the demand. What we had expected in terms of volumes and profitability has changed substantially. We will not have double digit growth this year,” he said. Electric vehicles Maruti will launch electric vehicles in the country only after 2025 as demand for such vehicles at the moment is less and it would like to sell around 10,000 units a month whenever it enters the electric mobility space, Bhargava said . “Unfortunately, we will not feel happy if we can (sell) 300 or 400 or 500 or even 1,000 cars a month. We have gone to much higher volumes, and volumes in 100s and even 1,000s, are very good, but they leave us a little unexcited.” “So we have to see if I start selling EVs I would like to sell maybe 10,000 EVs in a month or something like that,” Bhargava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Paytm IPO to open for subscription on November 8||The initial public offering of digital payments firm Paytm will open for subscription on November 8 in the price band of Rs 2,080 to Rs 2,150 apiece and close on November 10, according to sources. The company has filed papers with markets regulator Sebi which will be updated with price band, individual investor stake sale and other details later. The company is planning to get listed on November 18, the sources added. Paytm has decided to increase its IPO size to Rs 18,300 crore from Rs 16,600 crore earlier, with the company’s biggest shareholder Alibaba group firm Ant Financial and existing investors, including Softbank, deciding to dilute more stake in the firm. The offer-for-sale will now go up by Rs 1,700 crore to Rs 10,000 crore. “Roughly half of the offer for sale is by Ant Financial and the remaining by Alibaba, Elevation Capital, Softbank and other existing shareholders,” one of the sources said. Softbank was not part of investors selling stake in the disclosure made by the company in its IPO draft paper. Swiss Re stake Paytm on Wednesday said global reinsurer Swiss Re will buy a 23 per cent stake in its arm Paytm Insurtech Pvt Ltd for Rs 920 crore. Swiss Re will invest by way of equity shares and compulsorily convertible preference shares an amount of Rs 920 crore of which Rs 397 crore will be invested upfront. The remaining will be made in tranches subject to the fulfilment of certain milestones. According to the company, India’s insurance market presents a significant opportunity, given the its under-penetration compared to the global average. It added that the gross written premium for non-life insurance is expected to increase to $ 50-60 billion by 2025-26 from $27 billion in 2020-21 to $ 50- 60 billion. Amid such a potential, Paytm Insuretech plans to leverage Paytm’s customer base and merchant ecosystem to develop innovative insurance products . “We are excited to partner with Swiss Re for our insurance foray as a key strategic investor. It is an important milestone in our financial services journey of taking general insurance products to the masses. We look forward to gaining from Swiss Re’s global insurance capabilities and building innovative products to tap into the Indian market,’’  Vijay Shekhar Sharma, chairman, MD & CEO One 97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, said. IPO price One97 Communications will announce the price band of its much awaited IPO toon Thursday. There are unconfirmed reports that the offering may come in the band of Rs 2080-2150 per share and  the IPO may open for subscription on November 8. The company has also reportedly increased the size of the float to Rs 18,300 crore from Rs 16,600 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Two-tier benchmarking plan for mutual funds: Sebi||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has proposed a two-tiered structure to standardise and ensure uniformity in the benchmarking of mutual fund schemes, giving investors the opportunity to easily compare performance of the various schemes. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the market regulator said the first-tier benchmark will be reflective of the category of the scheme while the second tier should be demonstrative of the investment style or strategy of the fund manager. The new benchmarking will be implemented from January 1. Ahead of its implementation, industry body Amfi has been asked to specify the first tier benchmark within a month. The performance of a mutual fund scheme is assessed with reference to a benchmark such as the Sensex, Nifty and Nifty Ultra Short Duration Debt Index . Sebi added that all the benchmarks should necessarily be total return indices (TRI). It may be recalled that in 2018, the market regulator had asked fund houses to adopt TRI to benchmark schemes, which is a more appropriate way to measure their performance. TRI includes dividends in addition to the stock price movements. Earlier, most of the schemes were benchmarked to the Price Return variant of an index (PRI) which only captured capital gains of constituents. However, the second tier benchmark is optional and shall be decided by the asset management companies . The new benchmarking guidelines will be applicable for schemes such as debt-oriented, equity-oriented, hybrid and solution, thematic, index funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Fund of Funds Schemes (FoFs). In the case of debt-oriented schemes and equity-oriented schemes, the market regulator said that under the first tier there would be one broad market index per index provider for each category. For instance, in the ultra-short duration fund category, MFs could choose from the Nifty Ultra Short Duration Debt Index or Crisil Ultra Short Term Debt Index. Similarly, a AAA bond index can be used  as the benchmark index, if a fund chooses to follow the second tier. In the case of equity schemes, the market regulator proposed that for the first tier, schemes could use one broad market index per index provider such as the S&P BSE 100 Index or the NSE 100 Index for large cap fund category. As regards hybrid and solution-oriented schemes, it said that there would be a single benchmark-broad market benchmark wherever available. Otherwise, a bespoke index will be created for schemes that would then be applicable across industry. For thematic or sectoral schemes, Sebi said there would be a single benchmark as characteristics of the schemes are already tapered according to the theme or sector. With regard to index funds and ETFs, it said that there would be a single benchmark as these schemes replicate an underlying index. Meanwhile, in a separate circular, the market regulator relaxed the framework governing the issue of shares with superior voting rights (SR shares), a move that is expected to help new-age technology companies. Sebi had announced this decision at its board meeting last month. It said that promoters with a net worth of over Rs 1,000 crore can have superior voting rights in their companies, raising the threshold from the current Rs 500 crore. While determining the individual net worth of the superior voting right  shareholder, his investment or shareholding in other listed companies shall be considered, but not that of his shareholding in the issuer company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
