29-10-2021||Business||Indian Bank and Uco Bank slippages shoot up during second quarter||Indian Bank and Uco Bank’s fresh slippages have shot up during the second quarter of 2021-22 as the banks classified their exposure to Srei group accounts as non performing assets. The two public sector lenders have recognised aggregate stressed exposure of around Rs 2,820 crore during the second quarter in Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance, where the Reserve Bank of India has superseded the boards and accounts have been admitted for resolution with the NCLT. While Indian Bank’s total fresh slippages during the quarter were at Rs 3,952 crore, Uco Bank’s fresh slippage was at Rs 2,389 crore. However both lenders saw an overall reduction in their gross and net non performing assets despite the slippages on account of higher provisions. Gross NPA of Indian Bank was at 9.56 per cent during the July-September quarter compared with 9.89 per cent a year ago. Gross NPA of Uco Bank was at 8.98 per cent during the quarter compared with 11.62 per cent in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. “There are two accounts of this group where we are having exposure with an aggregate outstanding of Rs 1,820 crore. Earlier the accounts were not classified as NPAs because of court orders. We have made provision as well as interest reversal,” said Shanti Lal Jain, managing director and CEO of Indian Bank. In its regulatory disclosure to the stock exchange, Uco Bank said the NBFC accounts have been classified as NPA after vacation of stay of NCLT, Calcutta by NCLAT, Delhi on September 21, 2021. “Two accounts of the same group we have recognised during the quarter where the exposure is around Rs 1,000 crore. We were aware these accounts will be recognised as NPA in times to come and made provisions,” said Atul Kumar Goel, managing director and CEO of UCO Bank. Profit surges Indian Bank posted a net profit of Rs 1,089 crore for the second quarter, a year on year growth of 164 per cent over Rs 412 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. The growth in bottomline was aided by a 26 per cent jump in non-interest income that included recovery of bad debts of Rs 778 crore during the quarter. Uco Bank has posted a net profit of Rs 205.39 crore during the second quarter against a net profit of Rs 30.11 crore a year ago, a growth of 582.12 per cent. Goel said a combination of a rise in net interest income of 14.68 per cent and other income of 31.37 per cent aided the rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 678 points to close over 59,300||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 678 points on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share index plunged 677.77 points or 1.13 per cent to end at 59,306.93. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 185.60 points or 1.04 per cent to 17,671.65. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Maruti, Titan and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. "The domestic market continued to witness selling as energy and private bank stocks remained under pressure following dull global sentiments," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. European markets opened weak even as the ECB decided to keep policy rates unchanged despite the inflationary pressure. US futures were trading in red following slow GDP growth and disappointing earnings from tech giants, he noted. "Decisions of the Fed in its meeting next week will be a major factor that will drive global equities in the coming days," Nair added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.23 per cent to USD 83.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||Shaktikanta Das given three year extension as RBI governor||The government has extended the term of Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das by another three years upto December 2024, according to an official order. Das was appointed the RBI's 25th governor on December 11, 2018, initially for a period of three years. An official order dated October 28 said the government has reappointed Das as the governor of the central bank for a period of three years beyond December 10, 2021. The decision was taken by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. With the second term of three years, Das will head the RBI till December 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||Sensex plunges over 700 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 700 points in early trade on Friday tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid persistent foreign fund outflow. The 30-share index was trading 704.22 points or 1.17 per cent lower at 59,280.48 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 181.70 points or 1.02 per cent to 17,675.55. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Titan, ITC and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index tanked 1,158.63 points or 1.89 per cent to close at 59,984.70, while Nifty plummeted 353.70 points or 1.94 per cent to 17,857.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,818.51 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. With Nifty moving below the 20-Day Moving Average, the market has turned distinctly weak. The major drag on the market now is the sustained FII selling, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. This comes after foreign brokerages like Morgan Stanley, Nomura and UBS downgraded India on excessive valuations. "When smart money selling turns aggressive, retail exuberance would be overwhelmed. This is happening now," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.27 per cent to USD 83.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||IndiGo posts seventh straight quarterly loss||IndiGo, the country’s largest budget carrier,  posted its seventh straight quarterly loss, impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and a spike in the cost of aviation fuel . InterGlobe Aviation Limited, the parent of IndiGo, reported a net loss of around Rs 1,436 crore in the quarter ended September, which was 20 per cent higher than the net loss in the corresponding period of the last fiscal. The airline’s scrip closed 0.6 per cent lower at Rs 1,996.8 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. IndiGo had last reported profit in October-December 2019 at Rs 496 crore. The losses, however, were much lower than the Rs 3,174.2 crore loss reported in the first quarter of the fiscal. Revenue from operations crossed Rs 5,600 crore against Rs 2,741 crore. Other income of Rs 190 crore took the total income to nearly Rs 5,799 crore. Expenses rose to Rs 7,234 crore from Rs 4,224 crore and expenditure on fuel almost tripled to nearly Rs 1,989 crore. “We are encouraged by the pace of revenue recovery. We continue to work towards return to profitability in order to strengthen our balance sheet. With a modern fleet, dedicated employees and a stronger economic environment, we are well positioned to leverage all the growth opportunities around us,” Ronojoy Dutta, CEO of IndiGo, said. The airline has total cash reserves of Rs 16,553.9 crore  — Rs 6,351.6 crore of free cash and Rs 10,202.3 crore as restricted cash at the end of September 2021. IndiGo’s total debt is Rs 32,335.3 crore IndiGo has 279 aircraft with a net increase of 2 aircrafts during the quarter. It operated a peak of 1,209 daily flights and a minimum of 759 flights during the quarter including non-scheduled flights. It provided scheduled services to 69 domestic destinations and various international locations through passenger charters and   bubble flights. Fewer flights SpiceJet and IndiGo along with Air India will fly fewer flights during the winter schedule starting October 31 compared with the pre-Covid level. Vistara will have a higher number of flights, according to the winter schedule approved by regulator DGCA. The 11 scheduled domestic airlines will fly 22,287 flights a week during the period starting October 31 and ending March 26 next year. The approved number of flights is nearly 4 per cent lower than the schedule two year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||MTNL to amend articles of association to monetise land assets||The Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd (MTNL) is taking shareholders’ approval to amend its articles of association (AoA) to monetise its land assets. Shareholders of the company will vote on this proposal at its annual general meeting on November 25. MTNL plans to lease these assets for a period of up to 30 years. In its communication to shareholders, MTNL said that the Group of Ministers (GoM) had on December 21, 2020 decided that for any property with a value of Rs 10 crore or less, it  will not require approval of the GoM. “In view of this decision , the DoT has directed MTNL to change its AoA,” it said. MTNL added that if this proposal is approved, it will be able to monetise its land and building assets faster and generate some funds to reduce debt and meet the capex and opex  requirements. The board of directors of the company had on June 29, 2021 approved this alteration in its AoA. Shares of the company on Thursday ended at Rs 18.30 — a gain of 2.81 per cent over Wednesday’s close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Investment, trading framework for AMC employees and MF trustees ||Market regulator Sebi on Thursday came out with a new framework for investment and trading in securities by the employees of asset management companies (AMCs) and trustees of mutual funds. The framework will help in avoiding any actual or potential conflict of interest or any abuse of an individual’s position of trust and responsibility. In a circular, Sebi said it has tweaked the guidelines pertaining to “access person” and “cooling off" period of such a person in respect of investments made by them in securities traded through the secondary markets. Access Person means the head of the AMC (CEO/managing director/president), executive directors, chief investment officer, chief risk officer, chief operation officer, chief information security officer, fund managers, dealers, research analysts, all employees in the fund operations department, compliance officer and heads of all divisions. The new framework will be applicable from December 1, 2021 while those related to refraining from profiting from the purchase and sale of any security within a period of 30 calendar days will become effective from Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Volvo Cars India to launch first fully electric vehicle next year||Volvo Cars India will launch its first fully electric vehicle, the XC40 Recharged, next year and will follow it up with one fully electric vehicle launch each year so that by 2025 it will have a fully electric portfolio. Right now, the Swedish company is transitioning to a petrol only portfolio by phasing off its diesel vehicles. When asked if the company was thinking of any alternative fuel given the rising price of petrol, Rajeev Chauhan, director, network & product, Volvo Car India, said: “We are transitioning to EVs and by the next three to five years most of our cars will be EVs.” Chauhan was in the city to unveil the petrol mild hybrid cars S90 and XC60 at its showroom SPL Volvo, New Town, Rajarhat. Both the vehicles will retail at Rs 61,90,000, ex showroom. The flagship SUV XV90 will be launched in petrol soon, he added. Tata Motors bullish Girish Wagh, executive director, Tata Motors, on Thursday said since the Covid second wave there has been a demand recovery in intermediate, heavy and light commercial vehicles. He was speaking at the launch of 21 new commercial vehicles and variants for 2021. “The second half of 2021 will do better than last year,” said Wagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Rs 923cr Airtel claim nixed by Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday set aside a Delhi high court order which allowed Bharti Airtel’s plea to rectify the input tax credit claim of excess goods and services tax (GST) paid of around Rs 923 crore from July to September 2017 saying that the rectification of errors and omissions is permissible only at the initial stages. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari allowed the appeal filed by the Centre against the high court’s May 5, 2020 judgment which permitted Airtel to rectify Form GSTR-3B, the GST summary return form for the period. The apex court said an assessee cannot be permitted to unilaterally carry out rectification of his returns submitted electronically in Form GSTR-3B, which inevitably would affect the obligations and liabilities of other stakeholders because of the cascading effect in their electronic records. “The law permits rectification of errors and omissions only at the initial stages of Forms GSTR-1 and GSTR-3, but in a specified manner. It is a different dispensation provided than the one in the pre-GST period, which did not have the provision of auto-populated records and entries,” the bench said. The apex court said the challenge to the impugned Circular No. 26/26/2017 GST issued by the Commissioner (GST) dated December 29, 2017 is unsustainable. The apex court, however, rejected the Centre’s submission regarding the jurisdiction of the Delhi high court to entertain the writ petition. “As regards the jurisdiction of the Delhi high court, the registered office of respondent No. 1 is in Delhi. The appellant (respondent in the writ petition) also has its office in Delhi. The relief claimed in the writ petition amongst others, was to challenge provisions of the Central Act and the circulars issued by the competent authority having its office in Delhi. Hence, the jurisdiction of the Delhi high court cannot be a matter of any doubt,” the bench said. Reacting to the judgment, the telecom operator said the matter pertains to 2017, when GST had just been introduced, and the company paid excess cash towards GST to the tune of Rs 923 crore instead of utilising the available input tax credit as there was no automated reconciliation available at that time. “In its order passed today, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has maintained that the company has the freedom to avail the amount of Rs 923 crore as input tax credit in the subsequent returns, which the Company had duly done,” the company said in a release. Payout to states The Centre on Thursday released the balance Rs 44,000 crore to states as a loan to compensate for the GST shortfall, taking the total such amount to Rs 1.59 lakh crore this fiscal year. This release of funds as back-to-back loans is in addition to the bi-monthly GST compensation being given out of the cess collection. The ministry had on July 15 and October 7 released Rs 75,000 crore and Rs 40,000 crore, respectively. The 43rd GST Council meeting on May 28, 2021, had decided that the Centre would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 and release it to states and UTs to meet the resource gap because of the shortfall in GST compensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Isha Ambani appointed to Smithsonian’s board of trustees||Isha Ambani, directors of Reliance Jio Infocomm and Reliance Retail, has been appointed to the board of trustees of the well known Smithsonian’s National Museum of Asian Art, part of the Smithsonian Institution, the world’s largest museum, education and research complex, based in the US. Her appointment was approved by the Smithsonian’s board of regents, led by US chief justice John G. Roberts, and vice-president Kamala D. Harris (ex officio). Isha will serve a term of four years as one of the youngest board members of the National Museum of Asian Art, which was the Smithsonian’s first dedicated art museum and opened as the Freer Gallery of Art in 1923. Apart from Isha, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Asian Art also announced the appointment of Carolyn Brehm, founder and CEO of consulting firm Brehm Global Ventures LLC, and Peter Kimmelman, who established Peter Kimmelman asset management LLC in 1979, as the new members of its board of trustees. Two years ago, Isha’s mother Nita Ambani became an honorary trustee of New York's 149-year-old The Metropolitan Museum of Art. She was the first Indian to be elected to the position. “On behalf of my colleagues at the museum and across the Smithsonian, I am delighted to welcome these distinguished new members to our board,” said Chase F Robinson, the museum’s Dame Jillian Sackler Director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Future Retail and promoters move Delhi HC to stymie SIAC order||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and its promoters have moved the Delhi High Court again in an effort to stymie any move to enforce the recent order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had gone in favour of Amazon Inc. Last week, the SIAC has rejected a plea from Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to lift the interim stay on its Rs 24,713 crore transaction with Reliance Retail. In October last year, the emergency arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore tribunal had handed down an interim award in favour of Amazon, effectively barring the Kishore Biyani-run entity from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, FRL said has it has filed an appeal before the Delhi High Court against the October 21 order passed by the SIAC and tagged it on to its application seeking to vacate the interim award of the EA issued on October 25 last year. FRL said it had requested the High Court to stay and set aside the operation of the October 21 order and allow the company to convene a meeting of its shareholders and creditors as directed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) Mumbai in September. The company added that Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) -- which had signed the deal with Amazon under which the latter acquired a 49 per cent stake in the company in December 2019. Amazon claimed that this deal included a call option that allowed it to acquire all or part of the Promoters' shareholding in Future Retail Limited (Company). The option was exercisable between the third to the tenth years, in certain circumstances, and subject to applicable law. Future Coupons currently holds a 9.82 per cent stake in Future Retail. The battle between the Future group and Amazon broke out when Biyani struck a deal with Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) in August 2020 under which it intended to sell the group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets. Shares of FRL today ended 2.33 per cent lower at Rs 48.25 in the BSE. The battle between Amazon and Future Retail has been playing out in various legal forums. On September 9, the Supreme Court had stayed all proceedings relating to the dispute between the two sides for four weeks. However, on September 28, the NCLT permitted Future Retail to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek their approval for the sale of the retail business to Reliance Retail. The NCLT had claimed that the Supreme Court order had only restrained it from pronouncing a final order in the suit. Meanwhile, the main hearing on whether there has been a contractual breach by Future Group, as alleged by Amazon, is likely to commence before the Singapore arbitration council in November this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Sensex plummets 1159 points to post biggest fall in over six months||The benchmark Sensex plummeted 1159 points to post its biggest fall in over six months as investors went on the backfoot amid a rush of IPOs that are set to raise over Rs 29,000 crore over the next few days. The broad-based selling saw the market capitalisation of the BSE eroding Rs 4.82 lakh crore. Coming on the monthly F&O expiry day, the 30-share gauge crashed 1158.63 points, or 1.89 per cent, to close at 59984.70, the biggest fall since April 12 when it plunged 1708 points. The broader NSE Nifty nosedived 353.70 points, or 1.94 per cent, to finish at 17857.25. Experts pointed to multiple reasons behind the crash. So far in this calendar year, the domestic markets have outperformed many of their global peers with the Sensex ratcheting up gains of almost 28 per cent, based on Wednesday’s close. However, with corporate margins affected by rising raw material prices, doubts are swirling over the justification of the current valuations in the markets. Global brokerage Morgan Stanley followed peers such as UBS when it downgraded domestic markets to equal-weight from over-weight on expensive valuations. Its analysts said that though India’s “fundamental leading indicators are positive, we see valuations as increasingly constraining returns over the next 3-6 months’’. Variable reverse repo The valuation worries were  not the only reason behind the crash. In another step towards policy normalisation, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a 28 day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction for Rs 50,000 crore on November 2. The central bank has been mopping up surplus liquidity from the system through the 14-day VRRR auctions. At its monetary policy announcement earlier this month, the RBI said it would gradually increase the size of the 14-day VRRR to Rs 6 lakh crore by December. Many in the markets feel the announcement of a 28-day VRRR is a precursor to a reverse repo hike in December. The reverse repo now stands at 3.35 per cent. The RBI’s move led to yields on the benchmark 10 year security rising to 6.367 per cent from the previous close of 6.336 per cent. Banking stocks were impacted by the VRRR announcement with the Nifty Bank index crashing 3.34 per cent. Observers added that there was a lack of buying support at lower levels which dragged down the stocks. This has been partly attributed to the upcoming IPOs. “On one hand, we have worries over expensive valuations in the secondary markets and on the other, there are IPOs like FSN E-Commerce Ventures Ltd, Paytm and PB Fintech. Investors are either offloading their positions in the secondary markets or setting aside liquidity to invest in these offerings,’’ an analyst said. The IPO of FSN E-Commerce which runs the beauty and personal care brand Nykaa opened on Thursday and was subscribed 1.55 times. The retail portion was subscribed 3.5 times while that meant for QIBs (qualified institutional buyers) subscribed 1.39 times. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, crashing 5.54 per cent, after it reported a lower-than-estimated rise in consolidated net profit for the second quarter ended September 30. ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Titan, SBI and HDFC Bank were among the other laggards, falling as much as 4.39 per cent. Only six Sensex counters managed to close in the green. “Relentless selling by FIIs over the last two weeks has led to weakness in the market. They have sold over Rs 10,000 crore in Indian equities in the past five sessions,” Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said. “Further, mixed earnings season along with premium valuations exerted pressure on the market as there is little room for disappointment. Global cues continue to be weak,’’ Khemka said. However, there was some good news at the forex markets. Despite poor cues from equities, the rupee closed with gains of 11 paise at 74.92 to the dollar because of  easing crude oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
