01-12-2021||New Delhi||SKM condemns govt’s response in Parliament on compensation to kin of farmers who died during protest||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday condemned the Centre’s response in Parliament on compensation to the kin of farmers, who died during the protest against three agriculture laws, and reiterated its demand for financial assistance to the families of those deceased, an official statement said.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reportedly said the government has no information about farmers’ deaths during the protest and therefore, the question of financial assistance does not arise.In the statement, the SKM alleged that the BJP government was trying to divide protesting farmers by not starting formal dialogue again and not responding formally to the letter sent by the SKM, reminding it about the pending demands.“The BJP government should stop attempting to divide farmers even at this stage. Farmers’ unions stand united and the Modi government should stop its continued divisive agenda. The SKM is awaiting formal communication with all required details from the government,” it said.Criticising the Union government’s response, the SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, said through such remarks the Centre continues to “insult” the huge sacrifices made by protesting farmers.“The SKM condemns the response of Government of India in Parliament where Narendra Singh Tomar in a written reply said that the government has no information about deaths in the farmers’ movement and therefore, question of financial assistance does not arise.“The SKM reiterates its demand for compensation and rehabilitation of the kin of more than 689 martyrs in the ongoing agitation,” the statement said.Senior farmer leader and SKM core committee member Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’ alleged that the government was “lying” and running away from its responsibilities by making such remarks.“Teams of the Intelligence Bureau were collecting information from us about farmers who were martyred during the course of the movement but still the government is saying that they have no record of such deaths. It shows the government is lying in Parliament. It is the government’s responsibility to provide compensation to the families of deceased farmers,” Sharma told PTI.He said the government can also check with the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) about farmers’ deaths during the agitation as they also collect data about all types of deaths in the country.The farmers’ body also clarified that the agitation is still continuing and no one is leaving protest sites.“Morchas around Delhi borders continue, with more tractor-trolleys reaching the protest sites and the struggle will continue. More farmers are coming so that everyone can go back together victorious,” the statement said.The SKM appealed to farmers not to believe falsehoods being spread about protests ending.It added that the SKM will hold its meeting on December 4, as announced earlier, and decide the future course of the agitation.On Monday, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws.Repeal of the farm laws was one of the main demands of the thousands of protesters. But the stalemate continues as their other demands such as legal guarantee on MSP, compensation to families of farmers who died during the movement and withdrawal of cases against them are still to be met.The Centre on Tuesday demanded five names from the SKM for a panel to deliberate on MSP and other issues.However, the SKM in a statement said that its leaders had received a phone call from the Centre on the issue but they were yet to get a formal communication in this connection. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/skm-condemns-govts-response-in-parliament-on-compensation-to-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-protest-345162
01-12-2021||---||12 calves with semen of cloned bulls produced||Karnal, November 30Scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) added another feather to their cap by producing 12 calves with the semen of cloned buffalo bulls, proving that the reproductive potential of the cloned animals is similar to normal animals./These calves — six males and six females, are physically normal and in good health. They are being monitored by the scientists in the livestock research centre of the institute.“These calves have been produced from the semen of two elite cloned bulls — Swaran and Rajat, earlier produced by NDRI. The semen of the cloned bulls was similar to their somatic cell donor bulls (father) on the molecular parameters, which was revealed in the transcriptomics and micro-RNA studies. The conception rate of the cloned bull semen is same with the normal bulls,” said Dr MS Chauhan, director, NDRI.“To strengthen the artificial breeding programme through artificial insemination, the country requires around 7,000 elite buffalo bulls a year and the cloning technology will help in achieving the demand,” the director said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-calves-with-semen-of-cloned-bulls-produced-344790
01-12-2021||---||New infra to promote tourism||Chandigarh, November 30The Haryana Government is developing infrastructure to promote tourism at places related to Mahabharata under the Krishna circuit theme here.A 20-foot statue of Lord Krishna has already been installed at Mahabharta Theme Park, Jyotisar.An official spokesperson said under the Krishna circuit theme, development of Braham Sarovar, Jyotisar with construction work at Narkatari, Sannihit Sarovar and city infrastructure was almost complete.He said the Union Ministry of Tourism had in 2016 sanctioned Rs 97 crore for development of tourism infrastructure at places related to Mahabharta in Kurukshetra under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme.He further said 80 per cent construction work of 7580-sq m Mahabharta theme building had been completed. It is being developed by the Public Works (Building and Roads) Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-infra-to-promote-tourism-344791
01-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||National Green Tribunal forms panel to probe violation of norms by unit||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 30The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a joint committee to probe into a plea alleging violation of environment norms by a rubber manufacturing company adjoining Panipat Refinery.As per the complaint, Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Terminal had set up a unit opposite Naphtha Cracker Plant for manufacturing of emulsion styrene butadiene rubber in 2013.The unit was established after obtaining environment clearance (EC) from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). It was commissioned without complying with various conditions mentioned in the EC, which included a provision for 33 per cent area as green belt. But the company did not even develop the said green belt, the complaint read.The complainant further stated that inspections were also conducted in December 2013 and November 2014 wherein non-compliance with environmental safeguards required to be observed by the unit were found.It was also stated in the complaint that the HSPCB gave consent to operate (CTO) to the unit on April 26, 2016, under Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. Even conditions of the consent were not being observed and compiled by the unit.The unit was reportedly releasing untreated effluents on nearby land, which entered the water table and contaminated the groundwater and also affected local residents. The NGT has asked the committee to look into issues and sought a factual report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-green-tribunal-forms-panel-to-probe-violation-of-norms-by-unit-344792
01-12-2021||Hisar||One arrested in Jind trader murder case||The police got a breakthrough in the trader Shyam Sunder murder case in Jind and arrested one of the accused today.The arrested accused has been as Naresh, a resident of Pokhri Kheri village of Jind. He was arrested from Bhiwani road.Three assailants had shot the trader at around 10 am on November 23 when he was sitting outside his house. The accused had managed to escape from the spot.The nephew of the trader, Hunny Bansal, who also suffered a bullet injury in his leg, said in his complaint that three persons had walked up to his uncle and opened indiscriminate firing.Bansal said he could not identify the three accused as they were wearing masks.Bansal added that the assailants were hired criminals who had committed the crime at the behest of Dharmender Pehalwan of Jakhoda village, Baljit and Roshan of Pokri Kheri village, Sanjay of Daulatpur, Jagdish of Manoharpur and Vijayant of Subhash Nagar. He alleged that the same persons were also involved in the firing incident on his father on April 17, 2016. The case is pending in the court.The Haryana Baopar Mandal had given a call for Jind bandh on December 3 in protest against the incident. The Congress had also staged a demonstration demaning investigation by a team headed by an IG-level officer. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-arrested-in-jind-trader-murder-case-344793
01-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Death sentence for rape convict ensured justice for us: Mother||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 30“The death penalty to the rapist and murderer would give eternal peace to my daughter’s soul. Not a single day has passed in the past 11 months when I didn’t pray to the Almighty for the maximum punishment to the culprit. Such criminal does not have any moral right to live in society,” said the mother of the 5-year-old girl who was abducted, raped and killed on the intervening night of December 20 and 21 last year.The parents of the victim are migrant labourers from Madhya Pradesh and reside in a rented accommodation in Jhajjar. The District and Additional Session Court yesterday awarded capital punishment to the 28-year-old culprit, Vinod, alias Munna, who resided in the neighbourhood and had a criminal background.“The verdict has ensured justice to us. We spent several sleepless nights after the incident following doubts that whether the culprit would get death penalty,” said the victim’s father.The incident grabbed media attention at the national level when Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Chauhan not only talked to his Haryana counterpart in this respect but also provided monetary help to the family.The then Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal too set a precedent in the case. He ensured the filing of the charge-sheet in the court within merely six days. He also made 25 witnesses to get justice to the victim done.“We promised the victim’s family to get the culprit a maximum punishment done in record time, hence all evidences were collected rapidly, deposition of witnesses in time was ensured and also got DNA samples report within a fortnight. This led to ensure justice to the family within 11 months,” said DSP Rahul Dev.Help from CM, SP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/death-sentence-for-rape-convict-ensured-justice-for-us-mother-344794
01-12-2021||---||Karnal to have first Astroturf hockey stadium in district||Karnal, November 30Budding hockey players will get an Astroturf hockey stadium in the city as Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), the company looking after the smart city project here, has identified 6 acres on the Kailash-Kunjpura road for the purpose.To be built in 10 monthsThe tender process for the project has been initiated and after the allotment of the work, it will be constructed in 10 months. Nishant Kumar Yadav, dc & ceo, karnal smart city limitedThis will be the first Astroturf hockey stadium of the district, where apart from the main Astroturf ground, there will be an Astroturf practice ground. The stadium, as per the authorities, will be constructed as per the norms of the Hockey Federation of India with the consultation of the Sports Department, Haryana.The step is being initiated after the announcement of the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar who, while inaugurating Sardar Milkha Singh Sports Complex on the Hansi road on November 8, had announced to construct the Astrotruf hockey stadium in the city.“The tender process for the project has been initiated and after the allotment of the work, it will be constructed in 10 months,” who is also the CEO of the KSCL.The land has a direct connectivity with the Karnal-Indri state highway and the Karnal-Kunjpura road as it has been earmarked along the under-construction mini-bypass in Kailash Colony, which connects the Kunjpura road with the Indri road, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.There is a plan to develop a hockey academy in this ground, for which a hostel will also be constructed, the CEO maintained.Meanwhile, residents of the vicinity are elated with the finalisation of the land for this stadium. “We do not have any ground for sports activities in our ward. We have demanded a stadium in our vicinity, which the CM has accepted,” said Naveen Kumar, Deputy Mayor and ward-1 councillor.“We are thankful to the CM who accepted our demand and has announced this stadium which will help the budding sportspersons by nurturing their talent,” said Ranu Bala Gupta, Mayor, Karnal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-to-have-first-astroturf-hockey-stadium-in-district-344795
01-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Sulabh International to maintain toilets, Sherorooms of Karnal city||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 30The Sulabh International, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) working in the field of sanitation, will maintain nine public toilets of the city. Besides, the NGO will look after the three Sherorooms-cum-nursing rooms, which are lying non-functional for the past over three-years.This step is being taken by the Karnal Smart City Ltd (KSCL) under the smart city mission after the city failed even to maintain the previous ranking in the sixth edition of the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’ awards. It was at 17th position last year, but now slipped to 86th place.Out of 135 toilets in the city, which are being maintained by the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), several are in pathetic condition. The KMC spends crores on cleanliness every month, but has failed to improve city’s ranking in ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’.Apart from nine toilets, the KMC has also issued a work order to maintain 135 toilets in the city. “We have issued a work order to maintain all public toilets. I have given a deadline of Monday to ensure maintenance to the agency,” said Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC.As per the agreement, a sum of Rs28,000 has been fixed as maintenance charges of per toilet and Sheroroom. The KSCL will pay 70 per cent of the amount while the remaining 30 per cent will be collected by the Sulabh International from users as user charge.“After three months, the KSCL will review collection of the user charges. The KSCL will reduce it if the collection of user charges exceed from the proposed 30 per cent,” said an official associated with this project.“The authorities are hopeful that the Sulabh International will take over these toilets and Sherorooms from Monday,” he added.“Sulabh will maintain four toilets located on the railway road, one each under flyover of Sector 6, at Namaste Chowk, near Ranbir Hooda Chowk, Mughal Canal and near old bus stand,” he said. The KMC has established three Sherorooms in the city, including one each on Railway Road, at ITI Chowk and Nehru Place for providing separate facilities to women, especially lactating mothers, to feed their children. There is a waiting room, napkin disposers and sockets for charging mobile phones free of cost under one roof.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sulabh-international-to-maintain-toilets-sherorooms-of-karnal-city-344796
01-12-2021||---||Urea in short supply: Farmers||Palwal, November 30Farmers in the district, who were facing the shortage of DAP till recently, are now struggling to get adequate supply of urea for rabi crops sown this season.“The farmers who have already sown the crop are required to use urea at the time of irrigation of the fields which is normally done twice within the period of about one and a half months after sowing as its use boosts the health of the plants tremendously,’’ said Dharambir Singh of Sevli village of the Hodal subdivision.Time-bound needThe supply of this fertiliser, which is required in ample quantities, has been low in comparison to the demand, as farmers need to put urea in the fields within a gap of 20 to 40 days after the sowing of the wheat crop. Agri expertsHe said the availability of urea was less in comparison to the demand. Claiming that the delay threatens adverse impact on the productivity of the crop as its use was time bound, Dal Chand of Raidaska village said while the supply was only 30 to 40 per cent of the demand, the delay had led to crisis.“Blaming the government for the short supply , Karan Dalal, a former MLA, said while the problem of DAP earlier made the farmers run from pillar to post, now urea had made crop growers suffer.Though around 18,000 metric tonnes of urea has already been made available in the district, sources claimed that the district required another 20,000 metric tonnes within the next few weeks, as the usage of the urea needed to be done by December-end by a majority of the farmers. The demand for urea was three times higher than that of DAP, it was claimed.“With the arrival of 4,000 metric tonnes of urea recently, the problem will be addressed properly as more supply is expected soon, said Kuldeep Singh, an official in the Agriculture Department. Rabi crops, mainly wheat, have been sown in an area of 1.06 lakh hectares in the district this time, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/urea-in-short-supply-farmers-344797
01-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ineligible farmers not turning up to return aid under kisan yojana||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 30Nearly 3,300 farmers in the district were found ineligible under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PMKSNY) in the district, and were asked to refund the financial aid of around Rs 3.82 crore Just over Rs 38 lakh have been recovered so far.As per the data procured from the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, as many as 3,296 ineligible farmers, majority of whom were income tax payee, were detected, but only 386 farmers have refunded Rs 38,32,000 so far.List shared by CentreA list of ineligible farmers was shared by the Centre with the state and then we got the information about such farmers in the district. All such farmers were asked to refund the amount. Garv Bathla, Assistant nodal officer for PMKSNY, KurukshetraSome returned aidSome farmers have already returned the amount and those who have not returned, will be sent notices again. Some farmers have also raised objection with their names being shown in the list of income tax payee farmers. Pradeep Meel, Dy Director Agri, KurukshetraThe income tax-payee farmers and those who get pension over Rs 10,000 are not eligible to get the financial aid under the scheme that aims at providing Rs 6,000 per annum in three installments for agricultural works. Only those farmers, having land in their name in the revenue records are eligible to receive the aid.As per the department, initially, a total of 79,537 were found eligible in the district.An official said the ineligible cases got detected during the verification of data after their Aadhaar and PAN card data were matched, and it was found that all the ineligible were filing income tax returns. The list was received around July this year and farmers were sent notices.While some farmers even refused to receive notices, several rued that verifications should have been done before depositing the money into their accounts and ultimately refused to return the amount.Garv Bathla, assistant nodal officer for PMKSNY in Kurukshetra, said: “A list of ineligible farmers was shared by the Centre with the state and then we got the information about such farmers in the district. All such farmers were approached by the department and asked to refund the amount and also to deposit the receipt with their Aadhaar card to their respective block offices. So far, nine installments have been paid by the government to farmers under the scheme.”Kurukshetra Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA) Pradeep Meel said: “Farmers who have been found ineligible under the scheme were informed and are being asked to return the aid at the earliest. Some farmers have already returned the amount and those who have not returned, will be sent notices again. Some farmers have also raised objection with their names being shown in the list of income tax payee farmers. Their cases are being sent to the headquarters for further action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ineligible-farmers-not-turning-up-to-return-aid-under-kisan-yojana-344798
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Student dies in road accident in Gurugram||In a road mishap, a 20-year-old student died after his Baleno car went out of control and overturned after colliding with the divider near the IFFCO Chowk on late Monday night. The people nearby tried to save the student by straightening the car, but he had died due to head injuries. The police handed over the body to family after the postmortem today. The deceased identified as Shubham Sehrawat (20), a resident of Sector 17C, was studying at IP University, Delhi. An FIR has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-dies-in-road-accident-in-gurugram-344799
01-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Stray bulls a big nuisance in Narwana||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Stray bulls a big nuisance in NarwanaOn Sunday, a stray bull, hit a 26-year-old motorcyclist, so hard when taken to a hospital, his ribs were found broken and lever ruptured. There was no emergency medical facility available, in the civil or private hospitals. Ultimately, he was referred to Hisar where on the way he died. Gaushalas refused to own and take these bulls and the administration says they have no budget or provisions to tackle this menace. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaStink emanates as sewage overflowsIt is a matter of great pity that there is a problem of sewage overflow in the industrial area of Daultabad for a long time now. Industrialists have been suffering the request made to the authorities concerned have yielded no result. It is quite difficult to cross that way as stink emanates from that area. The authorities concerned must be directed to get the needful done at the earliest. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-bulls-a-big-nuisance-in-narwana-344800
01-12-2021||Karnal||New principal takes charge||NCC Day observedKarnal: Dyal Singh College, Karnal, observed 73rd NCC Day by organising cultural events under the leadership of Commanding Officer Naresh Arya. The day started with NCC cadets of the college cleaning the Mahatma Gandhi statue and then held poetic and slogan recitation, dance, speech contest on the college premises. It was presided by college principal Dr Ashima Gakhar. She addressed the cadets and motivated them to remain disciplined, focused in life. The college NCC Officer Kiran Kumar welcomed all.10 faculty members nominatedRohtak: The Vice-Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Prof Rajbir Singh, has nominated 10 faculty members as members of the academic council (AC) of the university under the provisions of statute13 of the MDU Act. MDU Registrar ProfGulshan Lal Taneja said that those nominated as members of the AC are -- Dr Jitender Singh Dhull, Dr Seema Mehra, Dr Santosh Kumar Tiwari, Dr Neeru Rathee, Dr Sunita Saini, Dr Himmat Singh Ratnoo, Dr Krishankant Sharma, Dr Anusuya Yadav, Menka, and Dr Ashok Kumar.Skill varsity signs MoUPalwal: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University has entered into a MoU with the Rotary Blood Bank with the purpose to promote mutual cooperation between SVSU and Rotary Blood Bank for certificate programme in phlebotomy technician and provide OJT in medical lab technology programmes. The MoU will facilitate and create a pool of qualified job ready skilled resources in the area of phlebotomy technician in the state of Haryana. Vice Chancellor, Raj Nehru and Subhash Verma from the Rotary Club were present.Harish grabs place in national teamKaithal: Harish, a trainee pistol shooter at the shooting range of the sports complex of RKSD College, Kaithal, secured a place in the national team trials by securing a score of 570/700 in the 64th national shooting matches held in New Delhi. Apart from this, Geetansh won the gold medal in the under-14 category of the school competition with a score of 154/200 and qualified for the national school shooting championship to be held in Faridabad.Inter-college yoga competitionFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised an inter-college yoga competition in which 40 participants from the university and affiliated colleges took part. The yoga students of university's Community College performed well in the competition. Organised by the university's student welfare office it was conducted by yogacharya Kuldeep Rawat and sports officer DrSunita Koak, in which the participants demonstrated different yogic kriyas. In the male category, Sanjay and Harsh, both from Community College, got first and second position, respectively. Similarly, Ravi Kumar of the university stood third. In the women' category, Anjali of Community College was the winner. Himanshi from the university and Kshama from Community College shared the second position whereas Preeti from the university stood third.Registrar’s Term extendedRohtak: Haryana Governor and Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has extended the term of Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja as the registrar of the MDU for three years on completion of his present term. A notification to this effect has been issued by the Higher Education Department of the Government of Haryana. Notably, Prof. Gulshan Lal Taneja joined as the registrar in the MDU for his first term on November 28, 2018. Prof Taneja expressed his gratitude to the Governor-Chancellor and Chief Minister, Haryana for renewal of his term.Calf rally organisedKarnal: The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal, under the technical activities of network project on buffalo improvement (NPBI), is implementing a progeny testing programme on Murrah buffaloes in 20 NDRI adopted villages under 5 centres, such as Kheriman Singh, Rindal, Kamalpur, Darar and Sheikhpura. A calf rally under the NPBI project was organised at Kheriman Singh village in the district. All the calves born following test mating inseminations, and duly identified with project tags and registered under the NPBI participated in the rally. An appreciation certificate and memento was given to buffalo farmer Ronak Sandhu for maintaining a record 23 litre in a day. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Dheer Singh, Joint Director Research, NDRI, emphasised on the importance of dairy education, and spoke about various employment probabilities arising thereof among the rural youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-principal-takes-charge-344801
01-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Sans trade licence, 38 shops sealed||Gurugram, November 30The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) today sealed 38 business establishments in Sapphire Mall, located in Sector 83 of Zone-1 area shops in Sector 83 here, for not having a trade licence.The shops are located in the Zone-1 area of the city.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram officials said these establishments were earlier asked to take trade licence after the issuance of notices several times. The action continued in other areas as well and many business establishments were under ceiling.“Trade licence fee for establishments (shops and showrooms) is applicable according to the area and it is mandatory to have a lease and identity proof for a trade licence. As per the Act, it is mandatory for all types of business establishments located within the corporation limits to obtain a trade licence. The annual fee for trade licence is fixed,” said Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sans-trade-licence-38-shops-sealed-344802
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Chargesheet filed in quadruple murder case||The Gurugram police have filed a chargesheet in the Rajendra park quadruple murder case.The family of the deceased is irate over the non-inclusion of the name of the son of the main accused and accused cops of shielding him, following which the DGP marked an inquiry to the SP, Nuh. The landlord had killed his daughter-in-law and three members of the tenant’s family and himself committed suicide in jail later.It was on August 23 when the main accused Rao Rai Singh hacked three members of his tenant’s family and his own daughter-in-law. The accused was allegedly enraged over the alleged illicit relationship between his daughter-in-law Sunita (32) and tenant Krishan Kumar Tiwari (42) and attacked not just the duo but also Krishan’s wife Anamika (38) and two 9 and 3-year-old daughters Surabhi and Vidhi. While four died on the spot, 3-year-old daughter Vidhi of Krishan Kumar Tiwari was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital in a critical condition, from where she has been discharged now. After the murder, the accused had surrendered along with the weapon at the Rajendra Park police station. Making him the main accused, the police had arrested his wife Vimla also. On October 5, Rai Singh had committed suicide in Bhondsi jail.It was also alleged that his son Anand was also involved in this incident and family members accused the police of protecting Anand. In this regard, demonstrations and candle marches had been taken out in the city. The son of the accused has undergone a polygraphy test, but the report has not come yet. The Rajendra Park police filed a chargesheet in the court on November 16, but family members of the deceased raised questions on the investigation . They complained to the DGP. Seven days after filing the chargesheet, the DGP, Haryana, handed over the probe to SP, Nuh. “We are saying that my sister Sunita was murdered because of property. The police are protecting Anand and when his father saw him trapped, he committed suicide in the jail. We demand the case be shifted to another agency,” said Ashok Yadav, brother of Sunita. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chargesheet-filed-in-quadruple-murder-case-344803
01-12-2021||---||JC Bose varsity announces  online semester examination||Faridabad, November 30Giving major relief to students, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has announced the ensuing term-end semester examination online at notified examination centres. The examinations are scheduled to be held from December 14. The students were demanding that the examinations be held online.Revealing this, a spokesperson of the university, said the decision to hold the online examination had been taken after a meeting between the Vice- Chancellor and a delegation of students of the university. Earlier, the students had expressed concern over the proposal of the university authorities to hold examinations offline, as it was claimed that a majority of the syllabus had been covered online this year. They had also demanded multiple choice question (MCQ)-based examinations. After internal reviews and deliberation with officials and affiliated institutions, the university has agreed to conduct exam online at the notified centres, with proper compliance to Covid protocols, it is claimed.Directions have also been issued to the affiliated institutions to make adequate arrangements for online examination and to provide hostel facilities to outside students. The university will follow all necessary guidelines of the state government in this regard, including directions on the Covid protocols,it is added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-bose-varsity-announces-online-semester-examination-344804
01-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Project to increase capacity of canal stuck in legal battle||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 30The project to increase the capacity of the augmentation canal from Hamida head in Yamunanagar to Picholia head up to Western Yamuna Canal Karnal, is stuck again and this time in a legal battle. Earlier, it could not be started due to delay in providing around 110 hectares for afforestation.As per sources, two agencies have approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, challenging the allotment of the project.The Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Haryana, has started the process of increasing the capacity from the existing 4,500 cusecs to 6,000 cusecs to ensure additional discharge of water in southern districts of the state under the “remodelling and rehabilitation of the augmentation canal for increasing its capacity” project. Around 55km of canal was to be remodeled from Indri to Munak in Karnal district.Under the budget of NABARD, the project, costing around Rs 490 crore, was approved by the standing technical committee on August 23, 2017 and the tender process was called on January 1, 2021. The purpose of the project to ensure maximum water during the lean period to southern part of Haryana. The project was to be completed in two-years, said an official.The work was allotted in April, 2021, but two agencies went to the High Court and challenged the allotment of tender, he added.He maintained that the agency assigned for the project had started the work and had completed around 1-km stretch, but now the work has come to standstill due to litigation. “There is a litigation pending in the High Court, so I cannot comment on it much,” said Navtej Singh, XEN, Irrigation Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/project-to-increase-capacity-of-canal-stuck-in-legal-battle-344805
01-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||32 medicinal plants on verge of extinction in Jhajjar: Survey||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 30As many as 32 rare species of angiospermic plants found in the Matanhel forest area are on the verge of extinction posing a serious threat to the biodiversity, reveals a survey report prepared by a team of scientists led by Dr Saurabh Panday from Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, recently. The plants are used as medicines for the treatment of cancer, respiratory and cardiac diseases, ulcer, liver and kidney infections. The report will soon be submitted to the state government for further action to protect these plants.Overexploitation of natural resourcesOverexploitation of natural resources, urbanisation, habitat loss, extreme hunting, pollution and climate change are the main reasons responsible for pushing these 32 rare plants on the path of extinction. Dr Saurabh Panday, Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee3 butterfly species may be wiped outThree prominent species of butterfly — blue argus, danaus chrysippus and papillo pollutes — too are close to extinction because of destruction of their milkweed habitats, urbanisation, use of insecticides and climate change. Dr Kavita Saini, entomologist &,member, survey team“Overexploitation of natural resources, urbanisation, habitat loss, extreme hunting, pollution and climate change are the main reasons responsible for pushing these 32 rare plants on the path of extinction. These plants include indigofera cordifolia, physalis angulata, senna occidentalis, senegalia catechu, Tinospora cordifolia and Sida Cordifolia etc.,” said Dr Panday who is also the former principal investigator at the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi.He maintained leaves, stem, roots, seed and barks of all these 32 species belonging to 21 families had been used for medicine purposes since ancient times. There was an urgent need to take vital steps for their protection as well as for dealing with climate changes that was not good for the ecosystem and biodiversity, he added.Dr Kavita Saini, entomologist, and prominent member of the survey team said “The threat to biodiversity not only affects the flora and fauna but also the environmental conditions. Butterflies are considered a bio-indicator of the ecosystem but our survey has found that three prominent species of butterfly — blue argus, danaus chrysippus and papillo pollutes — too are close to extinction because of destruction of their milkweed habitats as urbanisation, use of insecticides and climate change.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/32-medicinal-plants-on-verge-of-extinction-in-jhajjar-survey-344806
01-12-2021||---||29 MoUs inked to ensure growers get direct benefit||Chandigarh, November 30CM Manohar Lal Khattar said continuous efforts were being made to improve the economic condition of farmers with a view to doubling their income.Speaking at an MoU signing ceremony between agriculture sector investors and farmer producer organisations (FPOs) here today, he said it was a programme organised for farmers in which 29 MoUs had been inked to give direct benefits to farmers through FPOs.An MoU has also been signed with Chaudhary Charan Singh Agriculture University, Hisar, under which students will also be able to do internship. The CM said with the objective of strengthening the FPOs, these companies would link these directly to the market. “They will not need to sell their products in mandi and other places. These companies will directly procure fruits, vegetables and honey from their farms,” he added.Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said around 60,000 tonne horticulture crops would be purchased after signing of these MoUs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29-mous-inked-to-ensure-growers-get-direct-benefit-344807
01-12-2021||---||Man gets life term for killing wife in Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, November 30Neha Nohria, Additional Sessions Judge, district court, Jagadhri, sentenced a man to life imprisonment here on Monday for reportedly killing his wife.The ASJ also imposed a fine of Rs 30,000 on the convict, Paras, of Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh, who had been living in Durga Garden Colony of Jagadhri now.As per the FIR, Paras had built a house in Durga Garden Colony in 2009, but had to give it to his wife Geeta after a rift with her and started living on a rented accommodation.Later, he allegedly planned to kill his wife to grab the house. He took her to the bridge of Western Jamuna Canal close to Buria town of Yamunanagar district on the pretext of an evening walk on July 24, 2019, and pushed her into the canal.The police failed to trace Geeta, but Paras confessed to killing his wife during police interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-life-term-for-killing-wife-in-jagadhri-344808
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||ASI helps 600 reunite with kin, DGP all praise||Director General of Police (DGP) PK Agrawal has appreciated the efforts and dedication of ASI Rajesh Kumar of the Haryana Police’s Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU), who has reunited more than 600 missing persons from more than 20 states and three countries in last five years. A national-level publication has recently featured the reuniting stories of Rajesh in its latest book.The DGP said the police personnel like Rajesh set an example of proactive policing by going beyond their line of duty and serving people. “What could be more hopeful than getting a missing family member back after years or months of separation? His stories will surely motivate and raise hope among readers of ‘Book of Hope’,” he added.“India needs such compassionate and brave policemen. I just spoke to ASI Rajesh Kumar who is leaving no stone unturned in reuniting missing children,” tweeted Kailash Satyarthi, Nobel laureate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asi-helps-600-reunite-with-kin-dgp-all-praise-344809
01-12-2021||---||Prepared to tackle new variant: Anil Vij||Chandigarh, November 30Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said here today that the Health Department was making full preparations to deal with the situation arising out of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Haryana. If needed, new guidelines could be implemented for foreign travellers in Haryana.The minister said many countries had banned incoming air travellers from African countries after the new variant Omicron of Covid was found in South Africa. At the same time, the Government of India had issued instructions to strictly check the incoming passengers from the affected countries.He said the Union Government had already issued instructions regarding the passengers. “The state Health Department is fully prepared to deal with the third wave or the new variant of coronavirus. If needed, strict guidelines will also be issued across the state,” the minister added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prepared-to-tackle-new-variant-anil-vij-344810
01-12-2021||Karnal||Six killed, 4 injured as cars collide in Kaithal||Six persons were killed and four injured in a head-on collision between two cars near Pai village in Kaithal district on Tuesday morning.According to the police, the accident took place at around 7.15 am when an I-10 and a Swift Dzire collided. Six occupants of the I-10 were returning from Jind to Pundri after attending a marriage, while four occupants of Dzire were going from Kurukshetra to Malhar village in Jind district. In his police complaint, Satish of Pundri alleged that the incident took place due to the negligence of the driver of Dzire.The four deceased, travelling in the I-10, were identified as Satyam (26), driver of the car, and a resident of Bareilly; Ramesh (40) of Pundri, Anil (55) of Narwana and Shivam (20) of Hisar, while two other occupants of this vehicle Satish of Pundri and Balraj of Narwana sustained injuries, said Shiv Kumar, SHO Pundri. The two deceased travelling in Dzire were identified as Vinod (34) and wife Rajbala (27), residents of Malhar village. Their son Viraj (7), and niece Sonia received injuries. They were going to Malhar village from Kurukshetra, he added.“A case has been registered under Sections 279, 304-A, 337 and 338 of the IPC against Dzire driver Vinod,” said the SHO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-killed-4-injured-as-cars-collide-in-kaithal-344811
01-12-2021||---||16 IAS officers transferred in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 30The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of 16 IAS officers with immediate effect.Devender Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Public Health Engineering and Irrigation and Water Resources, has been posted as ACS, Irrigation and Water Resources and Town and Country Planning.SN Roy, ACS, Forests and Wildlife and Environment and Climate Change Department and Medical Education and Research Department has been given the additional charge of the Power Department. TVSN Prasad, ACS, Finance, has been given additional charge of ACS, Cooperation Department. Ankur Gupta, ACS, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, has been posted as ACS Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs. Anurag Rastogi, ACS, Excise and Taxation Department and Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department has been posted as ACS to Government, Haryana, Excise and Taxation Department a d PWD.G Anupama, Chief Admisitrator, Trade Fair Authority of Haryana, New Delhi and Principal Secretary (PS), Women and Child Development, has been given additional charge of Medical Education and Research.Apoorva Kumar Singh, PS Town and Country Planning, has been posted as PS, Public Health Engineering and Sports and Youth Affairs.Pankaj Agarwal, Secretary, Administrative Reforms Department, Labour Commissioner, has also been given the charge of Animal Husbandry and Dairying.Vikas Gupta, Director General, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, has been posted as Managing Director, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, and CEO, Authority for Citizen Resources Information Depository. Vijay Singh Dahiya, Director General, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, has been given additional charge of CEO, Ayushman Bharat Haryana Health Protection Authority.Amneet P Kumar, Managing Director, Haryana Scheduled Castes Finance has been given additional charge of Director General, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. TL Satyaprakash, Secretary to Government Haryana, Power Department, Managing Director, Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd and CEO (Designate) of Drone Imaging and Information Systems of Haryana Ltd (DRIISHYA) has been given additional charge of Labour Commissioner.Sangeeta Tetarwal has been posted as Administrator, (HQ), HSVP, Panchkula. Mohd. Imran Raza, ADC Panchkula, has been posted as Administrator, HSVP, Rohtak. Jitender Kumar-I, Managing Director, Haryana State Federation of Cooperative Sugar Mills has been posted as Administrator, HSVP, Faridabad. Monica Gupta, Administrator, HSVP, Faridabad, has been posted as CEO, Faridabad City Transport Service Limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-ias-officers-transferred-in-haryana-344812
01-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||3rd in family to hold Chief Secretary post, Sanjeev Kaushal made state lal dora-free||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30The 1986-batch IAS officer, Sanjeev Kaushal, who was elevated as the state’s Chief Secretary today, has carried forward his family’s legacy by becoming the third person to don the Chief Secretary’s hat.Following in the footsteps of his father-in-law BS Ojha and brother Sarvesh Kaushal, Sanjeev Kaushal, who is currently posted as the Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue, Disaster Management and Consolidation and Financial Commissioner, Revenue (FCR), was the senior-most officer in the state administration and front-runner for the top post.While Ojha was the Haryana Chief Secretary in the early 1990s, Sarvesh Kaushal had been the Punjab Chief Secretary. Kaushal’s father late Baldev Kaushal was the Engineer-in-Chief with the state government.Sanjeev Kaushal succeeded Vijai Vardhan, who retired today. He is due to retire on July 31, 2024. He had also been the Principal Secretary to the CM when the BJP formed the government under ML Khattar in 2014. He has been instrumental in executing Khattar’s two major projects — modernisation of age-old revenue record rooms and making Haryana lal dora-free — as the FCR.Another 1986-batch IAS officer, PK Das, currently posted as the Additional Chief Secretary (Power), has succeeded Sanjeev Kaushal as the ACS, Revenue, Disaster Management and Consolidation and FCR.Served two states, Centre||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3rd-in-family-to-hold-chief-secretary-post-sanjeev-kaushal-made-state-lal-dora-free-344813
01-12-2021||Karnal||Farm law repeal: Cultural events mark women's participation at Bastara toll plaza||Women farmers, under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Charuni), today celebrated the repeal of the three farm laws by organising various competitions and cultural events at Bastara toll plaza.Farmers have been staging a dharna at the toll plaza for the past 11 months. Women cell of the BKU, including state president Suman Hooda, vice president Anju Sandhu, state general secretary Mamta Kadyan, all district women cell presidents and local women farmers, participated in the programme. Suman Hooda, state president BKU (Charuni), women cell, said it was a victory of farmers’ unity, but still was incomplete.“It will be completed only after the enactment of the MSP Guarantee Act, cancellation of the FIRs against farmers and the compensation to families of those who died during the stir,” said Hooda. Bhadhur Singh Mehla, district president, IT cell, BKU, said the programme was organised to celebrate women participation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cultural-events-mark-womens-participation-344814
01-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Set to return home, farmers await Samyukt Kisan Morcha word||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 30Even though the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is yet to decide the fate of the agitation after the repeal of the three farm laws, farmers at Tikri have started getting ready to return if a decision about it is taken at the SKM’s emergency meeting at Singhu border tomorrow.Ready to moveMy tractor has been parked at Tikri ever since we came here. I have got it serviced so that we can move if the SKM decides to call off the stir at tomorrow’s meeting. Harjind Singh, farmerFestive atmosphereFestive atmosphere has been prevailing at the Tikri border ever since the Prime Minister announced repealing of the three farm laws. All of us are now eagerly awaiting the SKM’s decision. Gurpreet Singh, farmerMany farmers from Punjab today got their tractors serviced in Bahadurgarh town. Many others were seen cleaning and washing their tractors near their camps at the border. Local shopkeepers say the number of protesters visiting the market also increased considerably after the PM’s announcement. Farmers were also seen clicking photos with those locals who helped them during the agitation.“My tractor has been parked at Tikri ever since we came here... I got my tractor serviced so that we could move if the SKM decides so. If it does not happen, then the tractor will be used for commuting at the protest site,” said Harjind Singh of Ferozepur (Punjab).Gurdev Singh, another farmer, said the number of farmers having two tractors were considerable at Tikri. “One of the tractors was sent back to the village for agricultural purposes, while the second one is still parked here. Since it got covered with dust, I washed it to get ready for the next move as per the SKM’s decision,” he added.Pargat Singh, BKU (Rajewal) leader, said no one would move until the SKM asked them to do so, hence all eyes were now on the SKM’s meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/set-to-return-home-farmers-await-samyukt-kisan-morcha-word-344815
01-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Send 5 names for MSP panel, Samyukt Kisan Morcha told||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 30A day after Parliament approved the Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws, the Centre today sought five names from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) for farmers’ representation in the committee on agricultural issues, including MSP. SKM convener Darshan Pal said the morcha leaders had not received any formal letter so far, but got messages on the phone from the Union Agricultural Ministry. The SKM would send five names, either of activists or agriculture experts, to the government after its meeting on December 4, he said.The PM had recently spoken about a panel on agricultural diversification, MSP, zero-budget farming, etc. Possibly, the ministry had sought five names for that panel, he added. Jai Kisan Andolan convener Yogendra Yadav said a message was received from the government seeking five names for the committee, but it wasn’t clear for which committee.Some Punjab farmer leaders claimed the Haryana Chief Minister has also called a meeting with the farmer leaders on Wednesday. However, Haryana farm leaders said they had not receive any message in that regard so far.SKM leaders maintained they would hold a meeting at Singhu border on December 4, as announced earlier. Haryana-based organisations would, meanwhile, organise a meeting tomorrow. The SKM said the Haryana CM had already indicated that he would act on the instructions of the Centre when it came to withdrawing cases filed against around 48,000 farmers.Meanwhile, Darshan Pal, convener, SKM, said, “No formal letter has been received so far, but leaders received messages on their phones from the Union Agricultural Ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/send-5-names-for-msp-panel-samyukt-kisan-morcha-told-344837
