02-12-2021||Sunit Dhawan||JJP student wing stages protest ahead of Haryana CM Khattar's visit to Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 2The student wing of the Jan-nayak Janta Party (JJP), an ally of the ruling BJP in Haryana, staged a protest demonstration prior to the visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak on Thursday.Tight security arrangements have been made on the university campus in view of the proposed protest demonstration during the Chief Minister's visit.JJP's student wing Indian National Students Organisation (INSO) has been opposing the Haryana government's move to appoint faculty members and non-teaching employees of the state universities through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).It has also demanded a high-level inquiry into the qualifications of MDU Vice Chancellor Rajbir Singh, alleging that he is not qualified to become a professor or vice chancellor."We seek withdrawal of the Haryana government's notification regarding appointment of university staff through HPSC and HSSC which threatens the autonomy of the state universities. We also demand a thorough probe against the Haryana Higher Education Council chairman and the vice chancellors of other state universities," said INSO president Pradeep Deswal.He maintained that their demonstration would be democratic and peaceful.The Haryana Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (HFUCTO) as well as the association of non-teaching employees of the state universities have also opposed the move regarding appointment of universities' staff through HPSC and HSSC."We will join the associations of university teachers and non-teaching employees if they stage a protest demonstration during the Chief Minister's visit," said Deswal. Khattar on MDU campus todayCM Manohar Lal Khattar is slated to inaugurate the renovated Dr Mangal Sen Indoor Gymnasium Hall and lay the foundation of a kabaddi hall on the MDU campus on Thursday.Rohtak Lok Sabha MP Arvind Sharma and former Haryana minister Manish Kumar Grover will also attend the programme being organised to commemorate the 31st death anniversary of former Haryana deputy chief minister Mangal Sen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjps-student-wing-stages-protest-ahead-of-cms-visit-to-rohtak-345423
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for ransom call||2 killed in Yamunanagar mishapsYamunanagar: Two persons — Randhir Ram and Jaipal of Shyam Sunder Puri Colony — were killed in separate accidents in Jagadhri. TNSMan killed at home, ‘addict’ son nabbedGurugram: A 75-year-old man was found murdered with a slit throat at his Arjun Nagar house yesterday. The police nabbed his alleged addict son who confessed to killing the man for refusing him money. An FIR has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-ransom-call-345352
02-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Won't budge till cases withdrawn: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 1Members of the Haryana Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today said the movement would not end till the government withdrew the cases registered against the farmers in the state.This was decided at the SKM meeting held at kisan andolan office at the Singhu border here today. The final decision on the future of the stir will be announced only after the SKM’s next meeting scheduled for December 4.As many as 26 farmers’ associations of Haryana participated in today’s meeting, which was presided over by farmer leader Mandeep Singh Nathwan. Besides, the BKU (Charuni) unions maintained distance from the Haryana SKM’s meeting.Nathwan said the government should cancel over 200 criminal cases registered against 48,000 farmers in the state at the earliest.Demanding a concrete proposal on the formation of a MSP panel, farmer leaders asked the Centre to clarify if and when it would be formed.Compensate kin of deadThe govt should give relief and jobs to the families of the deceased farmers. Those seriously injured must also be compensated. —Mandeep S Nathwan, Farm leader200 48,000 Criminal casesFarmers booked in stateSKM member Inderjeet Singh said the Haryana unit had not got any formal invitation from the CM’s office so far. “If we receive a formal invitation, we will go and discuss our issues with the CM,” he said, adding that all farm unions were united and final decision would be announced only after all issues were collectively discussed.Besides, leaders of all 32 farm unions of Punjab held a meeting that was presided over by Ruldu Singh Mansa at Singhu today and announced that the movement would continue and noone would leave the protest site till the government fulfilled all pending demands.Mansa, Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Mukesh Chander, Bhog Singh Mansa and Balkar Singh Brar at a press conference said the SKM had sent a letter to the Centre about the remaining pending demands. “We have decided everything about the movement. We have even finalised the names of the representatives from Punjab for the MSP committee and forwarded those to the Centre,” Mansa said, adding: “But the government should give us a written reply.”Besides, the SKM said the farmers’ unions stood united and the government should stop its “divisive” agenda. The SKM also condemned the Centre’s response in Parliament that they had no data about those who died during the yearlong stir, refusing to disburse any financial aid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-budge-till-cases-withdrawn-farmers-345323
02-12-2021||Karnal||Selja: Revoking laws without debate murder of democracy||Slamming the BJP government on the farmers’ issues, state Congress president Kumari Selja said earlier, it passed the three laws without any discussion and now it had repealed these without discussion, which was a murder of democracy.Selja was at the residence of party worker Arun Kumar to express condolences on the death of his grandmother on Wednesday.She blamed the PM for not saying a word over the death of hundreds of farmers during the agitation. “Scores of farmers died during the agitation, but the PM did not speak even a single word in their respect,” Selja added.She also accused the BJP-JJP government for the alleged HPSC job scam and sought investigation by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Selja said the Congress would protest at the HPSC office on December 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-revoking-laws-without-debate-murder-of-democracy-345324
02-12-2021||---||Prez's assent to repeal Bill testimony of our win: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Sonepat/Jhajjar, December 1The SKM said today was a historic day for farmers as all three contentious farm laws had been scrapped with the President’s assent, saying it’s a testimony of the farmers’ victory in the real sense.The government would have to fulfil all other pending demands of the farmers at the earliest, the SKM leaders demanded.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said it’s the real victory of the farmers and people across the country who directly or indirectly supported the ongoing farmers’ movement.Moment of democratic assertionThe President’s assent only formalises what was people’s dissent against these laws... This is a moment of democratic assertion in an otherwise authoritarian phase of our history. —Yogendra Yadav, Jai kisan andolan convenerThe President gave real happiness to farmers by giving assent to the farm laws repeal Bill, he said. But, it’s 80 per cent victory of the farmers, as some demands, including the cancellation of the cases and legal guarantee on the MSP, were still pending, he added.Pargat Singh, a BKU (Rajewale) leader at the Tikri border, said the President’s approval to the farm law repeal Bill was the testimony of farmers’ victory in the real sense for which thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states had been fighting a battle for the past one year.” We are now hopeful about the fulfilment of our other demands too by the Centre, he added.Meanwhile, Kulwant Sandhu, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary, said: “Now, the government should fulfil the other pending demands too so that farmers return to their homes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prezs-assent-to-repeal-bill-testimony-of-our-win-skm-345325
02-12-2021||---||Bail for Haryana man who sent objectionable video on social media||Chandigarh, December 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted interim bail to a person who had allegedly forwarded an objectionable video on social media.Justice Jaishree Thakur ruled that it would be a matter of trial whether the petitioner was liable to be proceeded against under the provisions of the SC and ST Act merely because he forwarded a video made on the utterances of another person against a police officer and doctors.Justice Thakur was hearing a petition filed against the state and other respondents by Jitender Jatasra through counsel Pardeep Kumar Rapria for regular bail in an FIR registered on April 22 at the Dadri City police station under the provisions of the IT Act, IPC and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.Matter of trialWhether the complainant is the victim or not and the petitioner will be liable under the SC & ST Act merely because he has forwarded the video made of the utterances of one Rahul against the SP and doctors will be a matter of trial. —Justice Jaishree Thakur, HCRapria contended the allegations were totally unsustainable. The FIR was registered at the behest of an ASI, stating that he received two videos on his WhatsApp. He found that one Rahul had commented on the caste of a Superintendent of Police.Justice Thakur asserted that the SP was not before the court. The only admitted fact at the moment was that the petitioner was not the person who spoke the words and his role at best would be of a person who circulated the video and uploaded the same on social media.The propounder of the words was one Rahul already in custody. “The issue whether the complainant is the victim or not would be a matter of trial. It would also be a matter of trial whether the petitioner would be liable under the SC and ST Act merely because he has forwarded the video made of the utterances of one Rahul against the SP and doctors,” Justice Thakur asserted.Before parting with the matter, Justice Thakur added that the Court was of the opinion that interim bail was required to be allowed to the petitioner till notice was served to the complainant/ victim to address arguments. The case will now come up for further hearing in April next year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bail-for-man-who-sent-objectionable-video-345327
02-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Pollution norms violated, HPCB slaps Rs 70L penalty||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 1The Haryana Pollution Control Board (HPCB) has issued notices for recovery of around Rs 70 lakh penalty for violation of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) norms in place to contain pollution in the city.GRAP measures introduced by the Ministry of Environment have been into force since October 15 in the NCR. HPCB officials said those served notices included the NHAI, Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) and a builder company for indulging in activities leading to pollution. Besides, four diesel generator units and a packaging unit of Sector 24 have also been issued notices for violating norms. The quantum of penalty in these cases will be decided later, it is claimed.While the NHAI and MCF have been fined Rs 10 lakh each, the builder, engaged in construction of an apartment building in Sector 16, has been slapped a penalty of Rs 50 lakh. “Notices to the MCF and the NHAI have been issued after it was found that they had not been sprinkling water on roads and certain spots on a regular basis,” said a senior official of the HPCB.He said final realisation of the penalty depended on the defaulters’ response as the activities of urgent nature were spared if the specified norms or measures were followed.Claiming that though complaints of violations had been low this year, a district official said dust and damaged roads were one of the leading causes of pollution. Claiming that while over 160 challans to the tune of Rs 4 lakh had been imposed by the MCF for improper garbage disposal and waste burning, an official said FIR might be lodged against defaulters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-norms-violated-hpcb-slaps-70l-penalty-345329
02-12-2021||Karnal||Karnal MC  issues mobile  number for info on waste||Aiming at making the city debris free, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has issued a mobile number for any information about the haphazard dumping of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in the city. The team members of the KMC will clear and ensure the proper disposal of waste after getting information.“To facilitate the general public in eradicating the dumping of C&D waste, we have started a mobile number — 9306700804 — where people can give information about the waste. Our team members will lift it and dispose it,” said Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC.The sanitation inspectors are ensuring the cleaning of sites where the waste is lying in their areas, he said, adding that people can inform by either calling or sending Whatsapp message. The team members are dumping the debris in the low-lying areas of Sector 32 and near the canal on Kachwa road, he said. An agency has been hired and work started in October end. One JCB, 4 tractor-trailers and manpower of have been pressed into service. Daily, the agency is lifting 8-10 trailers of waste.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-issues-mobile-number-for-info-on-waste-345330
02-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Cancer centre at Ambala Cantt to get PET-CT scanning facility||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 1The tertiary care cancer centre (TCCC), established on the premises of Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, will have the facility of PET-CT (positron emission tomography and computed tomography) scanning. The Health Department has planned to get a four-storey separate building for the project.After getting approval from the state government for the project, a request for the construction of a new building has been moved by the health authorities in Ambala to the headquarters. Health officials here have planned to get a four-storey building for the PET-CT scanning facility and nuclear medicine department.Huge relief for patientsThe cancer centre in Ambala will bring a huge relief to not only patients of Haryana but also the patients of neighbouring states. A PET scan machine will also be installed here soon. —Anil Vij, Home and Health Ministercan detect cancer at early stagesPET-CT scanning is used to detect cancer, show how advanced a cancer is and see whether it has spread to other parts of the body. We can detect cancer at the initial stage with the help of this machine. —Dr Vinay Goel, Dy Medical officer-cum-nodal officer for construction of  TCCCDr Vinay Goel, Deputy Medical Officer-cum-Nodal Officer for the construction of the TCCC, said, “PET-CT scanning plays an important role in the diagnosis and assessment of cancer. It is used to detect cancer, shows how advanced a cancer is and also whether it has spread to other parts of the body. We can detect cancer at the initial stage with the help of this machine.”“The nuclear medicine department was the part of phase-II of the Tertiary Care Cancer Centre. It will be a multi-crore project. A four-storey building will be constructed for the project for which a request has already been moved to the higher authorities. As per the information, so far, the PET-CT scan machine will be run by the Health Department”, he added.The official informed that the operational licence of the CT simulator, installed at the TCCC, was received from the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board on Tuesday, while the brachytherapy machine, a machine used for cancer treatment, got custom’s clearance on Tuesday. The machine is likely to reach Ambala by the end of this week. The machine is cost s Rs 4 crore.The commissioning process of the linear accelerator machine, which will be used to treat cancer patients, is also on. The machine was imported at a cost of over Rs 18 crore. The hospital is expected to start operations from January next year. The facility (TCCC) is coming at a cost of Rs 72 crore.Meanwhile, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said, “The cancer centre in Ambala will bring a huge relief to not only patients of Haryana but also the patients of neighbouring states. A PET scan machine will also be installed here soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cancer-centre-at-ambala-cantt-to-get-pet-ct-scanning-facility-345333
02-12-2021||---||Haryana government comes out with list of 30 new tirthas||Kurukshetra, December 1As many as 30 new “tirthas” are being included in the list of “tirthas” falling under 48-kos land, increasing the number to 164 from the current 134. These are spread over five districts, — Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat and Jind districts. Of the 30 “tirthas”, 13 have been identified in Kurukshetra, 10 in Kaithal, six in Karnal, and one in Jind district. An International Gita Mahotsav Committee will also be constituted for the future celebrations of the International Gita Mahotsav (IGM).This was informed by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was addressing the media on the occasion of curtain-raiser event for the IGM at Purushottam Pura Bagh of Brahma Sarovar in Kurukshetra on Wednesday.Trains to Mathura, HardwarThe railway station is also being renovated and efforts are being made to run trains from here to Mathura and Hardwar. —Manohar Lal Khattar, Haryana CMThe mahotsav will begin on December 2 and the main events will start from December 9. The CM said, “Lord Krishna delivered the sermon of Gita here in Kurukshetra. Gita is for everyone, and the government has been making all efforts to promote Kurukshetra at the world level. Gita has also been an inspiration for freedom fighters, and Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav-themed programmes will be conducted to honour their sacrifice. So far, there were 134 “tirthas” under the 48-kos land, some “tirthas” remained unnoticed but they have been identified and are being included in the list. In the coming years, events will be organised at all 164 “tirthas” during the mahotsav.”“The state government has been getting support from the Centre and had been allocated Rs 97.35 crore under the Swadesh Darshan scheme. Jyotisar, the birthplace of Gita, is being developed, and it will be a centre of attraction. A 40-ft Virat Swaroop of lord Krishna has been installed. Latest multimedia techniques will be used to present Mahabharata, Gita, Saraswati river and vedic civilisation there. The government is spending Rs 205 crore on the project. All main entry points of Kurukshetra city will have welcome gates”, he added. “The contribution of social and religious organisation in the IGM is increasing and it has been decided to get an International Gita Mahotsav Samiti constituted and registered for planning and organising the mahotsav in coming years. The state government, district administration and Kurukshetra Development Board will assist the committee”, the CM said. He also directed the officials to ensure Covid guidelines were also followed during the mahotsav. Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Sandeep Singh, MP Nayab Saini, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha, and Swami Gyananand were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-comes-out-with-list-of-30-new-tirthas-345334
02-12-2021||Karnal||Intellectual property rights||Workshop for grandparentsFaridabad: The first edition of a running series of workshops on technology titled 'Technoshala' was held at Grand Columbus International School for grandparents of students of the school. Students from Classes IX and XI successfully conducted the workshop for about 50 digitally challenged elders. The students covered the basics of mobile and computer operating systems, the basics of Internet, and technology for financial management, among several other aspects of day-to-day challenges that may be encountered by senior citizens. Suresh Chander, managing director of the school, and Principal Deepika Sharma, stressed on the importance of being tech-savvy and lauded the efforts of the students.National poster-making contestAmbala: The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage ( INTACH) Ambala, conducted a mega poster-making competition for schoolchildren at Arya Girls college. Lt Gen Ram Pratap (retd), was the chief guest, and Dr GS Purewal, was the guest of honour. There were 105 children from 18 schools who keenly participated in this national contest. Convenor Col RD Singh (retd), said the students made posters on the theme: India at 75: Heritage in our hands. These posters will now be judged at the INTACH head office, Delhi.Cleanliness drive launchedKarnal: Teachers and students of Brahmaputra house of Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, organised a cleanliness drive under the social service week being observed in the school. The main objective of the programme was to spread awareness on the significance of cleanliness. Headed by director principal Poonam Navet, teachers, non-teaching staff and students of Brahmaputra house participated in the mission. A procession was taken out with thought provoking slogans on placard.Prizes for young scientistsKurukshetra: Four outstanding scientists of the country, all below the age of 45 years, have been selected by Kurukshetra University for Rajib Goyal Prizes for young scientists. They are, Dr Rajneesh Mishra, IIT, Indore (applied sciences), Dr KM Sureshan, IISER, Thiruvananthapuram (chemical sciences), Dr Rajeev Varshney, ICRISAT, Hyderabad (life sciences) and Dr Suman Chakraborty, IIT, Kharagpur (physical sciences). Each prize consists of a medal, citation and Rs 1 lakh in cash. These names were announced by Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, and chairman of the organising committee of Goyal prizes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/intellectual-property-rights-345337
02-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Stone crushers in Mahendragarh under lens||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, December 1The stone crushers in the district have come under the scanner. A joint committee, comprising officials of the central and state authorities, has started inspecting the units to find out air pollution load and its adverse impact on public health.The committee led by DC Ajay Kumar and represented by Sunil Dave from the Central Pollution Control Board, Executive Engineer Mohit Mudgil from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board and Harsha Kota, an expert on air pollution from IIT-Delhi, on Wednesday visited Dholera, Bigopur and Bayal villages here to examine the functioning of stone crushers.Over 50 units shut for norm violationThe committee will inspect all stone crushers to ascertain the units that can operate. There are over 100 units operational in the district while over 50 have already been shut for norm violation. —Official“Since the units are closed these days due to poor air quality in the NCR hence the team concluded its inspection by just asking the operators about the parameters mandatory to check pollution. It was the first visit of the team, which aims to take stock of the situation at crushing zones in the district. Proper inspection will be conducted later when the crushers start functioning,” said an official preferring anonymity.He said the team members earlier also held a meeting to finalise a plan to conduct the physical inspection of every stone crusher in the district in compliance with the recent directives of the NGT while hearing a petition filed by local youth Tejpal Yadav, who accused the units of throwing the anti-pollution norms to the wind, leading to an increase in air-borne diseases.Meanwhile, the DC said the panel would assess the carrying capacity of environment, besides checking the compliance of norms by stone crushers in view of the NGT orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stone-crushers-in-mahendragarh-under-lens-345340
02-12-2021||Hisar||Woman's half-burnt body found in Haryana's Fatehabad, honour killing suspected||In a suspected case of honour killing, the police retrieved the half-burnt body of a woman from a pyre at the cremation ground in Dhangar village of Fatehabad district today.Sources said the 21-year-old victim, Siksha, had married a youth of the same village, Anoop Kumar, against the wishes of her family around a year ago. She had got a job at a private company in Chandigarh after which the couple shifted to the city. Siksha, however, told her mother about the marriage three days ago over phone after which she asked her to return home and assured her that their marriage would be solemnised as per rituals.However, when they returned to their respective families, Anoop reportedly received a call from a woman, saying that his wife had died and her family was performing the last rites at the cremation ground.Anoop approached the police, suspecting that Siksha’s family had killed her for marrying against their wish. The police, along with the fire brigade and forensic experts, rushed to the cremation ground and exhumed the body from the pyre in half-burnt condition.A case under Sections 302, 201, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered against the woman’s mother, father Mahender Singh, uncles Sunder, Kalu, Atmaram and four others. SP Surender Singh Bhoria said the police had shifted the body to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of her death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/womans-half-burnt-body-found-honour-killing-suspected-345341
02-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Mystery shrouds woman's death in Yamunanagar||A 23-year-old woman died under mysterious circumstances in Rajiv Garden Colony of Yamunanagar.On the complaint of Krishan Lal of Jagadhri, a case was registered against Vikram under Section 302 of the IPC at the Gandhi Nagar police station yesterday.The complainant said: “The couple used to fight often. Pinki told me that her brother was getting married on December 8 but her husband was not giving her Rs 30,000 for it. I got a call from Vikram’s mother around 8.45 am on November 30, saying Pinki had died of heart attack. I suspect Pinki was strangled by her husband.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mystery-shrouds-womans-death-345343
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||DGP: Only appoint inspector as SHO||The DGP has issued a memo to all Commissioners of Police and SPs, including SP Railways, for posting only inspectors as SHOs. “It has come to our notice that the officials of SI rank and below are being posted as SHOs despite the availability of a substantial number of inspectors. It is not healthy,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dgp-only-appoint-inspector-as-sho-345344
02-12-2021||This photograph captured adjacent to house number 242P||Cleanliness goes for a toss in Panchkula||Visitors expect clean, hygienic KurukshetraKurukshetra is becoming famous due to the celebration of the upcoming "Gita Jayanti Samaroh". The city needs to be cleaned. The administration and the authorities concerned are required not only to clean the areas near the holy sarovar but the interior of the city too. The Amin village road and adjacent colonies, especially Shastri Nagar, is running a number of dairies and foul smell emanates from the area. Stray animals make it difficult for commuters to move in streets. Visitors expect a clean and hygienic Kurukshetra in the ongoing Covid scenario. —V Kumar, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cleanliness-goes-for-a-toss-in-panchkula-345348
02-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Multidrug-resistant TB stays a challenge in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 1For tuberculosis cure, Karnal is among the top districts of the state with 89 per cent treatment success rate and 104 per cent detection rate.However, the detection of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) remains a challenge for the district’s health department.The district has 2,009 active TB patients while 58 MDR-TB cases have been detected so far this year. The treatment of patients sensitive to drugs is about six months while MDR-TB treatment can stretch from nine months to two years depending on the type of resistance.Causes of MDR-TBCarelessness on the part of patients for not continuing the medicine and frequent interruptions in treatment are considered major reasons behind MDR-TB.This year, the health department detected 4,442 TB patients. Of them, 2,433 have been treated. In 2020 and 2019, the department had detected 3,428 and 3,701 cases, respectively.The authorities say TB is curable if detected timely and treated promptly. “We have launched an intensive screening for timely detection of patients. TB is curable, but it should be detected timely,” said Dr Simmi Kapoor, Deputy Civil Surgeon. “We have machines at District TB Centre, Gharaunda Community Health Centre and Assandh sub-divisional hospital to help in the early detection of the disease,” she said.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said: “We conduct awareness and screening campaigns time to time. We appeal to the people to seek medical help if they find any symptoms of TB, including cough for more than two weeks, low-grade fever, weight loss and night sweat.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/multidrug-resistant-tb-stays-a-challenge-in-haryana-345274
02-12-2021||---||Farm laws scrapped, President gives assent||New Delhi, December 1The three controversial farm laws that triggered a year-long agitation at Delhi’s borders were annulled on Wednesday with President Ram Nath Kovind giving his assent to the repeal Bill. The Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 was passed by Parliament on November 29. With the President’s assent, the laws have become history, paving the way for the withdrawal of farmers’ agitation. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government had begun the process to constitute a panel on MSP “that will have representatives of farm unions.” The ball is now in SKM’s court which is to announce its next move on December 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-laws-scrapped-president-gives-assent-345276
02-12-2021||New Delhi||Farm laws scrapped, President gives assent||The three controversial farm laws that provoked a yearlong agitation in Delhi’s borders stood annulled on Wednesday with President Ram Nath Kovind giving his assent to the repeal bill.The Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 was passed by both the Houses of Parliament on November 29, the first day of the Winter Session days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking on Gurupurab (November 19)  assured the protesting farmers of rollback of the laws.With the Presidential assent today, the bills have become history paving the way for the withdrawal of farmers’ protests.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again appealed to the agitating farmers to return home, assuring to address the issues related to MSP, crop doversification and zero-budget farming through a committee the PM earlier announced.The government has initiated the process of constitution of the panel which, Tomar said, will have the representatives of farm unions.The ball is now in the court of Samyukta Kisan Morcha which will announce its next move on December 4.The Presidential assent repeals The Farmers Empowerment and Protection Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce Promotion and Facilitation Act 2020 and The Essential Commodities Amendment Act 2020.The Essential Commodities Amendment Act empowered the government to regulate under extraordinary circumstances (war, famine, extraordinary price rise, and natural calamity of grave nature) the supply of cereals, pulses, potato, onions, edible oilseeds, and oils.The government while repealing the laws defended the laws and said it was unable to convince some farmers of the benefit of the move.The statement of reasons for The Farm Law Repeal Bill 2021 passed by Parliament on Monday read, “Even though only a small group of farmers are protesting against these laws, the government tried hard to sensitize the farmers on the importance of the laws through several meetings. Without taking away the existing mechanisms available to the farmers, new avenues were provided for trade of their produce. Besides, farmers were free to select avenues of their choice where they could get more prices for their produce without any compulsion”..The Repeal Bill said extensive consultations were held with various stakeholders before bringing the laws.“The operation of the laws has been stayed by the Supreme Court. During Covid period, the farmers have worked hard to increase production and fulfill the needs of the nation. As we celebrate the 75th year of Independence—Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav—the need of the hour is to take everyone together on the path of inclusive growth and development. In view of the above the farm laws are proposed to be repealed,” Agriculture Minister Tomar said about the Bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/farm-laws-scrapped-president-gives-assent-345157
