03-12-2021||Mathura||Will call for voting against BJP if not given OBC status: Jat leader Yashpal Malik||The Akhil Bhartiya Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti has said it will call for voting against the BJP if its demand to include Jats in the OBC category is not met before the UP Assembly elections.“A call, ‘No Vote to BJP’, will be given during the Vidhan Sabha elections if assurances made by Union leaders, including the Prime Minister, are not fulfilled shortly,” samiti national president Yashpal Malik said on Thursday.He said they will appeal to people to not vote for the BJP in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Punjab elections if Jats are not included in the said category.  Malik claimed that the community was assured of reservation at the Central level under the Other Backward Communities (OBC) category by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 26, 2015.He claimed that the assurance was also seconded by the Union Home Minister Amit Shah the same day.He further claimed that the Jat leaders from different organisations were given the same promise including withdrawal of cases filed against them during the 2016 Jat agitation by former Union Minister Chaudhary Birendra Singh.The samiti leader said the orgnisation will launch a public awareness programme against the BJP if this demand is not fulfilled.“We will not only intensify the stir but influence and convince other section of the society to join our call of  ‘No Vote to BJP’ ensuring  defeat of BJP in forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections in the three states”, Veer Pal Singh, the body’s national general secretary said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-call-for-voting-against-bjp-if-not-given-obc-status-jat-leader-yashpal-malik-345904
03-12-2021||Gurugram December 3||Right-wingers lead namaz disruption in Gurugram; 20 detained||A fringe Hindu organisation led protesters to disrupt namaz in Gurugram’s Sector 37 in what has over the past couple of years become an almost weekly occurrence despite the presence of law enforcement authorities at prayer sites.Police detained 20 protesters after repeated entreaties to back off went unheard. Protesters meanwhile said they were well within their right to protest, calling their agitation peaceful although chants of “Jai Shri Ram” rent the air.“Jai Shri Ram” is a Hindu holy chant that critics see increasingly as an intimidation tactic.A senior policeman claimed on the condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorised to speak that the group of protesters was led by a habitual troublemaker who has been detained before for similar actions.Police claimed there were even attempts to stop the weekly “jumma prayers” after several people parked their trucks and buses at the designated namaz site claiming there were “parking issues”.Namaz disruptions in Gurugram have become a weekly event, with protests leading the administration to even cancel explicit permission given for such public prayers in some sites. Protests have mostly been led by fringe Hindu organisations who have claimed public disruption of peace if Friday prayers were allowed in public places. Critics however have called these disruptions an attempt to demonise Muslims and fear the shrinkage of public spaces for Muslims as a consequence of such actions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/right-wingers-lead-namaz-disruption-in-gurugrams-sector-37-20-detained-345881
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana orders closure of schools in 4 districts neighbouring Delhi to curb air pollution||The Haryana government has ordered closure of all schools in its four districts adjoining Delhi with immediate effect in the wake of “deteriorating air quality” in the National Capital Region (NCR).The schools in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar will remain shut until further orders following the government's order on measures to manage air quality in NCR districts of Haryana.The order, issued by the additional chief secretary of Haryana's Environment and Climate Change Department dated December 2, has also completely banned construction activities, except "non-polluting activities" such as plumbing, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry, besides those exclusively permitted by the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas.These curbs would be strictly implemented in all 14 NCR districts of Haryana until further orders, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-orders-closure-of-schools-in-4-districts-neighbouring-delhi-to-curb-air-pollution-345873
03-12-2021||Sanjay Yadav||5 staff members of Gurugram hospital killed in road accident||Gurugram, December 3Five employees of a privae hospital here were killed and another was critically injured in a road accident near Sadhrana village in the wee hours of Friday.They were on their way to hospital after attending the marriage ceremony of their colleague at Sadhrana when their car collided with a pile of bricks and overturned. Five of them died on the spot while one is battling for life in hospital.According to the police, the accident took place around 1 am when six employees of Genesis Hospital in Sector 84 were returning to the hospital. It was on the Harsaru-Sadhrana road that their speeding Swift Dzire car went out of control and collided with the bricks on the roadside and overturned. The collision was such that five of them died on the spot while the sixth was seriously injured. A police team reached the spot after getting information and retrieved the bodies from the mangled car.The deceased have been identified as Jagbir (38), a resident of Rajasthan; Jiwat (19), a native of Nepal; Prince (22), a resident of Bihar; Sagar (24) of Gurugram; and Niyaj Khan (45), a native of Uttar Pradesh.The injured has been identified as Hardik Tiwari (21), a resident of Lucknow.The deceased Jagbir was an electrician, Prince store head, Sagar ambulance driver, Niyaj Khan housekeeping in-charge while Jiwat was a medical staff. Injured Hardik Tiwari is on the reception staff of the hospital.A hospital staff said that they were returning from the marriage of a hospital employee.“We have kept the bodies in the mortuary and informed the families. We are investigating the matter,” said sub-inspector Rakesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-staff-members-of-gurugram-hospital-killed-in-road-accident-345850
03-12-2021||Karnal||Will invite farmers for dialogue: Haryana CM||Highlighting that the farm issue was on the verge of resolution, CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said the government would invite farmers for talks on it.The CM, who spent the night at the PWD Rest House before leaving for Rohtak, met party workers here. He discussed developmental works with officials and workers and took their feedback on various issues.On the farmers’ demand of cancellation of FIRs, he said, “We will talk about it, whenever we sit together.” Urging the farmers, he said the government had accepted their demand to repeal the laws so now they should return to their homes.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-invite-farmers-for-dialogue-haryana-cm-345621
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||50K relief to kin of victims in a month||The government will disburse Rs 50,000 ex gratia to the next of kin of the Covid victims within one month.An official spokesperson said all claims would be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents and assistance shall be disbursed through Aadhaar-linked direct benefit transfer into the bank account of the beneficiary. The scheme will be within the purview of the Haryana Right to Service Act, 2014. The DC-cum-Chairman, District Disaster Management Authority of the district, would release the ex gratia to the beneficiary after due verification, he said.The applicant can submit their claim application on the Antyodaya Saral portal. The state has also formed two grievances redressal panels at the district level. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50k-relief-to-kin-of-victims-in-a-month-345622
03-12-2021||Hisar||Man gets 20-year jail for raping minor niece||The Court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Seema Singhal on Wednesday sentenced a man to 20 years of jail and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on him for raping his minor niece.The victim, in her complaint to the police in January 2019, said she was raped by her uncle in his house. The police registered a case under various sections of the IPC and POCSO Act.In her police complaint, the victim said her mother passed away about four years ago and her father was a driver who usually stayed out due to his job. She and her younger brother stayed with her grandmother.She said on January 10, 2019, her grandmother had gone to meet a relative and she and her brother went to their uncle’s house to sleep. The victim said at night, her uncle picked her up took her to another room and raped her. The accused then raped her multiple times till January 17, when her father returned home. She revealed the incident to her father and they decided to lodge a police complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-20-year-jail-for-raping-minor-niece-345623
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram contractor abducted, murdered||A private contractor was abducted and thrashed to death over business rivalry. The assailants also assaulted two others who tried to save him.According to a complaint filed by Om Prakash of ward number 1, Farrukhnagar, the deceased, Krishan Kumar (32), was a contractor for warehouses. On Wednesday afternoon, Krishan was returning home after filling CNG in his car.Business rivalryMy nephew had the contract of loading and unloading of goods at the warehouses of big firms. The accused also wanted the same contract, but the firms refused his proposal. Om Prakash, uncle of the deceased“It was near the Wazirpur crossing when the assailants came in a black Scorpio, stopped Krishan’s car and abducted him at gunpoint. They took him to the fields in Hamirpur village where they thrashed him with sticks and iron rods and dumped him on the roadside near Sadhrana.” He was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.Following a complaint, an FIR has been registered against over 15 suspects, including Suraj, Jitu, Hetu, Kaushal, Jeetu, Jatin and Akhri, under Sections of the IPC and Arms Act and a manhunt was launched. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-contractor-abducted-murdered-345624
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panel on Haryana tour to redress power complaints||Members of the Consumer Grievances Redress Forum (CGRF) of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) will make extensive visits in December for hearing grievances of consumers and to address their complaints.An official spokesperson on Wednesday said the proceedings of the CGRF would be held at following places: Kaithal (December 3), Panipat (December 6), Yamuna Nagar (December 8), Jhajjar (December 10), Sonepat (December 13), Karnal (December 15), Kurukshetra (December 17), Ambala (December 20), Panchkula (December 22), Rohtak (December 24), Shahabad (December 27) and Gharaunda (December 29).Except on field visit, the CGRF will be available at the headquarters from 9 am to 5 pm to hear the grievances of the consumers visiting office.He said the CGRF would take up all grievances/complaints of consumers, exceptcases of theft and unauthorised use of power. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-on-haryana-tour-to-redress-power-complaints-345625
03-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||At Singhu border, protesters get ready to return||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 2The atmosphere at Singhu, one of the epicentres of the farmers’ movement, has changed after the Centre scrapped the three farm laws. The protesters have started preparations to return to their homes, but are awaiting the final call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).The farmers could be scene busy packing their coolers, pipes and other articles on Thursday. Some of them also started uprooting their tents and sheds. They are hoping that the SKM will now call off the stir on Saturday.A festive atmosphere has been prevailing at Singhu since the repeal of the laws.The scenario at the main stage of the SKM has also changed in the past two or three days. Despite long speeches, the SKM has now started felicitating people, social organisations, langar organisers and others who supported the movement.It has scheduled a meeting on Saturday, in which it can announce its final decision about the fate of the farmers’ movement.Jagpal Singh of Sangrur said, “We are ready to go back to our homes, but are just waiting for the announcement from the main stage.”Some tractors have already started journey to Punjab and even some people have called their trucks to load their goods, he said.Another farmer Birender Singh of Gurdaspur said the laws had been scrapped but some other demands were pending, which could be fulfilled in a day or two.Nihang group head Baba Raja Raj Singh said the preparations to head back had been started. The Nihangs will hold an ‘Akhand Path’ and a press conference at the Singhu border on Saturday.Harinder Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said the main demand of the farmers had been fulfilled and now some others, including legal guarantee for the MSP and cancellation of the cases against the farmers, were still pending. “The government should fulfil these demands soon so that we can return home,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-singhu-border-protesters-get-ready-to-return-345626
03-12-2021||Rohtak||'Income of 3.5L BPL families to be raised'||“The government is aiming to increase the income of poor families and elevate them to the APL category,” said CM Manohar Lal Khattar at an event at the MDU.Antyodaya schemeA target has been set to increase the income of nearly 3.5 lakh families up to Rs2 lakh by ensuring them the provisions of the benefits of welfare schemes. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMAddressing the gathering, the CM said: “Under the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana, nearly 3.5 lakh families of Haryana, having an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh, have been identified. a target has been set to increase their income up to Rs 2 lakh by ensuring them the provision of the benefits of welfare schemes through special ‘Antyodaya Gram Utthan’ fairs being organised across the state till December 25.”Khattar said Haryana was the first state where efforts were being made to increase the income of BPL families and elevate them to the APL category. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/income-of-3-5l-bpl-families-to-be-raised-345627
03-12-2021||---||Not allowed to meet Khattar, MDU staff boycott his event||Rohtak, December 2Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar attended an event organised to mark the 31st death anniversary of former Deputy Chief Minister Dr Mangal Sen at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here on Thursday.Office-bearers of the MDU Teaching and Non-Teaching Employees’ Associations boycotted the CM’s event on not being given the opportunity to meet Khattar for submitting a memorandum against the government decision of making recruitment at state universities through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).MDU Teachers’ Association president Vikas Siwach said: “We wanted to meet the CM to flag our concerns regarding the recruitment issue but he didn’t giveus time, forcing us to boycott the event.”“Since the government’s decision is an attack on the autonomy of the universities, all teachers are against it and have demanded its rollback.” he added.He said the development had forced them to call an online meeting of teachers of all state universities to decide the future course of action. Representatives of the teacher associations of all universities would attend the meeting to show unity, he added.Sumer Ahlawat, president, MDU Non-Teaching Employees’ Association, said besides the recruitment issue, they wanted to submit a memorandum to the CM regarding their other demands, but faced disappointment on not getting time to meet him. “The pay scale for similar posts is different in many universities in the state. The government had set up a committee to look into the matter, but it is yet to submit its report. We are demanding the same pay scale for similar posts in all universities. To make the CM aware of it, we wished to meet him but failed to do so,” Ahlawat added.Meanwnile, the CM released a book titled “Dr Mangal Sen- Saidhantik Rajneeti Ke Pathik” on the occasion. Khattar also launched the renovation of Dr Mangal Sen multipurpose hall and laid the foundation stone of a kabbadi hall.Protest by INSOINSO activists protested during the Chief Minister’s visit to the MDU campus over the decision on staff recruitment. They also sought a high-level probe into the appointment of Vice Chancellor Rajbir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-allowed-to-meet-khattar-mdu-staff-boycott-his-event-345628
03-12-2021||---||Submit applications for state awards by December 10: Haryana department||Chandigarh, December 2The Haryana Women and Child Development Department has invited applications from women for their commendable achievements in various fields by December 10.An official spokesperson said the awards would be presented on March 8, 2022, on the occasion of International Women’s Day. These state-level awards include the Indira Gandhi Mahila Shakti Award, Kalpana Chawla Shaurya Award, Behan Shano Devi Panchayati Raj Award, Lifetime Achievement Award and Women Outstanding Achievers Award (Social Worker Award).Eligible women can submit their applications in the office of District Programme Officer, Women and Child Development Department, Panchkula, till December 10.The eligibility criteria for applying can be obtained on the website of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/submit-applications-for-state-awards-by-december-10-345629
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Selection of 102 candidates by panel in 2004 vitiated, Punjab and Haryana High Court told||The Haryana Government has told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that the entire selection of 102 candidates by the HPSC in 2004 was vitiated and suffered from irregularities.The affidavit placed before the Bench added it would be discriminatory to bifurcate the selection of some of the candidates as “untainted”. As such, the state had decided to dispense with the services of these officials from the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) and other allied services.It was added in the affidavit that “out of 38 candidates, 23 were appointed to the post of HCS (Executive Branch), of which as on today, 19 candidates are working. Two candidates were recommended for appointment to the post of DSP and both are in service. Seven candidates were recommended for appointment to the post of Excise and Taxation Officers, of which only two are in service. Six candidates were recommended for appointment to the post of Block Development and Panchayat Officer, but none of them joined the post”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selection-of-102-candidates-by-panel-in-2004-vitiated-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-told-345630
03-12-2021||Gurugram||To deal with pendency, RTA assigns work to 10 agencies||To deal with pendency and queues for the passing and registration of vehicles, the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has outsourced its work to 10 agencies.Giving relief to vehicle owner and drivers, the department has recently made changes in the registration and fitness passing system.As per the order, the RTA outsourced 10 dealers who will be able to issue registration and passing of vehicles in their area.Registration of all types of vehicles will be done at dealer level only. Vehicle owners will no longer have to submit vehicle-related documents, registration fee and road tax to the RTA office. All papers will now have to be deposited with the dealer.Besides, two-wheeler, four-wheeler, tractor and other vehicles will come out along with vehicle registration number plate at the showroom level of the agency itself.An official of the department said: “Between 50 and 100 new vehicles were registered daily. Due to this, there is a crowd of drivers in the office throughout the day,” the official added.“The department has given power to 10 dealers for registration and fitness passing. Drivers will now be able to get vehicle registration done from these dealers,” said Virendra Singh, Secretary, RTA, Gurugram. — OCWork outsourced to...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-deal-with-pendency-rta-assigns-work-to-10-agencies-345631
03-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps judicial officer for 'grave misconduct'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped a judicial officer for “grave misconduct” after ruling that he extended the concession of regular bail to an accused in a drugs case by deliberately ignoring the material on record and violating the sound judicial principles.Order passed by twisting factsThis court is of the opinion that the order dated November 1 has been passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Bhiwani, in an arbitrary manner by twisting the facts to extend the benefit of regular bail. Justice Manoj Bajaj, Punjab & Haryana HCJustice Manoj Bajaj asserted the order, prima facie, was passed for extraneous considerations and disciplinary action deserved to be initiated against the officer. He also directed the forwarding of the order’s copy to the High Court Registrar General for placing it before the Chief Justice for “further orders on the administrative side”.Justice Bajaj also cancelled the regular bail granted to accused Pardeep by the trial court vide order dated November 1 after initiating suo motu proceedings. He was directed to surrender forthwith before the trial court.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after one Ajay Kumar, alias Kala, filed a petition against the state of Haryana for grant of regular bail in an FIR registered on February 25 under the provisions of the NDPS Act, the Arms Act and for attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC at the Sadar Bhiwani police station.During the pendency of the petition, order dated November 1 passed by the Bhiwani Additional Sessions Judge granting bail to co-accused Pardeep, was placed on record by the petitioner to set up an additional ground of parity for bail.It was not disputed by the petitioner and state counsel that Pardeep was indeed arrested on the spot after completion of formalities. The court suo motu issued a show-cause notice to Pardeep for cancellation of his bail.Justice Bajaj added strangely the FSL report was filed on June 3 before the trial court. But the presiding officer did not refer to it at all and extended the bail with the observation that the report was yet to be filed. Justice Bajaj also allowed the prayer for withdrawal of petition by the counsel appearing for petitioner Ajay Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-judicial-officer-for-grave-misconduct-345632
03-12-2021||---||Job scam: Congress plans to gherao HPSC office today||Chandigarh, December 2As the Congress is planning a gherao the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) office in Panchkula on Friday and has turned the heat on its chairman Alok Verma, the commission has continued to maintain silence since the arrest of its Deputy Secretary Anil Nagar on November 18.Question chairman, commission membersThe chairman and HPSC members should be questioned in the scam as a deputy secretary (Anil Nagar) alone cannot be involved. Randeep Surjewala, Congress leaderThough the Congress has been seeking explanation on why the accused private firm, Safedot esolution Pvt Ltd, mentioned in the FIR, got the contract of online applications for the HPSC recruitment.Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said, “The silence of the HPSC so far shows complicity, conspiracy, and guilt. We have derided the statement of CM that how can guilty decide about their guilt. How can the chairman and members of the HPSC decide which candidates have to be selected and which not? Agents can go inside the secrecy branch, alter the OMR sheets and take the money inside HPSC. Were chairman and members of the HPSC, police, and vigilance blind? Obviously, they were not blind, they were complicit.”Congress Chief Whip BB Batra said, “Why the CM is batting for HPSC? They should defend themselves. Why has Verma not been questioned yet? He can’t be removed because it is a constitutional post. He should at least go on leave till the probe is completed.”Following the complaint about the manipulation of marks in the recruitment of dental surgeons, the State Vigilance Bureau registered the FIR on November 17. A raid was conducted and Naveen Kumar of Bhiwani was caught red-handed while accepting cash of Rs 20 lakh.SVB officials further arrested Ashwani Sharma of Jhajjar and seized cash amounting to Rs 1,07,97,000 during a search at house. He confessed that this money was to be paid to Nagar.Nagar was arrested while accepting the money from Sharma in his office. Further, cash of Rs 2.10 crore belonging to Nagar was seized from his associate who had kept the bribe money on his behalf.Taking corrective steps, says HPSC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/job-scam-congress-plans-to-gherao-hpsc-office-today-345633
03-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Karnal village road in pathetic condition||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Karnal village road in pathetic conditionA road connecting Gholpura village with Mohri Jagir village is in pathetic condition. The work was started but was stopped midway after lying the layer of gravel, posing threat to commuters. Residents of Gholpura, Bohla Khalsa and Mohri Jagir have approached the officials of the department, but all in vain. They also raised the issue with the local MLA, but nothing has been done. District officials should take note of it and act at once. Naresh Gholpura, KarnalCheck quality of road repair workThe Kurukshetra administration deserves kudos for revamping Pipli-University road which was in a dilapidated condition for the last many years. However, the quality of rebuilding of roads is abysmal. At places, substandard carpeting of roads has resulted in resurfacing of cracks and potholes. Crunched ravels underneath the tyre of moving vehicles speak volumes about the misappropriation of funds and the lack of unaccountability. Dr Deepak Kaushik, Kurukshetra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-village-road-in-pathetic-condition-345634
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Bollywood actors enthral Gurugram varsity students||Professional Development eventHisar: A two-week professional development programme for non-teaching staff was started by UGC Human Resource Development Centre, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, in collaboration with the AICTE. Vice-chancellor Professor Baldev Raj Kamboj said the skill development of the human resource was the most vital in the growth of society and nation. Since there was a divine power hidden in each individual, its exploration through such training programmes was the need of the hour.Communal harmony weekYamunanagar: National Service Scheme volunteers of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, on the occasion of Communal Harmony week, collected support money by visiting college teachers, students and colonies located around the college. College principal Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang said volunteers of the NSS collected money from society and made their contribution in nation building by employing that amount in the works of society, nation and human beings. He also informed that the money collected was used for the care of families and dependents of martyrs and disabled soldiers. President of the college managing committee, Randeep Singh Jauhar congratulated the NSS volunteers for this humanitarian and national work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/film-actors-enthral-students-345635
03-12-2021||Faridabad||AIDS awareness rally in Faridabad||The department of communication and media technology of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, observed World AIDS Day by organising an awareness rally to mark the occasion.The rally kicked off in the presence of Prof Atul Mishra, chairman, department of communication and media technology, Prof Komal Kumar Bhatia, chairman of the department of computer engineering, Prof Munish Vashishth, proctor and Dr Pawan Singh Malik, associate professor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aids-awareness-rally-in-faridabad-345636
03-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Senior Deputy Mayor flags poor sanitation in Jagadhri||Dissatisfied with the cleanliness work of Jagadhri city, Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Sharma alias Pinni said garbage was not being picked up properly in the city.At a meeting held with officials of the sanitation branch of the MCYJ and the contractor associated with the work of collection of door to door garbage on Wednesday, he said they were getting complaints regarding poor sanitation work. He told officials to clean streets, roads and bazaars every day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/senior-deputy-mayor-flags-poor-sanitation-in-jagadhri-345637
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Applications invited for energy awards||The Haryana New and Renewable Energy Department and Haryana Energy Development Agency(HAREDA) have invited applications for the State Energy Conservation Awards from eligible consumers of various categories for 2020-21. Applications can be submitted by December 23 to the New and Renewable Energy Department.An official spokesperson said the State Energy Conservation Award was given to institutions doing excellent work in the field of energy conservation by industrial, commercial, government, institutional, group residential buildings and making proper use of technology and energy efficiency. In addition, these include new promotional projects in innovation or new technologies or R&D projects.Institutions doing best in research and innovation in energy conservation, energy efficiency, waste to energy and renewable energy sectors, efficient natural resource management can also apply for the award. The spokesperson said in these awards, the winning institution was honoured with cash amount, shield and certificate. He said for information related to the guidelines under this scheme, login can be done on the website of HAREDA www.hareda.gov.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-invited-for-energy-awards-345638
03-12-2021||---||International Gita Mahotsav kick-starts with Saras & Crafts Fair in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, December 2Amid the chanting of ‘shlokas’ on the banks of the Brahma Sarovar, state Tourism and Education Minister Kanwar Pal inaugurated the Saras and Crafts Fair to kick-start the International Gita Mahotsav-2021 celebrations on Thursday evening.Artistes of the North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, and the Haryana Kala Parishad accorded a rousing welcome to the participants.Speaking on the occasion, the Tourism Minister said: “Due to the efforts made by the state government, International Gita Mahotsav is being celebrated here for the past several years. The celebrations started today, with craftsmen from across the country reaching here to showcase the art of their respective states.”“The mahotsav is getting bigger with each passing year. There is a need to make collective efforts to promote Kurukshetra at the world level. Efforts are also being made to develop and promote Kurukshetra as a major tourist destination,” he added.“Jyotisar, the birth place of Gita, is being developed. All ‘tirthas’ are also being developed. Meanwhile, the state’s Home Stay Scheme will help in increasing tourism and creating job opportunities. On the pattern of Morni Hills, the government has planned to start adventure sports at Hathini Kund and Tilyar Lake too,” the Tourism Minister added.Visiting the stalls, Kanwar Pal interacted with the craftsmen and enquired about the facilities being provided to them by the administration. Later in the evening, he also performed evening ‘aarti’ at the Brahma Sarovar.Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar said: “Over 350 craftsmen, will showcase their talent during the fair.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-gita-mahotsav-kick-starts-with-saras-crafts-fair-in-kurukshetra-345639
03-12-2021||---||Additional Chief Secretary reviews work at Agrasen airport||Hisar, December 2Sudhir Rajpal, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Civil Aviation Department, took a meeting of the officers of the departments concerned on Thursday to review the progress of the work of Phase II of Maharaja Agrasen Airport in Hisar.On this occasion, he also inspected the runway and took the progress report of the development project related to the department concerned in a work-wise manner. The ACS also inquired about the work done so far regarding pending projects.At the meeting, the officials discussed the construction of alternate route from Barwala Road, laying of hume pipe under the runway, installation of Cat-2 lights on the runway, construction of new boundary wall in place of the old boundary wall of the airport, shifting of BPCL gas bottling plant, removal of nearby sheds, construction of new hangars and apron in airport premises, construction of runway at Dhansu road etc. The issues related to the transfer of 668 acres for the airport, water supply, drainage, sewerage etc besides development of solar park near the airport were also taken up for discussion.On this occasion, Deputy Commissioner Dr Priyanka Soni asked the district officials of departments concerned to expedite the work. She said the airport was being developed as the Integrated Aviation Hub of the international standard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/additional-chief-secretary-reviews-work-at-agrasen-airport-345640
03-12-2021||Parveen Arora||32% posts of lecturer vacant in Haryana CM's district||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 2Around 32 per cent posts of lecturer (postgraduate teachers) are lying vacant in high and senior secondary schools of the CM’s district.STAFF RATIONALISATION ON CARDSThe rationalisation of the posts of lecturer will be done. To fill the vacancies, we have written to the higher authorities. Rajpal, District Education OfficerThe situation can be gauged from the fact that of the 2,124 sanctioned posts of lecturer of various subjects across the district, 680 are not filled, adversely affecting the studies of students. Of the sanctioned posts, 84 are filled by guest lecturers, the data revealed.As per the Education Department, there are total 176 schools — 115 senior secondary and 61 high — in the CM’s district.So far, 90 per cent posts of physical education lecturer are lying vacant as only 4 are filled of 41 sanctioned, the data stated. Also, 85 per cent posts of computer science lecturer are lying vacant in different schools of the district as only 15 of 100 are filled. Moreover, the posts of most of the subject teachers are also lying vacant.Demanding the government to fill the vacant posts at the earliest, Haryana School Lecturers’ Association district president Shyam Lal said: “We have repeatedly raised the issue with the government, but it is delaying the recruitment process. Also, no transfers are being done for the past two years. We want that the power for the interim adjustment should be given to the District Education Officer, so that the studies of students aren’t affected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/32-posts-of-lecturer-vacant-in-haryana-cms-district-345641
03-12-2021||New Delhi/Hisar||North's first N-plant to come up in Haryana's Fatehabad; locals flag issues||Even as Union Minister Jitendra Singh today told the Rajya Sabha that the North India’s first nuclear power plant was coming up at Gorakhpur village in Haryana’s Fatehabad district, locals claimed despite the acquisition of land in 2012, the work was going on at a snail’s pace.The Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances & Pension said till now the nuclear plants were limited only to southern states. “We have now moved northwards and going to have a project at Gorakhpur,” he said.While the government is betting big on nuclear power generation, Gorakhpur villagers said the work slowed down drastically after the initial push. “We had begun to think that the government might be reviewing its decision about the project,” said Rajesh Beniwal, a villager.He said several promises were made by the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) when the land was acquired in 2012. “We had to resort to agitation to get fair price for our land. There are many unfulfilled promises, including developing infrastructure in the village and providing jobs to the affected farmers,” he said.The project known as Gorakhpur Haryana Anu Vidyut Pariyojana will have four 700 MWe PHWR types of nuclear plants. Villagers and activists had launched an agitation during 2010-12, claiming the project would have adverse impact on the environment in the region, besides creating scarcity of water for irrigation.Wildlife activist Vinod Kumar said the NPCIL had promised to develop a community reserve area for protection and preservation of livestock in the region, although it did spend funds under the corporate social responsibility in the village.The corporation also created protection zones for engendered species of blackbucks and soft-shell turtles at Dhangar and Kajlaheri villages of Fatehabad district for Rs 1.35 crore, he said. — TNSLand acquired in ’12, work at slow pace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/norths-first-n-plant-to-come-up-in-fatehabad-locals-flag-issues-345691
