06-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram namaz row: Hindu, Muslim groups agree on 18 prayer sites||Hindu and Muslim groups announced they had agreed on 18 places in Gurugram for Friday namaz prayers after protracted negotiations, officials said.The district administration hosted a joint meeting attended by representatives of both sides to help resolve a conflict that has is now at least two years old and had turned into a weekly event.  The sites newly agreed upon are 12 mosques and six public spaces—Atlas Chowk HSIIDC ground, Peepal Chowk Huda land Udyog Vihar phase 2,Huda land opposite Spice Jet office Udyog vihar, Leisure Valley Ground, Huda land on Golf Course road sector 42 and sector 69 HUDA land.The public spaces will be rented out for their use, officials said.  This new agreement means that 20 designated places were namaz is currently being offered will no longer be used. “Other than 12 mosques which are rightfully theirs we have agreed upon six other public grounds which our Muslim brothers or Imam Sangathan to be more specific has agreed to rent every Friday,” said Mahaveer Bhardwaj , President Hindu Sangharsh Samiti. “They will be using these places till their Waqf Board properties are not evacuated or handed to them. There shall be no objection or disruption or protest in any of these agreed 18 places. For us, this settles the matter.”Khurshid Razaka of Muslim Manch said they would abide by these terms.“We have reached an agreement and on our part, we’ll abide by its terms. We have offered to pay rent for places we rent. Communal harmony of this city is most important and we’ve worked towards ensuring same,” he said.The two groups have been holding meetings for over a month now, they said, and blamed “publicity seekers” for blowing the issue “out of proportion”. Gurugram Police meanwhile said it would continue to station police at the sites to ensure there’s no escalation.Hindu organisations have been spearheading protests against public “jumma” prayers every Friday despite explicit permission being granted to them by the district administration. These protests have been particularly vehement in some places, such as Sector 37.  The situation has been especially tense in the last few weeks, with hostile right-wing groups flocking to these places, conducted their own public prayers and chanting “Jai Shri Ram” a few metres from where namaz was being offered. The last few weeks have seen several protesters being detained.   The protests came amid fears of shrinking spaces for Muslims in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-namaz-row-hindu-muslim-groups-agree-on-18-prayer-sites-347031
06-12-2021||New Delhi||Narwana natives plan construction of amphitheatre in ‘Gaushala’ complex for conducting marriages||A group of natives of Narwana in Jind district of Haryana settled here have joined hands led by Delhi Cooperative Housing Finance Corporation Chairman Rajesh Goyal to help preserve the ancient cultural values, which include construction of an amphitheatre in a “Gaushala” complex in their hometown for public to organise marriages in true “Vedic” tradition. They plan to expand this pro bono initiative by involving large number of people for development of Jind district and bring it on country’s map in coming times.In effect, this initiative of the group, consisting of well-established professionals, businessmen etc, is with the goal to foster ancient India’s cultural and civilizational values, customs, and practices.The members reside in Delhi and places in the NCR near the national capital.A member of the group said the institution of marriage and family are the starting blocks and the fundamental units which predicate cultural values of a society.“Residing in places, especially in megalopolises, far away from native places makes one realise the importance of one’s cultural roots. The erosion in the values is discernible at big places. The values are gradually getting eroded in Narwana through social ‘cross-pollination’, and also getting swamped by crass materialism,” he said. He said the idea for the amphitheatre, among other ventures, remained inchoate among members of this group. It, however, got concretised with regard to the marriage of the nephew of Rajesh Goyal which will be organised in it on December 11.The group decided in favour of the marriage of Goyal’s relative in the proposed amphitheatre as an example. The construction of the amphitheatre on more than an acre in sprawling more than five-acre Narwana’s  gau-complex has already started. The cost of it will be borne by raising funds through the initiatives of the group’s members.Its chief feature will be an elevated altar for conduct of marriage rituals. It will be available for the public in coordination with the management committee looking after the Gaushala.Goyal said a number of initiatives have been planned by the group for Narwana, and will be implemented gradually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/narwana-natives-plan-construction-of-amphitheatre-in-gaushala-complex-for-conducting-marriages-347006
06-12-2021||---||Haryana Dy CM hints at 'deal' with protesting farmers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 5Indicating a thaw between the protesting farmers and the state government, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala stated that they have reached an “agreement to an extent” with the farmers’ body following two rounds of meetings with them.Won’t withdraw rape, murder casesAfter the Centre and farmers’ body reach a consensus, the state will take steps to withdraw cases except those of rape and murder. — Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CMTalking to mediapersons in Hisar today, Dushyant said that they had held two rounds of meetings with kisan union representatives.“Presently, a dialogue has opened between the Centre and farmers’ body Samyukta Kisan Morcha. With regard to the issues which are related to the Haryana Government, including withdrawal of cases against farmers and other state-specific demands, there is agreement more or less following two rounds of discussion,” he said.The Deputy CM said that after the Centre and farmers’ body reach a consensus, the state would take steps to withdraw cases except the lethal cases of rape and murder.A section of lawyers protested against the visit of the Deputy Chief Minister at the court complex today. The lawyers who had been staging dharna in support of the farmers’ agitation said that the demands of the farmer unions are yet to be agreed upon by the Centre and state government. Activists of the Kisan Sabha also staged protest demonstrations outside the mini secretariat during Dushyant’s visit. Expressing hope of a positive outcome, Dushyant said that a committee of the government and farmers has been constituted regarding MSP.He said that the Haryana Government has procured the maximum number of crops at MSP and payment was being made directly into the accounts of the farmers. Haryana is the only state in the country where Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana has been implemented on 19 types of fruits and vegetables. He said that other states should adopt these models of Haryana for the progress of the agriculture sector. Later, Dushyant visited the District Bar Association to inaugurate the main entrance and also start the work of renovation of Digital Bar Library. He released a grant of Rs 31 lakh to the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dy-cm-hints-at-deal-with-protesting-farmers-346822
06-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Centre may call for talks today: SKM||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 5A day after forming a five-member committee, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders now hope that the Centre will invite them for talks over pending demands tomorrow.Shiv Kumar Kakka, a member of the committee, said: “Home Minister Amit Shah was probably away for a BSF programme and today is a holiday. So, we are expecting a formal invitation for talks by tomorrow.” Jai Kisan Andolan convener Yogendra Yadav said the SKM had given two days to the Centre to resolve their issues. Besides, a group of Nihang Sikhs, who had been squatting near the TDI mall in Kundli area, started packing their belongings and also uprooted their tents. They loaded their goods and horses in their trucks and began preparations to move to their deras today.Six farmers — Rajender Singh of Kohla village in Sonepat, Satnam Singh of Patiala, Bikram Singh of Gurdaspur, Kartar Singh of Kaithal, Naresh Sangwan of Ambala and Kuldeep Singh of Moga — sat on an indefinite fast till December 7 near the main stage of the SKM. The next SKM meeting would be held at the Singhu border on December 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-may-call-for-talks-today-skm-346823
06-12-2021||Karnal||Anil Vij: Political opportunists want protest to continue||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij today said that some people with political interest want the farmers’ agitation to continue forever to fulfil their motives.“There are some enemies of the country and people with political ambitions who are in favour of continuing this agitation, but now it seems the farmers want to end the agitation and the government has also moved forward. There is the possibility of a breakthrough soon and the agitation may end soon,” he added. He said that farmers should have ended their agitation and returned home after the PM’s announcement of repealing the three agriculture laws.Reply to a question about the Saturday meeting with the farmers, he said it was the first meeting and there were some minor issues, which would also be sorted out with talks only. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-political-opportunists-want-protest-to-continue-346825
06-12-2021||Bhiwani||Compensate kin of deceased farmers: Bhupinder Hooda||Ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda has said that if three farm laws had been taken back, the cases filed against the farmers should also be withdrawn.At a meeting in Bhiwani today, he said the government should also award compensation to the families of those who had died during the stir. “The government should take forward other issues, including that of the MSP, of farmers,” he said. On alleged job scams, he said: “Jobs are being sold like goods at a grocery store.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/compensate-kin-hooda-346826
06-12-2021||Karnal||Haryana doctors threaten strike if demands not met||Government doctors, under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA), held a protest here today to press their demands. The doctors have threatened to go on strike from December 13 if their demands are not met.The association handed over a memorandum to the CM’s representative of his constituency, Sanjay Bathla, for the CM. The doctors are demanding a specialist cadre, 40 per cent reservation in postgraduation courses and stop on the direct recruitment of SMOs.The HCMSA said they would keep OPDs closed on December 13 and if their demands were not met, they would stop all emergency services, including post-mortem and casualties from December 14. Dr Jasbir Singh Panwar, state president of the HCMSA, highlighted the issues of the doctors and said there was acute shortage of specialists. “Due to shortage of specialists, patients have to wait for three-four months for elective surgeries,” he added.Dr Sandeep Abrol, district president of the HCMSA, said the decision to recruit SMOs directly should be rolled back as a medical officer gets only a single promotion in his career. They should be given promotion as per their service instead of direct recruitment, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/docs-threaten-strike-if-demands-not-met-346827
06-12-2021||Deepender Deswal||Enough power, Gorakhpur N-plant wastage of funds: Activists||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 5The first nuclear power plant project being set up in Gorakhpur village of Fatehabad district has failed to enthuse villagers who blamed the Centre for not fulfilling its promise of giving jobs to affected persons and developing the village.Process began in 1984Calling it a burden on the country’s exchequer, environmental activists said the country had surplus power from various other sources and there was no urgent need to drain massive funds on this project. Experts claimed that given the pace of work, it would take another 10 years to start operations. Local residents said their apprehensions were yet to be addressed by the authorities of the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL). “While NPCIL officials term it absolutely safe, anti-nuclear activists describe it as a threat to the environment and a risk to the human and livestock habitation in the region,” said Subhash Punia of Aylaki village in the district.Punia, a member of the Parmanu Sanyantra Virodhi Morcha, said besides posing the risk of radiation, a nuclear plant remained a constant threat of an accident. “A nuclear plant is a water guzzler as it requires lot of water to generate energy. Being an agriculture state, Haryana is known as one of the biggest contributors to the foodgrain kitty of the country. It is already facing water shortage for irrigation purposes,” he said.Soumya Dutta, an environmental activist, said nuclear waste remained radioactive for long time. “The gases emitted by the plant are radioactive and the water discharged back from the cooling plants also contain radioactive elements. It requires huge amount of water,” he said.Dutta claimed that given the power scenario, the nuclear plant appeared to be a massive wastage of funds. “It is going to put a huge financial burden on the country,” he said, adding that as per the available requirement, India needed around 1.90 lakh MW, but the country was generating 3.95 lakh MW. “So where is the need to set up a nuclear power plant, which needs huge funds? Besides, the Centre has put the thrust on tapping the potential of solar energy,” he said. PS Tomar, a senior NPCIL official at Gorakhpur plant, said the work was going on at the plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/enough-power-gorakhpur-n-plant-wastage-of-funds-activists-346829
06-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Traffic monitoring starts at command centre in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 5With the inauguration of the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), a major component of the Smart City project, began monitoring of traffic today. The centre was inaugurated by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Keep check on crimeIt will help the police in checking traffic violations and also keep a vigil on criminals. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMBring various departments under one roofIt will establish an intensive framework that is bringing inputs from different departments such as police, fire, Karnal Municipal Corporation, district administration etc. on one platform. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-Cum-CEO, Smart city ltdOver 500 CCTV cameras, including 50 pan-tilt-zoom security cameras, and 42 cameras in the city and the NH-44, facial recognition system, adaptive traffic control systems (ATCS), automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system, red-light violation detection (RLVD), speed-violation detection system automatic challan will help the administration in keeping vigil on crime, criminals, and traffic violators round the clock.After the inauguration, Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is the CEO, Smart City Ltd., apprised the CM about the project and said 60 persons, including 30 operators, 20 police personnel and 10 officials had been deployed on this project to monitor the city. It will establish an intensive framework that is bringing inputs from different departments such as police, fire, Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), district administration etc. on one platform, he apprised the CM.These inputs can be converted into actionable intelligence and disseminated to stakeholders on time. Besides, it is a place which collaborates with all departments of the city using information and communication technology as a backbone. It will process all information and generate insights, which will be helpful in managing incidents across the city and do better planning for the development. It plays the role of decision support system.The CM was apprised of the project and a live demo of the city surveillance was given by experts. The experts told the CM that it would act as the city’s emergency and disaster management platform as it was integrated with various IT systems of different stakeholders with the objective of enhancing safety, security and providing better public services in the cities. It also helps the police in maintaining law and order.“I congratulate the residents for this ambitious project as it will ensure more facilities in ensuring good better services,” said the CM.“It will help the police in checking traffic violation and also keep a vigil on criminals,” said the CM.On being asked about allegations of corruption in KMC, the CM said that a district vigilance committee, headed by the Additional Deputy Commissioner, had been constituted to deal with all complaints of corruption in government departments. On farmers’ issue, he said dialogues were going on and hopefully it would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffic-monitoring-starts-at-command-centre-in-karnal-346832
06-12-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC hikes maintenance fee of parks||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 5The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) has increased the maintenance charges of parks being looked after by various Resident Welfare Associations, societies and other organisations.Will be able to maintain parksNow, we will be able to look after parks properly as the MC authorities have increased these charges Office-bearer of an organisation associated with maintenance of a parkThe maintenance charges have been increased from Rs 2 to Rs 5 per square metre and the increased maintenance charges will be paid from September 2021.As many as 43 parks are being maintained by RWAs and other organisations in the twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.According to information, the RWAs, societies and other organisations were finding it difficult to maintain parks with the maintenance charges being paid to them by the Municipal Corporation at the rate of Rs 2 per square metre.The RWAs and other organisations had been demanding increase in the maintenance charges for long.The proposal of increasing the maintenance charges was passed at a meeting of the MCYJ held in August this year and it was implemented from September after an administrative approval.Ajay Singh Tomar, Commissioner of the MCYJ, said they had recently issued Rs 7,69,493 at the rate of Rs 5 per square metre as maintenance charges to the RWAs and other organisations for looking after the 43 parks.“The well-developed parks not only enhance the beauty of the cities, but they also provide good environment to the people. Therefore, we have enhanced the maintenance charges of parks, which are being looked after by the RWAs and other organisations,” said Tomar. An office-bearer of an organisation associated with the maintenance of a park said they had been receiving only Rs 2 per square metre as maintenance charges from the Municipal Corporation, but these were not enough to meet the expenses being incurred by them to look after the parks.“Now, we will be able to look after parks properly as the MC authorities have increased these charges to Rs 5 per square metre from Rs 2,” the office-bearer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-hikes-maintenance-fee-of-parks-346833
06-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Use common wisdom to assess land value: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5The Punjab and Haryana HC has ruled that a court was required to apply the wisdom of a common man while assessing the market value of the acquired land.Justice Anil Kshetarpal has also made it clear that the courts were required to arrive at a figure “that a willing seller would get from a voluntary purchaser for the property”.The ruling came on a bunch of 281 civil writ petitions and regular first appeals filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Nafe Singh and others. Justice Kshetarpal, among other things, ruled the Supreme Court had in more than one judgment recognised it would not be appropriate for the court to apply proportionate deduction to reduce the value, if there was no dissimilarity between the acquired land and the sale exemplar of a reasonable size/parcel of land.Once the market value of the acquired agricultural land was being assessed and several sale exemplars of considerably big-sized plots of agricultural land were available, the application of cut/deduction for development was not justified. The exception was when the court was assessing the market value of land where the sale exemplars produced before the court were of relatively small-sized plots used for residential, commercial or industrial purposes. The deduction could be applied when comparable sale exemplar was of a plot of a smaller size as compared to the acquired land in order to moderate the difference between wholesale and retail prices as observed by the Supreme Court in judgment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/use-common-wisdom-to-assess-land-value-hc-346834
06-12-2021||Rohtak||Congress to hold public meetings in Rohtak||The Congress would organise public meetings at all nine Assembly segments of the Rohtak parliamentary constituency in order to corner the BJP-JJP coalition government over alleged government job scam, unemployment, rising inflation, corruption and farmers’ issues. Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja would address the meetings.The decision was taken at a meeting of the party workers organised by former minister Krishanmurti Hooda here on Sunday. The meeting, presided over by Dalip Singh Hooda, also resolved to launch a public contact programme to make the meetings successful.“All sections of society are fed up with the BJP-JJP coalition government as the jobs are being sold like a grocery item, corruption is rampant, inflation has broken the backbone of common men, rising crime graph has caused a sense of insecurity among people and farmers are being devastated with unjustified policies,” Krishanmurti said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-to-hold-public-meetings-in-rohtak-346835
06-12-2021||---||New Karnal MC building inaugurated||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 5Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated the new building of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) in Sector12 here today. The building has been built at a cost of Rs 16 crore.Earlier, the office was running from Mahila Ashram, as the previous building was at a congested place at Committee Chowk, where traffic jams were quite common.To give respite to the residents from traffic jams, the CM Khattar had laid the foundation stone of this project on June 21, 2015, which was to be completed in three years, but the project got delayed due to several reasons, said an official. The CM took a round of the building and congratulated the Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, Commissioner Manoj Kumar, councillors and the officials of the KMC. He said with the new building, people would get services in a better way as it was spacious. Besides, the CM dedicated an open air gym, laid stones of various roads and a digital library. He also inaugurated medical oxygen generation plants of the Nilokheri Civil Hospital and the CHC, Gharaunda. Congratulating the Mayor for the new office, the CM said in the building, there were separate offices of public representatives and officials, which would ensure trouble-free services to the general public.Later, the CM inaugurated Punjabi Biradri Bhawan in Sector 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-mc-building-inaugurated-346837
06-12-2021||---||Youth ends life in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 5A 25-year-old youth reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree in Sector-25 on Saturday.He has been identified as Arjun of Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. He was living in the labour quarters near Krishna Garden at Sector-29 with his wife.According to the police, he left his quarters on Saturday night but didn’t return home. They searched for him at night but to no avail. On Sunday morning, his body was found hanging from the tree.The Sector-29 Industrial Area police initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC and handed over the body to his kin after the post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-ends-life-in-panipat-346838
06-12-2021||---||Fatehabad: Most wanted criminal jumps parole, nabbed||Tribune News ServiceFatehabad, December 5The CIA branch of the Fatehabad police has arrested the ‘most wanted criminal’ carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 in connection with jumping parole.He was on parole and had been sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case. He was also an accused in making a ransom call to a person, besides facing nine criminal cases. The district police spokesperson said the accused, Gurdeep Singh, alias Dabla, was a resident of Shiv Nagar Hall, Maturam Colony, in Fatehabad district.The police said a case in connection with ransom was registered against the accused in October this year. The CIA team traced him near Dhangad village of the district and recovered a pistol and live cartridges from him. The police had already arrested his accomplice Rihan, another accused in the ransom case, while the search for the third accused was on.“The arrested criminal was sentenced to life imprisonment in the Pinky murder case in 2014 and was lodged in the Hisar jail. He came out on parole sometime back and was declared an absconder in October 2021 for not returning to the jail. It was during the parole period that Dabla demanded ransom. A case of parole jumping was also registered against the accused. After which, the Fatehabad police arrested him and started further proceedings,” a police spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/most-wanted-criminal-jumps-parole-nabbed-346839
06-12-2021||New Delhi||Manesar to get 500-bed hospital||The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) of the Union Labour Ministry has approved setting up of a 500-bed hospital in Manesar (Gurugram). The ESIC, in its meeting here presided over by Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav, cleared acquisition of the plot for a hospital at Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), Manesar.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manesar-to-get-500-bed-hospital-346840
06-12-2021|| Yamunanagar||33 grow crops on govt land near Yamunanagar, booked||An FIR was registered against 33 farmers who were allegedly found cultivating crops illegally on a piece of land acquired by the Haryana Government to develop a residential sector near Yamunanagar.On the complaint of Laxmi Narayan, Additional Estate Officer of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Yamunanagar district, a case was registered against 33 farmers belonging to Ratauli village under Section 447 (criminal trespass) of the IPC at Farakpur police station, Yamunanagar, on Friday.The state government had acquired land in Ratauli village to develop residential sector-13 several years ago. Now, several farmers were found cultivating crops illegally on a piece of the said land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/33-grow-crops-on-govt-land-booked-346841
06-12-2021||---||Back in Palwal from abroad, 32 test -ve for Covid||Tribune News ServicePalwal, December 5Of the 25 persons who have arrived here from abroad in the past week, none has been found Covid positive, according to the district health department.Dr Brahmadeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, Palwal, said surveillance had been increased in view of the detection of the new variant of Omicron in other parts of the country and as part of the drive, a strict vigil was being maintained on the persons coming from abroad. He said while a total of 32 persons had arrived in the past week, samples of 25 had been found negative, while the report of another seven foreign returnees was awaited. All persons coming from abroad were being quarantined or kept in isolation till the test reports, it was added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/back-in-palwal-from-abroad-32-test-ve-for-covid-346842
06-12-2021||Faridabad||Cartoon has little impact on road safety||Ajay Chautala hints at family reunionYamunanagar: The adage "Everything is possible in politics" may prove to be true in Haryana politics. Senior JJP leader Dr Ajay Singh Chautala has hinted about the reuniting of Chautala family. While interacting with mediapersons in the office of former MLA Arjun Singh, Chautala left everyone surprised, stating that their family might reunite if Om Prakash Chautala intended to do so. He said senior Chautala always maintained that nothing was permanent in politics.Jhajjar police earn praiseJhajjar: The Jhajjar police have earned praise from every section of society following the capital punishment awarded by the district courts recently to a man convicted for the rape and murder of a 5-year-old girl. The verdict came within a year and it happened when the then Superintendent of Police, Rajesh Duggal, and his team ensured to file the charge sheet within six days, besides expediting the investigation.Cabinet expansion on cards?Hisar: A calculated reply of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala about the Cabinet expansion during his interaction with mediapersons in Hisar again gave an indication that the exercise was on the cards. The much-anticipated expansion is taking longer than usual. In the past, there were several occasions when the insiders of the BJP and alliance partner JJP talked about the imminent expansion. When asked about the possibility of the expansion, Dushyant restricted his comment to “soon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cartoon-has-little-impact-on-road-safety-346843
06-12-2021||Karnal||Students showcase talent||Special admission drive at CUHMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) will organise a special drive from December 10 for the admissions to vacant seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and integrated courses. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said the counselling would be offline. The candidates who could not take the CU-CET-2021 exam would also be able to participate, but those who appeared in the exam would be preferred.Karuna wins gold in boxingKarnal: Karuna, a student of BCom, final year of Dyal Singh College, added another feather to her cap by winning a gold medal in boxing under 60-kg weight category in inter-college competition held at Kurukshetra University Kurukshetra from December 1 to 3. She got success by defeating her contender Vinca from Arya College, Panipat, in the final bout. She also got selected for the All-India Inter-University camp at Kurukshetra University Kurukshetra. The winner was welcomed and honoured with great enthusiasm by college Principal Dr Ashima Gakhar. The college sports in-charge SP Bhatti, Sanjay Kumar and Dr Amit were also present on this occasion.Webinar on cyber securityMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised an online national workshop on "Advances in artificial intelligence and cyber security" wherein, 200 participants, comprising IT and computer science faculty, researchers and students of various universities across the country participated. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said India needed trained professionals in artificial intelligence and cyber security hence institutions should spread awareness and introduce courses in this regard so that society could deal with cyber crime.MDU to hold camps in villagesRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will organise camps pertaining to health and cleanliness, education and testing of water and soil in five villages adopted by the university under its outreach programme. Prof Ranbir Singh, director (outreach programme), said that a decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of officials held recently.Corporate resource centreKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said strengthening the corporate centre was the need of the hour. The corporate resource centre of the KU will train students, make them employable and self-reliant. He was speaking while presiding over the governing body meeting of the corporate resource Centre held in the committee room of the university. He said under this corporate resource centre of the KU, the relationship between the industry and the university had been established so that students could become self-reliant, employable and develop their skills by promoting employment, start-ups and research related to the various upcoming fields in the educational institution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-showcase-talent-346844
06-12-2021||In contrast to the tall claims of the district authorities||Stray cattle menace continues in Jhajjar||Om Prakash, JhajjarUrinating in open a common sight in AmbalaUrinating in the open, against a boundary wall, is common. Is it his lack of civic sense or is it lack of public toilets! I think it is both. We got to improve on both counts. We need to create more public urinals, and ensure their regular maintenance, along with availability of water. We also got to sensitise people further on cleanliness and self discipline. Thereafter, the defaulters must be fined heavily. Col R D Singh (retd) AmbalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-menace-continues-in-jhajjar-346845
06-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||'Thank you, Haryana', say Punjab farmers as they prepare to leave Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 5Punjab farmers at Tikri are on a special job these days to further strengthen the bonhomie with Haryana residents.Punjab visit inviteBarahi villagers ensured uninterrupted supply of milk, vegetables, fruit and other eatables. We have invited them to Punjab to reinforce this bond of brotherhood. Lakhwinder Singh, BKU (Sidhupur) leaderThey are visiting nearby villages to honour those who provided them succour in the shape of eatables and free accommodation over the past one year. They are also inviting them to visit Punjab.A committee of Punjab farm unions is also felicitating people from Haryana and Punjab to express their gratitude for their support.On Sunday, BKU (Sidhupur) leaders reached Barahi village (near Tikri) and felicitated some villagers there with siropa and mementos. The joint panel also honoured around 20 locals and as many from Punjab at the main protest site in recognition of their contribution in the success of their ongoing protest.“It seems, the protest is about to end now, hence it’s our duty to express gratitude to all those who stood by us. Residents of Barahi village ensured uninterrupted supply of milk, vegetables, fruits and other eatables. We have invited them to Punjab to reinforce this bond of brotherhood,” said BKU (Sidhupur) leader Lakhwinder Singh. Advocate Amarveer Singh Bhullar said yesterday they honoured a Bahadurgarh man for providing free accommodation to Punjab farmers. “It will continue till the last person who helped us is felicitated. We will go to another village tomorrow,” he added.BKU (Rajewal) leader Pargat Singh said they could never forget the support Haryana residents provided them to make their protest successful hence such persons were being felicitated. “We are also honouring those who have been camping with us at Tikri since the protest started. The unity of Punjab and Haryana farmers was instrumental in our historic win,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/thank-you-haryana-say-punjab-farmers-as-they-prepare-to-leave-tikri-346758
