07-12-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Multi-crore heist: IPS Dheeraj Setia evasive, STF raids house in Gurugram||With IPS Dheeraj Setia allegedly evading joining investigation in a multi-crore heist, the STF went ahead raiding his house only to find him and family unavailable.Setia has emerged as one of the suspects in the case and has been served notice to join the investigation.While he was supposed to turn up today, he didn’t and has been served notice again. Speaking to The Tribune, IG, STF, Mamta Singh said a second notice was served today evening and further probe is on.“Our team is investigating. As the name of IPS Dheeraj Setia came out in the confessional statement of one of the accused, Dr Sachender Kumar Nawal, we have served a notice to Setia to join the investigation but he failed. A second notice also has been served and if he does not join the investigation, action will be taken as per the law,” said Mamta Singh.One of the accused, paediatrician Dr Sachender Kumar Nawal, in his confessional statement claimed he had paid Setia in cash and kind over and above Rs 2 crores to cover up the heist.This money he has confessed was even returned. This statement brought Setia under the scanner and STF is looking to verify the same after Additional Sessions Judge Jasbir Singh highlighted inaction.“From the disclosure statement of accused Dr Sachender Kumar Nawal, it is clear he has given illegal gratification to DCP Dheeraj Setia for hushing up the matter. He (Nawal) also disclosed to have delivered huge amount in the form of gold, dollars etc… to DCP for the said purpose. From perusal of police file, I have not found any concrete step taken for taking the investigation to its logical conclusion,” the court observed on December 2.The STF probing a multi-crore theft case which began as a robbery in a flat in Sector 84 has turned to a multi-crore heist including who’s who of the city.Many top cops are also under the scanner and total 11 accused, including doctors, Delhi Police’s ASI and henchmen of gangster Vikas Lagarpuria have been arrested so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/multi-crore-heist-ips-dheeraj-setia-evasive-stf-raids-house-in-gurugram-347516
07-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||At Tikri, Punjab poll is hot topic of discussion among farmers||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 7After the repeal of three farm laws, upcoming assembly polls in Punjab have now become a hot topic of discussion among protesting farmers at Tikri border.They are not only taking updates about the poll promises being made by the political parties to woo electors but also analysing the prevailing political scenario in Punjab.Interestingly, they also do not hesitate to claim that farmers hold the key to power in Punjab hence they would decide the shape and direction of state politics in the upcoming elections.“Since the protest is likely to end soon as the Centre has no other option except to accept our pending demands, the topic of discussion has changed now. Farmers are now talking about emerging political equations in Punjab and also eyeing on the farmer unions’ next move in connection with assembly polls there,” says Jaswinder Singh, a farmer.  Jagsher of Moga said after winning over a yearlong battle from the Centre, now the farmers were ready to play a crucial role in Punjab elections too to show their strength yet again so they not only deliberate about the political scenario with fellow protests but also get report from ground zero by talking to family members and friends in Punjab. Social media is also proving helpful to a large extent in getting updates about political activities taking place in Punjab, he added.Balwinder from Mansa said they would teach a lesson to anti-farmer leaders in the elections while Buta Singh from Muktsar said he would follow whatever decision of the Samyukt Kisan Morch (SKM) regarding the polls.Gurchant Singh of Bhatinda questioned how they can stay without discussing the Punjab polls in a situation when the next battle was to be fought in their home state against those supporting the corporate houses. “Many farmers want the farm leaders to jump into the fray in order to give a suitable alternative to people of Punjab for electing a pro-farmer government but a final call in this respect is to be taken by the SKM,” he added.A senior farm leader on anonymity said, “There is immense pressure on us to contest the elections but our first priority is to ensure full victory of the ongoing agitation by getting our pending demands met.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-tikri-punjab-poll-is-hot-topic-of-discussion-among-farmers-347475
07-12-2021||Vijay Mohan||Built at Rs 16 crore, subways under Rohtak-Panipat rail track remain submerged, unutilised||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Poor planning and irregularities in execution of works to construct limited height subways by the Railways to replace unmanned level crossings on the Rohtak-Panipat track resulted in about a dozen such subways submerging under water and remaining unutilised, thereby wasting an expenditure of over Rs 16 crore.Audit scrutiny of the works revealed high ground water levels at the selected construction sites, non-availability of site survey and soil testing reports, difficulty in de-watering, change of construction sites, delays and Railway authorities ignoring concerns and inputs provided by the locals.Limited height subways (LHSs) are constructed to facilitate the safe movement of people and light vehicles at unmanned level crossings and prevent road accidents, apart from ensuring better traffic movement.Level crossings, both manned and unmanned, facilitate smooth running of traffic, but they also pose a major challenge in the operation of safe running of trains. The maximum fatalities in the railways occur due to accidents at unmanned level crossings.The Indian Railways Vision 2020 document states that about 70 per cent of the fatalities in railway mishaps take place at unmanned level crossings. Level crossings remain a vulnerable point for accidents and road over bridges, road under bridges and subways are constructed to eliminate them.“The main objective of construction of LHSs in lieu of unmanned level crossings was to prevent loss of human lives and vehicles due to accidents apart from providing smooth traffic movement. However, these LHSs, being submerged in water, could not be used by the local public and road users, Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) latest report tabled in Parliament’s ongoing session observed.“Thus, the objective of construction of LHSs could not be achieved and whole expenditure of Rs 16.19 crore incurred on construction of these LHSs was unproductive,” the CAG commented.The matter was taken up by CAG with the Ministry of Railways, but no response was received.Joint inspections of the LHSs were carried out by CAG ad Railway officials. “It was evident that in all the cases (except three sites) where location or sites of LHSs were changed, no formal approval of the competent authority was obtained. No corrigendum to contract for change in location of the works was issued,” the CAG report said.The Assistant Divisional Engineer (Rohtak) stated that locations were changed verbally by the competent authority due to high water table and agitation by villagers, but even after change of sites, the LHSs remained submerged in water. The CAG observed that no reports relating to site survey or soil test were available in the records of the Railway Administration. “This indicates lack of due diligence in creation of crucial public facilities,” the CAG commented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/built-at-rs-16-crore-subways-under-rohtak-panipat-rail-track-remain-submerged-unutilised-347447
07-12-2021||---||28 injured as school bus collides with Haryana Roadways bus in Bhiwani||Hisar, December 7As many as 28 people were injured when a school bus collided with a Haryana Roadways bus near Lalhana village on the Bhiwani-Loharu road in Bhiwani district on Tuesday morning.The passengers said dense fog in the region reduced visibility. Though the bus was being driven at slow speed, the accident occurred as the driver could not spot the bus coming from the opposite direction, an injured passenger said.The Haryana Roadways bus was on its way from Loharu to Bhiwani while the school bus carrying school staff was coming from the opposite direction.The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Bhiwani.A doctor at the civil hospital said some of the injured had suffered head injuries. None of the injured were critical, the doctor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-injured-as-school-bus-collides-with-haryana-roadways-bus-in-bhiwani-347430
07-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Vishwamitra Ka Tilla in Pehowa cries for attention||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Vishwamitra Ka Tilla in Pehowa cries for attentionVishwamitra Ka Tilla in Pehowa is in bad state and requires urgent attention of the authorities. It lacks cleanliness and the site has become a spot of snakes and animals. It should be developed as a tourist spot. People are living here but there is no cleanliness. Harsh Aggarwal, PehowaStray cattle, garbage a blot on Smart City projectStray cattle looking for food in the garbage dumped in the open has not only become a common sight, but has also become a blot on the Smart city project where several crores are being spent. While the civic body officials seem to be busy in charting out strategies on paper, there is no impact on the ground as far as the cleanliness is concerned. This is perhaps due to poor planning and implementation, as the concept of outsourcing the garbage disposal to private agencies has failed to yield the result. Anoop Chaudhary, FaridabadRoad turns into parking spaceVehicles being parked on both sides of the road leading to Prem Nagar Chowk from the Radio Station in the city has become a major cause of traffic jam. Hundreds of vehicles pass through the road daily. Commuters have to face a lot of difficulties due to congestion on the road. The authorities are aware of the problem but no effort is being made to resolve it. Gurmeet Bagri, Rohtak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vishwamitra-ka-tilla-in-pehowa-cries-for-attention-347086
07-12-2021||Karnal||Fitness week observed||Research published in journalSonepat: A research of the department of chemistry, Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology (DCRUST) has been published in the official journal of the Indian patent office. The research team prepared a formulation by which mild steel (MS) will be prevented from rusting for a very long time. All equipment, buildings, and bridges made by using iron will last for a long time. Vice-Chancellor Professor Rajendra Kumar Anayat congratulated the team for their success. This research was done by Dr Priti Pahuja, under the supervision of professor Suman Lata, head of the department, and Dr Sumit Kumar, faculty in the department, after one year of tireless efforts on how to prevent rust/corrosion on iron for a long period.Online quiz competitionKaithal: A written online quiz competition on "Shrimad Bhagwad Gita" and "Hitopadesh" was organised by the Sanskrit Department of RKSD College, Kaithal, under the convenership of its head professor Vinay Singhal. A total of 150 students participated, who had to answer 35 questions in 5 minutes through the Google form. Principal Sanjay Goyal while felicitating the winners said the culture of the country could be preserved only by the preservation of Sanskrit language, therefore, this effort could be called a special step in this direction.AIDS Awareness WeekRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) organised a week-long programme on the campus to make spread AIDS awareness among students. Director (sports) Dr Surjit Singh Dabas while addressing the students said AIDS was acquired immune deficiency syndrome and this disease was HIV. It is caused by a virus, this virus weakens the immunity of humans. Dr Samridhi, in-charge of the Youth Red Cross Unit of the IGU, said they would continue to run awareness campaigns for the prevention of not only AIDS but also many diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fitness-week-observed-347087
07-12-2021||Faridabad||Youth assaulted with hammer in Faridabad, two arrested||A 27-year-old youth was beaten with iron rods and a hammer by three persons in Sector 21-D here this morning. The police have arrested two accused in connection with the case.The video of the assault has gone viral on social media. Claiming that the incident perhaps took place out of an old enmity between residents of Fatepur Chandila village here, Nitish Aggarwal, DCP, Headquarters, said the victim, Manish, was intercepted by three youths near a crossing in Sector 21-D and attacked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-assaulted-with-hammer-two-arrested-347088
07-12-2021||---||Haryana, Gujarat Governors to open Gita Mahotsav||Chandigarh, December 6Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya and Gujarat Governor Dr Devvrat Arya will inaugurate the International Gita Mahotsav on December 14.Programmes like Gita pujan, Brahmasarovar pujan, and Gita yagna will be conducted on December 9at Purushotampura Bagh of Brahma Sarovar.For the first time, folk artistes from across the state will get an opportunity to showcase their skills on the stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-gujarat-governors-to-open-gita-mahotsav-347089
07-12-2021||---||Brahma Sarovar abuzz with activity in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, December 6With the International Gita Mahotsav starting with Saras and Craft Fairs, the Brahma Sarovar has immersed in festivities.Nearly 125 craftsmen, including 22 national award and 18 state award winners and traders from 19 states, have reached and set up nearly 350 stalls. Visitors can be seen buying stuff, including handmade craft items, Kashmiri shawls, iron utensils, handloom items, idols, artificial flowers and enjoying food items from different states. Nearly 400 artists from 15 states have also reached to entertain the visitors.Meanwhile, the artists and traders are also hoping to run a brisk business this year, after the Covid pandemic hit their work last year. Dalip Kothari, a painter from Rajasthan, said he had been doing painting for past 35 years and he paints on velvet cloth. “It (covid period) was a very tough time for artists. Due to the lockdown and then in the absence of fairs, there was no business. The artists even had to take personal loans for survival. We are just hoping for some good business during the mahotsav.”Shahid Khan, another artist, said “Fairs are the main source of income for a majority of craftsmen and artists but due to the Covid, the fairs were not being held, causing huge losses to artists, craftsmen and traders. We hope the artists will be able to recover some losses in the next few days during the Gita Mahotsav.”As per the information in 2019, over 40 lakh people had attended the festival and the craftsmen had sold crafts worth around Rs 20 crore during the mahotsav.A Kurukshetra Development Board official said craftsmen from Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Kashmir, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Rajasthan had already arrived while more craftsmen would reach Kurukshetra soon.The DC, Kurukshetra, Mukul Kumar, who visited the fair and interacted with the craftsmen, said “The international Gita Mahotsav provides a platform to artists and craftsmen of different states to showcase their art, and it provides an experience to the visitors as well. The mahotsav has started with Crafts and Saras Fair on December 2 and the visitors are swelling in numbers gradually.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/brahma-sarovar-abuzz-with-activity-in-kurukshetra-347090
07-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Badkhal Lake revival project gets NOC after 43-month wait||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 6The revival project of the famous Badkhal Lake here has finally received the NOC from the Forest (Environment) Department after a long wait of 43 months. The project deadline has already been delayed by almost two years.The much awaited NOC received recently is likely to make the work move at a faster pace, claimed officials of the Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL), which had been assigned the project. “While a tender will be released soon for cutting down of the vegetation, the lake bed will be prepared with Bentonite clay treatment to strengthen and make it less porous,” says Arvind Kumar, a senior official of the FSCL.Delay has impacted progress of workThe delay in getting the NOC has been a long one. This has adversely impacted the progress of the project as only 40 per cent of the work has been done so far. The lake was expected to be revived fully by mid-2020. District administration officialTender to be released soonWhile a tender will be released soon for cutting down of vegetation, the lake bed will be prepared with bentonite clay treatment to strengthen and make it less porous. Arvind Kumar, FSCL senior officialHe said the lake bed is expected to be ready by June next. The project costing Rs 79 crore, which was launched in April 2018, could not make significant progress in the past three and half years mainly due to the hurdles connected with the approvals and clearances,” claim sources in the local administration.“The delay in getting the NOC has been a long one. This has adversely impacted the progress of the project as only 40 per cent of the work has been done so far. The lake was expected to be revived fully by mid- 2020,”claimed an official of the district administration on condition of anonymity. Admitting delay in getting the NOC, Garima Mittal, CEO, FSCL, said the work on the project will be sped up so that the lake gets ready in the minimum possible time period.Water will be supplied to the lake from an under construction sewege treatment plant (STP) having a capacity of 10 MLD daily. The STP being built at a cost of Rs 26 crore is expected to be ready by March next, the lake is likely to get water by June 2022, it is claimed. It can take 300 days to fill the lake up to six metres.Spread over 42 acres, the lake was a famous tourist spot till 2000. It had gone dry due to large-scale mining and lack of upkeep. Its revival was one of the main promises of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/badkhal-lake-revival-project-gets-noc-after-43-month-wait-347091
07-12-2021||Karnal||Woman, bro-in-law end life||Stones hurled at G’gram houseGurugram: The house of a witness was attacked with stones by 15 men on Monday. The witness was one of the complainants in a brawl that took place in the neighbourhood. The complaint, Ramwati Devi, said: “The attackers were armed with sticks and guns and were throwing stones at us. There was a fight in our neighbourhood and my son was one of the complainants. Those who attacked us were the accused.” TNSRs 75K looted from petrol pumpHisar: Two unidentified youths robbed Rs 75,000 at gunpoint from a petrol pump in Salemgarh village of the district on Sunday night. The petrol station is owned by former Haryana minister Hari Singh Saini. The police said the CCTV footage indicated that two persons entered the cabin and took away the cash from a salesman by brandishing a pistol. TNSGovt befooling jobless: AAPKurukshetra: AAP leader Naveen Jaihind on Monday accused the BJP-JJP government of befooling the unemployed youths of the state. He said government's claim of giving jobs on merit was just an eyewash. “Time has come to launch a stir against the government,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-bro-in-law-end-life-347092
07-12-2021||Hisar||Guru Jambheshwar University approves fee waiver for Covid orphans||The executive council meeting of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) today approved a fee waiver for students who lost their parents to Covid.VC Baldev Raj Kamboj said fee would be waived in the range of 50-100 per cent, depending on the student’s financial condition. He said the university had also made a provision to reserve an additional seat for such students. The university has also decided to submit a proposal to the government for sanctioning new posts for BTech IML course. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fee-waiver-for-covid-orphans-347093
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kiran Choudhry: Why limit job scam probe to one officer?||Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry today questioned the state government over limiting the investigation of the HPSC recruitment scam to HCS officer Anil Nagar.She said HPSC Chairman Alok Verma had served as the ADC to the CM for several years. At a press meet today, she demanded both HPSC and HSSC should be disbanded and inquiry should be handed over to a sitting HC judge. “As many as 28 entrance papers have been leaked. All previous efforts of the government have remained an eyewash. It is an injustice to the youth,” she said, adding that she would bring an adjournment motion on the HPSC scam in the upcoming Assembly session. On farmers’ stir, she said earlier the Assembly had passed a motion of thanks on these laws, which was like a blot. “To remove this blot, we need to pass another resolution on MSP.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mla-why-limit-job-scam-probe-to-one-officer-347094
07-12-2021||Rohtak||Police remand for youth who shot at bride in Rohtak village||A youth, held for allegedly shooting at a bride on her wedding day, was today produced before a local court, which remanded him in three-day police custody.Identified as Sahil of Sampla town in Rohtak district, he was arrested from a village near the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border. Two juveniles who allegedly helped him were taken into custody earlier. Another accused, Ajay alias Aalu of Sampla, has also been arrested and would be produced before a court tomorrow.In a statement, Rohtak SP Uday Singh Meena said Tanishka of Sampla had got married to Mohan of Bhali Anandpur village in Rohtak on December 1. “After the wedding, Tanishka and Mohan left for Bhali Anandpur. As they reached the village around 11.30 pm, some youths intercepted their car and two of them fired at Tanishka,” the SP said.A love affair is stated to have led to the incident. An FIR was registered and a special team was formed to probe the matter. Tanishka is struggling for life at the PGIMS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-remand-for-youth-who-shot-at-bride-347095
07-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Om Prakash Chautala rules out reunion with son Ajay Chautala||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The feud in Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) founder Devi Lal's clan is getting murkier by the day.Days after speculation that INLD and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) may reunite, INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala today hit back at his son and JJP chief Ajay Chautala over his "family re-unification" remarks, saying there was no chance of rapprochement with "traitors".Reaching out before pollsThey (JJP) are traitors of the INLD… There cannot be any rapprochement with the traitors. They misused Devi Lal’s name to get into power. OP Chautala, INLD supremoOP Chautala is an elder member of the family. He should reconsider his decision (of expelling us). He should take the first step and we will follow. Ajay Chautala, JJP chief"They (JJP) are traitors of the INLD… There cannot be any rapprochement with the traitors. They misused Devi Lal's name to get into power," Chautala said, ruling out any understanding between JJP and the INLD. Holding out an olive branch to his father, Ajay had asked him to reconsider the decision of expelling him and his sons, which could pave the way for a family reunion.Chautala's decision to expel Ajay and his sons, Dushyant Chautala and Digvijay Chautala, had led to a divide in the erstwhile INLD and the subsequent formation of the JJP on December 9, 2018. After the October 2019 Haryana Assembly polls, the JJP cobbled together a post-poll alliance with the BJP and Ajay's elder son Dushyant Chautala became the state's Deputy CM."He (OP Chautala) is an elder member of the family. He should reconsider his decision. He should take the first step and we will follow," Ajay had reportedly said. Ajay was apparently referring to INLD supremo's recent comment that "there is nothing permanent in politics", which had created a buzz in political circles in Haryana and hinted at a family reunion.Chautala's strong words against his son and grandsons have come in the run-up to the show of strength by the JJP at its third foundation day celebrations in Jhajjar on December 9. Chautala's confidence also seems to be the offshoot of INLD's win in Ellenabad byelection despite intense campaign by the JJP and BJP against its candidate Abhay Chautala. In fact, repeal of the three farm laws by the Centre also seemed to have vindicated the INLD's stand as Abhay had resigned against these laws in January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/om-prakash-chautala-rules-out-reunion-with-son-347096
07-12-2021||---||Haryana CM: Expedite work on lal dora-free villages||Chandigarh, December 6Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today directed officials to expedite the work on making villages lal dora-free across the state.Khattar tody held a meeting in this regard with officials of the Haryana Revenue Department and the Survey of India. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was also present at this meeting.The CM said the state government had given the actual rights to the owner of the property by abolishing lal dora. “People living in rural areas are getting huge benefits of this scheme. In future, villagers can start any business by taking loan against their property,” he said.Khattar said so far the mapping work had been completed in 6,042 villages of the state. Some villages were still left and directions had been given to complete the drone mapping work at the earliest. After mapping, the maps being prepared by the Survey of India would also be expedited.So far 11,65,593 property cards had been made in 6,309 villages. More than 1 lakh property cards had been made in Rohtak, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Mahendragarh. Wherever the work had been completed, directions had also been given to expedite the work of giving property cards, the CM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-expedite-work-on-lal-dora-free-villages-347097
07-12-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak PGIMS doctors on strike, say 'overburdened'||Rohtak PGIMS authorities have decided to stop elective surgeries and shorten the timings for OPD registration in view of the strike by resident doctors.The winter vacation of consultants and other doctors has also been cancelled and those who had proceeded on leave have been called back on duty. “We have stopped elective surgeries. Only emergency surgeries will be conducted. The OPD registration will be done till 11 am instead of 1 pm. The winter vacation of consultants and postgraduate students has also been cancelled,” stated PGIMS Director Dr Geeta Gathwala, adding that the decisions had been taken in view of the resident doctors’ strike.The director convened a meeting of the heads of all departments and asked them to update their duty-rosters every afternoon. The resident doctors have gone on strike following a call given by the Federation of Resident Doctors Associations (FORDA) (India) in protest against the inordinate delay in counselling and subsequent joining of postgraduate medical students.“There is excessive burden on resident doctors as the first-year students of postgraduate courses have not joined,” said Dr Baljeet Singh, president of the Resident Doctors Association (RDA) at PGIMS.He maintained that resident doctors would not attend the OPD and general services during the strike. The emergency services at trauma centre, labour rooms and ICUs would continue. The future course of the strike would be chalked out in coordination with FORDA, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-doctors-on-strike-say-overburdened-347098
07-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad sees 68% dip in govt bus fleet in 4 years||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 6The government bus facility in the district is on sharp decline, with the number of buses operated by the Haryana Roadways (HR) registering a drop of 68.5 per cent in the past four years.“Against the operational fleet of 308 buses of the local HR depot in 2017, the number has dropped to 97,” according to sources in the district transportation department.“While the number of long-route buses has shrunk drastically, the city bus service has disappeared, resulting in commuters turning to private transport and revenue loss to the department,” said an employee of the department. He said the number of operational fleet of the Roadways here had been around 90, claiming that this had led to making drivers surplus in the past two years. Out of around 200 buses gone defunct, 98 had been auctioned recently.Blaming the km scheme introduced by the government in 2018, Ramashray Prasad of the Haryana Roadways Worker Union said this had paved the way for the slow death of the roadways facility, as only 21 buses had been added to the fleet in the past three years. While no new bus was added in 2019 and 2021, only 21 were added in 2018 and 2020. All odd 140 low-floor buses added in 2010 went defunct within two years due to issues related to operation and maintenance. As the number of city buses got reduced to nil from 160 in just three years, residents have to depend on private transport.The Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, has announced 50 buses for local routes on the pattern of Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Ltd, which has hired a concessionaire to operate it. Rajiv Nagpal, GM, Haryana Roadways, said 50 new buses were likely to be added by March and private buses using the depot premises would also be charged.Crucial factors at play||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-sees-68-dip-in-govt-bus-fleet-in-4-years-347099
07-12-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Namaz row: Hindus, Muslims agree on 18 sites in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, December 6In what may put an end to the controversy over namaz at public places in Gurugram, the warring Hindu and Muslim groups have agreed on 18 sites for the purpose.At a joint meeting held with the administration, representatives of both communities agreed on a new set of sites for offering namaz, which include 12 mosques. In addition, six public places have been allotted where prayers will be offered after paying legal rent to the authorities for using these spaces. The agreement shall discontinue namaz at 20 public places which have been facing constant protest, especially at the Sector 37 site, where situation grew volatile last Friday.Harmony most important: manchWe have reached a consensus and will abide by all terms of the agreement. We have offered to pay rent for places we use. Communal harmony is most important and we have worked towards ensuring it. Khurshid Razaka, Muslim manchOther than mosques, the six agreed upon spaces are Atlas Chowk HSIIDC ground, Peepal Chowk Huda land Udyog Vihar phase 2, Huda land opposite the Spice Jet office Udyog Vihar, the Leisure Valley ground, Huda land on the Golf Course road, Sector 42 and Sector 69 HUDA land.“Other than 12 mosques which are rightfully theirs, we have agreed upon six public grounds which our Muslim brothers, or the Imam Sangathan to be more specific, has agreed to rent every Friday. They will be using these places till their Waqf Board properties are not evacuated or handed to them. There shall be no objection or disruption or protest in any of these agreed 18 places. For us, with this agreement the issue is over,” said Mahaveer Bhardwaj, president, Hindu Sangharsh Samiti.It may be noted that both groups who have had marathon meetings since last one month blamed publicity seekers for blowing the issue out of proportion and bringing notoriety to city even at international level. Though the agreement promises peace, the Gurugram police say it will still ensure safety across all sites to ensure there is no disruption or tension in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/namaz-row-hindus-muslims-agree-on-18-sites-in-gurugram-347100
07-12-2021||Rohtak||All India Kisan Sabha firm on withdrawal of cases||Adopting a tough stance over the alleged “lethargic” attitude of the state government towards their demands, a state body of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) today made it clear again that the withdrawal of police cases against the farmers and fair compensation to the next of kin of those farmers who died during the agitation were paramount for arriving at an amicable settlement.The meeting also decided that these two issues would be put forward before the SKM meeting scheduled on Wednesday at the Singhu border to decide the future course of action. “A full victory of the historic farmers’ movement will be achieved only when the pending issues other than the three repealed laws are resolved to the satisfaction of all struggling farmers,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, AIKS.He said the meeting also passed a resolution, urging the five-member committee of farmers to ensure the redress of these state-specific issues by raising prominently before the representatives of the governments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-india-kisan-sabha-firm-on-withdrawal-of-cases-347101
07-12-2021||---||No invite for talks from Centre, Samyukt Kisan Morcha threatens to step up stir||Sonepat, December 6The five-member committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) did not get any formal invitation from the Centre to discuss pending issues.The SKM would make an announcement on intensifying the farmers’ stir at the meeting of the SKM on Tuesday at the Singhu border, the SKM’s five-member committee said on Monday.Notably, the SKM had formed a five-member committee of farmer leaders on December 4 to hold talks with the Centre to resolve the pending issues. They held a meeting on Monday evening at the Kisan Andolan office and also called the nine-member coordination committee of the SKM to discuss the situation.After a two-hour-long meeting of the four members of the committee, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Ashok Dhawale and Yudhvir Singh said PM Narendra Modi had announced to repeal the three farm laws on November 19 and the SKM had written a letter to the PM on November 21 to resolve six pending demands.Charuni said a five-member committee was formed on December 4 and two days have passed but no formal invitation from the central or state government has been received. Now, the next course of action would be announced after the SKM’s meeting tomorrow, he added.Shiv Kumar Kakka, member of the committee, said the agitation would continue.The scrapping of the laws was a victory for all farmers but the government hasn’t stepped out to resolve the pending issues, said Ashok Dhawale, another committee member.“It is unfortunate that the government was maintaining an indifferent attitude towards the farmers’ genuine demands,” said Yudhvir Singh, committee member, adding: “We have been trying to create an atmosphere for talks with the Centre, but the indifferent attitude of the government in the past two days has disappointed farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-invite-for-talks-from-centre-samyukt-kisan-morcha-threatens-to-step-up-stir-347102
07-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Dyeing units in Panipat to stay shut till curbs go||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 6Irked over the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) directions to run industries for eight hours daily five days a week, the Panipat Dyers’ Association has decided to keep the units shut till the orders are revoked. In view of the rising air pollution in Delhi and NCR region, the CPCB has banned use of diesel generator sets in all 14 NCR districts and directed all industries to keep units shut on Saturdays and Sundays.The Panipat textile industry relies heavily on dyeing units. Nearly 500 registered dyeing units are operational. Of these, 75 have only PNG and LPG connections.Bheem Rana, president, Panipat Dyers’ Association, said air quality index (AQI) of Panipat was 89 (moderate) on Monday, while it was in the “hazardous” or “very unhealthy” category at several places in Delhi. He said, “The boilers take over two hours to heat up. We are left with only six hours to work. No job can be completed in such short time. We are being unfairly penalised.” Rana said the Panipat industry had been reeling under losses due to the pandemic for nearly two years. “We are in the peak season and exporters have good orders. If not allowed to operate at full capacity, the production will decline to 60%,” he rued.He asked how could the Panipat industry be held responsible for poor air quality in the national capital? “We appeal to the CPCB to withdraw the restrictions,” Rana said.Poor air quality in Delhi, NCR districts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dyeing-units-in-panipat-to-stay-shut-till-curbs-go-347227
