08-12-2021||New Delhi||Consensus on govt’s fresh proposal, meeting on Thursday to take decision on ending protest: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday said that a consensus has been reached over a revised draft proposal of the Centre on their pending demands and it will now meet on Thursday to decide the future course of the movement, even as its leaders demanded a formal communication on government letterhead.Farmer leader and SKM core committee member Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that the earlier draft from the central government on pending demands was not acceptable to them following which a fresh proposal was received from the Centre on Wednesday.“We are in agreement with the government regarding our demands. We will decide about suspending the agitation after the meeting tomorrow. No decision has been taken yet on calling off agitation. Another meeting of SKM will be to be held tomorrow (Thursday) at 12 noon,” Chaduni said at a press conference after a meeting of the SKM core committee.The SKM, which is spearheading the farmers’ movement, said in a statement that a consensus has been achieved on the central government’s draft regarding farmers’ demands.“Consensus has reached on government’s fresh proposal. Now, a formal communication signed on the government’s letterhead is awaited. SKM will meet again tomorrow at twelve noon, at Singhu Border, to take a formal decision thereafter to lift the morchas,” the SKM said in a statement.The SKM has also formed a five-member panel for a dialogue with the Centre regarding pending demands of farmers including legal guarantee on MSP, withdrawal of cases against farmers registered during the movement and compensation to kins of farmers died during the agitation.Another farmer leader and SKM’s five-member committee member, Yudhvir Singh said, “The ball is now in the government’s court and a final decision will be taken tomorrow (Thursday).On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points in the government’s proposal, including on the precondition set for the withdrawal of “fake” cases against farmers.On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers.But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included a legal guarantee on MSP and withdrawal of cases against farmers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/received-fresh-proposal-from-govt-hopeful-of-resolution-farmer-leaders-after-skm-panel-meeting-347921
08-12-2021||New Delhi||Samyukt Kisan Morcha panel likely to meet Amit Shah, Narendra Tomar today||A five-member committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is likely to meet Union ministers Amit Shah and Narendra Singh Tomar separately on Wednesday to discuss their pending farm-related issues, a farmer leader said.The likely discussions with the two ministers will take place hours before the scheduled meeting at 2 pm of the SKM, which is spearheading the movement against three farm laws.The members of the SKM has called a crucial meeting at the Singhu Border on Wednesday to decide the fate of the agitation.“The five-member panel of the SKM will have an internal meeting on Wednesday morning and then they are scheduled to meet Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to discuss farmers’ issues and pending demands.They are also likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Afterwards a decision is likely after the SKM's 2 pm meeting,” a senior farmer leader told PTI on condition of anonymity.The farmer leader said the government's attitude in considering farmers' demands has been “positive” lately and hinted towards a positive decision in connection with the fate of the farmers' movement.On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points, in the government's proposal, including on the precondition set for withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers.According to the farmers' body, the government's proposal said that it would form a committee to look into the demand for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the panel would include farmer organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states.The SKM members have objection to this and they have decided to meet again on Wednesday to deliberate on these issues and announce the future course of the agitation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/samyukt-kisan-morcha-panel-to-meet-today-to-discuss-centres-proposal-draft-347848
08-12-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Opposition for judicial probe into Haryana job 'scam'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7The dismissal of the Deputy Secretary of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), Anil Nagar, seems to be a case of “too little, too late” and the Opposition will settle for nothing less than a thorough judicial inquiry into the “entire scam”, while maintaining that the HPSC Chairman and all its members must go too.Also read: Haryana service commission Deputy Secretary Anil Nagar dismissed in cash-for-job scamLeader of Opposition and former Congress CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda said Nagar was a small fry. “Is it possible for a Deputy Secretary to manage the entire scam single-handedly? Who is heading the HPSC? It is like saying the salesman is guilty and the shop owner has nothing to do with what goes on. A judicial probe will bring out the truth, but to conduct that, the HPSC Chairman must go first. A free and fair inquiry by a sitting judge of the high court can only be conducted when nobody can tinker with the evidence,” Hooda maintained.After a protest demonstration at Panchkula against the HPSC scam, AICC media in charge and general secretary, Randeep Singh Surjewala, said by sacking Nagar, the Manohar Lal government had once again made a failed attempt to pull wool over people’s eyes. “The shoddy and scared attempt of the government to protect the real bigwigs and big fish is clear,” he said, adding that these were lame duck diversionary tactics aimed at protecting the real culprits holding power.“In the last seven years, 32 papers were leaked and every job was put on sale. The conspiratorial manner of restricting the entire “suitcase for jobs” scam to mere Anil Nagar establishes a deep-rooted conspiracy to protect the real culprits. This is part of the BJP-JJP government’s “Commit scam – bury them” scheme. Without sacking the entire HSSC and HPSC, there can be no fair investigation. Only an investigation conducted by an SIT under direct supervision of Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court will bring out the truth,” he stated.Indian National Lok Dal’s sole MLA in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, Abhay Chautala, said the entire HPSC reeks of a scam. “All those sitting smug in their chairs pretending ignorance must go and a judicial probe be conducted,” he insisted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/opposition-for-judicial-probe-into-job-scam-347693
08-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Examine safeguards under juvenile Act, HC tells courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7It is back to learning for all courts across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, including the Juvenile Justice Boards.In conflict with lawThe trial of minors was being conducted jointly with the adult co-accused in a case. The Bench was told that two of the ‘many accused’ were juveniles in conflict with law.The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a general direction to all of them to examine Section 23 and “other cognisant provisions” of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. They have further been directed to ensure that the safeguards stipulated therein are meticulously followed henceforth.The direction by the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain came in a case where the trial of minors was actually being conducted jointly with the adult co-accused. The Bench was told that two of the “many accused” were juveniles in conflict with law.All the evidence was examined in a consolidated manner, in spite of clear mandate of Sections 19 and 23 of the Act and Rule 13 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2016. This was because the same officer was trying the “major accused” in the capacity of a Sessions Court and the juveniles as the presiding officer of the Children’s Court.The counsel for the juvenile applicants also told the Bench that the same procedure was found to be followed in the states of Punjab and Haryana in all cases where some accused were “major” and some juveniles. The juvenile applicants were represented by senior advocate VK Jindal with Gopal Soni, Vineet Jakhar and Gurminder SinghAs the case came up for hearing, the Bench observed that “some affidavits” filed on behalf of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh were not satisfactory. Details were not mentioned about the position prevailing as far as the pending trials were concerned. The Bench also granted an additional opportunity to file necessary details while directing the Registry to forward the order’s copy to all judicial officers in the states of Punjab, Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh. Referring to the facts of the case in hand, the Bench added that it was not denied that the trial of the applicants, otherwise minors but to be tried as adults, was actually conducted jointly with the adult co-accused. It was sought to be justified by saying that the challans were separate and so were the case. But the crux of the matter was that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was taken jointly.“These cases present a serious issue which may take some time to remedy. In the circumstances, we deem it appropriate to suspend the sentence of the applicants/appellants during the pendency of the present appeal,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/examine-safeguards-under-juvenile-act-hc-tells-courts-347694
08-12-2021||Rohtak||PGIMS-Rohtak doctors: Will boycott emergency services too||The medical services in Haryana are likely to be hit in the coming days, with the resident doctors of the Rohtak PGIMS stepping up their stir and boycotting emergency services from tomorrow and the HCMS doctors across the state slated to go on strike from December 13.Patients won’t sufferThe heads of all departments have been directed to make the necessary arrangements to ensure that the patient-care does not suffer. — Dr Geeta Gathwala, PGIMS DirectorThe PGIMS resident doctors, who stayed away from the OPD and ward duties today, have decided to boycott the emergency services as well from Wednesday morning. The patients had a harrowing experience at the PGIMS OPDs and wards due to the strike by the resident doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-docs-will-boycott-emergency-services-too-347696
08-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Omicron scare: 133 foreign returnees under lens in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 7Amid the Omicron scare, as many as 133 persons recently back from “at-risk” countries have reached Ambala till December 6.2 more test Covid +ve in dist, active cases four nowThough none of them has shown any symptoms, the Health Department is keeping them under surveillance and has asked them to report if they experience any Covid-related symptoms. After the completion of the seven-day isolation period, RTPCR tests of 24 returnees have been conducted by the department and their results are awaited.No symptoms yetNo foreign returnee has shown any symptoms yet. RTPCR tests of 24 persons, eligible after the isolation period, have been done. If anyone tests positive, his sample will be sent for genome sequencing. — Dr Sunil Hari, Ambala district EpidemiologistAmbala district epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said: “All the foreign returnees who came from at-risk countries have been traced and put under surveillance. They have been asked to observe self-isolation for seven days. No one has shown any symptoms yet. RTPCR tests of 24 persons, who were eligible after the isolation period, have been conducted. If anyone tests positive, the patient will be isolated and the sample will be sent for genome sequencing.”He said: “Countries like the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe are designated as at-risk. The list is dynamic and it is being updated continuously.”Meanwhile, with two more Covid cases, the number of active cases has increased to four in the district.Despite repeated guidelines and appeals by the Health Department and the local administration to wear masks and maintain social distancing, a large of people could be seen violating the guidelines in the busy markets of Ambala city and Ambala Cantonment.Additional Senior Medical Officer Dr Sukhpreet Singh said: “Though the travellers are being tested at the airports, the Health Department is keeping a watch on the foreign returnees. We are also appealing to the public to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour. People are also being motivated to get fully vaccinated at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/133-foreign-returnees-under-lens-in-ambala-347697
08-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Govt depts in Faridabad owe over Rs 40 crore as property tax||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 7Various state government departments and offices in the city which owe over Rs 40 crore as property tax to the Municipal Corporation Faridabad(MCF) have not cleared their dues for the past several years, thus affecting the financial health of the civic body.Action against defaultersWhile a sealing drive has already been conducted against the defaulting units, further action as per the norms of the Municipal Corporation Act will be taken against those who fail to clear the pending tax soon. — Senior official , MCFMore than 500 private commercial and residential units have been sealed in the past couple of months as part of the drive to recover the pending property tax from the defaulters. The civic body has issued only notices to the government departments so far and has evaded sealing action. The total pending amount of the property tax is over Rs 200 crore, according to officials of the civic body. The prominent defaulters among the government departments include the BSNL, DHBVN, tourism, police, public health, HSIIDC, it is revealed. While the officials are yet to disclose the exact amount of the tax pending against the government, sources in the district administration said the focus of the ongoing drive had perhaps been on the private commercial establishments and residential units which owe more than Rs 125 crore. This does not include an amount of around Rs 60 crore which had been stuck in legal tangles, it is claimed.Though a total of 2.80 lakh units are registered as tax payers with the MCF who need to pay around Rs 150 crore as property tax, the annual tax collection has been up to less than Rs 70 crore. While the total tax recovery proposed in the city’s annual budget of 2021-22 is Rs 300 crore, an amount of Rs 120 crore has been recovered during 2020-21, said the officials. The civic body is yet to notify 2.50 lakh new units identified in a survey carried out in 2019-20,it is claimed.“ While a sealing drive has already been conducted against the defaulting units, further action as per the norms of the Municipal Corporation Act will be taken against those who fail to clear the pending tax soon,” said a senior official of the MCF. Around 5,000 notices have also been served on those units which have not paid the annual trade license fee so far,it is added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-depts-in-fbad-owe-over-40-crore-as-property-tax-347698
08-12-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Property registration in Yamunanagar-Jagadhri: Occupants for reopening of portal||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 7Only 495 persons from Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, who have shops or houses on lease or rent from urban bodies for 20 years, could apply online for property registration. This was being done to get ownership rights over the properties.1,000 could not apply onlineMore than 1,000 persons (most of them shopkeepers) could not apply for the online registration to get ownership rights over the properties because of failure to pay rent and collect old records. — Prem Sagar Sharma, President, Meera Bai Bazar Association, YamunanagarPortal to be opened againThe portal will be opened again so that all willing occupants can apply online to get ownership rights over their properties. — Madan Chauhan, Mayor, YamunanagarAccording to information, there are about 1,545 occupants of the urban bodies’ properties in the twin cities Yamunanagar-Jagadhri.However, 1,050 persons out of the total 1,545 persons could not apply for property registration as several of them failed to pay rent of their shops due to financial crisis caused by the Covid pandemic and some other reasons.Besides, the portal set up for the online registration was also closed on September 30, 2021, because of this a number of shopkeepers could not apply for the registration of their property.“More than 1,000 persons (most of them shopkeepers) could not apply for the online registration to get ownership rights over the properties because of failure to pay rent and collect old records. Besides, the portal set up for the online registration was also closed on September 30, 2021,” said Prem Sagar Sharma, president, Meera Bai Bazar Association, Yamunanagar.He said the state government should first of all open the portal again so that the occupants of the urban bodies’ properties, who could not apply online up to September 30, 2021, could now apply for their property registration to get ownership rights.He further said the government should also wave the interest amount on the pending rent amount, so that more and more occupants could take benefit of this property ownership rights’ scheme.He further said several persons were finding it difficult to collect several old records/ documents; therefore the authorities of Municipal Corporation should extend help to the occupiers of the properties in collecting the required documents.“We met Madan Chauhan, Mayor, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) requesting him to get the portal opened again so that the willing occupants of the urban bodies’ properties, can apply for their property registration to get ownership rights,” said Prem Sagar Sharma.The Mayor said the portal would be opened again so that all willing occupants could apply online to get ownership rights over their properties. He said he would request the state government to wave the interest on the rent amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-registration-occupants-for-reopening-of-portal-347699
08-12-2021||Gurugram||IPS officer Dheeraj Setia 'evasive', STF raids house||With IPS officer Dheeraj Setia allegedly evading the investigation in a multi-crore heist, the STF raided his house, but he and his family were unavailable. Setia has emerged as one of suspects in the case and has been served notice to join the investigation. He was supposed to turn up today. IG, STF, Mamta Singh said the second notice was issued today in evening and further probe was on.“As the name of Setia came out in the statement of one of the accused, Dr Sachender Kumar Nawal, we served a notice on him to join the probe. If he does not join the investigation, action will be taken,” said the IG.The accused paediatrician, Dr Sachender Kumar Nawal, in his confessional statement claimed he had paid Setia in cash and kind over and above Rs 2 crore to cover up the heist. This money was even returned. This statement brought Setia under scanner and the STF has been looking to verify the same after Additional Sessions Judge Jasbir Singh highlighted inaction.“From the statement of accused Dr Nawal, it is clear he has given illegal gratification to DCP Setia for hushing up the matter. From perusal of the police file, I have not found any concrete step taken,” the court observed on December 2. The STF probing a multi-crore theft case, which began as a robbery in a flat in Sector 84. Many top cops are under scanner and the total 11 accused, including doctors, ASI of the Delhi Police and henchmen of gangster Vikas Lagarpuria have been held so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ips-officer-evasive-stf-raids-house-347700
08-12-2021||Gurugram||Post BJP plaint, Munawar Faruqui dropped from comedy show||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui has been removed from an upcoming three-day comedy show in the city after the BJP filed a complaint against him. The organiser also decided to exclude Faruqui from the event.In his complaint to the Gurugram police, Arun Yadav, IT department head, Haryana BJP, said Faruqui had insulted Hindu deities and was continuously doing so. “His activities have offended my Hindu faith. This is intentionally done to create communal disharmony,” read the complaint put up by Yadav on his Twitter handle. Faruqui was to perform at Gurgaon Comedy Festival to be held at Gurugram’s Airia Mall from December 17-19. Following the complaint, his name has been removed by the organisers, The Entertainment Factory, from the promotional posters of the show. Many messages against the participation of the stand-up comedian were also reportedly doing rounds on the social media. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-bjp-plaint-faruqui-dropped-from-comedy-show-347701
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Involve public in International Gita Mahotsav, says official||Public participation was important for making the ongoing International Gita Mahotsav successful, said Amit Agrawal, Additional Principal Secretary to Chief Minister and Director General, Information, Public Relations and Languages Department.He said this during a meeting with the DCs here today through video-conferencing. He reviewed the preparations for the International Gita Mahotsav programmes to be organised at the district level. He said cooperation of religious and social institutions was must.Agrawal said the event would be held in all districts of the state from December 12 to 14. During the celebrations, six programmes, seminars and ‘Gita havan’ would be organsided. Students will participate in painting and other educational competitions . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/involve-public-in-international-gita-mahotsav-says-official-347702
08-12-2021||Karnal||2 killed, 3 hurt in road mishap||Two migrant labourers were killed and three received injuries after a truck hit a pick-up vehicle, near Taraori on the NH-44, on Monday evening.The deceased have been identified as Santosh Kumar and his cousin Rajesh, residents of Aligarh in UP, while Vinor, Harinder and Rachana of Aligarh were injured, said the police. They were returning to UP from Punjab in a pick-up. A truck hit their vehicle, leading to this incident. “We have handed over the bodies to the family members after the post-mortem. A case has been registered against the truck driver for rash driving,” said Rajesh Kumar, investigating officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-3-hurt-in-road-mishap-347703
08-12-2021||Hisar||28 injured as buses collide in Bhiwani||As many as 28 persons were injured after a school bus collided with a Haryana Roadways (HR) bus near Lalhana village on the Bhiwani-Loharu road  on Tuesday.Passengers said dense fog reduced visibility. “Though the bus was being driven at slow speed, the accident occurred as the driver could not spot the bus coming from the opposite direction,” a victim said. The HR bus was on its way from Loharu to Bhiwani, while the school bus ferrying school staff and students was coming from the opposite direction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-injured-as-buses-collide-347704
08-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar woman confined, 'gangraped' for a year||A 25-year-old woman of a village falling under Bilaspur police station of Yamunanagar district was allegedly raped by several persons.The victim alleged that the accused converted her to his religion and forcefully solemnised ‘nikah’ with her. The victim further alleged that she was kept confined in a room in a village of Sirmaur district of HP for more than a year.On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against nine persons Sultaan, Mumtaaz, Riyaz, Suleman, Saddam, Liyakat, Sharafat, all belonging to the village of the victim, Firoz of Metiya village of Sirmaur and Yunus of Kayarda village of Sirmaur.The case was registered under Sections 323, 376-D, 377 and 506 of the IPC at women police station, Yamunanagar, on December 5. The complainant alleged that Sultaan, Mumtaaz and Riyaz gave her some sedative on the night on August 13, 2020, and took her to an unknown place where Sultaan forcefully solemnised ‘nikah’ with her after converting her into his religion. “Sultaan called several persons to the room and took money from them for physical relations with me,” she alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-woman-confined-gangraped-for-a-year-347705
08-12-2021||Hisar||Sirsa villagers seek crackdown on peddlers||Residents of Darba Kalan village in Ellenabad of Sirsa district said the rising drug abuse among the youth had become a problem for the residents. A delegation of the villagers met DC Anish Yadav and urged him to take action against those indulging in trafficking of drugs.The villagers said they had decided not to turn up as surety for bail if the police arrested any resident in a case of drug trafficking. Nitiraj Beniwal, a villager who led the delegation, said some people had been indulging in sale of ‘chitta’, smack and banned pills in the village.“They lure schoolgoers and college youth of the village into drug abuse. The entire village is upset with their activities. We want the police to look into the matter,” he said. Another villager Bhanu Yadav said these miscreants threatened people who tried to raise a voice against them. There were about 60-70 persons in the village, who were habitual of taking drugs, he said.Yadav said the DC had assured them of crackdown on drug trafficking. “There seems to be an interstate racket that is smuggling drugs from Rajasthan and Punjab,” he said.Satyawan Sharma, SHO, Nathusari Chopta, said the police had launched a drive against drug menace in the region. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-villagers-seek-crackdown-on-peddlers-347706
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Process to register rail workers begins||CM ML Khattar said efforts were being made to double the income of farmers and workers.In Panchkula today, he said: “Registration of workers of the Bhartiya Railway Mall Godam in Haryana will start now. This will help them benefit from government schemes.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/process-to-register-rail-workers-begins-347707
08-12-2021||Karnal||Karnal: New principal of Sainik School interacts with pupils||Webinar on International Soil DayKarnal: IA webinar was organised by Maharana Pratap Horticulture University on the occasion of International Soil Day. Prof Samar Singh, VC of the university, said nearly 70 per cent agricultural land of the country needed to be brought under cereal crop cultivation to feed the country's population by 2050. He exhorted the farmers to adopt new methods of farming without disturbing the fertility of the soil.Stress on organic farmingHisar: The Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, (HAU) Prof BR Kamboj said organic and zero budget natural farming was the need of the hour. He said Deen Dayal Upadhyay Centre of Excellence in organic farming of the university was helping farmers in adopting organic and natural farming. Addressing a group of progressive farmers of Sabarkantha district of Gujarat, who had come for a visit and training at the university, he said HAU was continuously organising such awareness programmes for the farmers.Students shine in 'Pinnacle'Yamunanagar: To bring students closer to literary skills and its universal appeal, the personal excellence club of Mukand Lal National College organised an event, "Pinnacle" for its students. College officiating principal Dr Rahul Khanna said the club conducted exciting competitions such as "thematic appreciation test" and "spin a yarn" which invited around 100 entries for participation. The event was organised under the guidance of Dr Neeti Daryal, head of self finance department. Divanshi Goyal and Kritika won first position in TAT and spin a yarn respectively. Second positions were bagged by Khushi and Anmol. Third positions went to Nirmal Singh and Mukul. Komal Kaur and Analjeet Kaur were the conveners of the event. Sapna Garg and Kanika Batra were the judges of the day.Essay-writing competitionKarnal: The legal literary cell and debate and declamation committee of Dyal Singh College, Karnal, organised a district-level inter-college essay-writing competition on Tuesday at the college auditorium in compliance with the directions of the District Election Office. The topic for the competition was "Use of information technology for accessible election". 17 participants from various colleges participated in the competition. Principal Dr Ashima Gakhar said such activities provided a platform to young citizens to express their views on socially relevant topics. Dr SL Arora, convener of the legal literary cell said such competition increased social and political awareness.Foundation dayYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, inaugurated the 52nd foundation day of the college dedicated to the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev with the commencement of "akhand path" at Gurdwara Sahib. Simultaneously, a lecture was organised by the Punjabi department of the college on the topic of contemporary relevance of Guru Nanak Bani. Principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said Dr Kuldeep Singh, chairman, department of Punjabi, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra was the keynote speaker. The president of the college management committee, Randeep Singh Jauhar, congratulated the staff and students of the college on the foundation day.Tributes paid to AmbedkarGurugram: MM Goel, Vice Chancellor, Starex University, Gurugram, said to reduce fiscal crisis in the Indian economy, it would be relevant to adopt the canons of public expenditure advocated by BR Ambedkar. He said Ambedkar said every government should spend the resources garnered from the public not only according to rules, laws and regulations but should also see that faithfulness, wisdom and economy were adhered to in the acts of expenditure by the public authorities. He said this while chairing a programme organised to pay tribute to Bharat Ratna Dr Ambedkar on his death anniversary.IGU holds workshop on cyber crimeRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) organised a two-day workshop on "Self-defence and cyber crime" under the self-reliant Haryana programme. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said Poonam Dalal, ASP, Rewari, explained about women's rights and various legal provisions related to it while SHO Anita, ASI Praveen and Durga Shakti team described various tricks of self-defence. On the second day, chief instructor Rahul and police security expert Pawan Chowdhary defined the measures to prevent financial fraud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-principal-interacts-with-pupils-347708
08-12-2021||The entire stretch between the old sabji mandi to the university chowk adjoining the auto market has turned into a dumping ground for garbage disposal by residents. The municipal corporation authorities have taken no measures to ensure cleanliness on this entire stretch. I request the authorities to remove the garbage from this road.||Stretch turns into a dumping ground||Vishal, HisarHaphazardly parked vehicles bane of commutersPoor road sense, encroachments and haphazardly parked vehicles are compounding congestion on roads in busy markets of Ambala. Most of the roads and markets in the city and Cantonment witness frequent traffic jams, inconveniencing commuters. A large number of people either leave their vehicles unattended on the roads, or their drivers keep waiting for them in the cars, leaving not much space for other vehicles to cross. The administration needs to chalk out some strategies to provide relief to commuters.Pradeep Kumar, Ambala CityInstall signboard alongside roadCommuters have to face difficulties due to absence of signboards and indicators on the Satnali-Batdha-Hisar road here. Since some points of the road are accident prone, one needs to be careful while commuting on this road. There are many time people lose their way. Keeping the situation in mind, the authorities should install signboards on the road so that commuters can drive without any confusion.Mukesh Yadav, MahendragarhWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stretch-turns-into-a-dumping-ground-347709
08-12-2021||---||Karnal: Marriage cancelled over dowry demand||Karnal, December 7A marriage was cancelled allegedly after the demand of dowry before the marriage ritual at a banquet hall in Sector 12 in the city on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.The police have registered a case against three persons — the groom, his father and brother — allegedly for demanding dowry from the bride’s family.The investigation has been handed over to DSP. Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, Chairperson (officiating), Haryana State Commission for Women, reached Karnal on Tuesday evening to inquire into the issue. She recorded the statements of both the families. She instructed the police to add Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act in the FIR.A high-voltage drama prevailed at the banquet hall and the police station as the both families blamed each other.The family members of the bride alleged that the kin of the groom demanded an SUV and Rs 20 lakh cash. The groom and his family members denied the allegation.As per the police, the marriage of Nasib Singh of Jind was to be solemnised with Komal of Karnal on December 6. Komal told mediapersons that at the last moment, the groom’s family demanded an SUV and Rs 20 lakh cash. Her family members made a request to them, but when they did not retract from their demand, she and her family members refused to solemnise the marriage. “After that, we approached the police,” she said.On the other hand, Nasib, who is an agriculture scientist, denied the allegation and said that he was offered a SUV but he had refused it few days back. “There was no issue of dowry as I am against this culture. I even refused to take a gold chain given by the bride’s family on Monday night,” said Nasib.A case has been registered against Nasib, his father Kartar Singh and brother Preetam for demanding dowry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/marriage-cancelled-over-dowry-demand-347723
08-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Land for AIIMS not bought yet, villagers doubt Haryana Govt intention||Tribune News ServiceRewari, December 7Days after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced to lay the foundation stone of much-awaited AIIMS project at Majra village soon, the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti has decided to stage a daylong dharna in Manethi town here on December 19 to mount pressure on the state government for expediting the process of its execution.The samiti would invite residents of 55 nearby villages to join the dharna to register their protest against the “lethargic” attitude of the government. It has also got a pamphlet published, asking villagers to raise their voice for the betterment of the region by ensuring their participation.“Farmers of Majra village had offered a total 228 acres for the project several months ago and the government announced to buy it at Rs 40 lakh per acre, but the process of buying has not been initiated yet, raising questions over the government’s intentions. So, we have decided to stage a dharna and also got 10,000 pamphlets published to invite residents of 55 nearby villages for the protest,” said Rajendra Nimoth, spokesman, AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti.He said: “It is beyond our understanding why the process of buying land is not being initiated if the government intends to set up the project in Majra village. How the government can lay its foundation stone without buying the land? The project is unnecessarily being delayed.”Samiti president Sheotaz Singh said they had given enough time to the government to initiate the process of implementing the project but nothing was being done except issuing statements. “So, we have no other option but to register our protest against the delay by staging a peaceful dharna,” he added.Ved Prakash Vidrohi, spokesman, Congress, said there was a huge gap between the BJP’s statements and actions. “It is not serious about the project. That’s why it’s not even buying the offered land,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-for-aiims-not-bought-yet-villagers-doubt-govt-intention-347721
08-12-2021||---||Haryana service commission Deputy Secretary Anil Nagar dismissed in cash-for-job scam||Chandigarh, December 7Haryana Public Service Commission’s (HPSC) suspended Deputy Secretary Anil Nagar, arrested for allegedly manipulating for cash marks of candidates during their recruitment as dental surgeons, was today dismissed from service.Also read: Opposition for judicial probe into Haryana job 'scam'Rs3.5 crore recoveredAn order issued by Haryana Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal on behalf of the Governor said the “competent authority had decided to award punishment of dismissal from service to Anil Nagar for bringing severe disrepute to the state government”. It also meant disqualification from future employment under the government, the order said. The five-page order explained Nagar’s alleged role at length in the cash-for-job scam in which he was arrested along with two others, Ashwini Sharma of Jhajjar and Naveen of Bhiwani, by the VB for their alleged role in manipulating OMR answer sheets. An FIR was registered on November 17 while Nagar, who was overall in charge of the examination, was suspended on November 18.Cash amounting to Rs 3.5 crore has been seized, while a handwritten list of roll numbers of HCS exam candidates was recovered from Nagar’s wallet. The order mentioned that of the 32 roll numbers, 15 were of HCS (five had cleared preliminary examination) and 17 of dental surgeon candidates (13 of them had passed).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-service-commission-deputy-secretary-dismissed-in-cash-for-job-scam-347690
08-12-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha gets govt proposal on 5 demands; dropping of cases key sticking point||Mukesh TandonTribune News ServiceSonepat, December 7The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today received a draft proposal on five of the six pending demands from the Centre, even as it decided to put off till tomorrow its decision on carrying forward the agitation. Rahul submits list of deceased farmersCongress MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday submitted in the Lok Sabha a list of farmers who died during the agitation against the three farm laws. Speaking during the Zero Hour, Rahul said more than 700 farmers died during the agitation.Contentious issuesThe five-member committee of the morcha would renegotiate with the Centre over the draft proposal and apprise the SKM members about the outcome at a meeting to be held at Singhu at 2 pm tomorrow.The committee comprises Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawale, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Yudhvir Singh. A draft proposal over the pending demands of the SKM was received from the Ministry of Home Affairs today, they said. Some farm leaders wanted clarification on various issues, they added.As regards Centre’s proposal to form a panel on the MSP issue, the SKM wants to know if the panel would work for the formation of a law.Another proposal by the Centre is that cases against farmers will be dropped in Delhi, Haryana, UP and various Union Territories after the stir is called off.SKM panel members say the dropping of cases should be unconditional in all states and UTs.The Haryana and UP governments have agreed to give compensation to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation, but the SKM wants an assurance that the compensation will be on the Punjab pattern (Rs 5 lakh and job to a family member).On government’s proposal that the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, will be discussed with all stakeholders before being introduced in Parliament, SKM leaders said the Centre had earlier assured them that it would never be presented in Parliament.The government has also proposed to free farmers of the criminal liability under Sections 14 and 15 of the Air Pollution Act for stubble burning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-gets-govt-proposal-on-5-demands-dropping-of-cases-key-sticking-point-347689
08-12-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||'Cremated' by kin, Sirsa woman returns home||A fortnight after a Haryana family identified a body recovered in Hanumangarh, near here, as that of their daughter and performed her last rites, the woman has returned home.Inspector Sukh Ram Chotia said the body was found on the road near Jogiwala village on November 21. The next day, a family member from Haryana’s Sirsa district identified the deceased as Paramjit Kaur (38) after seeing pictures on the social media.Her parents alleged her in-laws in Rania had killed her and thrown the body. A case of murder was registered against her husband and in-laws. After the post-mortem, the body was handed over to the family, which performed the last rites at their native Mangala village.Investigations revealed Paramjit had gone missing from her in-laws’ house on November 15 and her husband lodged a case at the Rania police station, accusing her of stealing jewellery, clothes and valuables, two days later.After the body was found on November 21, the police had claimed it bore injury marks and that the victim had died two-three days ago. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cremated-by-kin-woman-returns-home-347560
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dental surgeon recruitment scam: Haryana Public Service Commission dy secy dismissed||A suspended deputy secretary of the Haryana Public Service Commission, arrested earlier for allegedly taking bribes to manipulate marks of candidates for their recruitment as dental surgeons, was sacked on Tuesday.HPSC Deputy Secretary Anil Nagar was arrested earlier along with two others by the Haryana Vigilance Bureau sleuths for their alleged roles in manipulating the recruitment of dental surgeons by taking bribes from them for enhancing their marks in the written test for the purpose.“Whereas Anil Nagar has been placed under suspension with effect from November 11, the date of his arrest, there is not an iota of doubt that defaulter has acted in a manner most reprehensible, which is not expected from a member of the service.“The defaulter has exhibited grave misconduct, thereby tarnishing the image of the state government in the eyes of the general public. Further, such immoral activities bring severe disrepute to the state government,” said the government order, dismissing the Haryana Civil Services officer.The dismissal order was issued by the government under Article 311(2) (b) of the Constitution which empowers the competent authority to dismiss, remove or reduce the rank of a government servant without any departmental inquiry.Nagar is alleged to have demanded and accepted illegal gratification to the tune of several crores of rupees.Haryana’s main opposition Congress had stepped up attack on the ruling BJP-JJP combine and demanded an inquiry by a Special Investigation Team monitored by the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court into the alleged scam, saying it was important to unearth the “role of those in the higher echelons of power”.Indian National Lok Dal too had stepped up the attack on the M L Khattar government over the alleged scam.Detailing reasons for dismissing the HPSC deputy secretary, the government order said, “Anil Nagar remained posted as deputy Secretary in HPSC, which is a high-level post in the Commission, so it has been learnt that he or together with his associates or others, can terrorise, threaten or intimidate witnesses who are going to give evidence against him with fear of reprisal to prevent them from doing so.”“He is likely to further intimidate the subordinate staff for not giving any evidence against him due to his subordination during his tenure.., the competent authority has reasons to believe to dispense with the departmental proceedings/inquiry for the mentioned reasons,” said the order.“Whereas, the competent authority has, after taking into consideration all aspects of the case, decided to award a punishment of dismissal from service which shall ordinarily be a disqualification for future employment under the government upon Anil Nagar,” it said.The State Vigilance Bureau had mentioned in its report that Anil Nagar and another accused had manipulated the OMR sheets of the Haryana Civil Service preliminary examination and test for dental surgeons.Giving details of the sequence of events in the case, the order, further quoting the SVB report, said, “Anil Nagar had called for the answer sheets of the agreed-upon candidates and had made alterations in the answers and then re-scanned the sheets.”“Further, Anil Nagar’s residence was searched and Rs 12 lakh cash was seized. On interrogation, Nagar confessed that he had parked money with his associate and Rs 2.10 crore was recovered from his associate.“Thus, a total of Rs 3.5 crore cash has been seized so far in the course of the investigation. Further, a handwritten list of roll numbers of the HCS exam was recovered from Nagar’s wallet… whereas, interrogation of all three (arrested) accused revealed that a total of around 30-32 candidates were involved…,” the order said.Quoting Nagar’s interrogation report, the order further elaborated that of the 32 roll numbers, fifteen were of the Haryana Civil Service candidates of whom five passed in the preliminary examination and 17 were of dental surgeon candidates of whom 13 passed.“As being deputy secretary, he was overall in charge of the examination, he is supposed to do work as per the standard operating procedure but he was involved in manipulating answer sheets. This is highly unbecoming of the officer.“Thus, he does not deserve to be in service. Keeping in view the overall circumstances of the case and grave misconduct and indiscipline on the part of the accused in the case, it is clear that Anil Nagar is not fit to be retained further as a member of civil services of the state,” the order said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dental-surgeon-recruitment-scam-haryana-public-service-commission-dy-secy-dismissed-347522
08-12-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui dropped from Gurugram show after BJP files complaint||Gurugram, December 7Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui has been removed from an upcoming three-day comedy show in city after BJP filed a complaint against him.The organiser also decided to exclude Faruqui from the event.In his complaint to the Gurugram police, Arun Yadav, IT department head, Haryana BJP, said Faruqui had insulted Hindu deities divine to his faith and was continuously did so.“His activities have offended my Hindu faith. This is intentionally done to incite communal disharmony,” read the complaint put up by Yadav on his Twitter handle.Faruqui was to perform at Gurgaon Comedy Festival to be held at Gurugram’s Airia Mall from December 17-19. Following complaint his name has been removed by the organisers, The Entertainment Factory, from the promotional posters.Many messages against the participation of the stand-up comedian were also reportedly doing rounds on the social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stand-up-comedian-munawar-faruqui-dropped-from-gurugram-show-after-bjp-files-complaint-347514
08-12-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: Samyukt Kisan Morcha puts off decision on the fate of agitation until Wednesday||No decision has been taken yet on calling off the farmers’ protest, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the stir, said on Tuesday and demanded clarification on certain points, in the government’s proposal, including on the precondition set for withdrawal of “fake” cases against farmers.Farmer leaders, who are members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), after a meeting also said they will meet again at 2 PM on Wednesday to decide the future course of action.Kulwant Singh Sandhu, a prominent farmer leader, has claimed that a consensus has been arrived at and “nearly all demands” have been met.However, the SKM said there was no consensus yet on ending the protest, which was triggered last year after the government enacted three farm laws.“SKM confirms to have received a written draft proposal from the government of India. The proposal was constructively discussed by the farm leaders at the SKM meeting at the Singhu Border today. The morcha will seek further clarifications on a few points of the government’s proposal, and will reconvene at 2 pm tomorrow for further discussion. The SKM hopes for a positive response from the government,” the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions said in a statement following the meeting.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the government’s proposal said that it will form a committee to look into the demand for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the panel will include farmer organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states.                    “We had objections to it … we do not want other committees who have been against our demands since the start to be part of the panel on MSP. We have demanded the government give a clarification in this regard,” Rajewal said.“We are also against the condition set by the government that farm unions should lift the protest for the withdrawal of fake cases against farmers,” he said, adding the cases include those registered in connection with the January 26 violence.Another farmer leader said they received the government’s proposal on Tuesday afternoon.“We discussed it in the meeting. We had certain objections to some points in the proposal. Our members have given some suggestions and these have been sent to the government,” he said.The SKM had formed a five-member panel on Saturday to hold talks with the government on the pending demands of the protesting farmers, including a legal guarantee on MSP for crops, compensation to the kin of the farmers who died during the agitation against three agriculture laws and the withdrawal of cases against the protesters.The five-member panel of the SKM has farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh.“We have sent our proposal to the government and their response will deliberated upon further. Then we want a letter from MHA (ministry of home affairs) on their letter head with the sign of the home minister,” Kakka said.Farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said protesting farmer unions have reached a consensus on the future course of the agitation as nearly all their demands have been met, but a formal announcement of the decision will be made on Wednesday.“Nearly all demands raised by us have been met.... Letter (from the government with assurances on farmers’ demands) has been received. A consensus has been reached, the final decision will be announced tomorrow,” Sandhu told reporters after the SKM meeting.Another farmer leader and SKM member said the agitation is likely to be called off on Wednesday as there have been some positive responses from the government side on the farmers’ demands.However, a final decision will be announced after another meeting of SKM on Wednesday, he said.On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers.But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil their other demands too. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/farmers-meet-at-singhu-border-get-draft-copy-from-centre-on-six-demands-347469
