09-12-2021||---||Congress leaders meet Haryana Governor, seek probe into job scam||Chandigarh, December 8A meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) was today held under former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda where it was decided that they would raise the HPSC scam, shortage of DAP and urea, law and order situation, interference in university recruitments, vacant posts of different departments and inflation in the upcoming Assembly session.Also read: Congress leaders ask why recruitment not cancelled yet“We will bring adjournment motion on waterlogging and appointment of nambardars,” he said. He said withdrawal of cases against farmers and compensation and jobs to the families of those who died during the agitation would also be raised once again in the House.Addressing a press conference after the CLP meeting, Hooda demanded an investigation into the recruitment scam under the supervision of a sitting High Court judge.“Only an official of the rank of the Deputy Secretary of the HPSC cannot carry out such a huge recruitment scam. The recruitment mafia has sold jobs. But only the salesman has been caught. The owner is yet to be nabbed,” Hooda said.In the evening, Congress MLAs also submitted a memorandum to the Governor and demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter.The memorandum stated that apart from the recruitment scam, HCS officers selected in 2004 were voluntarily chosen and appointed in 2016, despite various irregularities. These appointments were made in disregard of the inquiry report of the Vigilance Department and this too should be thoroughly investigated, it added.Hooda also expressed concern over the state’s health system in view of the threat of a possible third wave of Covid. He said 70 per cent posts of specialist doctors in state hospitals and about 10,000 posts in the health department were vacant. “About 40,000 posts are lying vacant in the education department and this is the reason why Haryana consistently tops the country in unemployment. High unemployment rate has led to an increase in the crime in the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-leaders-meet-guv-seek-probe-into-job-scam-348119
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leaders ask why recruitment not cancelled yet||Alleging cover-up by the state government in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) scam, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala today questioned that when it was accepted that bribe was paid to secure jobs then why recruitment was not cancelled.Also read: Congress leaders meet Haryana Governor, seek probe into job scamAt a press conference with Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry, he said the para 10 of Anil Nagar’s (former HCS officer) dismissal order stated that he was the “custodian of all relevant records and there is no surety of the sanctity of the record kept by him”.Bigger conspiracy?The HPSC Chairman and members are advising the Governor to not conduct an inquiry against Anil Nagar. Is it because it may lead to unravelling of a bigger conspiracy, where top officials could be exposed? —Randeep Surjewala, Congress gen secy“When the record of dental surgeon and HCS recruitment with Nagar has been declared invalid, then why the recruitment has not been cancelled,” he asked.Choudhry said she had moved an adjournment motion on job scams in the HPSC and HSSC in the upcoming session. “HPSC Chairman and HSSC Chairman, and members of both the commissions have not been questioned yet. Why? There is an attempt to cover up,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ask-why-recruitment-not-cancelled-yet-348120
09-12-2021||---||88 negligence complaints against Faridabad hospitals, none found guilty||Faridabad, December 8No one has been found guilty in as many as 88 complaints of negligence in treatment by various hospitals in the district received by the office of the District Civil Surgeon here between January 1, 2018, and November 30, 2021.In response to an RTI query lodged by Tarun Chopra, a local resident, seeking the details of the number of complaints regarding negligence by the private hospitals and nursing homes in the past about 47 months, the authorities have disclosed that no one has been found guilty in the total of 88 complaints received and no show-cause notice had been issued by the District Negligence Board (DNB) working in the office of the Civil Surgeon.Board’s functioning fair: civil surgeonThe District Negligence Board had been fair in dealing with the complaints. No doctor could be held responsible if he or she used his normal intelligence in the treatment as per the medical rules. The Board functions in an unbiased manner and provides hearing to all concerned in a free and fair manner. — Dr Vinay Gupta, civil surgeonIt was revealed that the eight-member Board, comprising four doctors from the private sector, including a representative of the district unit of the IMA (Indian Medical Association), conducts a probe into the complaint lodged with it and is authorised to recommend action if found guilty.A majority of the complaints, according to the sources, had been related to alleged negligent attitude in treatment during the first and second wave of Covid, in which 717 lives were lost so far in the district.Expressing doubts over the functioning of the DNB, Chopra, in his complaint to the authorities, including the Chief Minister’s office and the Health Minister, had alleged irregularities, charging it with being hand in glove with the hospitals. Asking how all complaints were found to be untrue, he said a probe was required to be conducted into its functioning. Claiming that as he lost his mother mainly due to alleged negligence in treatment here in April last, he said he had lodged an RTI query with the Health Department. He said he might file a PIL in the High Court soon after the collection of more details of the complaints.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/88-negligence-complaints-against-hospitals-none-found-guilty-348121
09-12-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Specialists prefer pvt jobs, Haryana govt hospitals face crunch||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 8With most young doctors specialising in various medical/clinical disciplines preferring to join private hospitals, the state Health Department is grappling with the staff shortage.Sources in the medical field said lucrative pay packages and other perks offered by private hospitals were too tempting to resist for new doctors, who usually prefer private sector to government service.HCMS Association’s STRIKE FROM DEC 13“There is too much politics and harassment in the government set-up. There is a constant struggle for even routine requirements and one has to look towards the authorities concerned for every little thing,” says a super-specialist doctor, who is working as a private consultant after resigning from Rohtak-PGIMS.Medical veterans, however, said intense commercialisation of the healthcare sector had led to a fierce competition among the new-age doctors who wish to earn name, fame and money as quickly as possible.However, in the mad race for more and more, the public sector healthcare facilities are left high and dry.“There is a deficit of 1,309 specialists in the state. As many as 1,978 specialists are required across the state, while only 669 are working in the field as of now,” says Dr Jasbir Panwar, president of the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association.He said a number of medical specialists employed in the Health Department were working on administrative posts, which means their specialisation was of no use for the residents/patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/specialists-prefer-pvt-jobs-govt-hospitals-face-crunch-348122
09-12-2021||Rohtak||Doctors' protest hits emergency services at PGIMS-Rohtak||Emergency medical services at the Rohtak PGIMS were hit with the resident doctors, who stayed away from the OPD and ward duties yesterday, stepping up their stir today and boycotting the emergency services as well.The Trauma Centre as well as the Accident and Emergency (Casualty) wing of the PGIMS bore a deserted look as people got to know about the strike by the resident doctors. However, the unaware patients, who visited the institute for treatment today, had a tough time and faced many difficulties due to the strike.The head of departments and other consultants were deployed on emergency duties in view of the strike.Meanwhile, PGIMS Medical Superintendent Dr Ishwar Singh said on being persuaded, the resident doctors had agreed to resume the emergency duties from Thursday, while the OPD services and wards would continue to be managed by the consultants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctors-protest-hits-emergency-services-at-pgims-348123
09-12-2021||---||Rohtak, Rewari health officials on toes to track 121 'missing' foreign returnees||Rohtak/Karnal, December 8The health authorities in Rohtak and Rewari are on their toes as 45 persons, who recently returned home from abroad, are ‘untraceable’.As per the guidelines, foreign returnees are bound to follow home isolation for seven days in the wake of Omicron variant.As per sources, 30 returnees are from Rewari while 15 belong to Rohtak.Wrong or incomplete addresses on passports and switched off cell numbers are the main reasons why they haven’t traced so far. The health officials are now trying to find out about the returnees by contacting people residing in their neighborhood.“The health officials in Rohtak are finding it difficult to get swab sample for the RT-PCR test of the returnees as some try to evade the testing, arguing that they had reached home after being tested negative for Covid at the airport,” said an official.Sources maintained 124 persons in Rohtak and 88 in Rewari had recently returned from the UAE, Canada, Maldives, Australia, Illinois, the UK, Qatar, Sri Lanka, France, Japan, Nepal, Oman, the US and Ukraine.Dr Jaswant Punia, Civil Surgeon, Rohtak, said 33 of the 124 returnees were, at present, were residing in other districts and the authorities concerned had been updated about their arrival. RT-PCR sample of 76 others had been taken, of them, 55 had tested negative and reports of others were awaited.“Addresses of 15 others have been found wrong/incomplete. Efforts are under way to ascertain them,” he added.Dr Deepak Verma, Deputy Civil Surgeon, Rewari, said all foreign returnees in the district were healthy and were under home isolation. “We are taking daily updates about their health over the phone and RT-PCR sample of every returnee is being taken after seven days,” he added.The Health Department of Karnal is also monitoring the situation in the district closely.The department has received information about the arrival of 731 foreign returnees from high-risk countries in the past month. Of them, 655 have been traced and their RT-PCR tests are being conducted.The remaining 76 passengers are still untraceable.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, Karnal, said: “We are ensuring home isolation of all foreign returnees, but 76 persons are still untraced. Their list has been handed over to the SP,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-officials-on-toes-to-track-121-missing-foreign-returnees-348124
09-12-2021||Parveen Arora||60K water connections 'illegal', Karnal MC in reply to RTI plea||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 8Around 60,000 water and 65,000 sewerage connections are not registered with the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) and are running ‘illegally’ in city, causing huge loss to the civic body.It came to fore in a reply to the RTI query filed by the Karnal-based RTI activist, advocate Rajesh Sharma, who sought information regarding number of unauthorised water and sewerage connections and expenditure on the water lines.30,679 registered connectionsIn the replay, the KMC said there were 30,679 registered water connections and 9,974 registered sewerage connections. The non-registered water and sewerage connections have jointly led to a loss of Rs 865.26 lakhs from 2018-19 to 2020-21.The assessment of revenue on account of water and sewerage charges was Rs 714.38 lakhs in 2020-21. Against it, the KMC has generated bills of Rs 295 lakhs and received Rs 215.15 lakhs. The KMC does not have billing software, the reply said.In September 2018, both services — sewerage and water— were transferred to the KMC from the Public Health and Engineering Department.From 2018 to 2021, the KMC had laid 7590.81 meters water pipelines by spendingRs1,46,57,989. It had installed 179 tubewells with an expenditure of Rs 1,71,42,760 in different parts of the city. On the maintenance of the water pipes, it has spent Rs 1,09,52,433 between 2020-21.Rajesh Sharma demanded the government to regularise all unregistered water and sewerage connections by launching a campaign. The KMC should take help of the resident welfare associations to regularise all connections. These bills can be added to the property taxes of the people who do not have a registered water and sewerage connection and it will raise the revenue.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC, said a campaign would be launched to regularise these connections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60k-water-connections-illegal-karnal-mc-in-reply-to-rti-plea-348125
09-12-2021||---||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC launches drive against unauthorised constructions||Yamunanagar, December 8The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) has started a drive against under-construction unauthorised buildings in the twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.The MC authorities have issued notices to owners of 12 under-construction unauthorised buildings and given them time of seven days to get the building plan passed and fulfil other required conditions of the Municipal Corporation.These 12 buildings are said to be commercial buildings.Building plan not passed}We have been getting complaints that buildings are being constructed illegally in several areas of the twin cities without getting the building plan passed from the Municipal Corporation. —Ajay Singh Tomar, Commissioner, MCYJAjay Singh Tomar, Commissioner, MCYJ, said they had been getting complaints that buildings were being constructed illegally in several areas of the twin cities without getting the building plan passed from the Municipal Corporation.He said a team was formed, which visited several areas and found that 12 buildings were being constructed in violation of rules and regulations of the Municipal Corporation.“The team visited the sites of these 12 buildings. But, the owners of these buildings failed to produce the building plans passed by the Municipal Corporation and other documents,” said Tomar.He said the owners of the nine under-construction buildings of the 12 buildings were issued first notices to get the building map passed and to complete the other required documents, but they failed to do so.“Our team again inspected the sites of all 12 said buildings and found that the construction work of the said buildings was not stopped. Thereafter, the owners of the nine buildings were issued second notices and the owners of the remaining three buildings were given first notice,” said Ajay Singh Tomar.He said if the owners of the said buildings failed to get the building map passed and complete the other required documents in seven days, the process of the sealing and demolition would be started in near future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drive-against-unauthorised-constructions-launched-348126
09-12-2021||---||SOPs planned for drug de-addiction centres in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 8Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the standard operating procedures (SOPs) would be prepared regarding the establishment of drug de-addiction centres in all districts of the state to tackle drug menace.The SOPs will be prepared within the next 15 days under the supervision of the Director General Health Services (DGHS).Vij was presiding over a meeting of officers of the Home and Health Department here. He said various parameters would be prepared in this regard such as establishment of de-addiction centre in every civil hospital, number of prescribed beds, deployment of staff and availability of drugs related to de-addiction etc.Vij directed the officers to collect point-to-point information to implement the instructions given by the Prime Minister and Union Home Minister at the police conference held in Lucknow so that these instructions could be implemented. Apart from this, Vij said within the next two weeks, an online meeting of the nodal officers of the districts related to drugs/substances abuse would be convened and review would be done regarding drug de-addiction.Apart from this, he said an app was also being developed regarding prescription. Vij said the private de-addiction centres operating in the state should be inspected from time to time and after checking, the report should be presented before him.Pvt centres to be inspectedHome and Health Minister Anil Vij said private de-addiction centres operating in the state should be inspected from time to time and after checking, the report should be presented before him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sops-planned-for-drug-de-addiction-centres-348127
09-12-2021||Karnal||Elderly a harried lot as pensions stopped||A 63-year-old resident of the city and his wife did not receive their pension for the month of October. When inquired, they were shocked that their pension has been stopped owing to their income status, which exceeded to Rs 2 lakh as per their family ID.The couple said they did not have earnings from any source and despite that, their annual income was shown as Rs 3.60 lakh.They went to the Social Welfare Office and to the ADC’s office to restore their pension to get their family ID corrected, but after a day-long struggle, their efforts went in vain. “Our pension was suddenly stopped by the department. When I inquired from the pension office, I was informed that the income status in the family ID card went above Rs 2 lakh per annum,” he said, adding that when he went to the ADC office, he was told that there was no option to reduce the income in the family ID portal.“I used to run a shop, but after the first lockdown, it was closed,” he added. The couple is not only beneficiaries whose pension has suddenly been stopped. There are scores of people, as confirmed by the workers of the Social Welfare Department, who are running from pillar to post to get their pension restored. One of the employees said pension of some beneficiaries were stopped in November and some in December owing to their income status in their family ID. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elderly-a-harried-lot-as-pensions-stopped-348128
09-12-2021||Karnal||Fortified Haryana rice millers threaten indefinite strike||The Fortified Rice Kernels Manufacturers Association of Haryana today served a three-day ultimatum to the government, seeking cancellation of the tender given to a firm from outside Haryana.At a meeting in Karnal today, members of the association threatened to go on an indefinite strike. They alleged that the conditions of the tender were changed frequently to extend benefits to a particular firm, instead of giving a chance to local industrialists who recently launched their ventures.They alleged that instead of promoting Haryana’s new micro-industries, the state government preferred corporates from other states.Association president Ram Niwas said the tender process was only to benefit particular firms. “We are newcomers. Instead of promoting local industrialists, the government prefers outsiders,” he said.Harjot Singh, member of the association, said the company that has been shortlisted had offered Rs 59.64+GST per kg for fortified plus to the government, while they were ready to give this at Rs 45-50 per kg, which was on par with the quality as per government norms.Ramesh Midha, another member, said the tender was cancelled once and changes in the norms were made thrice. “In the first advertisement of the tender, there was a condition of Rs 65 crore of turnover and the newcomers were exempted, but the existing companies who installed machines of fortified rice were not exempted. Later, the turnover was reduced to Rs 10 crore, but the newcomers were not exempted, which was against us as they demanded two-year experience,” he said, adding that the third time, the Food and Civil Supplies Department changed norms and put a condition the company has completed an order of 1,000 MT food products in the past 12 months.Ravi Garg, another member of the association, said in such circumstances they were not able to survive. “We have served an ultimatum of three days to the government to cancel the tender,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fortified-rice-millers-threaten-indefinite-strike-348129
09-12-2021||Faridabad||JC Bose University of Science and Technology organises induction programme||Rohtak Student brings laurelsRohtak: Paranjay Dahiya, a student of King's College, India, has been declared country topper for the Cambridge March-2021 examination series in physics. As per an official statement issued here on Tuesday, he has got the 'Cambridge Outstanding Learner Award'. King's College, India, a British school based at Rohtak, follows the Cambridge curriculum under the aegis of the Cambridge Assessment International Education system.Legal awareness event for girlsAmbala: The department of law, MM (DU), Mullana, in collaboration with the District Legal Service Authority, Ambala, and the National Commission for Women organised a special legal awareness programme on the topic of different rights of women for women students. The chief guest was Dr Sukhda Pritam, CJM, DLSA, Ambala, while the guest speaker was Ranu Purohit, advocate, Supreme Court. The head and dean, Prof Dr Bindu Jindal addressed the students and encouraged them to be aware of their legal rights. Purohit acquainted the students about different rights of women. CJM Pritam motivated the girls to work hard and make their vision clear for a bright future.Kurukshetra College gets grade AKurukshetra: Dayanand Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Kurukshetra, has been accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, and it has achieved the A grade with a CGPA of 3.12, valid for five years. Principal Dr Vijeshwari Sharma asserted that a team appointed by NAAC visited the college in November and found the college working efficiently for the education of girls. The college has been successful to achieve the prestigious grade A with the unwavering support and inspiration of the management and hard work of the teaching and non-teaching staff.Seminar on interpersonal relationsKurukshetra: A three-day seminar on interpersonal relations commenced at Gurukul Kurukshetra. Sumit Bhatt from Micro - Tech Corporation, New Delhi, is the resource person. Col Arun Datta, director of the school, in his opening address expressed the importance of interpersonal relations for happy and harmonious living and growth of the individuals as well as the society. The seminar is being attended by students, staff, and families of Gurukul, Kurukshetra. .Arya kanya Management panel pollKarnal: The elections of the Arya Kanya Gurukul management committee will be conducted on January 23. As per office-bearers, it is the first time in the history of Gurukul when a committee will be elected through voting. A list of valid votes has been issued on Monday. Naib Tehsildar Shiv Kumar, returning officer, said the elections would be held between 9 am and 4 pm, and the counting will be conducted on the same day in the evening. Candidates can file their nominations on December 21 and 22. Candidates can withdraw their nomination till 3 pm on January 3 and the scrutiny of the nomination papers will be conducted on January 5 and the election symbols will also be issued in the evening. There would be 21 members in the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/induction-programme-organised-348130
09-12-2021||Karnal||Clarify on rice husk status as bio-fuel: Karnal millers to government||Raising their voice against the order of the Commission for Air Quality Management and Haryana State Pollution Control Board, rice millers and exporters of the district on Tuesday served an ultimatum of 24 hours to the government to clarify whether rice husk is a bio-fuel or not.They said rice husk is used as fuel in most of the rice mills as its burning helps in managing the overwhelming volume of husk. It is also environment-friendly, they said. Under the new norms, the industries — running without CNG and PNG — will run for eight hours in a day from Monday to Friday and will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. While handing over a memorandum to Additional DC Yogesh Kumar for the CM and the PM, the millers and exporters cited a study of Thailand University saying rice husk was more environment-friendly as compared to other fuels. “If government does not make it clear if it is a clean fuel, we will assume that the government agrees with our reports and we will restart our industries on bio-fuel round-the-clock instead of eight hours a day,” said Vijay Setia, ex- president of All-India Rice Exporters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clarify-on-rice-husk-status-as-bio-fuel-millers-to-government-348131
09-12-2021||Kurukshetra||'Jal panchayats' to be organised  in 14 districts of Haryana||Dr Satbir Singh Kadian, project director, Atal Bhujal Yojana, said ‘jal panchayats’ will be organised in 1,669 gram panchayats of 36 blocks in 14 districts of Haryana, under the Atal Bhujal Yojana.He was addressing a workshop conducted by the Irrigation and Water Resource Department at the Haryana Irrigation and Resource Management Institute, Kurukshetra, on Monday. A team of the Quality Council of India was also present at the workshop. Kadian said, “During the panchayats, the villagers will take ownership of their groundwater resources and decide the future action in consultation with the state team. The programme will help transform groundwater governance in the state .” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jal-panchayats-to-be-organised-in-14-districts-348132
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana tells government, aided colleges to submit Dr Radha Krishna Fund||The Haryana Higher Education Department has directed all government and state-aided non-government colleges of the state to send the amount of “Dr Radha Krishna Fund” collected at the time of admission in 2021-22 to the state government.An official spokesperson said at the time of admission by the colleges, an amount of Rs 70 per student was taken for the fund. Out of this, Rs 30 goes to the Directorate of Higher Education and Rs 40 to the college. He said on behalf of the Director General of the Higher Education Department, directions had been given to all state and government aided non-government colleges to deposit the amount of the fund at the directorate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-aided-colleges-told-to-submit-fund-348133
09-12-2021||The Municipal Corporation has not installed streetlights in Kanhaiya City||Streetlights not installed in Kanhaiya City of Karnal||Encroachment in Panchkula sectorOccupants near entry gate number 5 in Sector 8, Panchkula, have encroached upon the adjoining footpath. Notably, it has also taken into its fold a four-pole mounted electricity transformer of the city's power corporation, among others. How come that the authorities concerned have conveniently been turning a blind eye to it. What about the Panchkula administration's recent decision not to permit any kind of 'encroachment' on public land? —Vinayak G, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/streetlights-not-installed-in-kanhaiya-city-of-karnal-348134
09-12-2021||Faridabad||In Faridabad, over 700 old vehicles impounded||In a measure to curb the plying of old vehicles, the district traffic police have impounded 724 vehicles so far.The drive was launched to impound diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years, claimed to be contributing to air pollution.The state government banned such vehicles in four districts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonepat and Jhajjar in 2016. 209 vehicles running on petrol and 515 diesel vehicles have been impounded in these four districts so far.Though the total number of such vehicles plying on the roads in the district to date is yet to be calculated, sources in the department said the number could well be over 90,000, including private and commercial vehicles, besides three-wheeler auto rickshaws.“All SHOs and in charges of the police posts have been directed focus on the drive and indulge in intensive checking at various points,” said DCP (Traffic) Suresh Kumar Hooda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-fbad-over-700-old-vehicles-impounded-348135
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Tax waiver to private edu institutes in Haryana||In view of the pandemic, the state has given one-year exemption from the payment of property tax to private educational institutions.An order issued by the Urban Local Bodies Department said the exemption would be applicable for the 2021-22. These institutions had been seeking incentives, including waiver in property tax, on the account of the prevailing pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tax-waiver-to-private-edu-institutes-348136
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now, 43 Haryana Shehari Vikas Pradhikaran services under RTS Act ambit||The state has notified 43 services of the Haryana Shehari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) under the Right to Service (RTS) Act-2014.An official spokesman said now the number of notified services of the HSVP had reached 43 from the existing 16. Several services have been notified with the new RTS timeline. These include issuance of possession certificate (three days), removal of encroachments (15 days), cleaning of road/berm (five days), maintenance of parks (seven days). The aim is to curb corruption and ensure the delivery of services in a time-bound manner.Now, the time frame for the transfer permission letter in death case and issuance of re-allotment letter has been reduced to four days; conveyance deed to five days; and new building plan (residential) to three days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-43-hsvp-services-under-rts-act-ambit-348137
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now, apply for UG courses in Haryana till Dec 10||The Haryana Government has extended the last date for admission to the first-year of undergraduate (UG) courses in all colleges till December 10.An official spokesperson said various government, aided and private colleges of the state had repeatedly requested the Higher Education Department to reopen the admission portal for first-year graduate students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-apply-for-ug-courses-till-dec-10-348138
09-12-2021||Gurugram||2 law students killed in mishap||Two law students of Ansal University were killed late Tuesday night after an unknown vehicle rammed into their Honda City car at Sikandarpur marble market.Both students — Niharika (21) and her friend Vanshika — were seriously injured and rushed to a nearby private hospital, where they died during treatment.An FIR was registered against the unknown vehicle driver at the DLF pahse-1 police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-law-students-killed-in-mishap-348139
09-12-2021||Sonepat||65-yr-old Sonepat farmer dies by suicide||A farmer (65) — Dharampal of Nyat village of Sonepat — on Wednesday reportedly committed suicide by jumping from a height of 30 feet at the zero point near Singhu.Farmers immediately rushed him to the General Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.Satywan Narwal, state vice president, BKU (Charuni), said he had joined the outfit four months ago. He was upset due to the ongoing situation in the farmers’ protest. His younger brother Ramkishan had died on Tuesday night due to a prolonged ailment.The Rai police handed over the body to his kin after post-mortem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/65-yr-old-farmer-dies-by-suicide-348140
09-12-2021||Yamunanagar||20-yr jail for abusing minor||Drunken cop suspendedChandigarh: Bhupeshwar Dayal, OSD to the CM, said the constable found intoxicated during the International Gita Mahotsav had been suspended. He said in another case, a driver, Deepak, was suspended for alleged drunken driving after running over devotees at Narnaul temple on Sharad Purnima. TNS‘Avoid tours ahead of session’Chandigarh: The government has directed officers and other state employees to remain present in the office and avoid tours in view of the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session starting from December 17. TNSINLD opposes VC’s appointmentChandigarh: The INLD has opposed the appointment of actor Gajendra Chauhan as the VC of Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak. INLD secretary general Abhay Chautala said rules had been violated. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-yr-jail-for-abusing-minor-348141
09-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Samyukt Kisan Morcha accepts govt's revised proposals, may announce suspension of stir today||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 8The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday accepted the Union Government’s revised draft proposal on the pending demands. It is likely to announce the suspension of the agitation after a meeting at Singhu on Thursday.A five-member SKM committee, comprising Balbir Singh Rajewal, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Ashok Dhawale and Yudhvir Singh, today held a meeting in Delhi to discuss the revised proposal.Dhawale said the earlier draft was sent back after leaders raised certain objections. “We now received the revised proposal in which the government has either given a clarification or addressed the concerns,” he said.Addressing the media, the SKM leaders said they could not share the details of the draft proposal and would send their consent to the government tomorrow.A farmer leader said in the revised draft, the government had made some additions, including acceptance of their demand for immediate withdrawal of cases registered against farmers.“The second addition is related to the MSP committee. There was till now a vague declaration regarding the formation of a committee. It has now been mentioned that the MSP would be for all farmers. The government has also given assurance to adequately compensate the families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-accepts-govts-revised-proposals-may-announce-suspension-of-stir-today-348106
