11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Schoolchildren in Haryana to recite Gita ‘shlokas’ from next academic session: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said from the next academic session, students will be taught to recite ‘shlokas’ of the Bhagavad Gita in schools across the state.The chief minister made this announcement at the ongoing international Gita Mahotsava in Kurukshetra, an official statement said here.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was also present on the occasion.Addressing a seminar organised at the Gita Gyan Sansthanam and Kurukshetra University as part of the international Gita festival, Khattar said books related to Gita will become a part of the curriculum for classes 5 and 7.The chief minister said the youth should imbibe the essence of Gita in their lives as the message of the holy book was given not for only Arjuna but for all of us.Khattar said in order to enhance the scale of annual international Gita Mahotsav, a Gita Jayanti committee would be constituted from next year.He said a Mahabharata-themed museum is being constructed at ‘Geetasthali’ in Jyotisar on two acres of land at a cost of Rs 205 crore.In this building, Shrimad Bhagavad Gita, the mythical Saraswati river and Vedic civilisation will be depicted through multimedia systems, he said.He said on the lines of Ram Lila, Krishna Utsav would also be organised during the international Gita Mahotsava from next year.In this festival, which lasts around six days, different incidents related to the life of Lord Krishna will be depicted through tableaux, he said, adding that there will be a light and sound show as well.He said the Bhagavad Gita was a source of inspiration for the country’s freedom fighters too. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schoolchildren-in-haryana-to-recite-gita-shlokas-from-next-academic-session-khattar-349188
11-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Haryanvi women lend colour to procession as farmers head home||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 11Local women added colour to the victory procession of farmers from Tikri to Rohtak city on Saturday.They not only showered flowers on the farmers but also danced to drum beats at various places to express their happiness.Interestingly, they also organised langar at various spots en route and accorded a hero’s welcome to farmers as soon as they reached their camps. A group of Haryanvi women on a tractor-trolley during the procession attracted the public attention by performing dance and singing victory songs.Jagmati Sangwan, a woman activist, said a considerable number of women from nearby areas had supported the protest from the beginning. They not only joined the dharna at Tikri and Rohad toll plaza but also provided food items to the protesters hence today was the big day for all those women who stood by the farmers throughout the struggle, she added.“To make this day memorable, we not only showered flowers on male farmers and garlanded female ones during the victory procession but also danced and sang songs at various points. Women of every age participated in the celebrations and they also captured the moment in their cell phones as such occasions do not come time and again,” said Jagmati.She informed Punjab women expressed their gratitude and also invited them to come to their home to strengthen this bond of brotherhood.Meanwhile, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders- Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Inderjit Singh, Krishan Prasad and Sukhdev Singh Jammu honoured farmers by presenting them ‘siropa’ at Kisan Chowk near Tikri border.Later, another big reception was organized at Rohad toll plaza where Gurjeet Kaur, niece of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, was welcomed. Langars and welcome camps with bands and music were organised at Kheri Sadh village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanvi-women-lend-colour-to-procession-as-farmers-head-home-349169
11-12-2021||---||Limitless: Boy with epilepsy embarks on 1000 km Brevet to inspire hope||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 11Diagnosed with epilepsy in 2005, Delhi-based Vinay Jani had two options to choose from---allow himself to get overwhelmed by the stigma that ignorance about the disorder perpetuates or pull himself together and get on with life.Vinay chose the latter and here he is, having completed half of his 1000 km Brevet which began from Gurugam in Haryana on December 10 and is scheduled to end at Kundli on December 13.“This is my second 1000 km Brevet and must be completed in 75 hours. This time I am riding to create awareness about epilepsy and to motivate other persons with epilepsy to believe in my philosophy -- there are no limits,” says Vinay Jani, who has already covered 551 km today reaching Punjab’s Attari after covering a range of towns including Ludhiana and Phagwara. He is now on his return journey---Punjab to Haryana (Kundli)---to spread awareness about epilepsy, one of the most common neurological disorders affecting more than 65 million people worldwide. India alone has an estimated 15 million or more cases. “Despite such a high prevalence, the awareness about epilepsy in India is very low. This lack of awareness further perpetuates the already existing stigma around epilepsy. Persons with epilepsy face discrimination and harassment for education, employment, and marriage. Thus, the lack of knowledge makes epilepsy a social problem, not just a medical one,” said Manjari Tripathi of AIIMS Neurology department, speaking at a meet and greet event which EKATWAM, an NGO working for persons with epilepsy, organized here on December 10 with Vinay.The event was significant with Vinay showing others like him that it is possible to push the envelope.He started long-distance running and Randonneuring (endurance or long-distance cycling in specified time) called BREVET.“Vinay has completed five half marathons, a full marathon, and several BREVETS: multiple 200 km, 300 km, 600 km ones, one 1000 km. He even attempted Paris Brest Paris Brevet,” says Komal Kamra, founder member of the NGO supporting the event.Accompanying Vinay are his teammates and they must all cover a phenomenal 333 plus km daily to hit their goal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/limitless-boy-with-epilepsy-embarks-on-1000-km-brevet-to-inspire-hope-349166
11-12-2021||---||Bhupinder Hooda asks Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for jobs to bereaved farmers’ families||Ravi S SinghTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 11Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday asked the state’s Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to provide jobs to members of the families of the farmers who lost lives during, and withdrawal of criminal cases registered against the farmers during the yearlong protests against the now withdrawn three Central farm laws. He urged the Centre to initiate talks with farmers soon to provide legal status to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) to crops. This has been their other main demand.“The farmers are simple people and are providers of food. They should be dealt with dignity and grace,” Hooda said.He said the Haryana government must provide jobs demonstrating a well-fare spirit to the bereaved families of the farmers.“In fact, the other state governments too must provide jobs and withdraw cases,” Hooda said, adding that cases have been registered against thousands of farmers. He especially named the states of Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh.Hooda is considered to be having a wide-ranging influence among the farming community.He and his MP son, Deepender Singh Hooda, had been instrumental in mobilising the farming community in support of the Congress, especially for the agitation for withdrawal of the Land Acquisition Bill by Prime Narendra Modi’s government in its previous term.Referring to the farmer’s protest against the farm laws, the former chief minister said he'd never seen such a disciplined and focused approach to an agitation."The farmers finally had their way after their successful talks with the Union government which led to annulling of the laws. It is their victory, eventually," he said.,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-asks-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-for-jobs-to-bereaved-farmers-families-349149
11-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers recall year-long struggle before leaving Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 11Before their departure from Tikri, farmers from Punjab celebrated their victory on Friday night with full enthusiasm and zeal by dancing, singing patriotic songs and distributing sweets.They retired late at night and woke up early in the morning and packed their bags to go back home. Many of them could not sleep and spent the night by refreshing memories of the protest.  “We made last night at the Tikri border memorable by doing whatever we could to express our happiness and joy after our victory in the year-long struggle. We spent sleepless night by sharing good and bad memories besides talking about the protest from beginning to end. This morning, we dismantled our makeshift abode and loaded all belongings on our tractor-trailers. We are now ready for the victory procession that is to start from Tikri and will culminate at our village,” said Jaspreet Singh Balian of Sangrur district.Hakam Singh, another farmer, said that on Friday they called on locals to express their gratitude for supporting and motivating them during the past one year. “We have decorated our tractors with flowers and flags. Local people in a considerable number also came to meet us on Saturday morning to extend their best wishes,” he added.   Around one third farmers have returned home during the past two days. They started leaving for home after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha announced to call off the stir on Thursday morning. Majority of those who have already left were from distant places like Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur.Soon after farmers leave, JCB machines start removing barricades at TikriSoon after the protesting farmers left for home, the process to open the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border was started to provide passage to the commuters on the National Highway-9 (Rohtak to Delhi). JCB machines were pressed into service to remove the concrete barricades to open the border.The highway was closed by Delhi police around a year ago by putting multi-layered barricading at the border. Even, spikes were also placed after the violence during the tractor parade on January 26.“Three to four JCB machines were called in the morning after Punjab farmers left for home. Since concrete barricading is multilayered the work is still under way to remove the boulders and concrete wall from the highway,” said Darshan Singh, manager at a petrol pump on the border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/farmers-recall-year-long-struggle-before-leaving-for-their-homes-349113
11-12-2021||---||Special students invited to apply for scholarship||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The Haryana Government has invited online applications for pre-matric, post-matric and higher education scholarships to students with disabilities (specially abled) for 2021-22.A spokesperson of the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment said that under pre-matric, post-matric and higher education scholarship, applicants applying for new scholarship (first-time applicants) and renewable scholarship (applicants who received scholarship in 2020-21) could submit the online application till December 15.He said that students with disabilities should have a disability certificate issued by the competent medical authority. Applicants willing to get scholarship can login to the departmental website www.disabilityaffairs.gov.in||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-students-invited-to-apply-for-scholarship-348948
11-12-2021||Kurukshetra||Two robbers held in Kurukshetra||2 IAS officers get new postingsChandigarh: The state government has appointed Anil Malik, Principal Secretary, Information Technology, Electronics and Communication and Housing for All Departments as in charge of Faridabad district and Pankaj Agrawal, Commissioner and Secretary, Administrative Reforms, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department as in charge of Bhiwani district. An official spokesman said both officers had been appointed in charge of the aforesaid districts in addition to their present duties. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-robbers-held-in-kurukshetra-348790
11-12-2021||---||Don't go on strike, DGHS urges doctors||Chandigarh, December 10Director General of Health Services (DGHS), Haryana, Dr Veena Singh, in view of the current pandemic situation, today appealed to all doctors of the Health Department to not participate in the state-wide strike called by Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association from December 13.She has also appealed to the office-bearers of the HCMS Association to withdraw their notice of strike in public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-go-on-strike-dghs-urges-doctors-348791
11-12-2021||Hisar||Hisar JJP chief resigns after rape case||Ramesh Godara, district president of the JJP, resigned from his post after he was booked for rape on the complaint of a woman in Hisar.In a statement on Facebook, Godara said he had been falsely implicated in the case and was ready to cooperate in the police investigation.The district police had registered a rape case against him on Wednesday. The victim, a 33-year-old woman, alleged that she was raped in a room in the MLA hostel in Chandigarh in 2017 by Godara. In a complaint at the woman police station in Hisar, she alleged that the accused also took her inappropriate photographs besides making a video. She alleged that the accused continued raping her even after she got married.Police sources said they had registered a zero FIR and sent the matter to the Chandigarh Police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-jjp-chief-resigns-after-rape-case-348792
11-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Kaithal Road in pathetic condition||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Kaithal Road in pathetic conditionThe road in Sector 18 of Kaithal town is enough to describe the condition of the HSVP sectors. The poor state of roads has become an irritant for residents. The authorities concerned have failed to take note of the problem and address it. The upper layer of the road at many places has worn out, so the vehicle drivers, especially those on two-wheelers face the risk of slipping on the loose 'bajri' and sustain injuries. This road is also a short cut route for residents to reach civil hospital, but the driving is risky. The authorities should get up from its slumber and get the damaged road repaired at the earliest. Satish Seth, Kaithal Poor upkeep of park in BhiwaniThe Chaudhary Bansi Lal park located at the Haluwas Gate is in bad shape as it is facing the neglect of the district authorities. We have been taking up the demand for its maintenance from time to time with the officials of the district administration. Despite of this, no attention is being paid to maintenance of the park. There is no watchman or caretaker to look after the park. Due to the lack of gardeners, trees and plants in the park are getting damaged. DS Nagar, Bhiwani||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-road-in-pathetic-condition-348793
11-12-2021||Karnal||World Human Rights Day||Extension lecture organisedKaithal: An extension lecture was organised by the career guidance and placement cell of RKSD College, Kaithal, in association with the department of computer science under the convenership of Prof Naresh Garg. Its main theme was "Career prospects in information technology'. Aparna Grover from InfoMaths Academy, Chandigarh, was the invited faculty. In this lecture, 80 students of BCA and BSc computer science participated. Principal Sanjay Goyal inaugurated it and said the coming time was full of new possibilities in this field.Equal work-equal pay at IGURewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) has decided to release salary of Rs 57,700 per month as per "equal work-equal pay" policy to 26 resource persons employed at its various teaching departments. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said this step would certainly help the resource persons to meet their expenditures and also enhance their confidence. Dean academic affairs Prof Mamta Kamra and registrar Prof Parmod Kumar also congratulated all resource persons for this employee-centric decision.Making bricks from stubbleMahendragarh: Three Students of BTech course, Ramesh Bishnoi, Shailesh Sihag and Akshay Kumar, at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) claimed to have prepared bricks by using stubble and industrial waste. Dr Vikas Garg, head of the department, said the move was aimed at making constructive use of stubble to keep the environment pollution-free. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar said making bricks from stubble was the solution to the issue of pollution due to residue burning.Research grant sanctionedFaridabad: Four faculty members of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, will receive a grant of Rs 67 lakh from the Haryana State Council for Science, Innovation and Technology under the Department of Science and Technology, Haryana, for research and development projects. The amount between Rs 14 lakh to 18 lakh will be given to each of them to undertake research in the next three years. The selected faculty include Dr Sanjeev Goyal, associate professor of mechanical engineering for the project titled, 'Design and fabrication of manually operated agriculture waste briquetting machine: A business model for self help groups', Dr Ravi Kumar, associate professor of chemistry for the project titled, 'Oxidative catalysis and synthesis of Covid-19 drug candidates/precursors using iodine incorporated metal-organic framework' and Dr Anurag Gaur, associate professor of physics for the project titled, 'Development of paani ki battery to produce green energy for sustainable growth of rural areas'.Lecture series on human rightsKurukshetra: Faculty of law, Kurukshetra University organised a one-day lecture series to celebrate Human Rights Day under the guidance of dean prof Amit Ludri. Prof Preeti Jain, the key note speaker, shared various aspects of human rights. She also highlighted the instances of human rights violation in the contemporary times and also stressed on the need of enforcement of these rights. Other speakers included Prof Dalip Kumar, Prof Rajpal Sharma, director, Institute of Law, Dr Sushila, Dr Mahabir Ranga who also shared their views highlighting the history and relevance of human rights.Technical session of Gita seminarKurukshetra: The third technical session of the ongoing international Gita seminar was organised on Friday on the theme "Aatmnirbhar Bharat: A strategic business perspective" by University School of Management, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Dr Sweta Saxena, chief, macro policy, UNESCAP, Thailand, emphasised that the modern day economic modeling might be derived from wisdom of Bhagvad Gita. She emphasised on the point that modern day materialistic world needed to address spirituality in the right earnest to overcome deficiencies of pure materialism. Nearly 40 delegates from various parts of the country also presented their papers.Showcasing talent of studentsKarnal: Exhorting students, Mamta Singh, IGP Karnal Range, said students must know their talent and make efforts to nurture it. She was chairing a programme,Chidiya Da Chamba', at Women College, Bastara, an initiative of the college to encourage students of different colleges to showcase their talent. She also interacted with students while taking a round of their exhibition. She handed over certificates to the students. Several competitions like acting, dance, modeling, yoga, drawing, painting and others were organised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-human-rights-day-348794
11-12-2021||Karnal||Anganwari workers, helpers hold protest||Hundreds of anganwari workers and helpers, who have been staging dharna here since Wednesday, today protested in the city, alleging that the government wanted to hand over anganwadi centres to private hands.Bijnesh Rana, district secretary, Anganwari Workers and Helpers Association, said the state and the Union governments had been making efforts to hand over anganwadis to the private hands, which would not be accepted at any cost. The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme is being handed over to the private hands through playway schools and NGOs, said the protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anganwari-workers-helpers-hold-protest-348795
11-12-2021||---||Gajendra Chauhan takes over as Vice-Chancellor of visual arts university||Rohtak, December 10Veteran film and television actor Gajendra Chauhan took over as the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts (SUPVA) in the presence of faculty, students and staff members of the university here today.The government had recently amended the university act and paved the way for professional artists to lead the institution.“SUPVA is a cradle of creativity which offers a diverse range of professional programmes in different disciplines. My aim will be to develop and nurture an ecosystem where we can polish and channelise the creativity of young minds to render it profession-ready,” said Chauhan after assuming charge. Chauhan got fame after playing the role of ‘Yudhishthir’ in the popular television serial, ‘Mahabharata’. In an acting career spanning nearly 38 years, Chauhan has worked in around 300 films in different Indian languages, apart from more than 1,000 TV serials. He was appointed chairman of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) Pune in 2015. He also served as the president of the Cine and TV Artists Association from 2012 to 2014, and has been the chief adviser of the Federation of Western India Cine Employees for the past seven years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gajendra-chauhan-takes-over-as-vice-chancellor-of-visual-arts-university-348796
11-12-2021||---||Sarpanch booked for embezzling over Rs 12L||Yamunanagar, December 10The Antawa village sarpanch has been booked for allegedly committing an embezzlement of Rs 12.90 lakh in the grant amount issued for various development works to be carried out in the village.On the complaint of Radaur Block Development and Panchayat Officer Dinesh Sharma, a case was registered against Gaurav Kumar under Sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC at the Radaur police station on December 8.The complainant said Ramji Lal of Antawa village had lodged a complaint on the CM window portal in 2020, alleging that Gaurav Kumar of their village embezzled huge amount in development works undertaken by him in their village from June 1, 2016, to 2020. He said the SDO (panchayati raj), Radaur, had conducted an inquiry into it and found that the sarpanch had bungled Rs 12,90,189 in development works undertaken.The SDO had submitted his inquiry report to the Deputy Commissioner, who sent it to the Radaur BDPO for further action on November 26, 2021.Govt funds misused||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sarpanch-booked-for-embezzling-over-rs-12l-348797
11-12-2021||Karnal||Folk artistes cheer protesters at Haryana toll plaza||After the farmer unions’ decision to suspend their protest, several farmers have started returning home with satisfaction on their face.Scores of tractor-trailers loaded with goods were seen on NH-44 heading towards their homes. They had a brief halt at Bastara toll plaza where local farmers offered them langar. Haryanvi folk singers and dancers performed at the toll plaza where scores of farmers have been staging dharna to make the toll plaza free for commuters.“I had been at Singhu border for the past month. We are happy that the government accepted our demands,” said 55-year-old Ram Singh of Ludhiana district on Friday.Rearranging the goods in a trolley, Hoshiar Singh, another farmer, said the victory was the result of the unity of the farmers from across the country. “The government should have taken this step at the initial stage of the protest so that the lives of 700 farmers could have been saved,” he said.Vikramjeet Singh said it might take few days to clear the protest site at Singhu. “We are satisfied with the decision of the SKM and returning home,” he said. Bhadhur Singh Mehla, district president, IT cell, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said a welcome programme would be organised at Bastara toll plaza on Saturday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/folk-artistes-cheer-protesters-at-toll-plaza-348798
11-12-2021||Deepender Deswal||Haryana farmers plan warm send-off to Punjab brethren||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 10The farmers of Haryana, sitting on dharna at the toll plazas in Hisar and Jind districts, will give a warm send-off to the Punjab farmers on their way back home after nearly a year of their agitation at the Delhi borders near Tikri and Singhu.Reception for jathasWe will give a civic reception to all jathas coming from the Delhi borders at the Mayyar and Landhri toll plazas in Hisar and Khatkar toll plaza and Uchana town in Jind. Shamsher Numberdar, Kisan Sabha Dist ChiefFarmers at the Mayyar toll plaza held a meeting in this regard today. They decided that they would lift their dharna on December 14 after all farmers of Punjab return home. The SKM leader Rakesh Tikait will also address a meeting at the Mayyar toll plaza on December 14.Farmers at the Mayyar toll plaza said they had made arrangements for food for the farmers returning from the Delhi borders. “Every farmer will be served food and there are also be arrangements of rest for them. They will be welcomed by showering flowers on them since they are returning after getting their demands fulfilled,” Numberdar said. A large number of farmers are likely to turn up at the Mayyar toll plaza on their way to Punjab via Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts.Similarly, farmers in Uchana town of Jind district said they had made preparations for serving jalebis, kheer and snacks to the farmers returning to their homes via Jind district. Azad Singh Palwan, BKU president of Jind district, said they had been standing with the Punjab farmers shoulder to shoulder since November 26, 2020, when the latter started entering Haryana.“We are thankful to all farmers of Haryana and Punjab for making the agitation a success. The farmers from both states deserve laurels for their struggle, contribution and sacrifice,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/warm-send-off-to-punjab-brethren-348799
11-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||BJP, JJP plan outreach for Haryana civic polls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The BJP-JJP state government has heaved a sigh of relief with the farm unions calling off the farmers’ agitation.In fact, senior functionaries of the BJP and the JJP, including CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who have been at the receiving end of the farmers’ protest for the past year, are now planning mega outreach in the run-up to next year’s municipal elections.While the JJP had already organised a mega rally in Jhajjar to mark its third foundation day, the BJP is aggressively planning political activity in the state.“During the past one-and-a-half years, political activity was at a slow pace in view of the farmers’ agitation and Covid pandemic. However, the party will now be more proactive in its outreach activities after the end of the farmers’ agitation and Covid pandemic being under control,” said Suraj Pal Ammu, BJP spokesperson.Singhu and Tikri at Delhi’s borders had become epicentres of farmers’ protests against three farm laws since November 26, 2020. Several farmers’ organisations and influential khap panchayats in Haryana, opposing the farm laws, had given a call for the boycott of the BJP and JJP leaders.In fact, several top functionaries faced violent farmers’ protests during the course of the agitation. Development activities virtually came to a standstill in certain areas in view of the stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-plan-outreach-for-civic-polls-348800
11-12-2021||Gurugram||Amid protests, stone laid for waste-to-energy plant||High drama prevailed as Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today laid foundation stone of the Ecogreen Waste to Energy plant amidst protests from enviornmentalists and AAP workers.The police went on to detain them as the CM announced that the government had started work on the process of making “Kachre se Kanchan”. “The construction work of this waste to energy plant, to be set up by Eco Green, is planned to be completed in two years. This 15 mw capacity plant will generate 6 lakh units of electricity per day. In Sonepat, electricity is being generated from waste with a capacity of 10 mw. With the establishment of this plant, Gurugram district has moved towards joining the category of beautiful cities of the world,” said Khattar.“They have already turned Bandhwari into a suicidal village with highly toxic land, water and air and now this plant will kill the entire ecosystem and we residents will suffer. We have been talking about its harmful effects ever since the day it was announced three years ago, but they never listened and when we came for silent protest today, we were illegally detained,” said a volunteer of the Aravali Bacho.AAP district chief and senior women leaders, too, were allegedly detained for over four hours as they were expected to join residents in protest.Addressing the ninth meeting of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, Khattar announced providing 24-hour clean drinking water in Gurugram. In the first phase of the clean drinking water project, the facility will be started in seven residential areas, including Basai village. Approval was also given in the meeting for the upgradation work of Southern Peripheral Road from Faridabad Road to Vatika Chowk, on which an amount of about Rs 540 crore would be spent.Approval was also given to the proposal to build a new sports stadium in Farukhnagar on 12 acres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-protests-stone-laid-for-waste-to-energy-plant-348801
11-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||No staff at Faridabad Covid-care facility||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 10A new 96-bed Prefab Covid Care Facility (hospital), set up by the Health Department on the premises of the Civil Hospital here to deal with the Covid challenge, is yet to be sanctioned the medical staff.Appointments soonThe new hospital has already been made functional with the shifting of some patients here. The required staff is likely to be appointed shortly. Dr Savita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer, Civil HospitalThis container-based hospital facility has been set up under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) project taken up during the second wave of the Covid earlier this year. It requires at least 30 doctors and 40 nurses, according to sources in the Health Department here, who add that the hospital would be able to function properly only after it gets the required staff.The list of the staff requisitioned for it includes 20 general duty medical officers, 10 specialist doctors, 40 nursing officers (nurses), eight pharmacists and radiographers, 16 technical officers, four ECG technicians, 36 general duty assistants and an equal number of housekeeping staff, besides a dietitian, gas plant operator, physiotherapists and support staff, including electrician, plumber and security staff.Spread over 1800 sq m area on the Civil Hospital premises, its construction work was taken up in May. With a total of 96 beds, 72 and 24 are beds meant for male and female patients, respectively. Equipped with the state-of-the-art facilities and amenities, including sewage, water, power backup and oxygen, it is able to take care of all types of patients, including Covid ones,’’ said a senior official of the Health Department. Of the total amount of Rs 6 crore spent on it, Rs 4 crore has been funded by a foreign company. This is the first hospital equipped with the production and supply of 1000 litres of oxygen gas per minute.Meanwhile, facing a similar crisis the casualty wing of the 200-bedded Civil Hospital here has only two doctors to attend tO patients against the required six doctors, it is learnt. With no specialist in general medicine, it has only 44 medical officers against the sanctioned strength of 54.Claiming that the new hospital has already been made functional with the shifting of some of the patients here, Dr Savita Yadav, principal medical officer of the Civil Hospital, said the required staff was likely to be appointed shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-staff-at-faridabad-covid-care-facility-348802
11-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Haryana Govt handpicks contract staff, neglects merit: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10In a significant judgment on contractual appointments by the state governments, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that such employees were “handpicked” and took opportunity away from candidates far more meritorious. Justice Arun Monga also expressed reservation in “granting indulgence” in such matters.“I may hasten to add that I have my own reservation in granting indulgence in matters of contractual appointments by the state, as the same are made without making the employees to participate in any competition and/or selection process on the basis of merits. They are simply handpicked in the garb of a contract by not granting opportunity to those who may be far more meritorious,” Justice Monga said.The ruling came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by two contractual employees engaged as Horticulture Development Officer. Justice Monga asserted the petitioners were concededly well aware of the job insecurity inasmuch as it was co-terminus with the contract period. Yet, they had challenged the move to do away with their services.Justice Monga asserted the ostensible ground to assail the move was that one set of contractual employees was being substituted with another, which was impermissible being in violation of the apex court’s judgment in the case of “Hargurpartap Singh versus State of Punjab and others”.Justice Monga added the petition lacked merit in view of a pointed stand in the written statement by the respondents that the petitioners were appointed under a sanctioned plan scheme on contract basis. But the budget/finances were not sanctioned by the government. Resultantly, the department had no option but to discontinue with their services following non-grant/remittance of funds and/or non-availability of the posts caused by the paucity of funds.Justice Monga added the court was refraining from interfering in the domain of the employer’s discretion to engage employees. It was best left open to the competent authority to take a call based on the requirement and/or availability of funds.There may be substance in the argument of the petitioners’ counsel that the contracts had not been renewed on one hand. On the other, requirement of the job continued. But it was best left open to the department to pursue its cause with the competent authority in the state for sanction of budgets if it wished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-handpicks-contract-staff-neglects-merit-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-348803
11-12-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Multi-crore heist: 'Evasive' IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia suspended||Gurugram, December 10The state government today placed under suspension with immediate effect an IPS officer days after he was asked to join investigation on the basis of a confessional statement made by an accused in a multi-crore theft case in Gurugram.IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia, currently posted as Commandant 3rd India Reserve Battalion, Sunaria in Rohtak, was asked to join the probe. CM ML Khattar, who was in the city today, said the government believed in punishing the guilty irrespective of the post and position.Having evaded joining investigation and going off the radar, Setia has now not only been suspended, but also named as accused in the case. The STF has reportedly found evidence about his involvement in the case and added a section of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 411 of the IPC in the FIR against him.The STF, meanwhile, arrested one more accused, Ravindra Dahiya, alias Bittu, and recovered Rs 1.83 crore from his possession. Bittu, a resident of Sonepat, was the driver of the Scorpio that was used to steal cash from the office of a company in a residential society in Sector 82, Gurugram, in August earlier this year.The STF is also set to file petition in a court for cancellation of bail of another accused, ASI Vikas Gulia of the Delhi Police.“Setia is now an accused and sections have been added against him in the case. Even after being served repeated notices, he has not yet joined the investigation. Now, he has been suspended and we will step up action against him. The probe is on and we will find out others involved in the case soon,” STF DIG B Sathees Balan told The Tribune.So far, six persons, including two doctors, have been arrested and around Rs 6 crore have been recovered.More than Rs 30 crore were stolen from the builder’s flat. It was revealed in the STF investigation that Dr Sachendra Jain Naval had informed gangster Vikas Lagarpuria about the builder’s money. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/multi-crore-heist-evasive-ips-officer-suspended-348804
11-12-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Namaz in open won't be allowed, amicable solution soon: Manohar Lal Khattar||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, December 10After almost two months of disruptions, rift and notoriety, the Haryana Government has finally stepped in the namaz row.State Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced that namaz in open public areas would not be tolerated.Right to practise religionThis has been happening for three years and this government backed them to finally one day find an excuse to shut this down. We won’t let right to practise religion be endangered. Aftab Ahmed, Nuh MLAFollowing protests and disruptions at around four sites today, the Chief Minister nullified all “agreed-upon” or “allocated” places so far, saying the government shall now work out a fresh amicable solution that will uphold all rights and ensure no encroachment or exploitation.“We have no issues with anybody practising religion at their religious places, but the use of open spaces is not acceptable. There should be no law and order situation or any tension about the same. We got to know that there was a meeting between groups and some places were agreed upon or allocated, but we, with immediate effect, withdraw all and will work out an amicable solution soon. We will help the Waqf Board to get their spaces free of encroachment. Till then, people should offer prayers at their legal sites, homes etc. We will not infringe on any rights, but nobody will be allowed to bully even,” said the CM.The announcement has rendered six public places agreed by Muslims and Hindus null and void in their meeting last week.The announcement came today as reports of namaz being disrupted or virtually not being allowed came from four places. At places like Sector 44, Sector 9 and Sector 23, it was claimed that Muslims were unaware of the new agreed upon sites where they reached and were “humbly” directed to the right sites. The matter flared up in Sector 37.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/namaz-in-open-wont-be-allowed-amicable-solution-soon-manohar-lal-khattar-348805
11-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Craft items, paintings by kids on sale at Gita Mahotsav||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, December 10For the first time, the paintings and craft items prepared by the children living in Child Care Institutions (CCI), observation homes, and women in Nari Niketan in 11 districts of the state have been brought and put up for sale at the International Gita Mahotsav.As per the information, nearly 450 items ranging from Rs 10 to Rs 10,000 have been put up for sale. The stall has been set up by the Women and Child Development Department, Haryana.Craft items, paintings, sketches, woolen clothes, cushions, flowerpots, and other items prepared by the children have been attracting many buyers. As per the department, different items worth over Rs 18,000 have already been sold so far, and some buyers have also placed demands for more products.The items have been collected from Yamunanagar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Jind, Rewari, Panipat, Faridabad, and Panchkula.A team of eight officials from three districts such as Kurukshetra, Karnal and Yamunanagar have been deployed for the management of the stall and sales.District Child Protection Officer, Karnal, Reena, said, “Items prepared by the children have been brought for the first time and we have received a good response. The youngest child whose painting is brought is just 5-year-old. A record of each and every item being sold is maintained, and the amount of the item will be deposited into the account of the child who had created it.”Protection Officer, Karnal, Suman, said, “The children at CCIs are very talented and intelligent. Since the children are not here, so when someone buys an item, we get their picture with the item and send it to the official at the CCI and then the child is informed about the same. The children are very happy and they have started preparing more items.”Gurpreet Singh, working on the post of social worker, said besides the Child care institutions, crafts and paintings prepared by juveniles at observation homes, and women at Nari Niketan have also been brought.The Joint Director of Women And Child Development Department, Raj Bala Kataria, said, “The department used to set up its stall at different exhibitions, and visitors used to appreciate the talent so we decided to set up a stall at the mahotsav. The objective of the initiative is to boost the confidence of children and provide their art a platform so that they can also start their own venture after they leave the CCIs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/craft-items-paintings-by-kids-on-sale-at-gita-mahotsav-348806
11-12-2021||Parveen Arora||CCTV cameras installed at 14 locations on National Highway-44 in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 10Two-year after the finalisation of locations, the project of installing CCTV cameras and automatic number plate readers (ANPR) at 20 locations on the stretch of 186 km between Kundli border and Ambala district on NH-44 has picked up pace.To help monitor vehicular movementOnce the system is implemented, traffic violations will be detected and e-challans will also be sent to owners of the vehicles. It will also help in monitoring the vehicular movement. Dr Rajshri Singh, IGP, Traffic and Highways, HaryanaThe Traffic and Highways Police, Haryana, have installed CCTV cameras at 14 locations in Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Panipat, while the work on five locations is underway and work could not start at a point near Singhu border due to the farmers’ agitation.Sources say, in July, 2016, the Haryana Police had planned to install CCTV cameras on NH-44 and later in April 2017, the CM had announced installing of such cameras on the national highways across the state. In August 2019, the Haryana Police had finalised 20 locations comprising three in Ambala, four in Kurukshetra, six in Karnal, three in Panipat and four in Sonepat districts. Of them, CCTV cameras have been installed at all points of Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal and one point in Panipat, while the work on two places in Panipat and three places in Sonepat is underway.The authorities are hopeful that by the end of February, this project will be fully functional.“As many as 120 CCTV cameras along with ANPR are being installed at 20 sites from Ambala to Delhi border on NH-44. We have installed CCTV cameras and ANPR at 14 sites, while the work on five is going on. We are hopeful that by the end of February, this project will be fully operational,” said Dr Rajshri Singh, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Traffic and Highways, Haryana.These cameras will be connected with centrally located control room of the dial 112 in Panchhkula as well as with the district control rooms, she added.The authorities claimed that these cameras would keep a check on overspeeding, reckless driving and help in identifying suspected vehicles. “Once, the system is implemented, the traffic violation will be detected and e-challans will also be sent to owners of the vehicles. It will also help in determining the vehicular movement,” she said.She said, “Since, face recognition is part of this system, it will also help the police in solving crime and arresting criminals. This will help in identifying those involved in accidents.20 locations finalised in 2019||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cctv-cameras-installed-at-14-locations-on-national-highway-44-in-karnal-348807
11-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||In Haryana, no BPL card for having fridge, scooter||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has questioned how can donated household items like a refrigerator or an old scooter, or a generations-old house disqualify a person from the state’s BPL list.The commission made the observation in the case of a Sonepat resident, who was excluded from the BPL list, and summoned the administrative/principal secretary concerned. The Urban Projection Officer, Sonepat Municipal Corporation, submitted before the commission that if a household has a vehicle or has two or more rooms with pucca walls and roof or has a refrigerator or a landline or has a member earning more than Rs 10,000 per month or owns 2.5-acre or more of irrigated land, it will be excluded from the BPL list. The Bench comprising Chairperson Justice SK Mittal (retd) and member Deep Bhatia observed, “There are many grounds for disqualification of a BPL applicant which are basic necessities of life and are generally found in every household, including the ones living below the poverty line.”“The criterion for determining the BPL status is such that it excludes even the deserving poor people… a pucca house may have been in the family for generations, and that is not necessarily a reflection of its present financial status,” it said.“Similarly, used (old) small electrical items such as a refrigerator, fan or a scooter given by some generous donor also disqualify the applicant,” the Bench said.It noticed the families that “are homeless and reside on pavements and parks have no means of obtaining ration cards and cheap foodgrain as they are unable to get their names included in the BPL list”. “Since the valuation of such articles has been fixed by the government, it muddles the situation and the applications of many needy persons are being rejected on lame excuses,” read the order.Before the next date of hearing on January 19, 2022, the concerned Additional Chief Secretary or Principal Secretary have to appear before the commission, it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-no-bpl-card-for-having-fridge-scooter-348850
