13-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Officials on job, traffic may resume at Singhu today||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 12A day after farmers left the protest site at the Singhu border, the Delhi Police, along with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), began removing the concrete boulders, iron nails, containers and other barricades today. As per the NHAI, it would take a day or two to restore smooth flow of traffic on the NH-44.The police had put multiple layers of barricades on the border after they had a face-off with thousands of farmers who tried to enter the National Capital on November 27 last year. But, after the violence in Delhi on January 26 during the farmers’ “tractor march”, the police had tightened the barricading at the border by constructing around 4-5 feet wide concrete boulders on the road and put multilayer barbed fencing over it and had placed giant nails on the road, besides putting heavy containers filled with sand on the border to avert any law and order situation.The police had also placed such multilevel barricading at three-four points within around two kilometres towards Delhi and a company of BSF was also deployed on the spot along with the Delhi Police.Soon after the farmers vacated the site, the road cleanliness drive was started on both sides in Haryana and Delhi. The Kundli police with the help of NHAI have removed all barricades from the road. The Delhi Police, too, began removing barricades today. A Delhi Police official, on the condition of anonymity, said senior officers visited the site yesterday and barricades were being removed only after their orders.Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said a drive with the NHAI to clean the roads had been launched today and almost all roads had been cleared on the Haryana side. The smooth flow of traffic would resume after barricading would be removed from the Singhu border, he added.Anand Dahiya, Deputy General Manager (Technical), NHAI, said the NH-44 had been cleared to resume the traffic on Haryana side and the dry maintenance of the road would be completed by tomorrow evening.“Around 14 JCBs, two graders and poclain machines have been pressed into service to remove barricades,” he said, adding: “The blockade on the Delhi side would be completely removed by Monday evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/officials-on-job-traffic-may-resume-at-singhu-today-349627
13-12-2021||Jhajjar||Petrol pumps, shops at Tikri reopen after 1 year||Jitendra Bhardwaj, a daily passenger from Rohtak to Delhi, was delighted to drive his car through the Tikri border for the first time in the past year. He had eagerly been waiting for the opening of the border for a long time to avoid long and bumpy drives on alternative routes to reach his destination.Not only Jitendra but also several other commuters felt relieved when they crossed the border to enter the national capital on Sunday.The reopening has also brought cheer to local industrialists whose production was badly affected by the closure of the border due to non-availability of work and rising cost of transportation due to long routes. Located on NH-9 (Rohtak-Delhi), Tikri border was fully opened today for four-wheelers after over a year. The work of removing concrete barricades, which started yesterday, ended this morning, paving the way for plying of four-wheelers. The border was partially opened only for two-wheelers, pedestrians and ambulances on October 30.“Before allowing four-wheelers, we ensured cleanliness of the highway. Thousands of vehicles passed through the border daily before the farmers’ protest,” said a policeman on duty at the border.Darshan Singh, manager at a petrol pump, said the development had also paved the way for reopening of several shops and other business establishments, including five petrol pumps, at the border. “All these shops had been lying closed for the past year. Today, their owners opened the shops and carried out cleaning,” he added.As per the Tikri Border Petrol Pump Association, the five pumps had suffered Rs 6.5 crore loss in one year and 80 employees had lost job. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/petrol-pumps-shops-at-tikri-reopen-after-1-year-349630
13-12-2021||---||Singhu border: Clouds of dust at protest site||Sonepat, December 12A day after protesting farmers left for their homes after holding a victory procession, the Singhu border turned silent and clouds of dust were seen flying here today.The scene at the site was totally different today as compared to earlier days. There were huts and tin sheds that had been occupying the space for the past year but today, 96 per cent of the protesters have gone home. The rest were busy in dismantling their tin sheds or collecting their belongings. A group of farmers loaded their hut as it was in a truck with the help of two JCBs as they wanted it to set it up at their home.Several things, including the hustle and bustle, the sound of mikes from the main stage, noise of tractors and the sound of Punjabi songs being played by young farmers on their tractors, were missing at Singhu border today.There were clouds of dust all around the area as JCBs, volunteers, company employees carried out a cleanliness drive at Singhu today. A trail of vehicles was also seen at the border today. Some rag-pickers were collecting iron bars or plastic from the debris of the huts and some locals were collecting bricks, bamboo and other goods that were left behind by the farmers.Deep Khatri of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Youth Brigade who was the SKM backstage coordinator said that volunteers have been called to clean up the protest site. Almost all farmers left for their homes yesterday and the 2-4 per cent left would also move out tonight or tomorrow morning, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clouds-of-dust-at-protest-site-349632
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Talks to withdraw cases against farmers on: Haryana CM||CM Manohar Lal Khattar has welcomed the decision of the farmers to end their dharna. He said talks are going on with the farmers to withdraw the cases registered during the farmers’ agitation.The CM was interacting with mediapersons after the 15th meeting of the Administrative Reforms Department here today. He said the list of deceased persons given by the farmers during the farmers’ movement would be verified by the Police Department.On withdrawal of cases against farmers, the CM said that all DCs and SPs would prepare a report together as to how many cases could be withdrawn immediately. He said the cases which had gone to court would be classified and work would be done to take those back at different times. On toll plazas, he said the closed ones would reopen soon and there would be no increase in toll rates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/talks-to-withdraw-cases-against-farmers-on-cm-349641
13-12-2021||Hisar||Khap leader says Punjab, Haryana farmers can find way out on SYL too||Farmers of Haryana and Punjab, who are overjoyed over the fulfilment of their demand for the withdrawal of the three farm laws, have stated that they could also find an amicable solution to the long-pending issue of the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.Also read: Now, we've lifelong friends in Punjab: Haryana residentsPunjab farmers, on their way back home from the Delhi borders, are hopeful of the resolution of the issue. The Sangwan khap Pradhan, Sombir Sangwan, who is Independent MLA from the Charkhi Dadri Assembly segment, said they had called a meeting of the khap panchayat at Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani on January 2 to discuss various issues. The meeting will be attended by Meghayala Governor Satya Pal Malik, besides all prominent SKM leaders. He said they would take an initiative for the resolution of the SYL issue on a social level. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khap-leader-says-farmers-can-find-way-out-on-syl-too-349649
13-12-2021||Karnal||Will field candidates in Punjab poll: Gurnam Singh Charuni||After night stay at Karnal city, the ‘fateh march’, the victory procession of farmers which started on Saturday from Singhu border after the suspension of the year-long agitation, on Sunday headed towards Punjab.The procession, led by flower-decked palanquin (Palki Sahib), will reach Golden Temple in Amritsar on December 15 where farmer leaders will pay obeisance to thank the Almighty for this ‘victory’. Gurnam Singh Charuni, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), who was among the farmer leaders participating in the procession, revealed the future political planning of the “farmers”. “I have already launched mission Punjab and we will field our people in the elections there,” said Charuni before leaving from Dera Kar Sewa, adding that he cannot comment on UP elections.Charuni also said the farmers’ agitation could be resumed if the government backtracks from its promises. “The SKM will review the steps being taken by the government on our demands on January 15 in Delhi for which it has given a written assurance. We will give a call to resume the agitation if the government does not fulfil its promises,” he said.Calling it the first step of victory against capitalism, Charuni said this was the victory of farmers who laid their lives. He said these demands were accepted after the death of 700 farmers. It should have been accepted earlier so that their lives could have been saved. “We will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on December 15,” he said.Meanwhile, scores of farmers were seen on the NH-44 returning to their home. They were given a rousing welcome. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-field-candidates-in-pb-poll-charuni-349650
13-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Now, we've lifelong friends in Punjab: Haryana residents||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 12“The protest has given us lifelong friends in Punjab. We now have someone in Moga, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Mansa and Sangrur districts. Their year-long peaceful struggle has also taught us a lesson of keeping patience even in adverse conditions. Their departure left many locals emotional but we are glad and elevated over their triumph,” said a 67-year-old Baljeet Singh Dalal of Bahadurgarh town (Jhajjar), who provided water to farmers during the whole protest.Also read: Khap leader says Punjab, Haryana farmers can find way out on SYL tooLike Baljeet, many other locals, closely associated with the protest, believe that the agitation has succeeded to strengthen bonhomie between Haryana and Punjab to a large extent as it was for the first time when they spent such a long time with Punjabis and got an opportunity to understand, feel and share their pain over the condition of farmers.Baljeet said, “Punjab farmers realised the support we extended to them during the protest, hence they exchanged hugs with us before going back home. They clicked pictures with us for memory and exchanged their cell numbers with an invitation of coming to Punjab.”Virendra Hooda of Sanghi village (Rohtak) said, “No doubt, farmers of Punjab and Haryana have become life-time friends. The protest also ironed out all sorts of differences between people of both states. Their affection with us now can be gauged from the fact that some farmers have taken promises from us for coming to Punjab to attend weddings of their children. We have also taken the same from them to make this bond of brotherhood life-long.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-weve-lifelong-friends-in-punjab-locals-349653
13-12-2021||Ambala||Haryana doctors defer strike after Anil Vij's assurance||The Haryana Civil Medical Services Association has postponed its proposed strike till December 31 after meeting Health Minister Anil Vij in Ambala on Sunday.It had called for a statewide strike from December 13 to pressure the government for creating a specialist cadre, stopping direct recruitment of SMOs and amending the post-graduation policy.What they wantEarlier, the meeting was scheduled to be held on December 14, but later it was rescheduled for Sunday at the PWD rest house in Ambala Cantonment.Association chief Dr Jasbir Singh Panwar said: “We have been raising the issue of creating a specialist cadre, stopping the direct recruitment of SMOs and restoring 40% quota in the post-graduation policy, but to no avail. So, a call for a statewide strike was given. But now Vij has assured us that all our demands will be fulfilled by December 31. So, we have decided to postpone our strike till December 31. But if our demands are not met, we will give the call for strike again.”He said: “Vij has always been positive and has never stopped any file, but bureaucrats keep our files pending. We have also raised the issues of graft and staff crunch.”Vij said: “I will make all efforts to resolve all their issues at the earliest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctors-defer-strike-after-vijs-assurance-349654
13-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Largest syringe maker's production drops 60%||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 12The production at Hindustan Syringes and Medical Devices Limited (HMD), the world’s largest manufacturer of syringes, here has come down to 60% due to the imposition of pollution-related curbs on the industrial units in the National Capital Region (NCR).“After the partial relaxation of the curbs, all four plants of the HMD in Sectors 24 and 25 here resumed operations on Sunday morning. However, the factory has been allowed to run only on power supply and not on diesel generator (DG) sets in case of any outage,” said a senior official of the company.Use of diesel gensets not allowedWhile the unit was shut for the past two days, the production remained suspended from 9 am to 4 pm on Sunday too due to an outage. With the partial relaxation of the curbs, the ops have been resumed but sans the use of diesel gensets. —RL Badoni, General Manager (HR), HMDHe said the situation had been worsened with the condition to operate the industry for eight hours for five days a week. The HMD produces around 1.5 crore surgical needles and over 80 lakh of syringes daily.The production came to a total halt on Friday, when the factory was closed down in wake of the curbs related to use of the DG sets. With a total of four plants, it is dependent on the DG supply in the wake of power cuts.Claiming that interruptions in power supply had a huge impact, RL Badoni, general manager (HR) of the company, said the daily production was down to 60%.Meanwhile, in a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office, Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator, Association of Indian Medical Device Industry, said: “The HMD contributes over 66% of syringe supply in India and any disruption in the production can result in a national health crisis in view of the ongoing immunisation drive.”Claiming that power cut was a major issue, Rajive Chawla, chairman, Integrated Association of MSME of India, said the imposition of curbs on the industry involved in the health sector would have a direct impact on the supply of the medical equipment when the demand was maximum in view of crisis related to the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/largest-syringe-makers-production-drops-60-349672
13-12-2021||Kurukshetra||Gita a unique inspiration for welfare of humanity: Haryana Governor||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Sunday attended the sant sammelan organised by the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) as part of the ongoing International Gita Mahotsav-2021 here.He said the Gita was a unique inspiration for the welfare of humanity. “The holy book protects and guides the entire humanity. Therefore, every person should contribute to uplift humanity by acquiring the knowledge of the Gita.”The Governor further said: “A person should not be afraid of difficult situations and should face them boldly. Also, whenever some confusion happens, then a person should proceed with the knowledge of the Gita. While the Gita is the heritage of India, it is also a role model for the world.”Meanwhile, Ramdev said yoga, karma and dharma were the essence of life. “The people of India consider karma as religion, so we are far ahead of other countries of the world,” he added.Imam Iliyasi, however, said: “Today people believe in the Gita but do not follow it and same is the case with the Quran. Every person should contribute to nation building by following the teachings from these holy books. The methods of worship are different but humanity is first and the nation is supreme.”Meanwhile, the three-day district-level International Gita Mahotsav also started on Sunday. In Ambala, MP Rattan Lal Kataria and MLA Aseem Goel started the celebrations at the Rambagh Ground in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gita-a-unique-inspiration-for-welfare-of-humanity-governor-349687
13-12-2021||Gurugram||Haryana CM's namaz remark upsets many||MP Kataria avoids controversiesAmbala: Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, who used to often find himself in the middle of controversies due to his statements made on lighter notes, is getting more watchful now. On Sunday, when asked to comment on the farmers’ agitation, he said: “I will say something and you will keep playing that only. All my work will go in vain. If calculated, the country has suffered a loss of around Rs 1 lakh crore due to the agitation. The PM has accepted all their demands. Despite Covid and the agitation, the agriculture sector achieved record foodgrain production. Farmers have been making the country proud. I just want to express my gratitude to them.”Gita Mahotsav hits official workFaridabad: The ‘mandatory’ official observance of the three-day Gita Jayanti Mahotsav has appeared to have cast an adverse impact on the routine work and disposal of the grievances of local residents by various departments. “A large number of residents has been left disappointed as the officials concerned, who had been busy in the meetings in connection with the celebrations for the past almost a week, were not available to take up their grievances,” claim the sources in the district administration. Admitting that official work does get adversely impacted, a senior official said this was almost a catch-22 situation for the government machinery as non-observance or non-compliance of the official directions could lead to charges of dereliction of duty.As rank slips, MC gets its act togetherYamunanagar: The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), has slipped to the 243rd place in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 survey from 147th position in 2020. Now, the elected representatives and officers of the MCYJ are taking a number of steps to improve the sanitation system of the twin cities. Besides taking other steps, Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor, Deputy Mayor, Commissioner and other officers and officials have adopted all 22 wards of the MCYJ. Residents say at least now the elected representatives and officers of the corporation had woken up from deep sleep.Agri Minister’s U-turn on farmersHisar: Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, who had alleged foreign hand in the farmers’ agitation, has now called them “mibaap”. In Bhiwani on Saturday, Dalal, who had earlier said that the Congress was trying to incite farmers, said their demands had been met and if there were any other pending demands, the government would listen to those as well. Haryana agriculture minister who had alleged foreign hand behind the farmers’ agitation, said that the Congress was trying to incite the farmers during the agitation.Chautalas spar over ‘traitor’ jabJhajjar: The Jan Sarokar Divas rally organised by the JJP in Dadri Toa village here on its 3rd foundation day witnessed a war of words between the Chautala families. Reacting to ‘traitor’ remarks by Om Prakash Chautala against him, Ajay, without naming his estranged brother Abhay Chautala, said traitors were those who awarded key posts to such leaders in the INLD, who were never liked by the senior Chautala. He did not stop here and also described his brother as arrogant, saying that people would teach him a lesson.Singhu shopkeepers feel ‘lonely’Panipat: Though farmers protesting on the Singhu border were happy while returning home after a year, several shopkeepers and rehriwalas were disappointed. A shopkeeper said their business got a boost during the farmers’ stay at the border, but they were happy at the success of the agitation. “Now, we are feeling lonely. We had developed a bond of love and trust with the farmers here,” said Monu, a shopkeeper at the border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cms-namaz-remark-upsets-many-349689
13-12-2021||Ambala||Zonal-level science quiz held||Tributes to chopper crash victimsKarnal: Officers, staff and students of Sainik School, Kunjpura, paid tributes to the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other bravehearts who were aboard the ill-fated chopper that crashed. In the morning, they observed a two-minute silence in the memory of the martyrs, while a special gathering was organised at the Drill Square to pay floral tributes and light candles in the evening. Principal Col Vijay Rana laid the wreath.Students visit railway stationKurukshetra: A visit to the local railway station was organised for pre-primary students of Tagore Global School here. The idea was to ensure that they get exposure to transport vehicles. The students were made aware of how to purchase tickets, sit in the ‘waiting room’ and difference between passenger and goods trains.Career talk organised at GJUSTHisar: The SSB Club under the mentorship of the training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) conducted a career talk on the “CDS written preparation”. Vikas Suthar, a 2019-batch alumni of the GJUST who has recently cleared the SSB, was the keynote speaker of the event. Based upon his own experience, Suthar gave tips and tricks to students for clearing the CDS exam. For performing well in the English section of the exam, he strongly recommended reading newspaper regularly and noting new words in a notebook.Weightlifter bags bronze medalKarnal: Vaishali, a student of BA (2nd year) of Dyal Singh College won a bronze medal in the 87-kg weight category at the inter-college weightlifting championship held at the MDSD Girls College, Ambala City. Last week, the football team of the college was declared as the winner of the KU zonal championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/zonal-level-science-quiz-held-349691
13-12-2021||Rewari||Lambardars demand withdrawal of orders||The Pardhan Lambardar Association submitted a memorandum to Kosli MLA Laxman Yadav, seeking the government to withdraw its letter issued on November 23 for freezing the fresh appointments of lambardars till the assessment of their requirements and duties.Association chief Jaswant Singh said great resentment prevailed among lambardars across the state following the letter “Since a lambardar works as a link between the authorities and people on various issues, it’s a vital post and must be continued. That’s why we want the orders be withdrawn.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lambardars-demand-withdrawal-of-orders-349693
13-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Judicial complex inaugurated at Bilaspur subdivision in Yamunanagar district||Justice Ajay Tewari of the Punjab and Haryana HC and chairman of the Building Committee, Haryana, today inaugurated the judicial complex at the Bilaspur subdivision in Yamunanagar district.Justice Tewari said all facilities had been provided for the bar and the bench in the new complex, which had been built on the Bilaspur-Jagadhri road. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judicial-complex-inaugurated-349694
13-12-2021||The Ghogripur railway overbridge on Hansi road leading to Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram Namaste Chowk is the busiest road in Karnal||Karnal's busiest road cries for attention||Waste dumps, choked nullah dot Ambala village Huge heaps of garbage, cow dung and a big nullah choked with stinking water have become a common sight on the outer road of Boh village, Ambala Cantonment. Stray cattle and dogs can also be seen roaming freely in the area. The latest addition is a huge garbage dump right along the roadside near the village mandir and pond. The authorities need to take note of the increasing dirt in this area. Residents too should wake up and be more conscious of their surroundings. —Col (retd) RD Singh, Ambala CantonmentPotholes pose risk to Jhajjar commutersDeep potholes developed on the Jhajjar-Rohtak highway are posing a threat to the lives of commuters but the NHAI isn’t paying any heed as the operations at the toll plazas remained suspended due to the farmers’ protest for a year. Travelling on the stretch is riskier at night as commuters fail to notice the potholes due to darkness. The authorities, it seems, are waiting for a mishap to take place before plugging the potholes. —Mukesh Sharma, JhajjarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnals-busiest-road-cries-for-attention-349695
13-12-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana board for Class-8 exams  in all schools, but minister says decision withdrawn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12When it comes to the Class VIII examination in Haryana, the left hand doesn’t know what the right hand is doing or so it seems.While the Haryana School Education Board (HSEB) is readying to conduct Class VIII examinations in all schools in the state irrespective of their board affiliations from next year, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar maintains that the decision has already been shelved. Confusion prevailsMeanwhile, under pressure from the HSEB to “fall in line” and provide student-related data, the owners of the schools affiliated to boards other than the HSEB are up in arms and ready to drag the state board to court for imposing “dual affiliation” on them.Trouble began when the HSEB recently initiated the first step to bring all schools under its ambit. Through a circular to the schools on December 8, it asked them to upload student-related data on its portal. “We have, so far, only asked schools to provide data of students up to Class VIII. We haven’t asked for any affiliation fee so far,” said HSEB chairman Jagbir Singh.Vice-chairman VP Yadav explained that the HSEB would affiliate these schools up to Class VIII and is well within its right to conduct the examinations since the other boards conduct examinations at the secondary level. “We have taken the Centre’s clarification on this. Also, the rules clearly state that admissions up to Class VIII will be regulated by the governments where the school is located. We are preparing to hold the Class VIII exams for the students of all schools except Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas,” he explains.While the HSEB is working on a war footing to be ready to conduct examinations in March 2022, the minister, when contacted, categorically said the order had been withdrawn.“The decision to hold Class VIII examinations was taken by the government last year. We reviewed it in the light of the new education policy which makes no mention of the Class VIII exam. Also, how can we conduct examinations for schools affiliated to other boards? That order has been withdrawn and Class VIII exams will not be held at all and certainly not for schools affiliated to other boards,” Gujjar emphasised.Progressive Private School Association president Anil Kaushik said: “We will approach the court since the HSEB is being unreasonable. It wants to mint money by forcing us to take affiliation, it will charge enrolment fee and then exam fee. The CBSE or any other board does not allow dual affiliation.”Sources in the Education Department said the decision to revoke the order on holding Class VIII examinations had been brought to the notice of the Chief Minister as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/hseb-for-class-8-exams-in-all-schools-but-minister-says-decision-withdrawn-349552
13-12-2021||Satya Prakash||Punjab, Himachal among eight oppose all-India judicial service||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 12In all, 13 high courts and eight states, including Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, have opposed the idea of having an all-India judicial service (AIJS) even as Haryana and Mizoram supported it.“In view of the existing divergence of opinion among the stakeholders, the government is engaged in a consultative process with the stakeholders to arrive at a common ground,” Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju has told the Lok Sabha.Consultation in progressIn view of the existing divergence of opinion among the stakeholders, the government is engaged in a consultative process with the stakeholders to arrive at a common ground. —Kiren Rijiju, Law MinisterHowever, the government maintained that a properly framed AIJS was important to strengthen the overall justice delivery system as it would give an opportunity for induction of suitably qualified fresh legal talent selected through a proper all-India merit selection system as well as address the issue of social inclusion by enabling suitable representation to marginalised and deprived sections of society.According to a written reply given by the Law Minister on Friday, Haryana and Mizoram were the only states in favour of the AIJS. “The proposal seems to be justified,” maintained Haryana.Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh were not in favour of the AIJS, while Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Orissa and Uttarakhand wanted certain changes in the proposal.The Punjab Government said, “The state does not favour the creation of the AIJS.” The Himachal Government maintained, “Keeping in view the ground realities, it will not be appropriate to have an all-India judicial service. As such, the state is not in its favour.”Thirteen states — Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana, Goa, Sikkim and Tripura — were yet to spell out their stand on the issue.Among the high courts, the ones in Sikkim and Tripura were in favour. Thirteen HCs, including those of Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras, were against it, while six others wanted changes in the proposal.Two other HCs were yet to respond. The Patna High Court said judicial services couldn’t be compared to civil services, while the HCs of Punjab & Haryana and Calcutta said the AIJS would be against federalism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/pb-hp-among-8-oppose-all-india-judicial-service-349561
13-12-2021||Satya Prakash||Punjab, Himachal, six other states oppose All India Judicial Service||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 12Thirteen high courts and eight states, including Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, have opposed the idea of having All India Judicial Service (AIJS) even as Haryana and Mizoram supported it.“In view of the existing divergence of opinion amongst the stakeholders, the Government is engaged in a consultative process with the stakeholders to arrive at a common ground,” Law Minister Kiren Rijiju has told the Lok Sabha.However, the Government maintained that a properly framed AIJS was important to strengthen overall justice delivery system as it will give an opportunity for induction of suitably qualified fresh legal talent selected through a proper all-India merit selection system as well as address the issue of social inclusion by enabling suitable representation to marginalised and deprived sections of society.According to a written reply given by the Law Minister on Friday, Haryana and Mizoram were the only states in favour of AIJS. “The proposal seems to be justified,” maintained Haryana.Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh were not in favour of AIJS while five states—Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Orissa and Uttarakhand wanted certain changes in the proposal.The Punjab Government said, “The State Government does not favour creation of AIJS.” Similarly, the Government of Himachal Pradesh maintained, “Keeping in view the ground realities, it will not be appropriate to have All India Judicial Service. As such, the State of Himachal Pradesh is not in favour of the creation of an All India Judicial Service.”The Madhya Pradesh Government said, “The State Government had earlier forwarded the comments of MP High Court. The High Court is not in favour of the formation of the All India Judicial Service.”Arunachal Pradesh said the proposal may not suit a tribal state, while Maharashtra favoured such recruitment only at the Judicial Magistrate First Class Level.Thirteen states—Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana, Goa, Sikkim and Tripura were yet to spell out their respective stand on the issue.Among the high courts, only the high courts of Sikkim and Tripura were in favour of creation of AIJS. Thirteen High Courts, including those of Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras, were against it while six other high courts wanted changes in the proposal. Two other HCs were yet to respond. The Patna High Court said judicial services can’t be compared to civil services, while the high courts of Punjab & Haryana and Calcutta said the AIJS would be against federalism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/punjab-himachal-six-other-states-oppose-all-india-judicial-service-349538
