14-12-2021||GS Paul||Punjabis taught Haryanvis how to raise voice peacefully against atrocities: Khap pardhan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13The pardhan of Kandela khap, Tek Ram Kandela, said such a massive farm agitation (384 days long) has exposed the Central Government’s nefarious designs of defaming Punjabis with derogatory tags, including ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘anti-nationals’ , which ended up by bringing people from Punjab and Haryana closer.He said residents of Kandela village located on Chandigarh-Jind Road were among the first ones in Haryana to actively participate in the farm agitation on Delhi border against the three agri laws.He said the Punjabis taught their Haryanvi counterparts the tactics of raising their voice against the government’s atrocities.“Before that, the Haryanvis always resorted to violent path when it comes to fight against the government policies and voice their concern. I am 85-year-old and I have never seen such a successful and powerful, yet non-violent agitation in my life. The Punjabis made us learn how to bring the government to its knees through dialogue and patience. We were impressed with the ‘langar’ tradition of the Punjabis, which continued to feed the agitators, despite several constraints,” he said.Criticising the Centre sponsored media for defaming the farm agitation, he said, “The Centre had adopted all tactics to scuttle the farm agitation by tagging the farmers as ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘Khalistanis’, but never succeeded in it. The January 26 violence at Red Fort was the outcome of some disgruntled elements whereas it had nothing to do with the farm agitation,” said Kandela.He said other issues like the guaranteed procurement on MSP and the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, too, would be addressed across the table with the Centre.He said the SYL Canal issue would be amicably settled between people of both the neighbouring states, if not on political platform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabis-taught-haryanvis-how-to-raise-voice-peacefully-against-atrocities-350235
14-12-2021||Gurugram||Murder undertrial hangs self in Bhondsi jail||A 29-year-old murder undertrial died by suicide in Bhondsi jail. The deceased hanged himself in a barrack.The undertrial was arrested for the murder of a techie.The deceased is identified as Bhim Singh Raghav, resident of Rojka Meo village in Nuh district. The warden found the body while on his routine checking this morning.Raghav has been lodged in the jail since February after he allegedly shot dead Rohit Sharma on February 23. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-undertrial-hangs-self-in-jail-349972
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of deceased Haryana cops get Rs 50 lakh||The Haryana Police today presented a cheque of Rs 50 lakh each to the family of late Constable Balvinder Singh and EASI Nasib Dass, who were killed in a road accident on August 14 this year.A cheque of Rs 40 lakh was received by Surender Kaur, wife of late Constable Balvinder Singh, and Rs 5 lakh each by the mother and father of the deceased cop.A cheque of Rs 45 lakh was received by Samindro, wife of late EASI Nasib Dass, and Rs 5 lakh by his mother. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kin-of-deceased-cops-get-rs-50-lakh-349973
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana overtakes Punjab in providing logistics infrastructure to industry||Haryana has overtaken neighbouring Punjab in providing logistics infrastructure to trade and industry. While Haryana is placed at No 2, up from sixth position in 2019, Punjab has slipped to No 3 from number two position.According to the latest report of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the logistics ease across different states, 2021, Gujarat has been ranked at the No 1 position.Haryana’s No 2 position in 2021, an increase of four places compared to 2019, is credited to quality of warehousing infrastructure, timeliness of cargo delivery and regulatory environment and efficiency of regulatory services in which the state had the highest score.Besides, improvement in ranking is reflected in the initiatives, including appointment of nodal officers for logistics and formulation of the logistics, warehousing and retail policy. This, coupled with the state simplifying the regulatory regime through single-desk mechanism has gone a long way in improving the state’s ranking.Game changer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-overtakes-punjab-in-providing-logistics-infrastructure-to-industry-349974
14-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||3,000 farmers claim incentive for not burning stubble in Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, December 13Over 3,000 farmers in the district have sought incentive for not burning paddy residue on over 28,000 acres this season.Though a fall in the number of farm fires was witnessed this year, a fall in the number of applicants who have sought incentive is also being observed. Last year, around 5,000 farmers had sought incentive for not burning residue on over 47,340 acres. However after verification, 4,535 farmers received over Rs 2.19 crore for not burning residue on 21,270 acres.According to Agriculture Department data, 3,016 farmers have raised claims for not burning paddy residue on 28,207 acres this year.Now, the claims of the farmers will be verified through the village-level committee and then these will be given approval by the district-level executive committee.The state had announced an incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre for ex-situ measures which will be released on furnishing the proof of sale of bales to industry. An official said though the majority of farmers have already raised their claims, a few more claims are likely to be received in the next few days.Last year, the scheme was new and a large number of farmers who were not eligible to get the incentive had also applied and later, their claims were rejected. This year, it seems only the genuine claims are being raised though these claims would also be verified by village-level committees.A large number of farmers have also shifted to in-situ management of residue. There has been good response from Pehowa, Ismailabad and Thanesar blocks.Deputy Director, Agriculture, Kurukshetra, Pradeep Meel said, “We have received applications from nearly 3,000 farmers who have claimed that they have not burnt paddy residue. Their claims will be verified.”Village panel to verify claims||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-000-farmers-claim-incentive-for-not-burning-stubble-in-kurukshetra-349976
14-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Recording wife's phone chat infringes her privacy: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that recording wife’s telephonic conversation without her knowledge was a clear-cut infringement of her privacy. The Bench also ruled telephonic chat surreptitiously recorded could not be produced before a court of law for deciding divorce petitions.Justice Lisa Gill made it clear that the circumstances in which the conversations were held or the manner in which response elicited by a person recording the conversations could not be ascertained as the exchange would necessarily have been recorded surreptitiously by one of the parties.Justice Gill added: “To permit a spouse to record conversations with an unsuspecting partner and to produce the same in a court of law to be made the basis of deciding a petition under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act would indeed not be feasible.”Referring to the High Court’s previous judgment, Justice Gill added it was observed that couples spoke many things with each other unaware that every word would be weighed in a court of law. Moreover, the court would be ill-equipped to assess the circumstances in which a particular response may have been elicited from a spouse at a given point of time, notwithstanding the right to cross-examine.The ruling came in a case where a husband moved an application to submit a supplementary affidavit, along with memory cards/chips of mobile phones. It was stated in the application that various conversations between the husband and wife were recorded and stored by him. These were further recorded on a CD for convenience.Justice Gill asserted the CD, in the court’s considered opinion, could not be permitted in evidence. The technicalities and procedures followed by the civil and criminal courts may not be applicable to proceedings before the family court. There was, in fact, no quarrel with a counsel’s argument that a family court was not bound by strict rules of evidence.At the same time, it could not be ignored that acceptance of the CD would amount to a clear breach of fundamental right of the petitioner-wife — her right to privacy as upheld in various judicial pronouncements.The High Court in its judgment delivered in 2014 had asserted that bedroom talk could not be used by husband against his wife. “A married woman too has a valuable right to her privacy of speech with her husband in the confines of the bedroom. Couples speak many things with each other unwary that every word would be weighed one day and put under the judicial scanner,” the court asserted.Another Bench, subsequently, ruled that marriage did not bestow right on a husband to record private conversation with his wife.CD of conversations not evidence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/recording-wifes-phone-chat-infringes-her-privacy-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-349975
14-12-2021||---||4,842 motorists in Haryana face licence suspension||Karnal, December 13Taking strict action against traffic rules violators, the Traffic and Highways Police, Haryana, have recommended the suspension of as many as 4,842 driving licences from January to October 31 this year across the state.These licenses will be suspended for three months. Last year till October, a total of 4,095 licences were recommended for suspension.“We have recommended driving licence issuing authorities RTAs and SDMs of various districts, to suspend the licences of 4,842 violators for three months under the Motor Vehicles Act. If they violate rules for three times, their licenses will be cancelled permanently. This step will help in reducing accidents,” Dr Rajshri Singh, IGP, Traffic and Highways, Haryana.In the current year till October, the police have issued 9,86,513 challans, amouting to Rs 54,84,10,653, while last year till October, 10,25,666 challans were issued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-842-motorists-face-licence-suspension-349977
14-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||210 stone crushers in Haryana violate location criteria norms: National Green Tribunal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13A total of 210 stone crushers were found violating siting criteria across Haryana, while 45 units were found to be non-complying with respect to air pollution control measures (APCMs), Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT).The NGT, in its order dated December 8, in regard of an execution application, ordered, “…the non-complying units in whose favour there is no stay, the state (Haryana) must take for the remedial action, including action against erring officials concerned of the Forest and Revenue departments, who may have given wrong reports when such stone-crushers were allowed and for assessment and recovery of compensation for past violations of environmental norms.”It added, “Wherever compensation has already been assessed, the same may be recovered by taking appropriate coercive measures in accordance with law.”Out of the 210 stone-crusher units violating siting criteria, 106 units have obtained interim protection from the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court.“The consent of the remaining 104 units has been revoked/ expired and those units are not being permitted to operate,” said the HSPCB in its action taken report, dated December 6, to the NGT. Out of these 104, 52 are in Dharuhera 21 in Yamunanagar, 16 in Panchkula and 15 in Bhiwani.The siting criteria is related to norms of location of stone crushers near forests, national highways, educational institutions, district roads, water bodies and village population.The Board added that it had closed down 45 units which were non-compliant with the APCM. Out of these 45, 26 were in Nuh 10 in Panchkula, seven in Bhiwani and two in Dharuhera.Earlier, in its order dated October 31, 2018, the NGT had asked Haryana to enforce norms for the location of the stone crushers at specified distance from educational institutions.In 2019, the Sardar Patel Jan Chetna Education Society filed an execution application.On July 21, 2020, the NGT, while pulling up the state government, observed, “We find that the state of Haryana has no jurisdiction to grant time once there is violation of environmental norms. The state is bound by the Public Trust Doctrine to enforce environment norms as such safeguards are part of fundamental right of citizens to life. Once it is so, the state has no discretion to waive compliance only on the plea of avoiding litigation.”In pursuance of this observation, the state filed the action taken report on December 6 this year.“We are pursuing with the Chief Secretary for action against the Revenue and Forest department officials,” said S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCB.Site-related rulesIn its order dated October 31, 2018, the NGT had asked Haryana to enforce norms for the location of the stone-crushers. The siting criteria is related to norms of location of stone-crushers near forests, national highways, educational institutions, district roads, water bodies and village population||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/210-stone-crushers-violate-location-criteria-norms-national-green-tribunal-349978
14-12-2021||Gurugram||1 killed, 10 hurt in accident||28 police officials honouredChandigarh: ADGP (Administration and IT) AS Chawla on Monday honoured 28 officials for being the best performers of the Haryana 112 project at the State Emergency Response Centre in Panchkula. Chawla said the ambitious project had been a success with the active support of the government. TNSCop hangs selfPalwal: Mohammed Iqbal, a 48-year-old EASI, died by suicide by hanging himself in a building near the police station at Bahin village in the district. The body of the cop was found this morning. No case has been booked in this connection. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-killed-10-hurt-in-accident-349979
14-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Hisar: Choked sewer line a cause of concern||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Choked sewer line a cause of concernThe choked sewer line in Indira Nagar of Ward 15 in Hisar has resulted in flooding of streets with sewage water. Though residents have informed the authorities concerned, there is nobody to take note of the complaints and redress the grievance. The foul smell due to the sewage water has made lives miserable for the residents. There is also a chance that vector-borne disease may spread in the locality. Surender Kumar, HisarTraffic rules’ violation unabated in AmbalaPerhaps there is no proper traffic control in Ambala Cantt, particularly in the military area where triple riding and driving without helmet are common scenes. If any incident takes place due to anyone's negligence, traffic may halt for hours together. Since it is a sensitive area and top brass of the Army and civil administration have their offices and residence there, the department concerned should bolster checking and surveillance. I hope the authorities concerned should note and set things right immediately. Gian P Kansal, Ambala City||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/choked-sewer-line-a-cause-of-concern-349980
14-12-2021||Srinagar||Omar Abdullah: Haryana CM Khattar’s remark targeted one religion||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Sunday condemned Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s remark that offering 'namaz' in open spaces will not be tolerated, saying the decision was wrong and it clearly meant that one particular religion was being targeted. He said there is total freedom to practice one's religion in the country.“The Haryana CM's statement and his decision is totally wrong,” Abdullah told reporters after a party function in south Kashmir's Anantnag district. “I would have accepted it had this ban been on every religion, but by this pick and choose, it is clear that the target is one particular religion which is not allowed by the Constitution of this country,” he added.Abdullah said “this was not the India” to which Jammu and Kashmir had acceded. “J&K had acceded to a secular, tolerant India,” he said, adding, “this (Khattar's) statement is highly condemnable”.Asked whether the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the amalgam of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of J&K which was revoked on August 5, 2019, was united, Abdullah said, “It was united and will continue its struggle”.“The fight will continue. If there is a need to bring some changes in that, we will do that. There are no second thoughts that our rulers do not like the PAGD,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/omar-abdullah-khattars-remark-targeted-one-religion-350116
14-12-2021||Rohtak||Faculty development programme||National workshop organisedAmbala: Department of physics, Government PG College, Ambala Cantonment, organised a one-day national workshop "Hands on-minds on" as a part of a series of activities to mark the 25th year of establishment of the college. This workshop aims to provide hands-on experience of learning concepts of science, especially the basic principles of physics to the faculty and students. Dr Jaswinder Singh, who has won many national and state-level awards, demonstrated and explained various concepts of science through simple experiments. Principal Arun Joshi interacted with the students and asked them to make the most of college life.Tributes paid to CDS RawatYamunanagar: Tributes were paid to Chief of Defense Staff (CDS) General Vipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other Army officers. Principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Dr Harinder Singh Kang said General Bipin Rawat was a very brave, strategist and successful leader. The president of the College Managing Committee, Randeep Singh Jauhar also expressed deep condolences on the death of those military officers. Meanwhile, a two-minute silence was observed in DAV Senior Secondary School, Yamunanagar, in memory of CSD General Vipin Rawat, his wife and other Army officers. While paying tribute, Vijay Kapur, chairman of DAV schools emphasised that the Armed forces played a major role in upholding territorial integrity and safety of the nation.VC interacts with studentsRohtak: Vice-Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Prof Rajbir Singh on Monday interacted with university students at the university administration-student connect programme. In this student grievances redressal related programme, MDU VC issued specific instructions to functionaries concerned for resolving problems/ grievances of students.Lecture on 'prospects in electronics'Kaithal: An extension lecture was organised by the electronics department of the RKSD College. The theme was 'prospects in electronics'. Vikram Singh, senior staff engineer, ST Market Solutions, Greater Noida, was the keynote speaker. Principal Sanjay Goyal stressed on the importance of practical knowledge for success in career and emphasised on the students to strengthen their side of strength. Vikram also gave tips to the students to identify skills and strong sides to create potential in electronics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faculty-development-programme-349981
14-12-2021||---||19 files go 'missing' from Yamunanagar-Jagadhri civic body office||Yamunanagar, December 13As many as 19 files related to developmental works allegedly went missing from the office of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ).On the complaint of Muneshwar, executive engineer, Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, a case was registered against an unknown person under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC at the City police station, Yamunanagar, on Saturday.In his police complaint, Muneshwar alleged 19 files had been stolen from the Municipal Corporation office. He said every effort was made to trace out the files, but they could not find these.He further said the record of various developmental works of the Municipal Corporation was kept in those files.“We made all efforts to trace the files, but to no avail. Now, we are finding it difficult to collect the data related to various developmental works,” Muneshwar further said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-files-go-missing-from-civic-body-office-349982
14-12-2021||---||Non-payment of bills: Nine power connections to Hansi Municipal Council office cut||Hisar, December 13The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) today disconnected nine connections to the offices of the Municipal Council (MC) in Hansi town for default in the payment of electricity bills.The DHBVN officials said the MC office had power dues of Rs 27.5 lakh on these nine connections, installed in various offices of the MC premises. After the civic body failed to deposit the arrears against the power bills, the Nigam officials disconnected these connections today.Moreover, the MC had total power arrear of Rs 1.13 crore on 37 power connections installed in the MC office, which included the nine connections which were disconnected today. The power officials said they would also disconnect the remaining connections if the local urban body did not clear the dues against these connections within the time as per the notices.The DHBVN officials have launched the drive to disconnect the connections of defaulting power consumers in the Hansi subdivision. Sources said besides government offices, there were about 650 private domestic defaulters in the Hansi region who owed a collective bill of Rs 1.42 crore to the organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-power-connections-to-hansi-municipal-council-office-cut-349983
14-12-2021||Karnal||Fight elections, but avoid using SKM's name: Yogendra Yadav to farm leaders||Jai Kisan Andolan founder Yogendra Yadav on Monday cautioned farm leaders not to use the SKM name while contesting polls.“Everyone has the right to contest polls, but our leaders should avoid using the SKM. If they do so, it will give a wrong message and people’s confidence in the movement will be shattered.”On being asked about the stir achievements, Yadav said no doubt their demands were accepted, but they had lost over 700 farmers, which was a big loss to them. “We gained unity, self-respect and made the political parties aware of our strength. These are the achievements of our agitation,” he said, adding they would hold a meeting on January 15 in Delhi to discuss the Centre’s steps on their pending demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fight-elections-but-avoid-using-skms-name-yogendra-yadav-to-leaders-349984
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||1,831 POs, bail jumpers nabbed in 11 months: Haryana DGP||The crime branch of the state police has arrested a total of 1,831 proclaimed offenders (POs) and bail jumpers in the past 11 months.DGP PK Agrawal said with the intensified operations, the police had managed to nab 918 POs and 913 bail jumpers across the state.A special drive was initiated against the criminals on the directions of Home Minister Anil Vij.All 11 units of the crime branch in Ambala, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Madhuban, Rohtak, Sonepat, Faridabad, Jind, Bhiwani, Hisar and Gurugram had identified the offenders by collecting details from courts, informers and other inputs to keep an effective tab on their movement and activities.Instructing the ADGP (Crime), the DGP said modern technology and other resources should be fully utilised to arrest such offenders and anti-social elements.“The Haryana Police are constantly working to keep tabs on movement and activities of the criminals and anti-social elements. Such operations will be continued to further improve the security,” the DGP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-831-pos-bail-jumpers-nabbed-in-11-months-dgp-349985
14-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Health teams on doorstep, yet Karnal residents say no to jab||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 13Even as the scare of Covid’s new variant Omicron looms, people in Karnal district are still hesitant in getting their first or second dose of the vaccine.The Centre’s “Har Ghar Dastak” drive has “failed” to convince many people to get jabs. Data shows that the much-advertised drive has not yielded the desired results, as people, even after being traced, are not getting themselves vaccinated.Under this drive, over 100 teams have so far traced 42,665 persons who didn’t take even a single dose.Also, a total of 1,13,253 persons due for the second dose were identified, but only 72,283 of them took the jab, which is only 64%.During this campaign, the teams visited 2,67,301 households in past one month, the official added.One of the officials heading the teams said people give excuses such as illness, going to work, busy in household chores, may get weak after vaccination etc which are hampering the vaccination campaign.The data further says the target population of the district is 11,88,298. Of them, 10,44,303 got the first jab and 6,09,699 have been vaccinated for both doses. The department says they have administered 16,54,002 doses of Covid for both schedules.About 89% of the target population got the first dose, while 51.33% of the target population had been vaccinated for the second jab. The average of the first and the second vaccination in Karnal district is lower than the first and second dose average of the state, which is around 92% and 55%, respectively.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said: “Our teams have been going door to door to administer the first and second doses, but many people are still hesitant. Studies have proven that those not vaccinated are more prone to the Covid infection.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-teams-on-doorstep-yet-karnal-residents-say-no-to-jab-349986
14-12-2021||---||Road work gathers pace, National Highway-44 likely to reopen fully on December 16||Sonepat, December 13The work to remove concrete barricades at Singhu continued on war footing for the second day in a row today.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), however, claimed the traffic on the NH-44 would be resumed completely from Thursday morning.90% JOB completeAbout 90% work on the Delhi side is done. Most likely, small four-wheelers will be allowed to ply on the road from Wednesday evening while the complete traffic will resume from Thursday morning. Anand Dahiya, DGM (Technical), NHAIThe teams of the NHAI along with the district administration and the Delhi Police carried out a special drive to clean the protest sites on a day-and-night basis.DC Lalit Siwach, SP Rahul Sharma and SDM Shashi Vasundhra on Monday visited the protest site, spread over a 6-km stretch, to take note over the cleaning and dismantling of the remaining structures on the NH-44.Besides, a maximum farmers had returned earlier and just three-four groups headed to their homes from the Singhu border on Monday.The work to dismantle the main stage continued for the third day in a row and it may be completed by Tuesday morning, said Deep Khatri of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Youth Brigade.Meanwhile, Anand Dahiya, DGM (Technical), NHAI, said the work to remove concrete boulders at Singhu was almost complete and now the teams were busy cleaning the debris.“We have been moving towards the fine tuning of the roads and it may be completed till Tuesday afternoon. However, the patch work on the NH-44 will start on Monday night,” he added.During his visit, the DC directed the farmers left behind to vacate the NH-44 at the earliest. “The NH-44 within the limits of the district has been cleared and while the potholes will be filled within 24 hours,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-work-gathers-pace-national-highway-44-likely-to-reopen-fully-on-december-16-349987
14-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Six govt colleges in Palwal district have no regular principal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, December 13All six government colleges in the district are headless and are functioning without a regular principal. The acute crisis of the teaching staff has also left a crippling effect on the studies of students.“Though government colleges in Palwal and Hodal have officiating principals, this post in the colleges at Hathin, Mandkola, Badoli and Bhaindoli village has been held on the basis of additional charge”, said sources in the Department of Higher Education. Claiming that the technical issues coupled with lack of a clear-cut approach have led to the crisis, an official on the condition of anonymity said this had led to various problems, including teaching crisis, for the past over a year.Students have to hire private tutorsThere is no teacher of mathematics at the GC, Palwal, forcing students to hire private tutors to complete their course. StudentOne cannot expect quality educationOne cannot expect quality education when students fail to get teachers despite spending crores of rupees, thus making a joke of the system. Karan Dalal, former MLALikely to get teachers soonThe issue has been taken with the authorities concerned and these colleges are likely to get teachers soon. Official, holding additional charge of colleges at Mandkola, Bhaindoli villageAlleging a complete mismatch in the workload and the teachers posted at government colleges, a senior teacher of the department said an average of only one or two teachers were available for a strength of 300 to 400 students in the majority of colleges as the authorities concerned were struggling to provide faculty for science, maths and commerce. “There is no teacher of mathematics at Government College, Palwal, forcing students to hire private tutors to complete their course,” said a student on condition of anonymity. As many as 18 students enrolled in the commerce stream at the Government College, Badoli, have been shifted temporarily to Palwal as there is no lecturer of this subject said sources. With the students’ strength of 300, Government College, Badoli, has only two teachers of Hindi and history subjects at present. The teaching staff crisis also prevails at the Government College, Mandkola, Government College, Hathin and Government College, Hodal, with less than one fourth of the required strength, it is claimed. There is no teacher for 246 students at the Government College, Bhaindoli, a co-ed institution, it is reported. Retired teachers and research fellows have been contacted to take classes as part-time arrangements in some of the colleges. “One cannot expect quality education when students fail to get teachers despite spending crores of rupees, thus making a joke of the system,” says Karan Dalal, a former MLA.“The issue has been taken with the authorities concerned and these colleges are likely to get teachers soon,” said an official holding additional charge of colleges at Mandkola and Bhaindoli village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-govt-colleges-in-palwal-district-have-no-regular-principal-349988
14-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Year on, Haryana's Bastara toll resumes operations, tariff up||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 13Days after the farmers called off their year-long protest, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday resumed toll collection at Bastara toll plaza with revised rates. Farmers had been staging dharna at all toll plazas in the state since December 25 last year, causing a huge loss of revenue.Bastara toll suffered a loss of around Rs 210 crore. The plaza resumed operations with an increase in tariff by up to Rs 10. On the first day, commuters had to face inconvenience as they were not aware about the sudden start. FASTag of a majority of the motorists did not have sufficient balance. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed even as counters for FASTag and monthly passes were set up.Manish Sharma, General Manager (toll operations), Path India Ltd, said there were some issues as it was the first day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-on-bastara-toll-resumes-ops-tariff-up-350028
