16-12-2021||Hisar||Hisar man beaten to death||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-man-beaten-to-death-350791
16-12-2021||---||Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal meets board of skill corporation||Chandigarh, December 15Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal today presided over the first meeting of the board of directors of the Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam here today.During the meeting, he said the nigam should ensure complete transparency in the recruitment process of employees to be hired on contractual basis.The policy prepared by the nigam for the deployment of employees in various departments was given ex-post facto approval. The Chief Secretary was apprised that the nigam had been formed for the appointment of employees on contractual basis.The Chief Secretary was apprised that the candidates would register on the nigam’s portal using their PPP ID. The recruitment of employees through the portal will be done as per the eligibility and prescribed criteria.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-secretary-meets-board-of-skill-corporation-350792
16-12-2021||---||Jail Superintendent's house raided||Rewari, December 15Vigilance bureau today raided the house of Rewari Jail Superintendent Anil Kumar in connection with a case in which a jail warder of district jail Narnaul was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act a few days ago.“Our team conducted raid at Anil’s house, but no one opened the door for four hours. We had to get the door opened through a legal procedure. It is learnt that Anil went out of the house on Tuesday evening. His name surfaced during the investigation of the corruption case as he holds the additional charge of Jail Superintendent in Narnaul,” Inspector Ajit Singh said.The bureau team had caught a jail warder red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from the brother of a prisoner last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jail-superintendents-house-raided-350793
16-12-2021||---||ASHA workers may get benefits under health scheme in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 15Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today met a delegation of ASHA workers.During the meet, he directed officials concerned to give benefits to ASHA workers of the state under the Ayushman Bharat scheme.The minister said if ASHA workers left their work voluntarily after working for at least 10 years or given retirement from work after 60 years of age, they would be given a lump sum amount of Rs 20,000.He added that 108 ASHA workers were eligible for an amount of Rs. 20,000, of which 89 had been relieved after 60 years of age and 19 had left after 10 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/workers-may-get-benefits-under-health-scheme-350794
16-12-2021||---||Special drive against drug abuse in Haryana, 100 held||Chandigarh, December 15A special drive was launched by the police against drug abuse across the state from 5 am yesterday on the orders from Home and Health Minister Anil Vij. In it, 100 persons were arrested and 98 FIRs were registered under the NDPS Act.Vij gave this information to mediapersons here. He said according to the reports received from different districts, 3,315 police personnel in 442 teams raided 1,169 places. During these raids, 3.515 kg opium, 20.034 gm smack, 117.85 gm heroin, 13.911 kg poppy husk, 35.590 kg ganja and 20 injections were seized.He said the campaign was launched to eradicate drug addiction from the state. The roadmap for this campaign was prepared in the recently held department meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-drive-against-drug-abuse-100-held-350795
16-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Hold late applicants eligible for land scheme: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) cannot be permitted to take benefit of its own wrongs and to defeat the rights of the landowners accrued by way of legitimate expectations and doctrine of fair play.The Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj also directed the respondent-Corporation to hold the petitioners eligible under the land pooling scheme notified on August 14, 2012, and hold a draw of lots for allotment of a plot to them.The direction came even as the corporation argued that the landowners had failed to apply before the prescribed cut-off date. As such, their applications could not be considered under the scheme after a delay of nearly eight years.The Bench asserted: “No valid explanation has been furnished by the corporation as to why it abstained from giving wide publicity to the scheme aimed at welfare of the landowners... HSIIDC’s objection that mere publication of notification is good enough to preclude the ignorant landowner from availing benefits that are more benevolent to him would not be tenable.”The Bench added it was not inclined to accept the HSIIDC’s submission that failure to exercise an option foreclosed the petitioners’ right. They had not exercised the right to opt under the scheme.The petitioners ought to have been considered under the scheme when they exercised their option in July 2020 before the draw of lots.Ajit Kumar and another petitioner were seeking directions to respondent-HSIIDC to allot an industrial plot under the ‘Land Pooling Scheme’ in lieu of their land acquired for public purpose of developing and setting up Industrial Model Township at Kharkhoda in Sonepat district.Eight-year delayHSIIDC argued that the landowners had failed to apply before the prescribed cut-off date. As such, their applications could not be considered under the scheme after a delay of nearly eight years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hold-late-applicants-eligible-for-land-scheme-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-350796
16-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala: Farmers keen on growing mustard||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 15After the mustard crop fetched good prices in the last rabi season, farmers have shown enthusiasm in its cultivation in the district.The area under mustard has increased from 2,390 hectares in 2020-21 rabi season to 5,160 hectares in the 2021-22 season.More remunerative than wheatEfforts made for crop diversification have started showing results. Farmers have begun shifting from wheat to oilseed crops. Mustard requires lower input cost than wheat, making it more remunerative. Girish Nagpal, DDAWhile the MSP for mustard in the previous season was Rs 4,650 a quintal, the crop had touched the levels of even Rs 7,000-7,200 a quintal in the open market. The MSP for the next rabi harvesting season is Rs 5,050 a quintal.Farmers said they would be cultivating sunflower, moong and sugarcane after harvesting mustard.Pradeep Chauhan, a farmer from Sambhalkha village, said “Against 1 acre last year, I have sown mustard in 11 acres this year. Last season, I had earned around Rs 40,000 from an acre, hence I decided to increase the area. The area under wheat has reduced to 14 acres from 25 acres. I hope the farmers will get remunerative prices even in the next rabi harvesting season. After harvesting mustard, I will sow sunflower.”Munish Kumar of Lalpur village said, “I have increased the area under mustard crop from 5.5 acres to 7 acres this year, after the mustard crop saw some good levels in last season. I had sold my crop for Rs 6,100 per quintal. After mustard, I will sow sugarcane and we find it better than just taking paddy and wheat crops.”Ajay Gupta, a trader, said, “Good prices in the last season are the prime reason behind the farmers showing interest in mustard cultivation. Oilseed fetched more than the MSP. In the last season, the mustard even touched the levels of over Rs 7,000 a quintal, the crop is expected to witness good levels in the next season too”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-keen-on-growing-mustard-350797
16-12-2021||---||Eco nod to extension of Western Bypass from Kaithal road flyover to Ghoghripur village||Karnal, December 15The project for the extension of the Western Bypass from Kaithal road flyover to Ghoghripur village, to connect the road with Hansi road, has got environmental clearance.The authorities are hopeful that the work will start by January-end. The extension is being done as part of the second phase of the Western Bypass.Under the first phase of the project, bypass was constructed from Kaithal road flyover to National Highway 44 near Uchana village along the Western Yamuna Canal.The first phase of the project had already been opened for commuters, which has reduced traffic congestion in the city to a great extent. CM Manohar Lal Khattar had announced to extend it to Madhuban in three phases.It is a part of the outer ring road, which was planned to reduce the traffic congestion in the city.The proposed stretch of this second phase is around 5.5-km long, the administrative approval of which was granted by the government in July 2019.As per the sources, for the second phase, around 458 trees and 4,000 plants, would be axed, for which the (PWD B&R) had to deposit around Rs 3 crore to the Ministry of Environment and Forest. The total cost of the project is Rs 31 crore.The authorities claimed that this extension would reduce traffic load in the city as the traffic going towards Hansi road from Kaithal side will get a short passage to reach to their destination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eco-nod-to-extension-of-western-bypass-350798
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||New licences for wood-based firms in Haryana||The state government has decided to give new licences keeping in mind the interest of wood-based industries. An official spokesperson said the government had invited online applications for grant of new licences from December 15, 2021 to January 15, 2022. Applicants can apply online on portal www.haryanaforest.gov.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-licences-for-wood-based-firms-in-haryana-350799
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Clinics to be opened in HSVP sectors||The Haryana Government has decided to open nursing homes, clinics, dispensaries, schools and creches in the sectors of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on the occasion of ‘75th Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’.An official spokesperson said the state government was constantly taking new steps in the interest of the people. For this, e-auction will be done on December 18 through the web portal https://hsvphry.org.in and the process of auction will start at 10 am. He informed that the process of registration would close at 5 pm, a day before the date of auction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clinics-to-be-opened-in-hsvp-sectors-350800
16-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Pathetic condition of road in Panchkula||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Pathetic condition of road in PanchkulaThe road outside house number 988B in Sector 21 (Part-II), Panchkula, is in a poor state and it has been so for the past two years. It exposes the lackadaisical approach of the civic body. It gives a tough time to commuters as road is strewn with potholes and ditches. The elderly find difficulty in crossing the uneven surface scattered with stones. Furthermore, rain aggravates residents' ordeal. I hope this complaint will not fall on deaf ears and the authorities concerned will take action as soon as possible. Yashita Bansal, PanchkulaEnd woes of pedestriansWith paid-parking enforced is various markets of Sector 20, Panchkula, the passage in front of SCO showrooms has been bifurcated with traffic-cones leaving just enough space for vehicles to move but no room for pedestrians who fend for their safety when confronted with an approaching vehicle. The area needs to be redesigned with proper divider and footpaths, bypassing the multitude of poles supporting electrical transformers alongside the road. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pathetic-condition-of-road-in-panchkula-350801
16-12-2021||Rohtak||Faculty development programme||Placement drive at hisar varsityHisar: Thirteen students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Noida-based IndiaMart company organised by the training & placement cell of the university. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said IndiaMart was India's largest online B2B marketplace, connecting buyers with suppliers.Science essay-writing contestYamunanagar: Science departments of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised a district-level science-essay writing competition. This essay-writing competition was sponsored by the Haryana State Council for Science, Innovation and Technology of the Haryana Government. Seven colleges of Yamunanagar district participated in this event. In this competition 10 students from different colleges were selected for the state-level essay-writing competition. In the competition, Gurleen of JMIETI, Radaur, bagged first position. Kritika of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, bagged second position. Rehwan of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, got third position. The officiating principal of the college, Dr Rahul Khanna appreciated and applauded the students for their accomplishments.Meeting at Guru Nanak Dev CollegeYamunanagar: A meeting of the steering committee of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, was organised. The ex-officio secretary of the committee and principal of the college, Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang, said students of the college and its affiliated educational institutions should give importance to permaculture and scientific agriculture for uplifting the nation and society. During the day-long meeting, there was an intense brainstorming to mould the institutions according to the needs of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faculty-development-programme-350802
16-12-2021||---||Special Task Force nabs kingpin of paper-leak gang in Sonepat||Sonepat, December 15The Special Task Force (STF), Sonepat, has arrested the most-wanted kingpin of an interstate paper leak gang from Delhi. He was allegedly involved in leaking the paper of various competitive exams for government jobs. He was posted as constable in the Delhi Police.The police had announced Rs 1 lakh reward on his arrest. The accused has been identified as Robin of Shamri village of Sonepat. The STF produced the accused in court on Wednesday and the court has sent him on seven-day police remand.STF Deputy Superintendent of Police Mahesh Shyoran said that the team led by STF Inspector Satish Deswal nabbed Delhi Police constable Robin from Delhi on Tuesday night.DSP Shyoran said that the accused’s gang was operational since 2013 and it was spread over eight states including Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.He took computer labs on rent and after hacking the computers, the gang cleared online competitive examination. They took Rs 2 lakh to 10 lakh for clearing the examination from the candidates, the DSP added.As many as 19 members of the gang have already been arrested by the STF so far, DSP Shyoran maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-task-force-nabs-kingpin-of-paper-leak-gang-in-sonepat-350803
16-12-2021||---||Rohtak: Social outfit gives shoes to school dropouts||Rohtak, December 15Ready to Help (RTH), a social outfit, in collaboration with the district administration, organised a function at Government Senior Secondary School in Kheri Sadh village here on Tuesday to provide shoes to school dropouts and enrolled them in schools again.ADC Mahendra Pal was the chief guest of the function. He appreciated the efforts of the social outfits for coming forward to help the needy students.District Education Officer Vijay Laxmi and district project coordinator Krishan Phogat said they had identified the school dropouts and motivated their parents to send them back to schools.The founder of the social outfit, Vijay Kumar Saini, said their outfit had been working for the betterment of the needy people, especially schoolchildren, for the past over three and half years. The outfit has been working tirelessly to help poor children to get back to school after dropping out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/social-outfit-gives-shoes-to-school-dropouts-350804
16-12-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Potholed roads vex Rohtak commuters||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 15Most of the roads leading to Rohtak as well as those inside the city, including the posh HSVP sectors, are in a pathetic condition for nearly two years.Rohtak residents as well as commuters passing through the city have been suffering due to the badly broken and potholed roads. Local legislators ranging from the municipal councillors to MLAs and even the state’s Leader of Opposition have brought up the issue on numerous occasions.Paperwork in progressThe official paperwork regarding the construction of Sonepat road passing through Bohar village is in progress and work on it will start soon. Udayvir Jhajria, PWD (b&r) executive erResidents inconveniencedMost residents and commuters continue to tolerate the inconvenience being caused to them due to bad roads, thinking that the roads will be repaired or reconstructed in due course.Vineet Kumar, local traderTendering process underwayThe tendering process for the construction of roads in HSVP sectors is underway.Dr Narhari Singh Banger, Rohtak Municipal CommissionerSenior government functionaries, including leaders of the ruling party as well as administrative officers, have also pulled up local officials concerned for the delay, mismanagement and lack of coordination, but to no avail. “Most residents and commuters continue to tolerate the inconvenience being caused to them due to bad roads, thinking that the roads will be repaired or reconstructed in due course. However, the authorities concerned seem to be completely indifferent to their plight,” says Vineet Kumar, a local trader.Residents complain that traffic congestion has become the order of the day and accidents take place frequently as incoming and outgoing traffic is merged on the Delhi road and Sonipat road, both of which are in a pitiable condition for about two years now.Apart from the usual excuses of “not in our jurisdiction” and “official procedure in progress”, the officials concerned have also been trying to hide behind the “prevalence of Covid-19 pandemic” and “ban on construction activities by NGT owing to high pollution levels” in the recent past.Contacted for comments, Rohtak Municipal Commissioner Dr Narhari Singh Banger, who was also holding the charge of the local HSVP Administrator, said the tendering process for the construction of roads in HSVP sectors was underway.On the other hand, PWD (B&R) Executive Engineer Udayvir Jhajria said the work on Delhi road along Baba Mastnath University could not be started due to laying of water/sewerage pipelines by the local MunicipalCorporation. “The official paperwork regarding the construction of Sonepat road passing through Bohar village is in progress and work on it will start soon,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholed-roads-vex-rohtak-commuters-350805
16-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Convict complains of chest pain in Jagadhri jail, dies||A convict serving a seven-year term in a case of attempt to robbery in the district jail, Jagadhri, died here on Wednesday.Saddam (36) of Gujranwala village (Old Hamida Colony) was declared brought dead at the Trauma Centre of the local Civil Hospital where he was rushed after he complained of chest pain.Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said the autopsy had been conducted. He said the heart of the deceased had been sent to KCGMC while his viscera and blood samples to the FSL, Madhuban (Karnal), for examination. “The exact cause of death will be ascertained after the arrival of the reports.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/convict-complains-of-chest-pain-dies-350806
16-12-2021||Gurugram||Sex racket busted in Gurugram, four nabbed||The Chief Minister’s flying squad busted a sex racket being run in a hotel in Sector 49 on Tuesday night.The team nabbed four persons, including two Uzbek women, a cab driver and hotel manager.DSP Inderjeet Yadav said they had received a tip off about the racket and sent two decoy customers.An FIR has been registered under Sections 3, 4, 5 and 7 of the Immoral Trafficking Act against six persons.Two other accused, Vinay Giri and Shubham Dalal, are still absconding. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sex-racket-busted-in-gurugram-four-nabbed-350807
16-12-2021||---||Squabble over dogs turns ugly in Yamunanagar, woman killed||Yamunanagar, December 15A 70-year-old woman, Sita Devi, died after allegedly being thrashed over an argument related to a dog fight in Jawahar Nagar Colony here.The daughter-in-law of the deceased alleged that a youth, identified as Monu of their colony, thrashed and pushed her mother-in-law over a dog fight.On the complaint of Sanjogita of Jawahar Nagar Colony, a case was registered against Monu under Section 302 of the IPC at the Farakpur police station on December 14.The complainant further said Sita Devi was washing clothes in front of their house in the street around 12.30 pm on Tuesday.She further said Monu came there with his dog, who started fighting with their pet. “An argument started between my mother-in-law and Monu, who thrashed the former. He even pushed my mother-in-law due to which she fell down in the street and later, died of head injuries,” the complainant alleged.She further said they took her mother-in-law to a private hospital, where she was declared brought dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/squabble-over-dogs-turns-ugly-woman-killed-350808
16-12-2021||---||Panipat man shot for refusing to compromise in mishap case||Panipat, December 15In a broad daylight murder, a 42-year-old man was shot dead near Paramhans Kutia here today. The accused has been arrested.The deceased has been identified as Vinod Bharara of Gher Araiyan near Paramhans Kutia here. He was running the Hartron computer centre in Sukhdev Nagar here.In his police complaint, Virender Kumar, the uncle of the deceased, said on October 5 this year, his nephew was hit by a pick-up driver while he was sitting at the gate of Paramhans Kutia. “In the accident, Vinod’s both legs broke.”After the incident, a case was registered against the accused driver, identified as Deepak, alias Dev Sunar of Balraj Nagar of Punjab’s Bathinda, at the City police station. The police then arrested Deepak, who was later released on bail.Around 10-15 days ago, Deepak came to meet Vinod and pressured him for a compromise in the case, but the latter refused. Deepak threatened him of dire consequences, the uncle alleged.On Wednesday, Deepak, holding a pistol, came to meet Vinod, entered his room and locked it from inside. Vinod’s wife Nidhi raised an alarm. She along with her children Yash, Nidhi and a neighbour tried to open the room but to no avail. In the meantime, Deepak shot Vinod in his head and back. Later, he tried to flee but was caught by the people gathered at the spot. They thrashed him badly before handing him over to the police.Vinod was immediately taken to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The police, however, admitted the accused to the General Hospital for treatment.Meanwhile, SP Shashank Kumar Sawan along with DSP Virender Saini, City SHO Inspector Sunil Kumar and a team of the Forensic Science Laboratory reached the crime spot and later at the General Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-man-shot-for-refusing-to-compromise-in-mishap-case-350809
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar covering up HPSC scam: Congress||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja and Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala lashed out at the state government and CM Manohar Lal Khattar for the alleged cover-up in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) scam.Selja alleged, “For how long CM Manohar Lal Khattar would evade his responsibility. He is in a ‘kathghara’ (dock). It is under him that the scam has taken place. Can the government say that they are not aware of fraud in jobs’ recruitment?”She added that a number of youth had been training for physical test in police recruitments but it was now a private firm, which would conduct it and there wouldn’t be any videography. “When the Congress government comes, we will get each scam probed as the present government has not been doing anything except cover-up.”Surjewala likened Khattar’s actions to those of “Dhritrashtra”. He pointed out how both the HPSC and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) had given clean chit to themselves.The Congress leaders alleged that HPSC chairman Alok Verma was ADC (aide-de-camp) for a long time at the residence of Khattar before his appointment to this constitutional post and added that till date, he and HPSC members had not been called for investigation.Surjewala alleged, “The amazing thing is that on December 14, the HPSC released the document verification schedule for the recruitment of 10 new posts. All these exams were held by the HPSC on September 14, two days after the HCS (Preliminary) paper on September 12. Anil Nagar was handling everything in these recruitments, including secrecy.”He added, “Alok Verma, in an interview on December 9, said the work of confidentiality and checking of the HPSC papers was given to deputy secretary Anil Nagar instead of the secretary, who is an IAS officer because the latter refused to do the job due to personal reasons. Isn’t it clear now that his “personal reasons” must have been not to get involved in the paper leak scandal?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-covering-up-hpsc-scam-congress-350810
16-12-2021||---||Drop case against Naveen Jaihind or book Kurukshetra Development Board too for flouting Covid norms: AAP||Kurukshetra, December 15The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has sought an FIR against the organising team of Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) and Swami Gyananand, head of GIEO Gita, a spiritual organisation, for violating the Covid norms during the ongoing International Gita Mahotsav-2021.NO VIOLATION DURING INT’L GITA MAHOTSAV? People from across the world are attendingthe Gita Mahotsav, but no violation is visible to the admn. We are not against the festival but against bias. It won’t be tolerated. Jawahar Lal Goyal, AAP District convenerThe move came days after a case was registered against AAP leader Naveen Jaihind and his 30 supporters for holding a press meet at the Brahma Sarovar without permission and for flouting the Covid norms.On December 6, Jaihind held a press conference at the Brahma Sarovar and subsequently, a case was registered at the KU police station under Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the IPC.The Kurukshetra police had said that the administration had denied permission for the press conference at the Brahma Sarovar, still the AAP leader went ahead with the event.On Wednesday, a delegation of local AAP leaders submitted a complaint in this regard to SP Anshu Singla.AAP district convener Jawahar Lal Goyal said: “Jaihind was here just to raise the job scam issue and permission was sought from the administration but it wasn’t granted. The next day, Naveen and his 30 supporters were booked, but the Gita Mahotsav is still going on with people coming from across the world.”Accusing the local administration and the Police Department of adopting a discriminatory attitude, state AAP spokesman Sumit Garg said: “Double standards are being adopted here. While Jaihind has been booked, no action is taken against Gyananand, who held large gatherings during the Gita Mahotsav sans permission, just because he is close to the CM.”“Meanwhile, the SP told us that our complaint has been marked to the DSP (Headquarters) for probe.”Garg, however, demanded that the case against Jaihind should be cancelled or the KDB’s organising committee and Gyananand should also be booked for violating the Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drop-case-against-jaihind-or-book-kdb-too-for-flouting-norms-aap-350811
16-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Singhu border reopens for cars after over a year||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 15After over a year, the Singhu border reopened for cars on Wednesday evening.Heavy vehicles will be allowed as soon as the road maintenance work is completed, said Deputy Commissioner Lalit Siwach.Also read: In Punjab, farmers stay put at toll plazas, want fee hike rolled backTears, joy as Rakesh Tikait leads hordes of supporters back home after 383 daysAfter farmers left the Singhu protest site on December 11, teams of the district administration, National Highways Authority of India and Delhi Police carried out a special drive to clean the area.The Sonepat administration opened the Singhu border around 3 pm, but the traffic could run smoothly only by 6 pm, when the Delhi Police removed the barricades after carrying out maintenance work.For now, only three lanes on both sides of NH-44 have been reopened for small vehicles. DC Siwach and SP Rahul Sharma officials visited the border in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-reopens-for-cars-after-over-a-year-350850
