18-12-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram heist: Arrest warrant against absconding IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia||A local court issued an arrest warrant against an Indian Police Service officer whose name was linked to investigations into a heist in Gurugram that runs into crores of rupees.IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia was issued on a Special Task Force’s request B. Sathees Balan, the Deputy Inspector General of the Gurugram Special Task Force, which is investigating the case, said. Setia, a 2013 batch IPS officer of Haryana cadre who was the commandant of the 3rd IRB at Sunaria, Rohtak, until he was suspended last week over the case, is one of several people whose involvement is suspected in the heist in which Rs 30 crore was stolen from a builder’s flat in Gurugram’s Sector 82.Criminal charges were filed against Setia---who’s still on the run---after a local court took cognizance of a “confessional statement” by Sachender Jain Nawal, a doctor who was arrested in the case. In his statement, Nawal had allegedly admitted to paying the cop to help cover up his own involvement in the case.Setia faces criminal charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act and under Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.Investigators recently arrested a close aide of a gangster, Vikas Lagarpurya, who’s believed involved in the theft from the builder’s flat. Police identified the person arrested as Ajit, a Bhiwani native. Security images that investigators got showed him holding a bag full of cash.STF has him in their custody for five days.Ajit’s arrest takes the number of people involved in the case to 14, among them a Delhi cop and two doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-heist-arrest-warrant-against-absconding-ips-officer-dheeraj-kumar-setia-351800
18-12-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Dump truck driver booked for trying to kill Nuh SP, other cops||A dump truck nearly ran over the Nuh’s Superintendent of Police and some other policemen while trying to escape them, police said.The incident occurred on Friday night on Nuh-Alwar road, police said.Nuh’s Superintendent of Police Varun Singla led a team of 20 cops to erect a temporary check post to check vehicle overloading. Police said they found 11 overloaded trucks and issued challans. When the twelfth was asked about its contents, its driver sped up suddenly and charged at the police vehicle standing nearby with the SP inside. The cops jumped out of the vehicle just before the truck rammed into it, police said.The driver took advantage of the chaos and drove away after hitting a cop, a constable identified as Surender. Police said they tried to follow but found an empty dump truck parked near Ganduri village.This comes amid the Nuh Police’s campaign against overloaded vehicles.SP Singla said special teams were looking for the driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dump-truck-driver-booked-for-trying-to-kill-nuh-sp-other-cops-351786
18-12-2021||Gurugram||Covid cases go up in Gurugram||Covid cases are on the rise in the city with two deaths in the past three days. Eight societies are on high risk and have been declared containment zones. The death toll in the district has now risen to 927.The district administration on Friday declared eight containment zones under four urban primary health centres (UPHC) of Tigra, Chanderlok, Bhangrola and Ghata.In these containment zones lie three floors of Orchid Petal society, sector 49, two floors of Hibiscus apartment, sector 50, Ridgewood Estate, DLF phase-4, two floors of Sushant Lok-1, fifth floor of Gurgaon one society, sector 84, Tower B of Anantraj society, sector 91, one villa of Palm Spring, sector 54, and a flat of Iero grand society, sector 58.The Health Department also identified 15 new \cases today. The total number of infected patients increased to 1,80,982. Today, 21 patients recovered. The number of active patients in the district is 97 now. As many as 91 patients are in home isolation and six under treatment in hospitals. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-cases-go-up-in-gurugram-351605
18-12-2021||---||93% fully vaccinated in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 17With nearly 93 per cent coverage of the second dose of Covid vaccine so far, the district administration aims at covering the remaining seven per cent in the next week.In numbersAs per information, the district has 8,50,360 eligible beneficiaries. So far, 16,92,493 doses of vaccine have been administered in the district of which 9,01,831 were first doses, while 7,90,662 were the second dose, till 5 pm on Friday.Ambala DC Vikram Singh said: “The district had achieved 100 per cent first doses in the month of September and the second dose has touched the 93 per cent mark today. We are targeting to complete the 100 per cent coverage of second dose by next week. It has been observed that many people who are eligible to get the second dose of Covid vaccine are not turning up. We are appealing to them to get fully vaccinated at the earliest.”He said: “The Health Department and the Saksham Yuvas have been contacting the beneficiaries whose second dose is due. If they are not able to go to the vaccination centre, the mobile teams have been visiting different areas to give people the jab at their doorstep.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/93-fully-vaccinated-in-ambala-351609
18-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Nearly 50% teaching posts vacant in Nuh govt schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17There is a shortage of 49.2 per cent teachers in the Mewat cadre with 64.8 per cent vacancies among Post Graduate Teachers (PGTs) and 64.1 per cent in Trained Graduate Teachers (TGTs).Ground situation8,506 Sanctioned posts4,181 Posts lying vacantPostgraduate teachers: 1,053 vacant against 1,626 sanctionedTrained graduate teachers: 1,642 vacant against 2,560 sanctionedPrimary teachers: 1,439 vacant against 3,966 sanctionedThe government today submitted these facts in reply to a question from Nuh MLA and Congress chief whip Aftab Ahmed. As many as 4,181 posts are lying vacant against 8,506 sanctioned in the Mewat cadre. Among PGTs, 1,053 posts are vacant against 1,626 sanctioned, while in TGTs, 1,642 are vacant against 2,560 sanctioned.Among primary teachers in the Mewat cadre, there are 3,966 sanctioned posts, but 1,439 are vacant (36.3 per cent shortage). Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said no high school head master had been appointed by promotion since 2015 and no primary teacher had been appointed in the past two years (2020-21). However, 158 teachers were appointed in 2019. Ahmed also raised the issue of 94 zero-teacher elementary schools in Nuh district to which Gujjar agreed but said those schools were being run after making internal adjustments.Among the PGTs, 150 teachers were appointed by direct recruitment in Nuh from 2015 to 2021. It included just one teacher of Punjabi, two each of home science, music, physical education and psychology, three of sociology, three of history and five each of computer science and economics in the past seven years.None of the TGTs were recruited for Hindi, Punjabi, art and music in the past seven years, while two Sanskrit, three home science and five maths teachers were appointed.During a supplementary question, Ahmed alleged: “The Congress government didn’t allow any transfers during its time but recently a number of teachers has been transferred. The minister is not serious about filling posts.”Gujjar said retired teachers, guest teachers and those hired through outsourcing had been engaged to tide over the shortage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nearly-50-teaching-posts-vacant-in-nuh-govt-schools-351615
18-12-2021||Parveen Arora||115-year-old Victoria Memorial Hall in Karnal to be spruced up||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 17Aiming at developing cultural tourism in the city, the 115-year-old Victoria Memorial Hallalso known as Gandhi Memorial Hall, will be beautified. It is being developed under the Smart City’s 4-km long proposed heritage corridor from Geeta Dwaar to Karan Gate across which heritage buildings will be beautified to make people aware of the monuments.Facade lighting planned for buildingFacade lighting is proposed to illuminate the heritage building at night and to enhance the architectural elements of the elevation. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-Cum-CEI of KSCLSurrounded by shops, less visibleCondolence meeting was held in 1948This building was constructed in 1906 in the memory of Queen Victoria and was renamed as Gandhi Memorial Hall after the first condolence meeting was held here after the Mahatma’s assassination in 1948. It is a unique building that features a fine combination of three architectural styles –Indian, Islamic and European. There are four porticoes on all four sides of the building and outside of the pillared verandah.This site is in the heart of the city, but less visible as it is surrounded by single storey shops on all sides. The entrance is not visible due to existing shops and many times blocked by street dwellers, due to which people are less aware of the site.As per an official, as the upkeep was not good, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the state government to take up the restoration work of the building under the ASI in 2013 as the building was slowly crumbling due to neglect. The important artifacts in the old building had been removed and sent to the museums. The Archaeology and Museum Department, Haryana, had declared it as state protected monument and had renovated it. The department also displayed the history of this protected monument on the board. An office of the District Public Relations was also functional here for sometime before the renovation.With the consent of the department, Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Smart City project, will beautify the premises and increase the visibility along with approach to the heritage building by enhancing the landscape and access to the structure. The KSCL has called tender of it.A meeting in this regard had already been held between the KSCL and Archaeology and Museum Department, Haryana, and a concept presentation was given by both authorities to CM Manohar Lal Khattar recently, said an official. “The existing access is being widened and a building of ATM has been demolished. The entrance will be widened to 6 meters, which will also give access to fire tender movement. A gate portal is proposed at the access point to mark the entrance of this monument, which will be visible from the main road. The portal replicates the architectural style of the building elements,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is also the CEO of the KSCL.Three secondary access points will be developed which will link the indoor space with the outdoor space, the CEO said, adding that the backyard wall of the existing shops will be treated as a mural wall replicating the arches of the verandah. Facade lighting is proposed to illuminate the heritage building at night and to enhance the architectural elements of the elevation. “The conservation of the building will be done in a separate proposal by the Archaeological Department, Haryana,” said Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/115-year-old-victoria-memorial-hall-in-karnal-to-be-spruced-up-351618
18-12-2021||---||Two get 5-yr jail for snatching motorcycle||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 17The court of District and Sessions Judge Manisha Batra on Thursday sentenced two men to five-year rigorous imprisonment for snatching a motorcycle from a youth.The court also slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 each on Jony and Momin of Gawalra village in Israna area. In case of non-payment of fine, they will have to undergo further imprisonment of one and a half years.Pradeep Kumar of Namunda village in his complaint to the Samalkha police on September 27, 2019, had said that he was on his way back home after work when the accused stopped him in between Namunda and Kiwana villages and forcibly snatched his motorcycle after beating him up.The police had registered a case under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC and arrested the accused on September 30. They also recovered the stolen motorcycle from the possession of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-get-5-yr-jail-for-snatching-motorcycle-351621
18-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Take steps to ensure proper registry of sale deeds: High Court to Haryana Chief Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17In a judgment liable to change the way sale deeds are registered, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has called upon Haryana Chief Secretary to take remedial measures to make certain that the Registrars — entrusted with the task — ensure the authenticity of the contents and draw a presumption of correctness.‘Deed executed by fraud’The direction came in a case where two women co-owners of a property claimed that a police official got a sale deed registered in his wife’s favour while they were under the impression that a mortgage deed was being executedThe direction by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came in a case where two women co-owners of a property claimed that a police official got a sale deed registered in his wife’s favour while they were under the impression that a mortgage deed was being executed.Taking note of the inadequacies in the sale deed, Justice Kshetarpal asserted the court was compelled to make certain observations, which were required to be brought to the notice of the State of Haryana. The Provisions of the Registration Act, 1908, made it clear that the Registrar was deputed to register the documents by adding authenticity to them.One purpose of making the registration of certain documents compulsory was to ensure the contents’ veracity and to draw a presumption of correctness which provided “some sanctity in law”. But it was evident that the Sub-Registrar’s office in the case in hand, prima facie, failed to discharge the responsibility.It was apparent from the perusal of the sale deed’s copy, kept at the Sub-Registrar’s office, that it did not bear the signatures of one of the vendors on any of its pages. Even the original sale deed produced before the court showed that the signatures did not exist at the time when the Sub-Registrar was alleged to have endorsed the sale deed in order to prove its registration. Even the column regarding the time of the sale deed’s registration was left blank.“Furthermore, the photograph of the Sub-Registrar is also not present. Keeping in view the facts, let a copy of the judgment be forward to the Chief Secretary, Haryana, to look into the matter and take remedial step,” Justice Kshetarpal directed.Referring to the facts of the case, Justice Kshetarpal added that on one side was the might of a police official. On the other, there were two gullible ladies, who did not appear to be much educated. In their suit before the trial court, the plaintiffs claimed the sale deed was executed by fraud and misrepresentation as the other party always pretended that they were executing “a document in the nature of a mortgage deed to secure repayment of loan amount of Rs 2,88,000”.The trial court dismissed the suit. But the first appellate court reversed the same in favour of the two women. Dismissing the appeal, Justice Kshetarpal asserted the first appellate court wrote a comprehensive and exhaustive judgment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/take-steps-to-ensure-proper-registry-of-sale-deeds-court-351622
18-12-2021||---||2 youths die in road mishap in Samalkha||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 17Two youths were killed in an accident near Megha Mall on NH-44 in Samalkha on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Neeraj (21) and Vineet (20) of Kali Ramna Pana in Samalkha town.Ajeet of Shastry colony in his complaint to the police said that he and Sunil were standing near the Megha Mall and waiting for Neeraj and Vineet as they had to go to Gannaur for some work.As Neeraj and Vineet were nearing them, a speeding car hit their motorcycle.The car driver ran away from the spot, leaving his car there. The police rushed them to the general hospital where doctors declared Neeraj and Vineet brought dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-youths-die-in-road-mishap-351623
18-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Congress: Haryana CM's 'namaz' remark in poor taste||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s recent statement that namaz would not be tolerated in open places came in for severe criticism on the first day of the winter session of the Haryana Assembly here today.Also read: Namaz disruptions: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar suspends public prayers until solution is foundNamaz in open won't be allowed, amicable solution soon: Manohar Lal KhattarPrayers disruptedRaising the issue during Zero Hour, Congress legislators from the Mewat area termed the CM’s statement as “unfortunate saying this would send a wrong message to a section of society”. Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed alleged that CM’s statement was in “poor taste” and he should not have made such a “provocative statement.”“It is unfortunate that the CM, who is also the Leader of the House, had made such a statement which is clearly violative of the fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution,” alleged Mohammad Ilyas, MLA from Punhana.Though Khattar was not present in the House during the discussion, ministers and MLAs from the ruling party seemed to be embarrassed and nobody intervened in the discussion to counter the Mewat legislators.Mamman Khan, legislator from Ferozepur Jhirka, said, “The CM’s statement will lead to division in society and he should withdraw it as a goodwill gesture.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-cms-namaz-remark-in-poor-taste-351624
18-12-2021||---||Haryana: Opposition seeks relief for kin of farmers killed during protest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17Buoyed by the repeal of the three farm laws by the BJP-led central government, the Opposition today left the ruling BJP-JJP government red-faced in the Assembly. INLD and Congress leaders dared the state government to bring a resolution hailing the repeal of the farm laws.Notably, in the last winter session, CM Manohar Lal Khattar had brought a resolution thanking the Centre for “landmark farm laws”.INLD’s Abhay Chautala wondered whether the state government would bring a resolution hailing the repeal of the laws on the pattern of last year’s resolution welcoming the laws. “The CM had proudly declared last year that farm laws would not be taken back. Would Khattar apologise to the House after the repeal of the farm laws, especially when PM Narendra Modi had expressed regret over the laws?” Chautala said.Demanding the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during the agitation, Chautala also demanded compensation for the families of 715 farmers who died during the stir, a memorial in their memory and jobs for their next of kin. He also offered to bring a resolution hailing the repeal of laws if the government was unwilling to do so.Though Khattar was not present when Chautala raised the issue, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar was apparently embarrassed at the Opposition’s demands, especially when they sought Khattar’s apology.Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda also asked the state government to offer jobs to the kin of the farmers killed in the agitation, besides compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/opposition-demands-relief-for-kin-of-farmers-killed-during-agitation-351628
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||CAG: Rs 1,400 cr loss in 2,805 tax cases||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has revealed 2,805 cases of under assessment/ short levy/ loss of revenue, amounting to Rs 1,422.55 crore in a test check of records pertaining to sales tax, Value Added Tax (VAT), excise duty and stamp duty during 2019-20.The CAG’s report was tabled before the Haryana Legislative Assembly today.For sales tax/VAT, the CAG conducted a test check of the records of 34 units, where 53,498 assessment cases were audited. The test check revealed under assessment/ evasion of tax and other irregularities involving Rs 1,388.90 crore in 1,160 cases.It included Rs 579.20 crore of under assessment of tax, Rs 448.25 crore of irregular or incorrect allowance of Input Tax Credit (ITC) and Rs 138.82 crore of evasion of taxes owing to the suppression of sales or purchases.Citing cases, the CAG pointed out that the scrutiny of the records between November 2017 and April 2019 revealed that 17 dealers in the office of nine Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner (ST), which included Ambala City, Faridabad (North), Faridabad (South), Gurugram (East), Gurugram (West), Hansi, Jhajjar, Panipat and Sirsa, did not show the sales of Rs 47.70 crore, out of total sales worth Rs 122.43 crore in their quarterly/annual returns for the period of 2013-14 to 2016-17.The Assessment Authorities did not verify the details of the suppression of sales. This resulted in tax evasion of Rs 4.61 crore and penalty of Rs 13.83 crore was also leviable, the CAG said.Regarding excise duty, the test check of the records of 28 out of 86 units of the State Excise Department highlighted non/short realisation of excise duty/license fee/interest/penalty and other irregularities involving Rs 15.77 crore in 374 cases.On stamp duty, it was found that the test check of the records of 101 out of 143 units of the Revenue Department revealed non/short levy of stamp duty and registration fees, and other irregularities amounting to Rs 17.88 crore in 1,271 cases. Citing one of the cases, the CAG pointed out the scrutiny of records of the Panipat and Rohtak Sub-Registrars revealed that five collaboration agreements were registered between February and May 2017, on which stamp duty and registration fees of Rs 2.50 lakh was levied. But scrutiny revealed the owners of land had authorised the developers to take possession of the land with the right to construct. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cag-1-400-cr-loss-in-2-805-tax-cases-351630
18-12-2021||---||7.87 quintals of narcotics worth Rs 2 cr seized in Palwal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, December 17The district police recovered 7.87 quintals of narcotics from a truck here last night. One person has been arrested.Revealing this, SP Rajesh Duggal said a police team intercepted a truck entering into the district from UP at the Karman border during the night domination drive last night and was found to be carrying 39 bags of chura post (poppy husk). He said the closed body vehicle was checked after inputs received by the police that a vehicle carrying some narcotics was coming from UP to go towards Punjab.Claiming that the cost of the recovered narcotics was about Rs 2 crore in the market, he said the cops managed to arrest the driver of the truck identified as Naseem, who tried to flee from the spot as soon as it was stopped for checking. While the truck had cotton bags loaded in the main body, a special compartment built inside the truck was found to be containing the narcotics material. Loaded from Neemuch in MP and Pratapgarh in Rajasthan, it was being taken to Sangrur in Punjab, it is claimed.The police have launched a hunt to arrest three other youths who were reportedly piloting the truck in an Alto car, but managed to flee before the checkpoint. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered, said the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-87-quintals-of-narcotics-worth-2-cr-seized-in-palwal-351631
18-12-2021||---||553 illegal colonies identified in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 17A survey conducted by the Department of Town and Country Planning revealed that as many as 553 illegal colonies have reportedly come up in the district.Sources in the department said the survey was carried out in connection with the assessment of the demand of basic amenities in unauthorised colonies. Mushrooming of illegal colonies was still a menace despite the drives being carried out, the sources added. The sources also said coming up of illegal colonies had resulted in the derailing of the implementation of the master plan of the district. “The mushrooming of unauthorised colonies have led to development of slums, owing to which residents suffer,” said Devender Singh a retired government official.Claiming that survey will help in regularisation of the illegal colonies as per the official policy, Rajender Sharma, DTP (Enforcement), said these colonies were over years old. He added that over 3,000 structures had been demolished in 121 drives carried out since January 2020, with 53 FIRs registered in this period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/553-illegal-colonies-identified-in-faridabad-351632
18-12-2021||Sonepat||Youth gets 10-yr in jail for sodomising 7-year-old boy||The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court) Suruchi Atreja Singh on Thursday sentenced a youth to 10 years imprisonment for sodomising a 7-year-old boy. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 60,000 on him.The court has ordered that in case of non-payment of the fine, he will have to undergo further imprisonment of 15 months. A man of the Baroda area in his complaint to the police on June 24, 2019, had alleged that when his 7-year-old nephew was playing with other children in the government’s school playground, a youth, Dalsher of the same village, had come there and taken the child to the backyard of the school.The other children immediately informed the family members of the victim and the uncle of the child reached the spot where Dalsher was sodomising his nephew. Dalsher fled from the spot and they admitted the child to the government hospital. The victim was referred to BPS Medical College for treatment and then he was referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak. Following the complaint, the police had registered a case against Dalsher. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-gets-10-yr-in-jail-for-sodomy-351633
18-12-2021||---||Varinder Pehal is Karnal Bar Association chief||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 17Advocate Varinder Pehal has been elected as the president of the Karnal Bar Association. He won the top post with a margin of 347 votes.Advocate Hari Krishan was able to secure the post of vice-president.Advocate Naveen won on the general secretary’s post while advocate Chavi secured the post of joint secretary and advocate Sonu was elected the treasurer of the bar association .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/varinder-pehal-is-karnal-bar-assn-chief-351634
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Copter crash victims remembered in Haryana Vidhan Sabha||On the first day of the session, obituary resolutions were passed which included Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Brig Lakhwinder Singh Lidder and other victims of the helicopter crash, former MP Hari Singh Nalwa, freedom fighters of Haryana, martyrs from the state and close relatives of members of Vidhan Sabha. The House observed silence to pay homage to the departed souls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/copter-crash-victims-remembered-351636
18-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Plywood units inspected in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri to stop use of subsidised urea in industries||A team of the local administration conducted an inspection at plywood factories in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri districts to stop the use of subsidised urea in plywood industries. The action came after the local administration received complaints from farmers that a number of plywood factories were using subsidised urea to prepare ‘glue’, which is used as an adhesive to make ply, board and related products. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plywood-units-inspected-351637
18-12-2021||---||2 youths die in road mishap||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 17Two youths were killed in an accident near Megha Mall on NH-44 in Samalkha on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Neeraj (21) and Vineet (20) of Kali Ramna Pana in Samalkha town.Ajeet of Shastry colony in his complaint to the police said that he and Sunil were standing near the Megha Mall and waiting for Neeraj and Vineet as they had to go to Gannaur for some work.As Neeraj and Vineet were nearing them, a speeding car hit their motorcycle.The car driver ran away from the spot, leaving his car there. The police rushed them to the general hospital where doctors declared Neeraj and Vineet brought dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-youths-die-in-road-mishap-351638
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress targets Haryana Govt on varsity recruitment||The BJP-JJP government was in the firing line of the Congress today for its decision to recruit teaching and non-teaching staff through Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana State Selection Commission (HSSC).Moving the calling attention motion, Jhajjar MLA Geeta Bhukkal termed the decision a “direct attack” on university autonomy and violation of UGC guidelines. “This is being done to give backdoor entry to government’s loyalists and would ultimately ruin Haryana universities,” she asserted.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda opposed the decision alleging that this was against the UGC guidelines and the New Education Policy. “During the last Assembly session, the CM had assured the House that the responsibility of recruitments would not be given to the HPSC and HSSC. Now, he is going back on his word.”Rubbishing charges, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said November 8 order would not affect university autonomy in any way as the VC concerned would be chairman of the selection panel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-targets-govt-on-varsity-recruitment-351640
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Private Universities (Amendment) Bill tabled||The Haryana Private Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was laid today on the table of the House. It has been brought to set up Geeta University in Panipat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-varsities-bill-tabled-351641
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Congress stages protest outside Haryana Assembly||Haryana Youth Congress today held a protest outside Assembly against the scams in government recruitments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-congress-stages-protest-351643
18-12-2021||Fatehabad||Students visit Harappan site||Animal breeding strategiesKarnal: A national conference on "Animal breeding strategies in the era of genomics and phenomics" was organised by the Indian Society of Animal Genetics and Breeding and National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources. Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary (DARE) and Director General, ICAR, emphasised on the need to research on epi-genomics to understand adaptability and other traits underlying animal productivity. He further said the contribution of the animal genetic resources of the country in enhancing farmers' income was invaluable and the indigenous breeds were the assets for future.Course on maritime lawGurugram: Shree Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary (SGT) University, Gurugram, has announced the launch of an online certificate course in maritime law under its faculty of law. Dr RK Mitra, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the university, said the course would be of 12-week duration with 72 hours of online classes from 4 pm to 7 pm every Saturday and Sunday. The course will be open to professionals, students, faculty members, and officials. Pranay Prakash, and Yogita Jain, both assistant professors in the faculty of law, and coordinators for this online course said maritime law, was a body of laws, conventions, and treaties that governed private maritime business and other nautical matter, such as shipping or offenses occurring in open water. International rules, governing the use of the oceans and seas, are known as the law of the sea.Online quiz contestKarnal: An online quiz contest was organised by the commerce association of Dyal Singh College in collaboration with Jaipuria Institute of Management in which 130 students from all the streams participated. The quiz contest was conducted by Rishi Chadha, deputy manager of the Jaipuria Institute and was assisted by Komal Kalra and Yashika, faculty members of commerce department. Dr Ashima Gakhar, Principal, Dyal Singh College, motivated all the students to step up and take part. Dr Mukta Jain, head, commerce department also graced the occasion. Jatin of BSc, medical, third semester, bagged the first position, while Vijay Kumar of BSc, medical, third semester, secured the second position and Tarishi of BCom, honours, fifth semester, stood third and Nitika sharma of BCom, third semester, stood fourth. Those who secured first four positions will go for the next round of the quiz to be held in January in Noida.'Nature walk' programmeYamunanagar: The environment club of the self-finance department of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised a 'Nature walk' programme for the members of the environment club. They visited Herbal Park, Kaleshar temple and Hathnikund barrage of Yamunanagar district. Dr Neeti Daryal, head of the department of self-finance department, said that in Herbal Park they were told about medicinal plants. She said the purpose of the visit was to make the students aware of nature. She further said such types of trip were the requirement of time. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college congratulated the club incharges ProfSapana Garg and Dr Rohan Gupta.Webinar on financial planningFaridabad: A national-level webinar was organised by the Department of Commerce in collaboration with the National Stock Exchange (NSE) at Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, on the topic "Basics of financial planning". According to Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, students were apprised of the matters related to earning money and investing it at the right place at the right time. He also said if proper strategy was adopted in time, the risk involved could be reduced and a profit could be ensured.Shakespearean play staged at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, FaridabadFaridabad: The department of literature and languages of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, presented William Shakespeare's famous play 'A Midsummer Night's Dream' at the Vivekananda Auditorium recently. The play was a fusion of magic, fairies, and twisted love stories enacted well by students of MA English and directed by Bhuvnesh, assistant professor. Prof Atul Mishra, dean of liberal arts and media studies, Prof Komal Kumar Bhatia, dean of faculty of informatics and computing, Dr Divya Jyoti, associate professor of the department were among those who attended the programme. The students of the English literature Chahat portrayed Hippolyta, Jigyasa played Titania while Jyoti, Riddhi, Deepak, Priyanka played the other major roles. Nikhil, Sidharth, Shreshtha from other departments were also a part of the team. Shivani's portrayal of 'Puck' turned out to be the most iconic performance during the play. The technical support was provided by Sneha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-visit-harappan-site-351644
18-12-2021||It has become a routine trend for the people to dump the waste construction material alongside the road in Bhiwani town. The dumps of construction material not only cause blockade on the road but it also adds to the air pollution. I hope action will be taken against those who dump the construction material in the open.||Construction waste dumped alongside road in Bhiwani||Kamal Singh, BhiwaniPipli-K’shetra varsity road not yet completeThree years on, the Pipli-Kurukshetra University road project is still not completed. The project started in 2018 and was to be completed in 2019, but still, a major part of the work is still not complete. The ongoing project has become an ordeal and cause of traffic jams. The local MLA has made repeated statements and given assurance but failed to get the work completed in the given time. The government should take some action and save the commuters from harassment. Tarun, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-waste-dumped-alongside-road-in-bhiwani-351645
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||591 arrested in Haryana for duping people on pretext of sending them abroad||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday told the Assembly that 591 people have been arrested in the state on charges of sending people abroad by dubious means.He said to facilitate final year students of all colleges to study abroad, the government is providing free passports to them and they are being made aware regarding employment opportunities in foreign countries."This scheme of providing free passports has been implemented by the Department of Technical Education and Higher Education from 2020-21," Vij, who also holds the Technical Education portfolio, said during the question-answer session on the first day of the winter session."Whenever cases of sending people abroad through illegal means are reported, immediate action is taken. An SIT (Special Investigating Team) has been constituted that is led by Bharti Arora to tighten the noose around those involved in 'kabootarbaazi' cases." The 'kabootarbaazi' means 'flying pigeons' -- a reference to numerous youths trying to use illegal means to settle abroad.Taking stern action against such people, he said 591 people have been arrested and 485 first information reports (FIRs) registered. A sum of Rs 81,38,800 recovered from them.As far as the issue of sending children abroad for higher education under the supervision of the government, he said no such matter is under consideration."At present, there is no proposal under consideration in the Technical Education Department to set up any government agency to send the students of Haryana for studying abroad or on a work visa," Vij added. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/591-arrested-in-haryana-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-sending-them-abroad-351494
18-12-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram multicrore theft: Haryana government suspends senior IPS officer||Haryana government has suspended a senior cop who faces allegations in the multicore theft in Gurugram.A Special Task Force investigating the case claims it has credible evidence of the involvement of Dheeraj Kumar Setia, a 2013 batch IPS officer of Haryana cadre who’s the commandant of the 3rd IRB at Sunaria, Rohtak. Police have added charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) to an FIR already against him.Setia's repeatedly evaded summons for questioning, police said.“IPS officer Setia is now an accused and sections have been added against him in the case. Even after being repeatedly served notices, he hasn’t joined investigations. He’s been suspended now. We’ll step up action against him. The probe is on and we’ll find out more soon,” B. Sathees Balan, Deputy Inspector General of the Gurugram STF, said.Meanwhile, the STF claimed it had arrested one more person, Ravindra Dahiya alias Bittu, and found him with Rs 1.83 crore in cash. Sources said that the force would also move a local court to cancel the bail of Vikas Gulia— a Delhi assistant sub-inspector who’s a prime suspect in the case.Bittu is a resident of Sonepat and drove the vehicle used in the heist.The STF is currently investigating a multi-crore theft case that began as a robbery at a flat in Sector 82. Investigations have revealed the involvement of several people, including a gangster named Vikas Lagarpuria, Setia, Gulia, and two doctors.Friday’s developments take the number of arrests in the case so far to six, say police. They claim to have Rs 6 crore out of over Rs 30 crore that’s been stolen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-multicrore-theft-haryana-government-suspends-senior-ips-officer-348723
