19-12-2021||Rohtak||3 held for Jhajjar man's murder||Farmers told to register cropsChandigarh: The Haryana Government has reopened the registration on the 'Meri Fasal, Mera Byora' portal, where farmers can enter the details of their rabi crops namely wheat, mustard, gram, barley, sunflower, fruit-flowers and vegetables. An official spokesperson said farmers must get their crops registered by December 31 by visiting the Atal Seva Kendras located in their villages. Farmers can also register on http://fasal.haryana.gov.in. The Parivar Pehchan Patra is mandatory for registration. TNSState wins agri awardChandigarh: Haryana has been awarded the Agri-Entrepreneur Krishak Ratan Award-2021 for the 'best initiative in risk management and brand development (Harhit Stores)'. Union Minister Parshottam Rupala presented the award to the Haryana Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister JP Dalal during the Progressive Agri Leadership Summit-2021 held at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, Solan, Himachal Pradesh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-for-jhajjar-mans-murder-351829
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Plots allotted to BPL families, says Deputy CM||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala today said under the Mahatma Gandhi Gramin Basti Yojana, paved lanes, electricity and water pipelines had been provided in the colonies where 10 per cent or more families had built their houses on the allotted plots.He said plots of 100 sq yards each were allotted to people belonging to the SC and BPL families in the villages, where suitable shamlat land was available by the gram panchayat. Chautala said land was available for plots in 4,882 villages and 5.26 lakh families were given the benefits under the said scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plots-allotted-to-bpl-families-says-deputy-cm-351830
19-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Man duped of Rs 20 lakh||The police have booked two persons for duping a resident of Jathlana village of Rs 20 lakh on the pretext of selling him a farmland of 29 kanal.On the complaint of Khem Chand, a case was registered against Ranjit and Surjeet of of Yamunanagar under Sections 120-B, 406, 420 and 506 of the IPC. The complainant said he paid Rs 20 lakh as ‘bayana’ to the accused. The registration date for the sale deed of the land was decided to be November 15, 2019, but was extended up to November 10, 2020, he said. “Surjeet and Ranjit didn’t get the sale deed registered this year too. They got the land registered in the name of another person,” the complainant alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-duped-of-rs-20-lakh-351831
19-12-2021||Panipat||Man gets 20-year jail for raping minor||The court of Additional and District Sessions Judge Vimal Sapra on Friday sentenced 20 years rigorous imprisonment to a man for raping a minor girl and two-year imprisonment to his associate for molesting the victim.Rohit was acquitted under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and was fined of Rs 25,000. The court also ordered that in case of non-payment of the fine, he will have to undergo further imprisonment of one year. Rohit’s associate, Sandeep, was acquitted under section 354 of the IPC and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-20-year-jail-for-raping-minor-351832
19-12-2021||Hisar||Residents to protest SC man's killing||The body of the SC man, Vinod, who was beaten to death on December 15 on the suspicion of stealing electric motor in Mirkan village of Hisar, is yet to be cremated.Family of the deceased said they would not cremate the body until all 17 accused in the case were not arrested.Activists belonging to a SC outfit today sat on a dharna at Civil Hospital here and said they would take out a protest march in the town on Sunday.The activists said they were not satisfied with the police action in this matter. The police have arrested four accused so far. The administration has also given compensation to the family of the victim. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-to-protest-sc-mans-killing-351833
19-12-2021||---||Cremation disrupted after two women claim to be man's wife||Hisar, December 18Three days after the murder of property dealer Ravinder Dhaka, his body was cremated in Agroha town of the district today. The cremation was disrupted as a dispute surfaced when two women claimed to be the deceased’s wife.Dhaka was stabbed to death by an e-rickshaw driver on December 16 in the Tibba Danasher area in Hisar over a dispute over fare.The next morning, a woman from Agroha town, Anita, appeared before the police, claiming to be the deceased’s wife.It turned out that the victim had married both women at a gap of about a decade and have a 22-year-old son from his first wife Anita. Sources said a divorce case with the first wife was pending with the court. In the meantime, Dhaka married another woman, Lakshmi, by converting to Islam in 2014. He has two children with his second wife.A social panchayat comprising the family of both wives was held at Agroha medical college today. Both sides agreed on the cremation of the body in presence of the children from both wives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cremation-disrupted-after-two-women-claim-to-be-mans-wife-351834
19-12-2021||---||Vaccine coverage 'poor' in Hisar, DC ropes in khap panchayat||Hisar, December 18Deputy Commissioner Dr Priyanka Soni held a meeting with the khap panchayat representatives to seek their support to motivate rural people to get themselves vaccinated, in view of the possible third wave of Covid-19.The Deputy Commissioner said the khap panchayat representatives assured him of launching a campaign in rural areas.A target had been set to vaccinate 13,19,940 persons in the district, she said. “About 79 per cent of the people in the district have received the first dose and 39 per cent have got the second dose as well. We are intensifying the drive for vaccination in the villages that are lagging behind the target,” the Deputy Commissionersaid. The vaccination coverage is low in Hisar as compared to other districts of the state.Khap representative Samsher Singh Poonia said, “During the second wave of Covid-19, Hisar reported maximum deaths,” he said.Ramphal Bura of Bura khap panchayat said the representatives would launch contact programmes in every household to urge people to get themselves vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccine-coverage-poor-in-hisar-dc-ropes-in-khap-panchayat-351836
19-12-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Municipal Corporation steps up efforts to improve Swachhta ranking of twin cities||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 18The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), has intensified its efforts to improve its ranking in the Swachh Survekshan-2022, the survey of which is expected to start in the beginning of next year.Target 3-star rating for Y’nagar, JagadhriWe are working on all fronts to make the twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri clean and beautiful. We have decided to apply for the three-star rating, so that the civic body gets 1,000 extra points. Ajay Singh Tomar, MC CommissionerBesides taking several other initiatives, the authorities have now decided to apply to the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for a three-star ranking, which is granted on the basis of sanitary conditions and other works being done by the MC.If the MCYJ comes in the category of three-star ranking, it shall get 1,000 extra points in the Swachh Survekshan-2022.“We want to improve our Swachhta ranking. So we are working on all fronts to make the twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri along with villages associated with the MC area clean and beautiful. We have decided to apply for the three-star rating, so that the civic body gets 1,000 extra points in the Swachh Survekshan-2022,” said Ajay Singh Tomar, Commissioner, MCYJ.According to information, Tomar held a meeting with officials associated with the sanitation work on Friday.In the meeting, the progress report of works, including door-to-door garbage collection, night sweeping, setting up compost pits in parks and install awareness hoardings and banners, was reviewed.Meanwhile, Manglesh Kumar, city team leader of the Swachh Bharat Mission, said they were making people aware of the importance of sanitation and giving them tips to handle garbage, how to make compost from it and maintain cleanliness in their areas. “People who are turning garbage into compost should inform the MCYJ as it was one of the components required for getting the three-star ranking,” he added.In a bid to make the twin cities clean and beautiful, the elected representatives and officials of the MCYJ had recently adopted all 22 wards and are taking care of the cleanliness there.Notably, the MCYJ had slipped to 243rd position in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 survey, while it was placed 147 in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/municipal-corporation-steps-up-efforts-to-improve-swachhta-ranking-of-twin-cities-351835
19-12-2021||---||At Kurukshetra prison, fuel station to be run by inmates||Kurukshetra, December 18The district jail, Kurukshetra, is all set to get a fuel and CNG station, which will be operated by the inmates.The fuel and CNG station is being set up by the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and the pilot project is coming up at a cost of around Rs 3 crore. A general store will also be started at the station.Job opportunityIt is an attempt by the department to engage the inmates in something productive. The inmates will be issued certificates as well, so that they can get a job at a fuel station after the completion of their sentence. Somnath Jagat, Superintendent of district jail, KurukshetraThe IOC will pay a monthly rent of Rs 51,000 to the district jail. The rent and the profit of the fuel and CNG station will be spent on the welfare and rehabilitation of the jail inmates through the prisoners’ welfare fund.An official said the project was initiated in 2017 and the formalities regarding acquiring land, lease deed and obtaining NOCs from different departments were discussed, after which an agreement was signed with the IOC. After obtaining the approvals from the government and the IOC, the work to instal the station has started.Somnath Jagat, superintendent of district jail, Kurukshetra, said, “The IOC has started installing the pump. It is an attempt by the department to engage the inmates in something productive during their sentence and provide them an opportunity to return to normal life after their jail term. The investment is being made by the IOC. It will be open to public. Nearly 12 inmates will be operating the fuel and CNG station. The inmates will be issued certificates as well, so that they can get a job at a fuel station after the completion of their sentence.”“The inmates will be provided training soon. Only the inmates who have shown good conduct and fulfil other conditions, including the term of sentence and completion of three paroles, will be engaged in this project,” he said. The station will have two petrol and diesel dispensing machines and one CNG machine, and it will operate from 7 am to 7 pm. Along with the fuel station, a small general store, as per the norms of the IOC, will also be started. “The fuel and CNG station is likely to start operations by January-end next year,” he said.To have 3 machines||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-kurukshetra-prison-fuel-station-to-be-run-by-inmates-351837
19-12-2021||Gurugram||Exam fear, teenager dies by suicide||A state-level football player allegedly ended her life by jumping in front of a goods train near Chauma railway crossing late last evening.The GRP recovered a suicide note in which the girl said she wasn’t prepared for an exam and hence, was killing herself. The victim has been identified as Seema, 17, (name changed), a native of UP and presently living with her family in Chauma village.Her father is a mason and she was a Class XII student in Kartarpuri government school. On Saturday evening, she had left home to meet a classmate to take a book to prepare for economics exam. At 8.30 pm, the station master got information about a girl’s body lying on the rail track. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exam-fear-teenager-dies-by-suicide-351838
19-12-2021||Gurugram||Arrest warrant issued against IPS officer||An arrest warrant was issued today against absconding suspended IPS officer Dheeraj Setia as he is wanted in a multi-crore heist case in Gurugram.The STF had requested the warrant against Setia as he hadn’t joined the probe. Setia was declared accused when Dr Sachender Jain Nawal, another accused, confessed to paying in cash and kind to cover up the heist though a part of it was returned.A local court took cognisance of the agency’s inaction on the confession of Dr Nawal. After that, the STF went after Setia and made him an accused. On December 10, the government suspended him.“A local court has issued arrest warrant against suspended IPS Dheeraj Setia, who is now an accused and absconding,” said B Sathees Balan, DIG, STF, Gurugram.The STF recently arrested an aide of gangster Vikas Lagarpurya in the multi-crore heist from a builder’s flat in Gurugram. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrest-warrant-issued-against-ips-officer-351839
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amendment to land Bill anti-farmer: Congress MLA||Terming the amendment to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill 2021 as anti-farmer, anti-tenant and anti-poor, Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry said it would give rise to crony capitalism and goes against the essence of the 2013 Act, which was “benevolent” and took care of all stakeholders.Addressing a press meet here on Saturday, Choudhry said she opposed the Haryana Amendment Bill-2021 on the Assembly floor but the treasury benches were adamant to pass it without taking the views of the Opposition. “This is a black law since it is anti-farmer and pro-corporate. In keeping with the withdrawal of the three black farm laws this, too, should be repealed.”“The Haryana Amendment Act gives draconian powers to the Collector to announce awards without visiting the site or getting houses on acquired property vacated without 48-hour notice and throw the irrigated multi-cropped lands open to acquisition by the corporate.”Stating that the Bill wasn’t among those passed and then tabled on the House floor, she said the government must repeal it to save itself from embarrassment. “It should be withdrawn or brought back into the Assembly for discussion again.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amendment-to-land-bill-anti-farmer-congress-mla-351840
19-12-2021||---||Row over social boycott of Dalit family in Rohtak||Rohtak, December 18The reported social boycott of a Dalit family of a village in Meham subdivision of Rohtak district over an FIR registered against a dominant-caste youth has snowballed with members of other Dalit families alleging that they were also under threat of boycott if they support the affected family.The parents of a minor girl of the village had lodged a complaint against Kuldeep last week, <alleging that he had entered their home and tried to outrage the modesty of their daughter.The police registered a case under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) Act. Kuldeep was arrested and sent to judicial custody.A few days after the youth’s arrest, a panchayat was held at the village which reportedly asked the girl’s family to get the SC/ST Act withdrawn from their complaint. “We have been threatened with social boycott as we refused to do so,” said the complainants.Dr Mahesh Kumar, a Dalit rights activist based at Rohtak, stated that the other Dalit families of the village had also been threatened with social boycott if they backed the affected family. “More than 40 Dalit families of the village are under threat of social boycott. We are in touch with them and will support them,” he asserted.Meanwhile, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar said he would seek a report regarding the matter and intervene in it. “The SC/ST Act comes into force by default if any atrocity is committed against a Dalit. Nobody can force the complainant to withdraw the complaint. I will get the matter examined and take appropriate action,” the Deputy Commissioner added.Withdraw SC/ST Act: Panchayat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/row-over-social-boycott-of-dalit-family-in-rohtak-351841
19-12-2021||Ambala||Dues pending, private schools say won't admit EWS students||Demanding reimbursement of dues for teaching students belonging to the Economically Weaker Section (EWS), under Rule 134A of the Haryana School Education Rule, the private schools’ bodies have threatened to deny admission to students for the current session.Will move courtDespite repeated requests, the schools have not been reimbursed by the govt for many years. If we are forced to give admissions, we will file contempt petition in court. Saurabh Kapoor, Chief, integrated private school welfare societyThe private school operators claimed a case was pending in the High Court and the next hearing was scheduled for February 28 next year. If the schools were pressurised to give admissions, they would file contempt petition in the court, they said.As per Rule 134A of the Haryana School Education Rule, there is 10 per cent quota in private schoolsfor EWS children. Nearly 2,000 students have been allotted schools under the Rule 134-A in the list issued on Friday in Ambala.Prashant Munjal, state vice-president, Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC), said, “We are not against giving admissions to EWS children, but the government hasn’t been reimbursing the schools. Due to the pandemic, the schools have been going through a tough phase. Moreover, this is not the right time to invite fresh admissions as just a couple of months are left for the completion of the ongoing session. The state body of the HSPC had filed a case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The next hearing is on February 28, and as per the court’s orders, no coercive steps can be adopted.”Saurabh Kapoor, president, Integrated Private School Welfare Society, said, “It is difficult to admit more children without the clearance of previous dues. We demand that the compensation should be given as per the Right to Education Act.”DEO Suresh Kumar, however, said, “Schools have been allotted to the students under Rule 134-A. We will implement the directions we receive from the government.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dues-pending-private-schools-say-wont-admit-ews-students-351842
19-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra University centre identifies new Saraswati channel||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, December 18The Centre of Excellence for Research on Saraswati River (CERSR), Kurukshetra University, has claimed to have identified a major channel of the Saraswati river system, depicting a gradual westward shift of the river course on account of terrain slope modification.Oldest civilisationThis study of the Saraswati chronology in conjunction with the archaeological studies carried out in Bhirrana establish beyond doubt that the Saraswati-nourished civilisation in Haryana is the oldest in the world. Prof AR Chaudhri, Director, CERSRAs per the study, the water in this channel from Saharanpur in UP to the Gulf of Khambhat in Gujarat was sourced from the Kailash-Mansarovar region. It crossed from Saharanpur in UP into Karnal in Haryana. Then, it passed through Panipat, Sonepat, Jhajjar and Mahendragarh districts.Further, it flowed in the vicinity of Dhosi hill. Then in Rajasthan, it passed through Sambhar and Pushkar lakes, and flowed in close proximity to Nimbahera, Nathdwara and Dungarpur. In Gujarat, the channel flowed near Lunawada, Vasad and Khambhat.Gradually, due to structural terrain modifications, this channel shifted its course and the river started flowing through Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat, Jind and Hisar districts before passing through Rawatsar in Rajasthan.Subsequently, the input flow in this channel also shifted and gradually, the input from Yamunanagar increased in comparison to the Kailash Mansarovar channel.The Saraswati paleochannel, identified as Adi Badri in Yamunanagar, passes through Kurukshetra, Pehowa, Kaithal, Jind, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts. This channel cuts across NH-44 at Pipli in Kurukshetra.Prof AR Chaudhri, director of CERSR, said, “The oldest channel of the Saraswati river system so far identified is that of the Vedic Drishadvati river which probably, in the pre-Vedic period, was the original one. The water in this channel was sourced from the Kailash-Mansarovar region. The number of archaeological sites in southern Haryana, along the paleo-track of the Drishadvati, far outnumber the sites along the Saraswati channel passing through Kurukshetra. That suggests that this channel was possibly more ancient and robust than the Kurukshetra Saraswati channel.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-centre-identifies-new-saraswati-channel-351843
19-12-2021||Deepender Deswal||Hisar cops launch drive to make 25 villages drug-free||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 18To deal with the drug menace, which is taking alarming proportions in the region, the Hisar police have decided to launch a special remedial drive in the police districts of Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hansi.Inspector General of Police Rakesh Kumar Arya said a comprehensive campaign had been planned to combat the menace in a decisive manner.The police have identified five villages from each of the five police districts to implement their strategy. The IG has constituted district-wise five special teams for these villages, which are headed by the DSPs intheir respective districts. The police team, along with the social welfare department and the Haryana Coordinator of India Drug Free Campaign, will jointly carry out this drive.“A special team of five to six members has been formed to check drug trade in these villages,” Arya said.“The youth and prominent persons of the village will be roped in to help the police teams, who will conduct a door-to-door survey and prepare a list of the addicts,” he added.Arya said the committee would take all possible steps to pull addicts out of the drugs trap and would also take steps for their rehabilitation. The IG further said he would also visit each of these 25 villages regularly to review the ground situation and motivate people to actively participate in the drive.Affected villages||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-cops-launch-drive-to-make-25-villages-drug-free-351844
19-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||2 private firms terminate 'concession pact' with National Highways Authority of India||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 18Two private companies — Rohtak-Panipat Tollway Private Limited (RPTPL) and Kurukshetra Expressway Private Limited (KEPL) — have terminated their concession agreement with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) under the clause of force majeure.2 more booths to resume ops soonEvery toll collection firm has the right to terminate the concession pact after fulfilling the terms laid down under the force majeure clause. Meanwhile, the Makrauli and Dahar booths are likely to start the ops in three-four days as the system is being upgraded. Hanuman Sangwan, NHAI Project DirectorThe forceful suspension of toll collection during the farmers’ agitation is believed to be the reason behind the development.Meanwhile, the toll booths at Makrauli and Dahar on the Rohtak-Panipat highway, operated by the RPTPL earlier, are yet to be operational. Also, the NHAI has deputed its own workers at the toll booths in Dighal (Jhajjar) and Gangaachai Ahir (Rewari) on the Rohtak-Rewari highway, which was being operated by the KEPL earlier.Sources said a total of Rs 10 lakh per day as toll tax was being collected at the Dighal booth while the collection was Rs 12 lakh at the Gangaachai Ahir barrier. The operations were suspended at the Dighal toll booth on December 25 last year after farmers of nearby villages camped there in support of their protest while the GangaachaiAhir booth remained shut from September 27 to December 12 this year.Bijendra Tiwari, general manager, KEPL, said the Dighal and Gangaachai Ahir booths were being controlled by the NHAI after they had terminated their concession agreement due to the suspension of the toll collection during the farm stir. “Now, workers appointed by the NHAI are collecting tax at both the booths,” he added.Moreover, despite lifting of the dharna by the farmers on December 15, the shutting of Makrauli and Dahar booths continues to cheer the commuters as no toll is being charged from them.“The toll rates at both the booths is much higher than others hence we are enjoying free rides till it lasts. The situation is likely to remain the same for the next few days too,” said Parveen Tondwal, a local.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-private-firms-terminate-concession-pact-with-national-highways-authority-of-india-351845
19-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Bid by trucker to run over Nuh SP at naka||Gurugram, December 18The Nuh SP, who has been leading a drive against dumpers overloaded with mining material for over a month, had a narrow escape last night as a driver rammed his vehicle into a naka on the Nuh-Alwar road. The SP along with other cops jumped out of their vehicle to save themselves.The incident took place when the SP, Varun Singla, and his team of around 20 policemen set up a naka near Hotel Taj on the Nuh-Alwar road. They intercepted 11 dumpers and issued challans for overloading. When Singla’s gunman stopped another dumper, its driver sped up and rammed the dumper into the SP’s vehicle. The accused then hit a constable, identified as Surender, before escaping.The cops chased him, but could found only the dumper parked on the roadside near Ganduri village.The accused has been charged with attempt to murder in an FIR registered at Nagina police station.Singla said, “Two special teams have been formed to conduct raids to nab the accused. Dumpers overloaded with sand and gravel have been causing traffic snarls. We have launched a drive to check the practice.”Drive against overloading of mining material||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bid-by-trucker-to-run-over-nuh-sp-at-naka-351898
