20-12-2021||---||Sonia names 4 Punjab MPs, Pratibha Singh, Deepender Hooda as CPP office-bearers||New Delhi, December 20Several MPs from the region and the maximum from election-bound Punjab found place among office-bearers Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed to the parliamentary party on Monday.Four MPs from Punjab are part of the list. While Jalandhar reserved segment MP Sanokh Singh Chaudhary has been appointed one of the only three secretaries of the Congress Parliamentary Party, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla, Faridkot MP JS Gill and Rajya Sabha MP SS Dullo have been included in the 22-member executive committee of the CPP.The other two secretaries of the CPP are Kozhikode MP MK Raghavan and the party’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat Amee Yagnik.Newly-elected Mandi MP Pratibha Singh and Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda are in the executive committee which also has among members MPs Karti Chidambaram, Neeraj Dangi (RS member from Rajasthan) and Pradeep Tamta (RS member from Uttrakhand).Sonia Gandhi has also included Phulo Devi Netam, one of the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, in the CPP executive panel.Netam is a Rajya Sabha MP from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sonia-names-4-punjab-mps-pratibha-singh-deepender-hooda-as-cpp-office-bearers-352549
20-12-2021||Hisar||Hisar man kills wife, three children, then himself to attain 'moksha'||A 45-year-old man in Hisar’s Nangthala village killed his three children and his wife before finally jumping in front of an oncoming vehicle, police said on Monday.Ramesh Varma was a shopkeeper who lived with his 38-year-old wife Sunita, and his three children—two daughters, 14-year-old Anushka and 12-year-old Deepika, and a son, 10-year-old Keshav. Police sources said that on Sunday, Varma closed his shop for the day at 3 pm instead of staying open as usual until 10 pm.  Investigators suspect he mixed some sleeping pills in the 'kheer' that the family was to have after dinner that night, bludgeoned them to death when they were still unconscious, left home in the early hours of Monday and threw himself in front of an oncoming vehicle to kill himself.Policemen called to the scene of Varma’s death on Agroha-Barwala road tried to get in touch with his family only to find their bloodied bodies in the house.‘Moksha’A notebook found after Varma’s death attributed his death to his belief that he would attain “moksha”, Deputy Inspector General Balwan Singh Rana said. The notebook contained Varma’s suicide note in which he said he’d no regrets and even apologised for the trouble he gave people.The note also shows that he’d tried to kill himself unsuccessfully in the past by trying to get electrocuted.  Police sources said his shop was doing well and ruled out any financial strain for the suicide.In the Hindu belief system, ‘moksha’ is the liberation of the soul from the cycle of births and rebirths.  The incident eerily harks back to the Burari killings, a case where 11 family members of the Chundawat family from Burari in Delhi were found dead—the family members first having strangled the oldest member of the family, an elderly woman, before hanging themselves. Police ruled the case as one of mass suicide.God-fearing, animal-loving manVarma’s neighbours describe him as reserved, docile, god-fearing, and animal-loving.Subhash, who owns a shop near Ramesh Varma’s, said he kept to himself and didn’t often mix with other shopkeepers.Naresh Kumar, the Varmas’ neighbour in the village, said he would frequently build nests for birds in his house and in the neighbourhood. He was neighbourhood’s snake catcher too, he said.“He was never afraid of snakes. People called him whenever any snake slithered into their houses. He would capture them very carefully and release them in the forest,” Naresh Kumar said.Police sources said he would reportedly also perform religious ceremonies in the house on some nights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-man-kills-wife-3-children-before-committing-suicide-352489
20-12-2021||---||2 arrested for killing Palwal youth||Palwal, December 20Police have arrested two men in connection with the death of a 22-year-old youth, who was reportedly beaten to death on December 14.The incident, which was originally registered as a case of accidental death, turned out to be a case of murder after the video footage of the incident surfaced in which the victim was found assaulted by some youths armed with rods and sticks.Revealing that the accused, Akash alias Diljale Vishal, and an unidentified man, residents of Rasoolpur village, had been arrested on the basis of the video footage, Ram Chander, SHO, Chandhut village police station, said the accused had admitted to assaulting the victim following a verbal duel after they had consumed liquor.He said though the main cause of the murder is yet to be ascertained, the accused had been remanded to police custody as the weapon and the motorcycle used in the crime were yet to be recovered.Ruling out the possibility of lynching based on communal hate, SP Rajesh Duggal said the incident took place among the youths and the victim was assaulted under the influence of liquor after a verbal duel. He said the accused took the victim to hospital after he was injured.According to the police, in a complaint lodged earlier by Chhiddi, a resident of Sarai Khatela near Mundkati in Palwal, he had informed the police that his son Rahul, who had gone to Rasoolpur to attend a marriage, had been killed in an accident. However, the police were approached the next day by the complainant, in which the footage of the murder was produced, making the cops register a case of murder and arrest the culprits.A probe had been started and the two accused found involved in the crime arrested, said the police official. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-arrested-for-kiling-palwal-youth-352482
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Biting cold sweeps Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at 0.2 degrees Celsius||Punjab and Haryana were in the grip of a severe cold wave on Monday, with Hisar recording a minimum temperature of 0.2 degrees Celsius.According to the Meteorological Department, the night temperature continued to hover well below the season's normal at most places in the two states.In Haryana, Hisar was the coldest place recording eight notches below normal minimum temperature.Cold wave in northwest India to continue till Wednesday: IMDAmbala (5.1 deg C), Narnaul (1.3 deg C), Rohtak (2.6 deg C), Karnal (3.4 deg C), Sirsa (3.2 deg C), Fatehabad (3.1 deg C), Bhiwani (2.5 deg C) also reeled under biting cold while Gurugram recorded a low of 7 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Moga recorded a low of 0.4 degrees Celsius.Amritsar also experienced the cold weather recording a low of 0.8 degrees Celsius.Among other places in Punjab which reeled under piercing cold weather conditions included Faridkot (1.1 deg C) Ludhiana (4.4 deg C), Patiala (3.9 deg C), Barnala (0.9 deg C), Jalandhar (2.6 deg C) and Mohali (4.4 deg C).Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 3.3 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/biting-cold-sweeps-punjab-haryana-352479
20-12-2021||---||Buy land for AIIMS by Dec 31 or face stir: Rewari locals to government||Tribune News ServiceManethi (Rewari), December 19The AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti has served a 12-day ultimatum on the state government not only to buy land for the much-awaited AIIMS project, but also to announce the date of laying its foundation stone by December 31.Residents of 51 villages protestIt also resolved to organise three mahapanchayats in Dahina, Mundi and Ateli villages to gather public support in favour of their demands if the government failed to respond within the stipulated time. Another meeting of the samiti will be convened on January 2 to decide further course of action.The decisions were taken at a meeting of the samiti’s representatives after staging a daylong dharna in Manethi village on Sunday to register their protest. The samiti claimed representatives of 51 nearby villages attended the meeting and expressed their solidarity with its decisions.“The state government intends to drag the issue up to the next Assembly elections so that it could seek votes from people of this region in the name of this issue. But we will not let the government linger on the execution of the project further. We are ready to launch agitation if the government doesn’t buy land of the farmers of Majra village where the project is to be implemented,” said Sheotaz Singh, president of the samiti.He said farmers of Majra village had offered a total of 228 acres for the project several months ago and the government announced to buy it at Rs 40 lakh per acre, but the process had not been initiated, raising questions over the government’s intentions.Rajendra Nimoth, spokesman for the samiti, said time had come to take a decision to get the project executed. “The Centre has already sanctioned the budget for the project and a central government committee, after conducting a survey, has also given a green signal for the implementation of the project. But the state government is not moving ahead, leading to acute resentment among people,” he added.He said they would have no other option but to launch an agitation if the government did not initiate the process to buy land and announce the date of its foundation stone by December 31. Residents of Majra village had uploaded details of their land on the government portal several months ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/buy-land-for-aiims-by-dec-31-or-face-stir-rewari-locals-to-govt-352294
20-12-2021||---||Ambala Cantt gets 2 more lakes||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 19Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today inaugurated two lakes, developed by the Cantonment Board, Ambala, today. Vij said, “Ambala has the potential of being a major tourist destination.”Under its smart initiatives and save groundwater the cantonment board has developed a 1.5-acre lake at Sardar Patel Park and a three-acre Amba Lake at Gajraj Park within the cantonment board limits. The lakes have been developed at a cost of Rs1.30 crore.“Ambala will be promoted as a major tourist destination. There are number of important and historic sites and monuments in the district. The work to document old monuments, famous locations and important sites having historic values has already started. A directory containing information about all such sites will be released and it will be made available online too to attract tourists,” said Vij.“The under-construction 1857 war memorial, which is being built to commemorate the revolt heroes of the first freedom struggle will be the centre of attraction. A Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Park has already been constructed here. We are expecting a large number of people to visit these places in Ambala,” Vij added.The Ambala Cantonment Board president, Brigadier RS Matharu, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Anuj Goel, and nominated member of the board, Ajay Baweja, were present on the occasion. However, water is yet to be released in both lakes.The board has seven defunct water bodies of which four have been turned into lakes over the last five years.Ajay Baweja said, “The board took the task of rejuvenating water bodies as part of the smart cantonment initiatives. The entire water supply in Ambala is through groundwater, but there is no source to replenish it. Rainwater goes into rivers through drains passing through Ambala. We wanted to tap this water so that the water table could be improved.”“Of seven water bodies, four have been rejuvenated. The remaining three will also be rejuvenated in the coming years,” Baweja added.CEO Anuj Goel said, “The board will tap rainwater and use stormwater to fill these lakes. There are also plans to introduce boating in both lakes. While the lake at Patel Park has been developed at a cost of Rs80 lakh, the lake at Gajraj Park has been developed at a cost of Rs50 lakh. The lakes will help board in recharging the groundwater. The remaining three water bodies will also be developed as per the availability of funds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-cantt-gets-2-more-lakes-352295
20-12-2021||---||Jat samiti that led quota stir removes chief Yashpal Malik over 'irresponsible' behaviour||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 19The All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS), which spearheaded the agitation demanding inclusion of Jats in the Other Backward Classes (OBC), today announced to remove its national president Yashpal Malik from the post and also canceled his primary membership from the samiti.Malik faction calls decision baselessWhat happened whenA general body meeting of the samiti, presided over by Satbas khap pradhan Balwan Singh Malik, was held at the Jat dharamshala in Hisar today. The meeting was attended by representatives from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The Jat agitation, which turned violent in 2016, has left a trail of destruction in many districts of Haryana. However, the AIJASS has not been active for nearly four years.Ashok Balhara, a confidant of Malik during the Jat agitation, today said they adopted two resolutions, including that of removing Malik for his alleged irresponsible role in the farmers’ agitation.He said Malik tried to re-launch the Jat agitation in Haryana when the farmers’ agitation was at its peak and also held a meeting in Nangloi in Delhi for the purpose. “Jat society had opposed Malik’s move as it could have adversely affected the farmers’ agitation,” he said.Samiti spokesman Dharampal Badala said Balhara had been appointed the national convener of the AIJASS for conducting further affairs of the samiti. “An ad hoc committee of 11 members has been set up for taking up the matter of the police cases pending in courts against several members of the community. We will discuss the issue with the khap panchayats, social organisations and political leaders,” he said.A woman jat leader, Rajkala Hooda, termed Malik a traitor and said he had harmed the interests of the community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jat-samiti-that-led-quota-stir-removes-chief-over-irresponsible-behaviour-352297
20-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Proposal for entry points on Panipat elevated expressway gets approval||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 19The much awaited demand of residents to make entry and exit points at three places on the 10-kilometer long elevated expressway crossing has got approval. The district administration claimed that with the openings on the elevated highway, the problem of traffic jam and pollution would be resolved.Three passages to ease traffic congestionThere will be entry near Khadi Gramodyog and exit near Hanu sweets on the Delhi-Karnal side while the exit will be near the Malik petrol pump on the Karnal-Delhi side. Sushil Kumar Sarwan, DC , PanipatThe handloom city, Panipat, is located on both sides of the national highway-44 (earlier NH-1). To ease the traffic congestion in the city, a 10-km Panipat elevated express highway, which includes an elevated flyover, was constructed in 2008 during the regime of the Congress government. Even, after the construction of the elevated expressway, the city’s traffic problem could not be resolved. Long queues of vehicles, auto-rickshaws could be seen anytime near Sanjay Chowk, Red Light Chowk, Insaar Market Chowk and on Railway Road, Sanoli road, Gohana road and Assandh road turn in the city. However, the district administration usually tried to control the traffic chaos by launching special drives off and on but to no avail.The residents regularly demanded entry and exit points on the expressway for a long time. Even, the political leaders have also raised the issue with the authorities several times.Now, the way to fulfill this much-awaited demands of the residents has been cleared as it is decided that openings will be made at three points on the elevated expressway very soon.It was decided in the meeting chaired by Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Anurag Rastogi in Chandigarh on Thursday. MLA, Panipat (Urban), Pramod Vij, DC, Panipat, Sushil Kumar Sarwan, SP Shashank Kumar Sawan and the Project Director, NHAI, were present at the meeting.DC Sarwan said the traffic congestion was not the only problem in the city, but pollution due to heavy smoke emission from vehicles which were stranded in the traffic jam, was also a big problem.“To curb the problems of traffic congestion and pollution, we prepared a detailed project report (DPR) and discussed it at the meeting on Thursday. It has been finalised that entry and exit points will be made at three places on the elevated expressway. These being entry near Khadi Gramodyog and exit near Hanu sweets on Delhi-Karnal side while exit will be near the Malikpetrol pump on the Karnal-Delhi side,” the Deputy Commissioner said.A grant of Rs 1.95 crore for making these openings has already been sanctioned, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/proposal-for-entry-points-on-panipat-elevated-expressway-gets-approval-352298
20-12-2021||---||Nostalgia grips Kunjpura Sainik School's alumni meet||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 19Over 600 former students mainly of the Golden Jubilee batch (1971) and the Silver Jubilee batch (1996) of Sainik School, Kunjpura, across the country turned up to attend the old boys meet. They revisited their alma mater to be part and relived their school days. Most of them came with their families.Army capable of protecting bordersWe (Indian Army) are capable enough to protect our borders from China. China tried to expand its borders, but the Army has protected the borders of the country.  — Gen Deepak Kapoor (retd), Ex-chief of army staffChief guest, Gen (Retd) Deepak Kapoor, ex-Chief of Army Staff, a student of the first batch of the school, who along with other ex-students shared their experiences with students and exhorted them to serve the nation with dedication.Gen Kapoor, who is himself a 1971 war veteran, honoured the 1971 war veteran of the school comprising Lt Gen DDS Sandhu, (retd), Lt Gen Arun Nanda (retd.), Maj Gen Umang Kapoor (retd.), Wing Commander NS Lohan (retd.), Col PS Dhillon (retd.), Col JS Jodha (retd.), Col OP Yadav (retd.), Col Milan Chatterji (retd.), and Wing Commander DK Bhardwaj (retd.).“The camaraderie, bonhomie that is developed during the school time lasts lifelong. Kunjeyans are one family, one community and one fraternity,” said Gen Kapoor, while addressing the students.Sharing his appreciation for the plethora of infrastructural changes that the school has gone through, he complimented the school for bagging the Raksha Mantri Trophy nine times and for sending maximum percentage of cadets to defence academics. He urged all Kunjeyans to pay back to their alma mater in their own capacities.“It is the duty of all of us to give back to our alma mater as it is like our home,” said Gen Kapoor.Principal, Col Vijay Rana, Administrative Officer, Wing Commander GD Sharma and all staff members received the ex-students and their family members. Former students paid tribute at the Sai-Kunj war memorial. The young Kunjeyans extended a warm welcome to their elder brothers. Old boys lauded the efforts of the authorities and the staff during the Covid pandemic by organising uninterrupted digital online classes.The occasion was marked by the inauguration of fountains along the main gate and also unveiling of the statue of a boy and girl in front of the NDA block symbolising the welcome induction of girls in Sainik Schools. After the wreath laying, the old boys moved to Col Sant Kumar stadium. Games like thread and needle, musical chairs, medicine ball throw were organised for the old boys and their families. In addition, many Covid warriors which included officers and personnel form Delhi and Haryana Police, doctors and civil servants, were also honoured. A-two minute silence was observed in remembrance of those Kunjeyan officers and ex-teachers who lost their life during the Covid pandemic.Later, young Kunjeyans staged a cultural show and showcased their talent in singing, dancing and dramatics. Col Vijay Rana especially commended the golden jubilee and silver jubilee batches for their contribution towards extending facilities to brighten the future prospects of the cadets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nostalgia-grips-sainik-schools-alumni-meet-352299
20-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Shortage of raw material halts widening of NH-44 from Singhu border to Rai||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 19The work of widening of the National-Highway-44 from Singhu border to Rai, around 10 km stretch out of a total of 70.5 km, which was halted for the past 13 months due to the farmers’ protest, has again got stuck due to shortage of raw materials. The reason behind the shortage of materials was stated to be the ban on operation of the stone crusher zones by the National Green Tribunal (NGT).Ccrushing units shutThe work couldn’t be started at full pace. All raw material for constructing roads usually comes from the stone crusher zones in Tosham, Charkhi Dadri, Yamunanagar and other areas. All these crushing zones had been shut on the orders of the NGT — Anand Dahiya, DGM (technical), NHAISo far, 76 per cent work of widening has been completed while the rest of 24 per cent would be started soon after the proper supply of the raw materials resumes.However, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has started patch work on the stretch to ease commuters with the permission of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) with the stocked material.The Central Government had inaugurated the project, worth Rs2128.72 crore, of 12-lane widening of the NH-44. The work was allotted to Essel Infra Projects Limited in 2015 during the first regime of the BJP-led government. The company had, however, failed to complete the project.After a period of one-and-a-half-years, the NHAI cancelled the tender of Essel Infra Projects and re-allotted the work to a new company, Well Spun, in 2019. The NHAI had fixed the target to complete the work by September 2021.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers pitched tents and parked trailers on both sides of the NH-44 on November 26 last year due to which the company had to stop work on the stretch of around 10 km. Even the service road sides were dug up. Sewage and muddy water had filled in these service lanes.The stretch was opened for commuters after 385 days on December 15, when farmers left their protest site on December 11. Though all were hoping that after farmers’ departure the work would be started on war footing, but it once again got stuck due to shortage of raw material.Anand Dahiya, Deputy General Manager (Technical), told The Tribune that , “The CPCB has given permission to start construction and maintenance of the national highways within the NCR region by maintaining pollution norms on December 17.” The work couldn’t be started at full pace, he added.All raw material for constructing roads usually comes from the stone crusher zones in Tosham, Charkhi Dadri, Yamunanagar and other areas, he said. All these crushing zones had been shut on the orders of the NGT, he added.“That’s why we have begun patch work on the stretch, levelling of the stretch and soil investigation with the available stock of the raw material,” he asserted. “Almost 76 per cent work of widening of the NH-44 has been completed. The rest of 24 per cent work will take another 10 months to complete,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shortage-of-raw-material-halts-widening-of-nh-44-352301
20-12-2021||Kurukshetra||18-day Gita Mahotsav at Kurukshetra ends||The Saras and Crafts fair, organised as part of International Gita Mahotsav-2021 at Brahma Sarovar in Kurukshetra, concluded on Sunday. More than 3,700 artistes from 21 Indian states and from America, Bhutan, Russia and Africa presented cultural programmes on the main stage of the Haryana Pavilion and ghats of Brahma Sarovar from December 2 to 19.Nearly 125 craftsmen, including 22 national award and 18 state award winners, and traders had come here and set up nearly 350 stalls. Thousands of visitors reached Brahma Sarovar on the last day of the fair.Deputy Commissioner, Kurukshetra, Mukul Kumar said, “The International Gita Mahotsav has been successfully concluded.” Chief Executive Officer, Kurukshetra Development Board, Anubhav Mehta said, “Steps are being taken to develop Kurukshetra as a tourist destination. Tourists and devotees, who reach Brahma Sarovar, will soon find a musical fountain in front of the aarti sthal at Purushottam Pura Bagh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-day-gita-mahotsav-at-kshetra-ends-352302
20-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala: 20 wards assigned to 10 MC officials||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 19Aiming at better maintenance of wards, execution of work, and implementation of Municipal Corporation rules along with challanning, the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation, Ambala, has divided and assigned all 20 wards among 10 corporation officials.Officials have been directed to look after the execution of all works, services related to maintenance of the park, removal of encroachment, challanning of single-use plastic, segregation of waste, and enforcement of municipal rules. The officials will visit their respective wards every Friday, and the commissioner will hold a review meeting every Tuesday. Speaking to The Tribune, the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Dhirendra Khadgata, said “Not only improving the sanitation conditions but for the overall development of the areas under the municipal corporation, all 20 wards have been divided among the officers. Two days have been fixed under this programme. While Friday will be their field visit day to fix all things in their respective wards, and then the progress will be reviewed on Tuesday. The annual confidential report of the MC officials will be linked to the status of their work.” While the commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata himself will look after the wards 6 and 7, the remaining wards have been assigned to other nine officials. As per the orders, Chief Engineer Mahipal Singh (ward 11 and 12), Dy Municipal Commissioner Aman Dhanda (2 and 3), Executive Officer Jarnail Singh (1 & 5), Executive Engineer Sanjeev Kumar (9 and 10), Municipal Engineer Dinesh Garg (4 & 8), City Project Officer Anil Rana (15 &16) & JE Tarun Kumar (13 & 14).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-wards-assigned-to10-mc-officials-352303
20-12-2021||---||Karnal: Two bodies found near Sonkra canal||Karnal, December 19Two bodies were found in the bushes on Padwala-Raman road near Sonkra canal on Sunday morning. The police investigation indicated it to be an accident case as the police found a damaged bike near the spot.The deceased have been identified as Gurnam Singh (33), a resident of Bir Dandari village, and Rajesh (27) of Nadana village. They were employees in a rice mill near Hathira village. “We have registered a case under Section 279, 304A of the IPC against the unidentified driver,” said Manoj Kumar, SHO, Taraori.“We got information at around 8.15 am and found the bodies. We have sent them for the post-mortem examination,” said the SHO, adding that it seemed to be an accident case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-bodies-found-near-sonkra-canal-352304
20-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Amid row over namaz, right-wing outfits offer 'ghar wapsi' to Muslims||In the ongoing issue over namaz in the open in the city, Hindu organisations have offered a solution in the form of ‘ghar wapsi’. The Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, which has been spearheading the protests against namaz, has offered conversion to Hinduism to the Muslims.“The majority of non-migrant Muslims here had Hindu forefathers and they were converted. We offer them ‘ghar wapsi’. If anybody is wilfully ready to return to the religion of his forefathers, we will aid and welcome them. If many people are interested, we will organise a mass ‘ghar wapsi’ and sprinkle ‘Gangajal’ on them. With that, they will have no dearth of places to pray as they can pray at temples,” said Mahaveer Bhardwaj, chairman of the samiti.The offer has rattled other communities who have demanded immediate intervention before communal tension engulfs the city. “What else do you expect when the CM himself endorses such behaviour? His no-tolerance comment flared up the situation. Now, it is his turn to provide an amicable solution that he talked about. Public spaces are used as we do not have enough mosques in the city,” said Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed.Gurugram has 13 mosques that can accommodate 5,000 people. Though there are many properties of the Waqf Board, the majority are encroached upon and under litigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-row-over-namaz-right-wing-outfits-offer-ghar-wapsi-to-muslims-352305
20-12-2021||---||Faridabad: 4 yrs on, construction of school rooms yet to be completed||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 19Over four years have passed, but the project for the construction of rooms in several government school buildings in the district is still incomplete. This has resulted in an unusual delay in handing over rooms to schools, which have inadequate building infrastructure.Citing lack of clear cut instructions and coordination between departments of the District Education Office (DEO) and the Municipal Corporation, Faridabad (MCF), sources claimed that the delay in the project had been a cause for concern as students of many government schools were deprived of basic classroom facilities. Though the work of repairs or construction of damaged school buildings was started several years ago, the project was lying incomplete.Revealing that a budget of Rs 10 crore was sanctioned by the government for repairs or reconstruction of 27 government school buildings in Faridabad, an official said funds were transferred to the MCF, which was asked to do the work.The project, he said, was yet to be completed. Meanwhile, allegations of poor quality work are also being levelled against the authorities. In a letter to the District Elementary Education Officer on October 28, the District Project Coordinator had asked him to do the needful. The issue was taken up by office-bearers of the Abhibhawak Ekta Manch on Twitter. The manch after a field visit had found that there was no progress in construction work for the past two years. According to Kailash Sharma, general secretary of the manch, the quality of the work was also substandard. Alleging irregularities, he said a letter was written to the CM for a probe.“The matter is being looked into as officials concerned have been asked to submit a report, which is yet to be received,” said DEO Ritu Chowdhary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-yrs-on-construction-of-school-rooms-yet-to-be-completed-352306
20-12-2021||Panipat||Panipat: Petrol pump owner gets extortion call||A petrol pump owner allegedly received an extortion call of Rs 50 lakh from two unidentified numbers on Friday night. Rajiv Jain, a resident of HSVP Sector 11/12 owns a petrol pump in the city. In his complaint, he said he was on his way home when he received a call from an unknown person demanding Rs 50 lakh.Inspector Manjeet, SHO Chandnibagh, said a case had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/petrol-pump-owner-gets-extortion-call-352307
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Scheme to waive loans of missing Haryana staff launched||In a humanitarian initiative, the BJP-JJP government has unveiled financial bonanza for deceased and missing Group C and D government employees. Now, these employees will not have to pay their outstanding amount of the various loans taken during their service.Sources said the outstanding amount of the loans, including the interest, would be waived as part of various “employee-friendly” initiatives of the Khattar government.The loans included home loan, marriage advance, computer loans, wheat loan, festival advance and scooter loan. In case of marriage advance, cycle advance, wheat advance and festival advance, the entire outstanding amount and interest would be waived.However, in case of the house building and computer advance, the outstanding amount along with interest would be waived provided “not more than one surviving member of the family is employed”. The second house building advance or interest would not be waived under any circumstances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scheme-to-waive-loans-of-missing-staff-launched-352308
20-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Interstate gang busted, 16 stolen bikes recovered||A special staff team of the Yamunanagar police has arrested two persons of an inter-state vehicle thieves’ gang and recovered 16 stolen motorcycles from their possession. The accused have been identified as Surjeet alias Maana and Vikram alias Bikku, both of Rani Majra village of Mohali, Punjab.Police spokesman Chamkaur Singh said SP Kamaldeep Goyal had issued directions to all SHOs, in-charges of all police posts and in-charges of other police cells to nail the accused. He said following the SP’s directions, the special staff team headed by Rajesh Rana arrested the duo from near Aggrasain Chowk, Jagadhri.He said the team got a tipoff that two persons were roaming on a motorcycle without a number plate. “The team erected a barricade and nabbed the accused. During interrogation, they confessed that they had stolen 16 motorcycles from Ambala, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Panchkula and Punjab, which were recovered,” said Chamkaur Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interstate-gang-busted-16-stolen-bikes-recovered-352309
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala inspects Pinjore airstrip||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala conducted a surprise inspection of the ongoing construction work at the Pinjore airstrip. During his visit, Chautala also met trainee pilots at the hostel of the Pilot Training School, run by the Civil Aviation Department.Chautala, along with senior officials, inspected facilities available at the airstrip. He gave necessary directions to officials to expedite construction work. He held discussions on the expansion of the airstrip and providing facilities for landing of large aircraft. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dy-cm-inspects-pinjore-airstrip-352310
20-12-2021||Karnal||Two arrested for 'demanding' Rs 50 lakh ransom from Kalyat based trader||A team of the CIA-I Kaithal district has arrested two persons in connection with an alleged case of demanding Rs50 lakh ransom from a Kalyat based trader.The accused have been identified as Monu of Jind district and Sohan of Barsikari Khurd village.Lokendra Singh, SP, Kaithal, said the police had registered a case on December 16 under Sections 387, 506 and 120B of the IPC on the complaint of Ramphal of Kalyat, who alleged that he had received a call on his mobile phone and the caller had demanded Rs50 lakh ransom from him on December 3.A team led by Sub-Inspector Kashmir Singh arrested both the accused, who earlier demanded Rs25 lakh ransom from a trader of Pehowa on December 5, the SP said. “We are inquiring from the accused about their involvement in other cases,” the SP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-demanding-50l-ransom-352311
20-12-2021||---||Truck driver dupes Yamunanagar jaggery trader of Rs 6 lakh||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 19A truck driver cheated a local trader by allegedly selling his 1,200 boxes of jaggery. The victim, Rajeev Malhotra of Adarsh Nagar, Yamunanagar, complained to the police after which a case was registered against the accused truck driver, identified as Rajesh Kumar of Gheer village in Karnal district, under Sections 406 and 420, IPC, at the city police station yesterday.The trader stated that he was into trading of sugar and jaggery. He said on December 8, his firm loaded 1,200 boxes of jaggery on a truck, which were to be unloaded in Gujarat on December 12. “When the truck didn’t reach given destination in Gujarat on December 12, I contacted its driver Rajesh Kumar, but he didn’t give me a satisfactory reply,” alleged complainant.Truck driver sold jaggery boxes at some other place, the complainant added.He further said that the price of jaggery boxes was Rs6,68,813. “The driver also took Rs20,000 from me as advance for the truck rent,” said complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/truck-driver-dupes-jaggery-trader-of-6l-352312
20-12-2021||---||SIT formed to crack Panipat girl's murder||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 19Superintendent of Police Shashank Kumar Sawan on Sunday constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to crack the murder case of a seven-year-old girl. The SP also revised the reward amount from Rs50,000 to Rs2 lakh for giving infomation about the accused.Villagers on Saturday night held a candle march at the village seeking the arrest of the accused.The victim had gone missing from Manana village when she had gone to a ‘bhandara’ last Sunday. The family members along with villagers found the body near the stadium on Khalila road on Tuesday. As per the post-mortem report, the victim was sexually abused and murdered by assaulting her with heavy objects on her head and face, sources said. SP Sawan on Sunday revisited the crime spot and reviewed developments in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sit-formed-to-crack-panipat-girls-murder-352313
20-12-2021||Hisar||Learning programme for LUVAS pupils||Students win state heritage quizAmbala: Abhishek (Class VIII) and Divya (Class VII) of Lord Mahavir school, have won the Haryana state round of heritage quiz, by standing first among nearly 10 teams. They will now go for the national round which will be held in January. It will be conducted by the Indian National Trust for Art and Culture (INTACH). Colonel (retd) RD Singh, convenor, INTACH, Ambala, congratulated the winners for bringing laurels to Ambala and said the heritage quiz was a great learning experience for students, and teachers, spreading awareness of our culture and heritage. Lord Mahavir school had won among over 100 children from 17 schools who had participated in this quiz from Ambala.NID, DSEU sign pact to work togetherKurukshetra: The National Institute of Design (NID), Haryana, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Delhi Skill Entrepreneurship University (DSEU), New Delhi. The MoU is signed by Dr Vanita Ahuja, director, NID, Haryana, and Ashwani Kansal, Registrar, DSEU, New Delhi. Through this MoU, both the institutions have agreed to collaborate for research and academic activities, short term/modular/workshops, research/consultancy programmes, student exchanges, student training, internships, projects, etc and to jointly organise short-term continuing education programme.SD Vidya School wins awardAmbala: SD Vidya School, Ambala Cantt, has won the award for Best School for Futuristic Education. This award was given by the International Council of Educators of International Internship University in the Global Education, Summit, and Award and Convocation 2021 in Delhi under the Best Global School Award 2021 programme. This event was organised to celebrate the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', the initiative by the Government of India. The director principal of the school Neelinderjeet Kaur Sandhu expressed her pleasure on receiving this prestigious award and said the school would write many more stories of success in future as well.Faculty, research scholars meetSirsa: Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University (CDLU) Prof Ajmer Singh Malik held a meeting with the faculty members and research scholars in the university to review the ongoing research activities and to motivate the research scholars. The VC said the research was the soul of the university academics, which bridged the gap between the public and governance. The Vice Chancellor of the university appreciated the on-going research activities by the faculties. Prof Malik also interacted with the faculty about the forthcoming visit of the National Academic Accredited Committee in the university.Azadi Amritmahotsav SeriesHisar: The speakathon club under the mentorship of the training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised the 18th episode of 'Azadi Amritmahotsav Series' in the form of "Blended elocution competition" to commemorate the 75th Year of India's Independence. Thirty students from various departments and colleges participated in the competition in both offline as well as online mode. Prof Karampal Narwal, director, HSB of the university was the chief guest of the function. Vidhi Sachdeva of B.Sc. 2nd Year from DN College, Monika Sihag from MSc chemistry first year and Manik from MBA (IB) first year got the first, second and third prizes, respectively.Jhajjar students shine in youth festJhajjar: Students of the State Institute of Advanced Studies in Teacher Education (SIASTE) have brought laurels to the institute by winning several prizes in the Zonal Youth Festival held in Faridabad recently. Dr Savita Yadav, coordinator, said 27 students of SIASTE participated in 29 competitions, in which Hemant, Rahul and Kajal Sisodia got first position in poetry (Hindi), mimicry and debate (English) respectively. Prasad Prabhu and Neeti Bhardwaj stood second in debate (english) and speech while a group comprising Chhavi, Rajnandini, Vidhika, Divya, Yashika, Lakshmi and another group of Prati, Srishti, Divya, Bhavna, Priya and Lakshmi stood third in singing.IGU student chosen for R-Day paradeRewari: Yogesh, a student of Indira Gandhi University (IGU), here, has been selected among those six NSS volunteers across Haryana, who will participate in the Republic Day (RD) Parade in Delhi. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said 60 NSS volunteers from Haryana had participated in the pre-RD camp held in Jaipur and merely six had been selected for the parade. Registrar Prof Pramod Kumar, dean (academic affairs) Prof Mamta Kamra and programme coordinator Dr Karan Singh congratulated Yogesh for his achievement.CUH students clear ISS examMahendragarh: Two students of department of statistics at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) have successfully qualified the Indian Statistical Service (ISS) Examination 2021 conducted by the UPSC. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said their success would inspire other students. Dr Devender Kumar, teacher in-charge, said Maneesh Kumar, a research scholar, secured AIR 3 while Sunil Machara, former student from the department of statistics, MSc batch 2019, got AIR 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/learning-programme-for-luvas-pupils-352314
20-12-2021||It is an eye sore to see construction debris being dumped in the open||Construction debris dumped outside houses in Ambala||Col RD Singh (Retd), AmbalaNo signboards, markings on roadsThough foggy days have started, the authorities are yet to draw white line and put up signboards on various highways leading to other cities from Rohtak. The situation may cause road mishaps in case of poor visibility. The authorities usually wake up from slumber after a fatal accident. It must pay attention towards it to prevent any possibility of a road mishap in dense fog.Mukesh Kumar, RohtakIrregularity in garbage collectionIwant to draw the attention of municipal officers and workers towards the issue of irregularities in door to door garbage collection. For the past two weeks the vehicle of the Municipal Corporation for door to door garbage collection is not coming in some places of Yamunanagar, which forces people to throw garbage in the open. Garbage heaps also invite stray animals which make it difficult for children to cross streets. Hence, I request the municipal officials to resume 'door to door' garbage collection facility urgently and keep the city clean.Abhinav, YamunanagarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-debris-dumped-outside-houses-352315
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Diary: Was Haryana Vidhan technical snag for real?||‘Lack of Sanskrit knowledge affecting families’Ambala: Home Minister Anil Vij has blamed the lack of knowledge of Sanskrit language as one of the major reasons for the families falling apart. Addressing a gathering, he said: “During a wedding ceremony, the priest speaks ‘shalokas’ in Sanskrit, but both the bride and the groom don’t understand those and the marriage gets solemnised. I assert that this is also one of the reasons for the families that are falling apart today.” He said all scriptures were written in Sanskrit but as part of a conspiracy, the language was taken away from us.Sacked PTIs inspired by farmers’ stirBhiwani: The terminated Physical Training Instructors (PTIs) who were rendered jobless after the Supreme Court judgment in Haryana are protesting for the past 552 days. These 1,982 PTIs, who are staging dharnas at various district headquarters in the state, said though the Chief Minister has assured them of justice, there has been no further action to prove it. Vijender Singh, pradhan of the Bhiwani terminated PTI teachers association, said their families were facing hardships for over two years. “But we are inspired by the farmers who have struggled and got their demands fulfilled. We will also not retract until our demands are met,” he said.Hooda loyalist turns to Selja KumariRohtak: It is said that there are no permanent friends or foes in politics. In the latest instance, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s supporter and former minister Krishan Murti Hooda has lately tilted towards the camp of state Congress president Selja Kumari. He has held a couple of meetings with his supporters recently, during which they decided to organise Selja’s public meetings in all nine Assembly segments under the Rohtak Lok Sabha constituency. At a recent meeting, Krishan Murti’s supporters decided to arrange a public meeting of Selja in Garhi Sampla-Kiloi Assembly constituency, which is currently represented by the Leader of Opposition. Sources close to the former minister maintain that he is desirous of contesting the Lok Sabha election from Rohtak, which has been represented by the ex-CM’s son and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda till recently.Leaders spar over move to shift milk plantFaridabad: The proposal to shift the government-owned ‘Vita’ milk plant of Ballabgarh town has become an issue of politics. Mool Chand Sharma, local MLA and Cabinet Minister, has taken up the project of shifting the plant from Arya Nagar here to any available space in Ballabgarh or Tigaon Assembly constituency in view of its congested location. The move has been opposed by some Opposition leaders, including Karan Dalal, Congress party leader and a former MLA from Palwal. While Dalal has accused the authorities of shifting the project set up during the Congress rule without any justification, claiming that it will lead to unemployment and a loss to dairy owners supplying milk to it, Sharma has defended it by describing it as need of the hour in view the problems faced by residents of various colonies and sectors due to narrow lanes, inadequate space and movement of vehicles.Rohtak Congress MLA ‘slighted’Rohtak: The saying “senior leader of ruling party is much more powerful than MLA of opposition,” aptly fits Rohtak. Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra continues to feel ‘ignored’ by the district administration, while former minister and BJP’s state vice-president Manish Grover is persistently getting preferential treatment despite losing Assembly polls to Batra in 2019. Recently, Grover was the chief guest at Geeta Jayanti Mahotsav, while there was no mention of Batra on the invitation card. It was not the first instance of the sort. However, this time Batra said he would raise the issue before the top authorities as sitting MLA should be invited as per protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/was-technical-snag-for-real-352316
20-12-2021||---||Severe cold in Northwest, no relief likely for 3 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh are in the grip of a severe cold wave, the Meteorological Department said on Sunday. People in Punjab and Haryana reeled under biting cold conditions with the holy city of Amritsar on Sunday recording a minimum temperature of minus 0.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal.Moderate fog was reported in Amritsar and Ludhiana. In Haryana, Sirsa was the coldest at 0.6 degrees Celsius. Churu in Rajasthan reported the lowest minimum temperature of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in northwest India, followed by Sikar (minus 2.5 degrees Celsius) and Amritsar (minus 0.5 degrees Celsius). Delhi recorded a minimum of 4.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cold to severe cold wave conditions are highly likely to continue over the next three days. Dense fog is predicted in Uttarakhand over the next two days and in Punjab and Haryana on December 23 and 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/severe-cold-in-northwest-no-relief-likely-for-3-days-352273
20-12-2021||Sumedha Sharma||New marriage age on cards, Mewat region sees flurry of weddings||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, December 19It was just a week ago that 18-year-old Safeena Ahmed (name changed) was shopping for a perfect salwar-kameez for the Christmas celebrations at her college. Little did she know that she would instead have to choose a wedding “sharara”.Weekend rush“I knew who my husband would be since I was 5, he is my aunt’s relative. I am from a relatively more liberal and educated family and the first in my family to go to Delhi University. I was allowed to stay in hostel and the wedding was never spoken about. However on Friday when I was out shopping with my mother, my father called and suddenly my mother put aside the salwar-kameez and started looking for bridal ‘gararas’.“I was shocked. When we got home, I was told a new law was being made to raise women’s marriage age to 21. My family wanted to hurry up with the wedding, fearing that the boy and his family wouldn’t wait for another 3 years. The wedding has now been fixed for Monday,” says the teenager from Ferozpur Jhirka.Safeena’s is not a lone story, as the government’s nod to a Bill raising women’s marriage age has sent many into a tizzy in the Muslim-dominated Mewat region, particularly Nuh district, where girls are generally married off early. Nuh is among the most backward districts in the country.The region witnessed hundreds of weddings over the weekend of girls aged between 18 and 20 with parents rushing to get over with their “responsibility” while it was still legal to do so.“I am flooded with requests for grooms who are ready to marry within two days. We are making these announcements during prayer meetings,” says Mushtaq, an imam from Nuh.“Ironically, girls from Nuh had actively participated in a campaign demanding an increase in marriageable age. Seeing parents rushing their girls into matrimony, we want that the registration of such marriages should be stalled till the law is passed,” said Sunil Jaglan, who spearheaded the campaign in Haryana for enhancement of marriageable age.Incidentally, there has also been a rise in court weddings after the government announcement on Thursday. The number of inter-caste couples seeking court marriage in Gurugram went up 4 times over the weekend, reveal two local lawyers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-marriage-age-on-cards-mewat-region-sees-flurry-of-weddings-352274
