21-12-2021||Chandigarh||No religious worship in open by any community sans permission: Haryana CM Khattar||No member of any community should hold religious prayers in public places, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar told the state assembly on Tuesday amid objections by several Hindu groups to Friday prayers by Muslims in open in Gurugram.People of all faiths hold prayers at designated religious places like temples, mosques, gurdwaras and churches and permissions are given for all big festivals and programmes in open, Khattar said, in response to Nuh Congress MLA Aftab Ahmed raising the issue of objection by Hindu groups during Zero Hour in the House.“But by displaying a show of strength which provokes sentiments of another community is not appropriate,” Khattar said as Ahmed raised the issue.It was for the second time that the matter figured during the winter session of the Haryana assembly, which began here on Friday.The MLA from the main opposition party said, “Some elements are repeatedly disrupting Friday prayers. The Constitution gives the right to practice one’s religion. No one has the right to disrupt prayers. In Gurugram, thousands of crores of investment has been pumped in and the city is a symbol of development. What message will be sent out from Gurugram if one cannot offer prayers as per one’s choice?”   “No member of any community should hold such programmes in open spaces. If they have to hold them, they should do so in temples, mosques, gurdwaras and churches. It is the responsibility of all to maintain a peaceful atmosphere and to see that there is no confrontation in society,” the chief minister said, making an intervention.He said it is good that people have agreed to hold Friday prayers at certain places (in Gurugram) and there is consensus till new arrangements are made.“But when some people hold prayers outside such spots, a situation of confrontation arises. It is a local issue, it is not an issue which should be flared up as it can spoil communal harmony,” he said.Khattar said there are annual events of all faiths be it Dussehra, Ram Lila, Urs and these are held with due permission.“But in routine, daily or weekly (prayers), there are designated places. And where there is confrontation by offering prayers in open spaces, things should be resolved amicably,” he said.Ahmed said ‘eidgahs’ and mosques should be freed from illegal encroachments in Gurugram “so that our community members are not forced to offer prayers in open. Thousands of Muslims come to Gurugram in search of employment and there is not enough space for them to offer prayers.”   He told Khattar that protecting minorities’ rights is his responsibility.“The CM gave a statement on December 10 that namaz cannot be offered in open spaces. CM Sahab, you are the custodian of Haryana, you have to protect people of all faiths,” said Ahmed.Two Congress MLAs—Mamman Khan from Ferozepur Jhirka from Mewat and Mohammad Ilyas from Punhana in Mewat region of the state – had in the state assembly earlier on Friday objected to the chief minister’s recent remarks over ‘namaz’, terming it unfortunate and demanding that he take back his statement.With several Hindu groups objecting to Friday prayers by Muslims in public places in Gurugram, Khattar had on December 10 said the practice of offering ‘namaz’ in the open “will not be tolerated”.He, however, had said an amicable solution to the issue would be found.Three years ago, the administration had designated 37 sites in Gurugram city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz.A Hindu group, however, has been objecting to the practice of Friday prayers in open for the last few months. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-religious-worship-in-open-by-any-community-sans-permission-haryana-cm-khattar-352945
21-12-2021||Gurugram||Cab driver shot in Gurugram||A Jhajjar resident, who was an Ola cab driver, was found shot dead in Sector 38 area in the morning today. A bullet shot was in his forehead and the body was lying in a vacant plot. An FIR for murder has been registered at Sadar police station, but the police have no clue so far.According to the police, at around 9 am, someone informed the police that a body was lying in a vacant plot in Sector 38.A team from Sadar police station reached the spot and took the body into custody. Later, the deceased was identified as Hariom (31), a resident of Barani village in Jhajjar district. Then, the police informed his family.Manmohan, brother of the deceased, reached there and told the police that his brother Hariom was working as a taxi driver. He was married but had separated from his wife. “We have no idea who killed my brother,” said Manmohan.On the complaint of Manmohan, an FIR has been registered against unidentified accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act.“The motive behind the murder is not clear yet. We handed over the body to the kin after the post-mortem examination today,” said inspector Dinesh Kumar, SHO of Sadar police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cab-driver-shot-in-gurugram-352591
21-12-2021||Panipat||NH-44 Widening: Officials initiate feasibility survey in Panipat||MP Sanjay Bhatia, along with MLA Pramod Vij, DC Sushil Kumar Sarwan and officials, on Monday conducted a survey to check the feasibility of widening of roads on the NH-44 crossing in the city.Today, they visited the NH-44 to conduct a survey for road widening under the elevated expressway so that the traffic jams in the city could be addressed.They also demarcated the places where the NH-44 has to be widened on both sides.Bhatia said the work to widen the NH-44 would be started soon. A survey had been conducted on both sides of the road and the points where it needs to be widened had been identified, he said.Besides, a provision is also being made for the construction of the U-turn next to Gohana road, the MP said. It has also been decided to construct a special lane for three-wheelers and autos. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nh-44-widening-officials-initiate-feasibility-survey-352592
21-12-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Impersonators' gang busted, four arrested||In a major breakthrough, a team of CIA-2, Kaithal, arrested four persons of a gang allegedly involved in clearing exams with the help of impersonators.The police have recovered Rs 7 lakh, 11 admit cards with photos of other candidates and five mobile phones. “In the preliminary probe, the accused revealed they had appeared in different exams of the central and state governments for 17 candidates,” said SP Lokender Singh.The kingpin has been identified as Sanjay, a resident of Chattar village in Jind, who is also a head clerk in Burail Jail in Chandigarh and has been living in Bheni Majra village in Kaithal district for the past one year. Besides, the police have arrested Sandeep of Chattar, Rahul of Ballabhgarh in Faridabad and Ashwani Pratap Singh of UP.Sanjay and Rahul are on six-day police remand, while Ashwani and Sandeep are on three-day remand.During investigation, Sanjay told the police that Rahul had appeared in the police constable exams in the place of Sandeep on October 31 in Rewari. The deal was finalised in Rs 12 lakh, of which Sandeep had to give Rs 7 lakh after passing the paper and remaining Rs 5 lakh after his final selection. Sandeep had passed the exams and he came to Sanjay’s residence to give Rs 7 lakh as per the deal, said the SP. “We have registered a case under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC,” he said, adding that Sanjay had enrolled several intelligent youths to appear and clear different exams, for which he used to charge hefty amount. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/impersonators-gang-busted-four-arrested-352593
21-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Industries dump toxic waste in the open at Dharuhera||Tribune News ServiceRewari, December 20Fly ash, burnt coal and other waste materials are allegedly being dumped by industries in the open along the service lane of the Delhi-Jaipur highway in Dharuhera town here.The waste is not only polluting the air but also causing issues to the commuters and those residing nearby.Probe launchedWe have started a probe. Since the land where the toxic waste is being dumped falls within the MC ambit, the authorities are being contacted to find out the owner to further know about the violators. Mohit Mudgil, HSPCB regional officerActing on a complaint in this regard, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has told its regional officer at Dharuhera to ensure action against the erring industries within a week so as to prevent the unscientific disposal of waste.“The fly ash, burnt coal and other industrial waste are being dumped in the open on a stretch located along the service lane between Dharuhera and Kaprivaas village under the cover of darkness. Fly ash is a hazardous pollutant that contains acidic, toxic and even radioactive substances hence the practice needs to be stopped immediately in order to prevent the spread of pollution,” said Prakash Yadav of Kharkara village in his complaint to the HSPCB.Yogesh, a local, said the dumping of industrial waste in the open was causing breathing issues among residents. The matter was brought to the knowledge of the authorities but they were yet to act against the erring industries, he added.“The waste is the main cause of deteriorating air quality in Dharuhera,” said Kanta, a social activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industries-dump-toxic-waste-in-the-open-at-dharuhera-352594
21-12-2021||---||Rewari: Panel formed to inspect structures on AIIMS land||Rewari, December 20Expediting the execution process of the ambitious AIIMS project, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Yashendra Singh on Monday formed a four-member committee led by the ADC to inspect structures and tubewells installed on the proposed land in Majra village here.The committee has been asked to submit its report within two days after evaluating the value of these structures and tubewells so that these could also be bought from the owners to clear the deck for the project execution. Besides the ADC, the committee comprises District Revenue Officer, District Development and Panchayat Officer, District Town Planner and Superintending Engineer of the PWD, said sources.Significantly, the move came a day after the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti threatened to launch an agitation if the state government failed to initiate the process for buying the farmers’ land for the project by December 31.A total of 228 acres, including 168 private acres, have been offered for the project in Majra village while the government has announced to buy the land for Rs 40 lakh per acre.Earlier, a meeting of the district officials associated with the project and representatives of the landowners was held at the DC office to review the progress of the project. The DC asked the farmers to provide the details of their bank accounts as early as possible so that the process for buying the land could be initiated, the sources added.“The number of persons who have offered their land for the project is more than 500, hence the bank account details of all of them are required before the registration of sale deeds. However, many landowners are yet to submit their details,” said an officer.Meanwhile, DC Yashendra Singh said the state government was serious about the project but essential formalities were required to be completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-formed-to-inspect-structures-on-aiims-land-352595
21-12-2021||Parveen Arora||To meet 100% vaccination target, Kaithal ropes in village secys & traders||Tribune News ServiceKaithal, December 20Amid the third Covid wave fear, the Kaithal administration has geared up for the inoculation drive. It has not only made it mandatory for the government staff to show their vaccination certificate while entering the workplace, but has also roped in conductors, village secretaries and traders to achieve 100% inoculation target in the district.On Monday, Kaithal DC Pradeep Dahiya and SP Lokender Singh showed their fully vaccinated certificates at the entrance of the mini secretariat to encourage other employees to get both the doses.Conductors will help the Health Department in making the public aware of vaccination, educate them about the inoculation camps at the bus stand and other sites. The traders will help in arranging evening sessions in the markets and will also encourage shoppers to get themselves vaccinated. Meanwhile, village secretaries will help in arranging vaccination camps in their areas.The district has a target population of 8.11 lakh. So far, 6.71 lakh people have taken only the first dose and 4.35 lakh of them have been fully vaccinated.“We are not stopping anyone from entering their offices, still several employees have not taken the vaccine. To know their reasons and educate them, we have made it mandatory for the government employees to show their fully vaccinated certificates while entering their workplace,” said Kaithal DC.In coming days, the volunteers would reach out to the students of colleges and the ITIs, for which they have held a meeting with the principals, the DC said, adding that these steps were being taken to ensure the safety of residents.“We have roped in 189 teams that are conducting special sessions at different places. On Monday, as many as 27,000 people got themselves vaccinated in the district, which is the highest across Haryana,” he added.The DC further said people were ignorant and were avoiding vaccination due to rumours and some other reasons. “We will educate them under this special campaign,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-meet-100-vacciantion-target-kaithal-ropes-in-village-secys-traders-352596
21-12-2021||---||To attain 'moksha', Hisar man ends life after killing wife, 3 kids||Hisar, December 20A 45-year-old man allegedly killed his wife and three children before committing suicide by jumping in front of a speeding vehicle at Nangthala village in this district on Monday.Ramesh Varma (45), who worked as a shopkeeper, allegedly killed wife Sunita (38), and children Anushka (14), Deepika (12) and Keshav (10).A multipage suicide note written in a notebook recovered from their residence revealed that Ramesh had killed his wife and children and then ended his life to attain “moksha”.Known as a docile person, Ramesh was famous in the region for his love for animals and birds. He also used to catch snakes from the houses and would release those in forest areas.The police sources said Ramesh also performed some religious rituals at night. The police said that they got information about an accident on the Agroha-Barwala road. The body was identified as that of Ramesh.When the police reached his home in Nangthala village, they were taken aback on seeing bloodstained bodies lying on two beds in a room.DIG Balwan Singh Rana informed that the police found a notebook, which contained some pages purportedly written by Ramesh which indicated that he had perpetrated the killings and then ended his life.The suicide note also pointed to the motive behind the entire incident as Ramesh had written about attaining “moksha”. He also apologised for troubling everyone and also stated that he was freeing his body and that he had no regrets.Subhash, a neighbouring shopkeeper in Agroha town where Ramesh owned a shop, informed that Ramesh was not too familiar with other people in the vicinity.“He did not mix up with other shopkeepers,” he said, adding that he, along with his son, had closed their shop at about 3 pm. On other days, Ramesh used to stay in the shop till about 10 pm, he added.The police have ruled out financial strain as the reason for the incident as he was reportedly earning well from his shop.Naresh Kumar, Ramesh’s neighbour in Nangthala village, located about 9 km from Agroha town, said that he was a religious person and a lover of birds and wildlife.Ramesh had reportedly inscribed several pages in the notebook recovered from his house. It indicated that the family members had taken ‘kheer’ as dinner last night which was apparently laced with sleeping pills. The police suspect that Ramesh killed his wife and children by hitting them with a heavy iron implement when they were in unconscious condition.He wrote that he had attempted suicide earlier by touching a live electricity wire but was unsuccessful.He left home at about 4 am on foot and is suspected to have deliberately jumped in front of a speeding vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-attain-moksha-hisar-man-ends-life-after-killing-wife-3-kids-352597
21-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Animals damage standing crops in fields||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Animals damage standing crops in fieldsStray animals damage standing crops in the fields of farmers not only in Karnal city but across the state. Many accidents occur due to the sudden appearance of these animals on roads and markets and thousands of innocent people lose their lives or suffer physical and financial loss. The BJP-JJP coalition government of Haryana should seriously consider this issue and find a concrete solution to this problem at the earliest. Shakti Singh, KarnalNot much done for city during Gita JayantiBefore the onset of the Gita Jayanti, residents of Kurukshetra had pinned high hopes on the local administration for the completion of various developmental works which had been pending for the past many years. However, nothing happened. The entire city of Kurukshetra, except the areas in the vicinity of Barhma Sarovar, wears dusty and dirty look. Broken roads with potholes, heaps of garbage and traffic jams disappointed the large crowds that thronged Kurukshetra during Gita Jayanti. The moot question that keeps gnawing everybody is the disappearance of huge funds which were earmarked for the upkeep of the city roads. Dr Deepak Kaushik, KurukshetraPoor sanitation near Panchkula dispensaryThe area outside boundary wall of the Civil Dispensary in Sector 8, Panchkula, narrates the picture of poor sanitation. It is truly disgusting to observe some defiant/incorrigible residents living nearby, have been refusing to make amends. Sadly, they continue to behave in uncivilized way. Since old habits die hard, let the civic body penalize them so that they fall in line. Kumar Gupt, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/animals-damage-standing-crops-in-fields-352598
21-12-2021||Kaithal||Internet, web-designing course||Role of media in drug de-addictionKarnal: The RPIIT Group of Institutions, Bastara, Karnal, organised a workshop on "Role of media in drug de-addiction", in which senior faculty and mediapersons participated. Divya Kiran, HoD of department of pharmacy, informed about the workshop. Dr Amit Chandna, Principal, DMLT Department, highlighted the issues pertaining to the role of social media in controlling drug abuse. Mediapersons, including Sushil Jain, Ravi Bhatia, Rajender Kumar, Jai Bhagwan, Tejbir and Kamal Dhiman explained the extent of losses faced by society and the steps taken by them for tackling the social problems in general and drug abuse in particular. Dr. Mohinder Singh, administrator, RPIIT, appreciated the media for its contribution in bringing out the truth and for educating people in the context of drug de-addiction.Training workshopHisar: A one-day training workshop was organised on the Research Farm of Medicinal, Aromatic and Potential Section of the Department of Genetics and Plant Breeding of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), Hisar. During the workshop, farmers were made aware of the importance of medicinal plants. Head of department Dr S K Pahuja said due to the corona epidemic, the importance of medicinal plants has increased a lot. Therefore, it is very important for the common man to be aware of it. He said medicinal plants could cure many diseases.Tableau on Geeta JayantiKarnal: Students and teachers of Pratap Public School, Sector 6, Karnal, prepared a float on Geeta Jayanti depicting scenes from the life of the Lord Krishna. Principal Dr Puja Mann stressed the need to share lessons from Shrimad Bhagwad Geeta to the young generations. The alluring tableau won the hearts of the onlookers and was a sight to behold.Biotech dept gets grant for researchKurukshetra: The department of biotechnology, Kurukshetra University, has received a grant of Rs.14 lakh from the Haryana State Council of Science and Technology for a research and development project on production of microbial silicases for the resolution of silica in rice straw for value addition for a period of three years. The Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, congratulated project in-charge Dr Sunita Dalal and DrJitendra Sharma for getting the grant. The registrar, Kurukshetra University, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, also expressed happiness on receiving the grant. Dr. Dalal told that the project focus is on harassing paddy straws from the districts of Haryana, in context to preventing their burning and as potential material for various industries. The crop residue burning generates tons of pollutants affecting the health of humans.Virtual short-term courseGurugram: The faculty of commerce and management of SGT University is going to launch a virtual short-term certificate course on digital marketing. The duration of the programme is three months and live virtual classes will be conducted on weekends. The virtual sessions will share the concept of digital marketing practices, including hands-on practical sessions. Students will learn how to make a blog, website, short videos as well as promotional videos. The session also includes how to create creative messages, digital marketing-content planning, and auditing. Industry professionals, new-age entrepreneurs, academiciansand students can attend this programme.Energy efficient India campaignFaridabad: The energy conservation club of Aggarwal College, Ballabhgarh, organised a week-long campaign "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav - energy efficient India" recently. According to Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta a rally was organised in which the volunteers along with faculty took a pledge to conserve resources. Slogan writing and poster-making competitions were held on the theme of "Energy conservation". More than 80 participants took part in both events.Debate competitionYamunanagar: Mukand Lal Public School, Yamunanagar, organised an inter-Mukand English debate competition for Classes I to V. Principal Dr Mamta Verma said 24 students of Mukand Lal Public School, Yamunanagar; Mukand Public School, Model Town; Swaraj Public School, Radaur and Swaraj Public School, Damla, participated in the event. She said the topic of the speech was -'Online classes are better than offline classes'. She further said that Virja, Manvi and Aryansh remained the toppers in Class I; Yuvika ,Ruhi and Dhairya did well in Class II; Vrinda, Arnavi and Jessiya excelled in Class III; Saksham, Dishant and Drishti achieved the top positions in Class IV; Niyali, Avni Kamboj and Sanvi excelled in Class V.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/internet-web-designing-course-352599
21-12-2021||---||Surinder Duhan is Panipat bar president||Panipat, December 20Surender Duhan has been elected as the president of the District Bar Association, Panipat, by defeating Rajesh Sharma by a margin of 216 votes while Sandeep Sharma was re-elected as Sonepat DBA president by a margin of 86 votes in the annual District Bar Association elections held on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surinder-duhan-is-panipat-bar-president-352600
21-12-2021||---||Supreme Court Judge visits Hisar Bar Association||Hisar, December 20Supreme Court judge Justice Surya Kant said advocates were not just professionals but also social engineers.Addressing the district bar association in Hisar during his felicitation ceremony here today, Justice Surya Kant who has been the member of the Hisar Bar Association, urged the advocates to play an important role in maintaining the social fabric. He said that a good legal professional strived to strengthen democracy and contribute towards development of society and the nation as a whole.“The job of a lawyer is not limited to his profession, but it is also to represent the whole society. Lawyers had also played an important role in the struggle for the country’s Independence. In the same way, the fraternity should always be ready to fulfill its responsibility towards the country”, he said. Justice Surya Kant belongs to Hisar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-judge-visits-hisar-bar-association-352601
21-12-2021||---||Former Haryana Sugarfed chief Chander Parkash Kathuria claims threat calls from abroad||Karnal, December 20The former chairman of Haryana Sugarfed, Chander Parkash Kathuria, has claimed to have been receiving threat calls from foreign countries for the past two months.Kathuria alleged that even after filing complaints with the Karnal SP, IGP, Karnal Range and DGP, no action had been initiated so far. Family members are living in fear due to numerous calls by unknown persons daily on his mobile number.Police not taking issue seriouslyMy issue is not being taken seriously by the police. The caller should be arrested, so that we can live peacefully as our lives have become hell and we are living in constant fear Chander Parkash Kathuria, former chairman of Haryana sugarfedEarlier, in 2018 and 2019, he had received threat calls and the FIRs were registered but no one was arrested.“I had received first threat call on October 23, at 9.42 pm and the unidentified caller had threatened to kill me if I did not stop my business,” said Kathuria.Since that day, he has been receiving numerous calls and has met each and every officer but nothing has been done so far, he alleged.He said he had also sought police security, but it was not given to him. Kathuria, who is a real estate developer, said the numbers of the caller are of different countries.“My issue is not being taken seriously by the police. The caller should be arrested, so that we can live peacefully as our lives have become hell and we are living in constant fear,” said Kathuria. Ganga Ram Punia, SP, said the case had been registered and cyber crime team was investigating the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-sugarfed-chief-claims-threat-calls-from-abroad-352602
21-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Road construction delayed in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 20The construction of the four-kilometre long smart roads, first of its kind in the city, launched as part of the Smart City project is facing delay despite being launched three years ago.Taken up in 2018, the Rs 80 crore project has already missed the deadline of January 2020 and is not likely to be completed within the next six months due to the hurdles involved, according to sources in the district administration. While the work has been lying suspended for the past two months due to a ban on construction in view of the imposition of GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan) to curb air pollution, the pace of work has also been hurdled by encroachments, delay in payments and non- availability of workforce since the onset of the Covid pandemic, it is revealed. The project includes two roads that run parallel to connect Badkhal Chowk and Old Faridabad Chowk on the National Highway with the Bypass highway having a length of about two-kilometer each. “ The poor pace of work has left commuters at the receiving end, who have been a victim of traffic congestion due to haphazard work,’’ says A K Gaur, a resident.Funded by the Smart city project (Rs 2,601 crore),the task envisages widening and building of the roads with cement and concrete having 1.5 m wide paved shoulder on each side, a pedestrian walkway, parking spaces and cycle tracks besides the storm water drainage, sewerage system and underground electrical cables. Smart features like information kiosks, Wi-Fi connectivity, panic button, CCTV cameras, smart bins, environmental sensor, message sign boards, smart lighting, landscaping, street furniture, green cover and modern bus bays for parking of vehicles. Other major projects in the city which have been a victim of delay include construction of several main roads, Nahar Singh International Cricket Stadium, bridge over Yamuna at Manjhawali, bus stand and revival of Badkhal Lake.Work on the smart roads project will be stepped up as soon as the GRAP is relaxed, said a senior official of Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) involved in the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-construction-delayed-in-faridabad-352603
21-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Canal Front project misses deadline||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 20The project of Canal Front on the bank of Western Yamuna Canal has missed its deadline of November end. As per sources, the project is running late by around three-months. Now, the authorities have fixed its new deadline to end of February 2022.Direction to complete it soonThe project has missed its deadline of November-end and now we have fixed a deadline of February-end. I have directed the company to complete it before the deadline, otherwise penalty will be imposed. Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC-cum-CEO, KSCLTaking inspiration from the development of Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad, Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Karnal Smart City project, had chalked out a plan of developing two-km long stretch between Kachwa road and Kaithal road as tourist spot.After the nod from the state government, the KSCL started work on this project, costing around Rs 6.5 crore, and the deadline was fixed to November 2021 end, but, as per the authorities, due to the Covid-19 induced second wave and lockdown, the work was hampered leading to delay.“The project has missed its deadline of November-end and now we have fixed a deadline of February-end. I have directed the company to complete it before the deadline, otherwise penalty will be imposed,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-who is CEO KSCL.Under this project, an amusement park, cycle track, walk way, kids play area, and other facilities for residents are being developed. Two open-air gyms will be part of this project. There will be lighting throughout the stretch, said the CEO.The Triveni park is being developed at a point where three canals, including Bhakra, SYL and the Western Yamuna Canal meet, this will beautify the project, he said.Besides, the KSCL called two separate tenders to develop a park in an acre near the Western Yamuna Canal bridge and a landscape of mud along it.“We have called two separate tenders for developing one park in an acre near the bridge and also develop a landscape near it. Both works will enhance the beauty of this site,” said Yadav, adding that the work of cycle track is almost complete, while the work on footpath is underway. Two small parks are also being developed on this stretch.Canalfront will boost social-economic development of the areas and will create a well balanced eco-friendly environment. The purpose of this project is to maintain the ecological state of the waterfront as well as protect the existing natural areas. Besides, conserving the flora and fauna embankments of the canals will also be maintained, the CEO added.Inspired by Sabarmati projectTaking inspiration from the development of Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad, Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Karnal Smart City project, had chalked out a plan of developing two-km long stretch between Kachwa road and Kaithal road as tourist spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/canal-front-project-misses-deadline-352604
21-12-2021||---||Bill to set up university in Panipat passed||Chandigarh, December 20The Haryana Private Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was tabled on the first day of the ongoing winter session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, was passed today.It will pave the way for setting up of a private university, Geeta University, in Panipat. As of now, there are 24 private universities in the state, including 10 in Gurugram alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bill-to-set-up-university-in-panipat-passed-352605
21-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram heist: Court orders re-arrest of ASI Vikas Gulia||Gurugram, December 20A local court has cancelled the bail of multi-crore heist key accused ASI Vikas Gulia of the Delhi Police and ordered his re arrest.The move came in the wake of STF’s request as the agency feared that he might influence the investigation while out on bail. Currently absconding, the agency is conducting raids to nab him.A local court also recently issued an arrest warrant against suspended IPS officer Dheeraj Setia, currently on the run, in connection with the case. “The bail of accused ASI Vikas Gulia has been cancelled. Our teams are raiding the hideouts of Setia, Gulia and gangster Vikas Lagarpuriya. We hope all will be nabbed soon,” said STF DIG B Satheesh Balan.So far, a total of 13 persons have been arrested in connection with the case, including two doctors, financers and members of Lagarpuriya gang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-heist-court-orders-re-arrest-of-asi-352607
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three amendment Bills introduced in Haryana Assembly||The government today introduced three Bills — Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Haryana Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development (Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2021, and Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Assembly.The Bills will be put to vote after discussions later. The water management Bill will bring an amendment to Section 4 (1) of a similar Act of 2018. It will allow the executive vice-chairperson, technical adviser and member secretary of the authority to work till 68 years. Earlier, it was limited to 65 years.The government said some officers were turning 65 years “very shortly” and the new Bill would help in avoiding unnecessary delay “in searching competent persons having technical knowledge of this field”. If passed, it would come into force from Nov 24 this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-amendment-bills-introduced-in-haryana-assembly-352606
21-12-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana Vidhan Sabha: Opposition walks out over HPSC scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20The Opposition led by the Congress went hammer and tongs after the BJP-JJP government on the issue of “sale of jobs” by the HPSC insisting that the scam could not be the handiwork of a deputy secretary alone and staged a walkout over the “unsatisfactory” response of the government.The adjournment motion, given by 25 MLAs including that of the INLD and an Independent MLA and taken up on the second day of the winter session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, became a long winding discussion over three hours. The speakers insisted that the faith of the people in the government and in the commission had been shaken and dismissing the members was essential to restore it.Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry asked pointed questions on why a deputy secretary was in charge of the examination and why the HPSC chairman had not been asked to join the investigation.Hooda reads out chat in house||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/opposition-walks-out-over-hpsc-scam-352608
21-12-2021||---||Appointment row: Employees threaten 'total closure' of Haryana universities if diktat not withdrawn||Rohtak, December 20The teaching and non-teaching staff of the state universities across Haryana have raised a banner of revolt against the government’s move to assume control of appointing assistant professors, top officials and non-teaching employees.They staged a joint protest in Chandigarh today against the decision to carry out appointments at state universities through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC). Calling the order an attack on the autonomy of the state universities, the Haryana Federation of University and College Teachers Organisation (HFUCTO) and the state federation of non-teaching employees warned to shut all universities and observe “total closure” if it was not withdrawn.They said the government move was also in violation of specific rulings of the Supreme Court and guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC).“The move is totally unacceptable and won’t be allowed at any cost. We will shut all universities across the state if the decision is not rolled back,” said HFUCTO president Vikas Siwach.Several students’ organisations and the Opposition parties also opposed the government’s move to wrest control of the appointments of the state universities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/appointment-row-employees-threaten-total-closure-of-universities-if-diktat-not-withdrawn-352609
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||No paper leak in 2 years: Manohar Lal Khattar||The Haryana Government on Monday claimed that no case of paper leak conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) has been reported after November 2019.Giving this information during the ongoing session of the state Assembly, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar claimed no paper leak or leaving OMR sheets blank had been noticed between November 2019 and December 2021.The CM, however, asserted that a case had been registered by the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) at Panchkula.“The SVB has sought certain information from the HPSC regarding the written test of dental surgeon held on September 26, 2021, and the preliminary exam of the HCS (Executive branch) held on September 12, 2021. To date, no further information has been made available by the SVB in this regard,” Khattar added.Meanwhile, two exams conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) — Gram Sachiv and Male Constable — were cancelled on January 16 and August 7 this year, respectively. The House was informed that the written exams were conducted for 21,802 posts by the HSSC from November 2019 to December 2021.Talking about other cases, Home Minister Anil Vij said the Panipat police were making every effort to trace a missing person — Jai Bhagwan, a relative of an MLA — and currently the investigation was being done by the CIA. However, on the demand of MLA Balbir Singh, the matter was now being transferred to the State Crime Bureau.Vij further said soon, the state would be mapped to provide health infrastructure, under which better facilities would be available in every area where they were needed. Replying to a question on the waterlogging issue during the ongoing winter session of the state Vidhan Sabha here on Monday Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said 1 lakh acres had been affected in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-paper-leak-in-2-years-manohar-lal-khattar-352610
21-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Congress MLA corners Anil Vij on demolitions for railway track||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Haryana’s firebrand Home and Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij was cornered by Congress’ Rohtak MLA BB Batra on the issue of demolitions during the construction of Rohtak-Gohana-Panipat elevated railway track on the second day of the Vidhan Sabha session here today.Dissatisfied with Vij’s reply to his question during Question Hour, Batra alleged that the minister was trying to “mislead” the House by giving incomplete information.Batra said despite the minister’s reply that no demolition took place in Rohtak, several structures including 50 shops and 29 houses were demolished for the construction of the railway track.“Urban Local Bodies Department officials seem to have misled the minister as his reply is contrary to official communications between the Haryana Government and the Indian Railways,” Batra asserted.Earlier, Vij informed the House that the railway track had been constructed by the Railways. It has been informed by the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Rohtak, that he had requested the Assistant Divisional Engineer, Railway Department, Rohtak Division, to provide information regarding buildings demolished during the construction of the elevated railway track.While reiterating his claims that no demolition took place, Vij informed that the Municipal Corporation, Rohtak, proposed to construct a road parallel to the elevated railway track (1,700m long and 15-ft wide). The minister’s reply drew sharp criticism from Batra who alleged that the minister had been taken for a ride by the department officials.Clearly on the back foot, Vij announced the formation of a team consisting of Director, Urban Local Bodies Department; DC, Rohtak; and one officer of the Engineering Wing, PWD Department; to investigate “any discrepancy”.50 shops, 29 houses ‘razed’; minister forms panel||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mla-corners-anil-vij-on-demolitions-for-railway-track-352611
21-12-2021||---||4 MPs from Punjab, Pratibha Singh, Deepender Hooda on Congress Parliamentary panel||New Delhi, December 20Several MPs from the region and maximum from election-bound Punjab have found place among office-bearers Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed today to the parliamentary party.Four MPs from Punjab are part of the list. While Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary has been appointed one of the only three secretaries of the Congress Parliamentary Party, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla, Khadoor Sahib MP JS Gill and Rajya Sabha MP SS Dullo have been included in the 22-member executive committee.The other two secretaries of the CPP are Kozhikode MP MK Raghavan and the party’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat Amee Yagnik.Newly elected Mandi MP Pratibha Singh and Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda are in the executive committee, which also has among members MPs Karti Chidambaram, Neeraj Dangi (RS member from Rajasthan) and Pradeep Tamta (RS member from Uttarakhand). Sonia has also included Phulo Devi Netam (RS MP from Chhattisgarh), who is one of the 12 suspended MPs, on the panel.Making the cut||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/4-mps-from-punjab-pratibha-singh-deepender-hooda-on-congress-parliamentary-panel-352675
21-12-2021||New Delhi||IMD: Cold wave expected to continue for next two days in northwest India||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in northwest India over the next two days and abate thereafter, the IMD said today. Cold wave conditions will continue over central and east India for the next three days and relief is likely thereafter, it said.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and cold wave conditions are very likely at isolated pockets for the subsequent 24 hours,” the weather office said.Cold wave conditions are likely over parts of Uttarakhand, UP, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand till Wednesday and over Jammu, Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad, HP and Gangetic West Bengal till Tuesday afternoon.Meanwhile under the influence of two western disturbances in quick succession, light to moderate rainfall and snowfall is likely over western Himalayan region from December 22 to 25. Light isolated rainfall is also likely over Punjab on December 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/imd-cold-wave-expected-to-continue-for-next-two-days-352668
21-12-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar snubs Opposition, raises Bhupinder Singh Hooda's HCS recruitments||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Working on the adage that offence is the best defence, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today turned the Opposition’s adjournment motion on corruption in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) on its head by bringing up the HCS appointments of 2013. He wriggled out of a tight spot while conceding nothing. The cash-for-job scam that rocked the appointments of dental surgeons and HCS made by the HPSC found echo in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha here today on the second day of the winter session.An adjournment motion brought in by 25 MLAs of the Opposition, including Congress MLAs, saw heated exchanges between the treasury and Opposition benches for over three hours.A well-prepared Chief Minister replied to all allegations about the HPSC scam and the HSSC paper leaks, gave out details of the investigation and assured the House that the guilty would not be spared.Even as a belligerent Opposition insisted on removal of all HPSC and HSSC members and gunned for the chairman of the HPSC while demanding a high court-monitored CBI inquiry into the entire HPSC “scam”, the CM, waving a letter at the Opposition, said that he had received a complaint for inquiry into the 2013 HCS selection during Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s government in which “60 per cent” of the appointees were related to ministers and those in the Chief Minister’s office as also the HPSC chairman.“I have a list of 17 such appointments and we can inquire into these as well because when an inquiry takes place, it will take place on all complaints. The then CM was asked about these appointments, he distanced himself completely from these saying these were made on merit by the HPSC. When we give the same logic, it is not acceptable,” he stated, putting the Opposition on the backfoot.In the discussion, liberally peppered with couplets from both sides, the Opposition tried its best to nail the government but the Chief Minister managed to get out unscathed in the discussion while the Opposition managed to raise the issue vociferously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-snubs-opposition-raises-bhupinder-singh-hoodas-hcs-recruitments-352655
