22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Woman who travelled from Canada to Faridabad tests positive for Omicron variant: Vij||A woman who travelled from Canada to Faridabad in Haryana has tested positive for Omicron variant, state Health Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday.He added that the state government was taking all necessary steps to ensure all Covid-related guidelines are strictly followed in the state.Vij, who was replying to a Calling Attention Motion in the Assembly and later interacting with reporters outside the Vidhan Sabha complex, said the woman had returned from Canada on December 13 and tested positive for Covid a day later.She later tested positive for the Omicron variant on December 20, he said.Her two primary contacts, mother and aunt have also tested positive for Covid and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.All three have been quarantined at a private health facility in Faridabad, Vij said.Three other travellers, with a travel history abroad who were headed to Haryana to either meet relatives or friends, have also tested positive for Omicron, but they did not enter Haryana and have been quarantined in Delhi after testing Covid positive and later positive for the new variant, said Vij.These include a 23-year-old man, who was travelling from the UK. He was to meet a relative in Gurgaon.All three have been admitted to hospitals in Delhi and have not travelled to Haryana, Vij said.In his Calling Attention notice, Congress MLA Chiranjeevi Rao had sought to know what steps the government has taken to stop spreading of Omicron variant.Vij said Omicron has emerged as a concern around the world.He, however, said the state government is prepared to deal with any challenge the new variant may pose, even as Covid-related guidelines are being strictly enforced.About the Covid frontline warriors who succumbed to the virus in line of duty, Vij said a Wall of Memory has been built at the headquarters of the Health Department.He said 28 people of the health department have lost their lives due to Covid, out of which dependents of 27 people have been given compensation of Rs 50 lakh.The opposition MLAs, including Congress’ Kiran Choudhary and INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala, took on the government over alleged shortage of oxygen, beds, etc. during the peak of the second wave of Covid earlier this year.Vij said during the peak of the second wave, there was an influx of patients into Haryana from other states.“We did a survey and it was found that 30 percent of patients were from outside Haryana, but all were treated in our hospitals. We arranged additional beds, set up temporary hospitals – in Panipat and in Hisar and arranged beds at other places to deal with the surge in cases at that time. When there was a peak of the second wave, daily Covid cases reported in the state went up to 15,000,” Vij said.He said the state is now better equipped to deal with any possible third wave.In the coming days, 980 doctors will also be recruited soon, he said.Adequate stock of medicines, isolation beds, oxygen equipped beds, ICU beds and ventilators are available in satisfactory quantities with the state government for the treatment of Covid patients, he said.Regarding vaccination, the health minister said both doses of vaccination are a strong shield against Covid infection and along with this the usage of masks and maintaining social distance are also very important.Vij said he wants the vaccination to become a mass movement and he urged the Haryana MLAs to motivate people to get the second dose of vaccination in their respective constituencies. Arrangements will be made to set up camps and health teams will be sent there to ensure vaccination, he said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-who-travelled-from-canada-to-faridabad-tests-positive-for-omicron-variant-vij-353352
22-12-2021||---||Distressed at being linked to village murder, family of three dies by suicide||Mukesh TandonTribune News ServicePanipat, December 22A couple and their young son died by suicide in their house near the Punjab border, police sources said on Wednesday.Villagers from Dhanori village in Jind were in for a shock when they found the couple, 49-year-old Omprakash, his 45-year-old wife Kamlesh, and their 20-year-old son Sonu hanging.  Police said that neighbours got suspicious when the house was unusually silent and none of its members were seen outside. After their calls elicited no response, some people forced their way into the house to find the bodies, police said.Garhi Station House Officer Pawan Kumar said a recent murder in the village could be behind Wednesday’s suicides. On November 21, police found a body with a rope around his neck stuffed in a sack and dumped in a nearby drain. Police identified that victim as Nanha and said that although investigations in that case are still underway, Nanha’s family has accused Sonu and his uncle Balraj of having a hand in it.Balraj, Omprakash’s brother, drank poison and killed himself soon after the allegations.Assistant Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh claimed that in a video recorded before they killed themselves, the suicide victims said they were distressed at their name being linked to Nanha’s death and said they felt helpless because nobody would believe them.     Nanha’s family meanwhile has been booked for abetment of suicide (Section 306); criminal intimidation (section 506); and rioting (Section 147) among various sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/distressed-at-being-linked-to-village-murder-family-of-three-dies-by-suicide-353327
22-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Of 175 pending VB cases in Haryana, 30 are 5 yrs old||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Cases of the alleged irregularities and malpractices by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) in the recruitment of lecturers (college cadre) in 2001, assistant professors in Chaudhary Devi Lal Memorial Engineering College, Sirsa, in 2003, and in the HCS (Executive Branch) exam-2001 to 2004 have been lying pending before the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) for the past 16 years.HPSC SCAM: BUREAU ALREADY BURDENEDMany vigilance cases are already pending. That’s why we want the HPSC scam, involving ex-HCS officer Anil Nagar, to be probed by a sitting HC judge. We have forwarded the demand. Varun Chaudhary, Congress MLAAnother case against ex-CM OP Chautala and the then HPSC chairman KC Bangar was registered on October 18, 2005.In all these cases, the SVB says, “The investigation is under progress.”Another FIR pointing to the state of affairs in the SVB is the case of alleged fraud in wheat sale in 1998-99, 1999-2000 and 2000-01 in HAFED, which is also pending since June 2, 2006. The government had suffered a loss of Rs 7.94 crore and the case was registered against a field inspector. More than 15 years have passed, but here too, the SVB says the investigation is under progress.Overall, the probe has been pending before the SVB in 175 cases, including 23 of Revenue and Disaster Management Department, 19 of the Police Department and 16 of the Urban Local Bodies Department. Of the total cases, 30 are pending for more than five years. This was revealed by the government in reply to a question by Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary.Another case of alleged embezzlement of Rs 25-30 lakh for irregularities in the allotment of tender for 43 works of the Hisar MC has also been pending for the past 12 years. The case is registered against officers/officials of the Hisar MC.Meanwhile, the FIRs that are under investigation for more than five years include several politicians.Moreover, the case against former Chief Parliamentary Secretary (CPS) Ramkishan Fauji for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 5 crore, as per a sting operation at his residence, to get the Change of Land Use (CLU) in Gurugram has been pending for more than seven years.The probe against ex-minister Rao Narendra Singh, Congress ex-MLAs Ram Niwas Ghodela and Naresh Selwal, MLA Vinod Bhayana and ex-CPS Jarnail Singh and in the cases of alleged graft in lieu of the CLU has been pending for more than five years. All were booked on January 29, 2016.A cheating case against Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officer Bijendra Singh for getting selected on the post of Registered-Registrar (Executive Branch) in 2014 on the basis of alleged fake documents is unresolved for more than six years now.The case of a sale of machinery of AC Cement Company, and also 587 bighas of land in Pinjore, for Rs 200 crore, by alleged fraud was registered in 2016, and has been pending for more than five years now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/of-175-pending-vb-cases-30-are-5-yrs-old-353139
22-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram achieves 100% vaccine target||Civil Surgeon Dr Virendra Yadav on Tuesday said Gurugram was the most-affected during the second Covid wave but today, it became the first district in the state to achieve 100% vaccination coverage.Congratulating the Health Department, Dr Yadav said 100% vaccination was a milestone in a district like Gurugram where floating population was a major issue.According to the Health Department data, 128% of the eligible population in the district had been given the first dose and 100% people had been given the second jab.Dr Yadav said the data of children between 0-6 years and 6-18 years was being collected for vaccination.In order to reach 100% population, 40,441 sessions of vaccination were conducted. Over 2.56 lakh people were vaccinated by visiting more than six lakh houses. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-achieves-100-vaccine-target-353140
22-12-2021||---||Haryana Govt in Opposition's firing line on DAP & urea shortage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21The BJP-JJP government came in the firing line of the Opposition — Congress and INLD — on the issue of the acute shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) and urea fertilisers, which was threatening to derail the rabi sowing plans of the farmers.Dalal’s segment affected tooWhat to talk about the rest of Haryana, the Agriculture Minister has even failed to ensure adequate fertilisers in his own Loharu segment in Bhiwani. — Kiran Choudhry, Congress MLASufficient stock availableThere’s no fertiliser crunch in the state. For sowing wheat and mustard, the state govt has sufficient quantity of fertilisers available. — JP Dalal, Agriculture MinisterThe state government, especially Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, was repeatedly under attack from the Opposition for its failure to ensure the adequate supply of fertilisers, during a discussion on the calling attention moved by the INLD and Congress MLAs.Targeting Dalal, Congress leader Kiran Choudhry alleged that the minister was trying to mislead the House as the fertiliser shortage had upset the plans of the farmers to sow the rabi crops, especially wheat and mustard.Congress’ Jagbir Malik echoed the same sentiment, alleging that the fact that the fertilisers were being distributed under the police protection showed the government’s failure to arrange the adequate supply.Launching a scathing attack on the government, INLD leader Abhay Chautala alleged that the minister’s claims were far away from the ground reality as the farmers were running from pillar to post to get fertilisers.Putting up a spirited defence, Dalal, however, claimed that there was no shortage of fertilisers in the state. He claimed that till now, about 6.93 lakh metric tonne (LMT) of urea, 2.82 LMT of DAP, over 1 LMT of SSP, more than 41,000 MT of NPK was available. Of this, 6.24 LMT of urea, 2.60 LMT of DAP, 79,000 MT of SSP and 38,661 MT of NPK had been provided to the state farmers, Dalal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-in-oppns-firing-line-on-dap-urea-shortage-353141
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt targeted over namaz row, HCS appointment||Congress chief whip BB Batra on Tuesday raised the issue of dismissal notices issued to some of the HCS officers of the 2004 batch during the Zero Hour.limit religious activity to shrines I had said that no one from any religion will be allowed to carry out religious activity in open. Such activities should be done at religious places or shrines. — ML Khattar, CMHe targeted the government for resorting to “pick-and-choose” policy in appointing some candidates in the 2004 HCS batch.On this, the State Vigilance Bureau had submitted an inquiry report on November 9, 2011, where over 60 candidates of 102 were found “tainted”. Batra alleged that despite the fact there was no court orders for the same and the state government went on to appoint “untainted” candidates, based on the SVB’s another report, dated January 29, 2016. Now, they were being dismissed.He further said the whole process was vitiated when a large number of candidates were found tainted and then the Congress government had rightly never allowed the 2004 batch to join.Meanwhile, CLP deputy leader and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed on Tuesday raised the issue of dispute over offering namaz in the open in Gurugram.He said Gurugram was a symbol of Haryana’s development. “The Constitution allows anyone to perform religious activity… For a long time, people have been offering namaz in the open in Gurugram. Some anti-social elements have been disrupting it,” he added.Ahmed targeted CM Lal Khattar over his December 10 statement where he had said namaz in the open wouldn’t be allowed. However, Khattar on Tuesday said, “A truce has been reached between the two opposing factions on the issue. A show of strength disrupts peace. It shouldn’t be allowed in the open in parks or roads.”To which, Ahmed said, “It is not a demonstration. It is a one-hour programme once in a week.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/targeted-over-namaz-row-hcs-appointment-353142
22-12-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar MC to shift taxi stands to industrial area||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 21The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), has decided to shift taxi stands of Yamunanagar near the city police station in industrial area.Provide us more than one siteWe should be provided more than one site for taxi stand. Those should be at different locations in the city. Taxi driverEncroachment by operatorsAt several places, roads have been encroached upon by taxi stand operators. ResidentsWant to make cities clean & beautifulWe have decided to shift taxi stands of Yamunanagar near the city police station in the industrial area keeping in mind road safety and to make the twin cities clean and beautiful. — Madan Chauhan, MayorAccording to information, most of the taxi stands are being run illegally in twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri and in the absence of authorised shelters, taxies are parked on roads or other open spaces, causing inconvenience to public.“We have decided to shift taxi stands of Yamunanagar near the city police station in the industrial area keeping in mind road safety and to make the twin cities clean and beautiful,” said Madan Chauhan, Mayor.According to information, several taxi drivers met the Mayor at his office on Monday to apprise him of their issues. During the meeting, the Mayor advised them not to operate their vehicles from roadsides.Later, the Mayor along with the taxi drivers visited the proposed site of the taxi stand.He told them that the facility of drinking water and toilet had been provided at the site of the taxi stand.The Mayor said the opening up of more taxi stands in Yamunanagar could be considered in future, if a requirement was felt in this regard.Residents alleged that at several places, roads had been encroached upon by the taxi stand operators.Anil Kumar, a resident of Yamunanagar, said in the absence of authorised shelters, the taxis were parked on roads, causing inconvenience to public.He said the shifting of taxi stands near the city police station would help in checking haphazard parking on the roads. A taxi driver said they should be provided more than one site for taxi stands Those should be at different locations in the city.He said they would have to spend more fuel to reach at one taxi stand every day.“If there will be more than one site of taxi stand in the city, we will not to have to travel long distance to reach there. Besides, if more taxi stands come up here, those stands will be easily approachable for customers (taxi service seekers) also,” the taxi driver said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-to-shift-taxi-stands-to-industrial-area-353143
22-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala Cantt 'welcome gate'  to miss month-end deadline||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 21The “welcome gate”, which is being constructed at a cost of nearly Rs 2.5 crore to enhance the beauty of the entry point of Ambala Cantonment, is all set to miss its December-end deadline.The project was started in 2019, but due to the issue related to its design, no objection certificate (NOC) from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), four-laining of Ambala-Saha road, and delay on the part of the contractor, the project is yet to be completed. As per the Municipal Council official, the project has been running behind schedule, the agency engaged in the construction of work had claimed to complete the work by December-end but now it has sought time till mid-February to complete the work.The municipal council officials then had claimed that when the project was started, a chakra made of sandstone was to be installed, but due to its weight, the then officials concerned expressed their concern and the idea was dropped. Then it was decided that fiber be used but later it also got cancelled and finally it was decided that reinforced cement concrete (RCC) be used for which some part of the pillar was dismantled. The changes in the design and four-laining project were blamed to be the major reasons behind the delay.Unhappy with the pace of the project, in October, Haryana Home and Health Minister had also directed the Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, to look into the delay and get an inquiry conducted to ascertain the reasons behind the delay. A three-member committee was constituted for the inquiry.The Executive Engineer of the Sadar Zone Municipal Council, Vikas Dhiman, said, “The work has got delayed and the agency has sought an extension of time for the completion of the project. The casting work of the “chakra” has been completed, after opening its shuttering, the stonework will be initiated, and in the meantime some fabrication work is being carried out at another site. After the completion, the fabricated portion will be brought to the main site for installation. The work is expected to be completed by February 15.”Ambala Deputy Commissioner Vikram Singh said “The lapse was found on part of the architect as there were issues in the design, and then there was a delay on part of the construction agency. Recommendations were made against both of them, and further action will be taken by the Urban Local Bodies Department. Directions have been issued to the municipal council and the contractor to complete the work at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-cantt-welcome-gate-to-miss-month-end-deadline-353144
22-12-2021||Panipat||Panipat: Man held for 7-year-old girl's murder||The special investigation team (SIT) of the district police on Tuesday arrested a man, identified as Praveen (29) of Manana village, for murder of a seven-year-old girl of the same area. The police will produce the accused in the court on Wednesday.It was revealed during the preliminary interrogation that the accused had lured the girl from a ‘bhandara’ at a temple village and taken her to bushes, near the Power House on the Khalila road. He had tried to rape the victim, but the girl had started screaming for help. Fearing that he would get caught, the accused tried to strangulate her. The girl fainted and the accused hit her with a brick lying nearby and killed her, said Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-girls-murder-353145
22-12-2021||---||Truck carrying cows targeted by vigilantes near Bastara toll plaza||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 21A group of cow vigilantes stopped a truck carrying cows near Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 this evening. The cow vigilantes alleged that there were three people in the truck who attacked them when they tried to stop the trio.The truck, which came from Punjab and was going to Mewat, was allegedly vandalised by the “mob”. The vigilantes claim that couple of vehicle number plates bearing different numbers were found from the truck. As per the police, there were around 25 cows and two have died. The vigilantes claimed that they have handed one person to the police. Two of them managed to escape from the site. However, the police have denied arresting anyone.Cow vigilantes alleged that the cow smuggling nexus was flourishing under the nose of the police. SHO Madhuban Sajjan Singh said that they had registered a case against three persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/truck-carrying-cows-targeted-by-vigilantes-353146
22-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Illegal constructions outside MC limits to be 'regularised' in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21The Khattar government is set to “regularise” illegal constructions outside the municipal limits across the state.Humanitarian step On humanitarian grounds, it’s the primary aim of the state to provide minimum infra to ensure healthy living outside municipal limits. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMThe Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Areas Outside Municipal Area (Special Provisions) Bill, 2021, was introduced in the Haryana Assembly today by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The Bill will pave the way for the provision of essential services, including water supply, sewerage, roads and streetlights, in any areas outside the municipal area declared as “civic amenities and infrastructure-deficient” by the state government.Giving the rationale behind tabling the Bill, Khattar said it had been observed that colonies with deficient infrastructure were also situated outside municipal areas in various towns of the state.The Chief Minister recollected that the state government had recently enacted the Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Area (Special Provisions) Act, 2021, with an objective to provide essential services in the civic amenities-deficient areas situated within the municipal areas. Nearly 1,200 colonies are to be regularised though this Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-constructions-outside-mc-limits-to-be-regularised-353147
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala: Will decide relief after report on crop loss in Sirsa||Crops over 76,782 acres in Sirsa have been damaged due to the pink bollworm attack, unseasonal rains and waterlogging. This was informed by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala during Question Hour in the state Legislative Assembly on Tuesday.Legalising MSP: Congress walks outSpeaker Gian Chand Gupta rejected the notice of Cong leader Kiran Choudhry for adopting a resolution for legalising the MSP. The Speaker said the notice was rejected as the MSP comes within the Centre’s ambit. Later, the Congress MLAs staged a walkout in protest.Replying to a question, Dushyant said special girdawari orders were issued on September 30 and October 19 to assess the damage caused to the standing crops of bajra, cotton, moong, paddy and sugarcane. “A report in this regard is expected from Hisar division after which a decision will be taken to pay the compensation,” he added.He pointed out that due to unseasonal rains, the crops were damaged in 11 districts. On this, the state had directed four Divisional Commissioners to prepare and send their reports. Of these, the two reports are pending.The Deputy CM further said in case of damage, the relief would be apportioned between the landowner and tenant in the ratio in which the crop was shared between the two. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dy-cm-will-decide-relief-after-report-on-crop-loss-353148
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Over 650 acres encroached upon in Gurugram: Dalal||Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said 663.05 acres of the HSVP land had been encroached upon in Gurugram. He said this in reply to a question of MLA Rakesh Daultabad.Dalal said of this, 466.29 acres was under litigation in various courts. For the remaining 196.76 acres, necessary action was being taken. Also, 172.35 acres had been freed from encroachments during this year, Dalal said.He said after removing the encroachments, the HSVP would prepare a plan for the land, which would then be disposed of via e-auction to generate revenue and settle the pending claims. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-650-acres-encroached-upon-in-gurugram-dalal-353149
22-12-2021||Rohtak||MDU-Rohtak inks pact with welfare society||MMDU gets grade A++ from NAACAmbala: Maharishi Markandeshwar (deemed to be university), Mullana-Ambala, has been accredited with the grade A++ by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. NAAC gives A++ grade to an institution which gets CGPA of 3.51 and more. Chancellor Tarsem Kumar Garg said, "This milestone for the MM (DU) reflects the sheer hard work and untiring effort by all members of the MM family, including the teachers, non-teaching staff, students and other stakeholders. I personally extend my deep gratitude to all of them and hope that we will not only maintain this grading in the future but will also keep on working hard to improve our performance in academic, research and other areas". Prof Harish Sharma, Vice Chancellor, saidthis was the highest grade given by NAAC to an institution based on various parameters.Talk on health, hygieneFaridabad: To commemorate the "Azadi ka Amritmahotsav", a talk on "health and hygiene" was organised by the women cell of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh. Dr Nupur Aggarwal, senior consultant and director, HOPE- IVF-Fertility and Gynae Clinic, spoke at length on personal hygiene and busted the myths related to menstrual cycle. She advised students to focus on balanced diet and proper nutritional food to prevent anaemia and malnutrition. She laid stress on all aspects of health, including physical, mental and social well-being. She presented her views through PPT and cited examples from daily life to make the talk interesting and engaging.Rohtak doc to teach UK studentsRohtak: Dr Sameer Aggarwal, a former professor at Rohtak, PGIMS, has been selected as clinical tutor for teaching endocrinology at the University of South Wales in England. Dr Aggarwal, who holds a DM in endocrinology from AIIMS, New Delhi, will carry out online teaching for the students of postgraduate diploma in endocrinology. As per an official communique, he is the only medical teacher from India selected for the job.Industry interaction programmeHisar: The Industry Interaction Programme (IIP) Club of training & placement cell in collaboration with the department of bio and nanotechnology centre, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, organised an industry interaction programme on the topic "Career counselling for bio and nanotechnology department". The keynote speaker of the programme was Dr Gopal Jee Gopal, assistant professor at UKA Tarsadia University. Pratap Malik, director (placements), presided over the programme.Poster-making competitionYamunanagar: The 27th inter-institutional poster making and slogan-writing competitions were organised at Guru Nanak Khalsa College. These competitions were organised on the topic of blood donation. The chief guest of the programme, college principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said there was no substitute for blood, therefore, there was a need to spread awareness on blood donation. The onvener of the programme, Prof. Balkishan, said Divisional Child Welfare Officer Manisha Khanna, Dr Manisha Iyer and Dr Ravindra Inder were present in the jury.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-inks-pact-with-welfare-society-353150
22-12-2021||Improper transportation of building material has become one of the main causes of growing air pollution in the city. While every type of material||Pollution norms violated openly in Faridabad||Pratyush Sharma, FaridabadHaphazardly parked vehicles bane of commutersThe development work being carried out on Nicholson Road coupled with haphazardly parked vehicles have become a cause of inconvenience to commuters. Despite being aware of the situation, people in four-wheelers choose the same stretch for commuting, and sometimes leave their vehicles unattended creating a traffic jam. The administration should regulate the traffic and divert the routes for four-wheelers.Ravi Kumar, Ambala CantonmentGovt should ensure admission to EWS studentsIt has come to light that some private schools are refusing to give admission in their schools to students belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWS) of society as per the Rule 134A of the Haryana Directorate of Secondary Education. There have been many complaints from parents whose children have qualified for admission in the private schools under the Rule 134A. The Education Department and the state government should take cognisance of the issue and ensure that the students belonging to the poor sections of the society are given the admission as per the existing norms and rules. Brijpal Singh Parmar, BhiwaniWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-norms-violated-openly-in-faridabad-353151
22-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||40K posts of teachers vacant in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21About 40,000 posts of principal, head master, postgraduate teacher (PGT), trained graduate teacher (TGT), and primary teacher (PRT) are lying vacant in government schools of Haryana.5K sweepers, peons for 14,000 schools12,408 sweepers, peons and watchmen are needed in govt schools, but only 5,746 are available. There are 14,473 govt schools in the state having a strength of 25.31 lakh students.As on October 31, the recruitment for 26,704 posts in different departments was pending before the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and for 1,070 positions before the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC). Some posts haven’t been filled since 2015.Stating this during the Question Hour today, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar informed the Vidhan Sabha that a total of 39,797 posts of teachers, including 20,467 TGTs and 13,974 PGTs, were lying vacant. There is a requirement of 46,861 TGTs, but only 26,394 are available. Of the total sanctioned posts of 39,808 PGT, 35.1 per cent haven’t been filled yet. There are 1,843 principals against the requirement of 2,341.As many as 959 headmasters are available against the required strength of 1,071.There are 35,759 primary teachers in government schools, 4,846 posts are yet to be filled. The vacancies have been calculated by including 12,156 guest teachers. Similarly, 437 posts of lecturers in various subjects, for which the advertisement was issued this year, haven’t been filled.In reply to one of the questions, the state government said the recruitment for 26,704 posts had been pending with HSSC. While 14 posts of junior coaches in cycling and swimming have been pending since 2015, 29 similar posts in other disciplines have been vacant since 2018. As many as 1,646 fire operator-cum-drivers in the Urban Local Bodies Department haven’t been recruited since 2018.Also, 1,307 posts of assistant lineman, 1,100 of canal patwari, 1,373 of post-graduate computer teachers, and 1,584 of staff nurses have been filled since 2019. The recruitment of constables — 5,500 men and 1,100 women — have been pending since 2020.Eight posts of district fisheries officer, five posts of district welfare officer in the SC and BC Department and 20 posts of senior scientific officer in the Home Department are lying vacant since 2016.Also pending is the recruitment for 256 posts of HCS (judicial branch) and 155 posts of HCS (Executive Branch), the advertisements for which were carried out in January and February.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40k-posts-of-teachers-vacant-in-haryana-353126
22-12-2021||Hisar||Vigilance team arrest tehsil office clerk accepting bribe through Google Pay||Haryana State Vigilance team arrested a clerk working at a tehsil office in the district for accepting a bribe of Rs 3,000 on Tuesday.The suspect, Navneet Panghal from Hisar's Burein village, had demanded a bribe for releasing a government grant to a beneficiary, Vigilance Inspector Dharambir Dahiya said.The victim, Lakshman from Landhari village, was entitled to a grant under the state’s inter-caste marriage scheme. The suspect had demanded a bribe of Rs 3,000, which he was willing to accept through UPI payments. A vigilance team caught him getting the first installment of Rs 2,500 transferred, the official said.The team has impounded two mobile phones from the suspect, the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vigilance-team-arrest-tehsil-office-clerk-accepting-bribe-through-google-pay-352975
