23-12-2021||New Delhi||Gangster from Haryana arrested after brief exchange of fire with police in Delhi||A 25-year-old member of the Kapil Sangwan gang was arrested with a huge cache of arms following a brief exchange of fire with the police in outer Delhi on early Thursday morning, a police officer said.Accused Sidharth alias Somveer, who hails from a village in Jhajjar district of Haryana, suffered a bullet injury on his right thigh and was admitted to hospital.Police said the accused was caught with 12 pistols and 47 live cartridges which were allegedly meant to be distributed to the gang's operatives based in Delhi.A preliminary inquiry has revealed that the accused is part of the gang led by Kapil Sangwan who now lives abroad.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Brijindra Kumar Yadav said, "Our special staff got a tip-off about the movement of a member of dreaded Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu and Jyoti Baba gang. Based on the information, a trap was laid near Nala Road, Kadipur village here wherein the accused was intercepted while he was spotted coming on a motorcycle.""The accused opened fire on seeing the police party, so in order to restrain his activity and to stop him from fleeing from the spot, our staff also fired four rounds aiming towards his legs. Out of this one bullet hit the accused in his thigh," he said.The accused was taken to a nearby hospital and is out of danger, he added.The motorcycle impounded from the accused was also found to have been stolen from Shahadra area, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangster-from-haryana-arrested-with-arms-after-brief-exchange-of-fire-with-police-in-delhi-353623
23-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Manohar Lal Khattar, Bhupinder Hooda lock horns over HPSC scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22It was Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar versus Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on the last day of the winter session of the Vidhan Sabha here on Wednesday.Wit and sarcasm, coupled with allegations and counter-allegations, dominated the proceedings with two stalwarts taking potshots at each other. The ball was set rolling by Hooda who accused the BJP-JJP government of running away from the debate on public-oriented issues raised by the Congress.SIX BILLS PASSED on last day of winter session“There were 17 adjournment and calling attention motions moved by the Congress, but only five of them were allowed. Apart from this, dozens of questions related to public interest were also raised during the Question Hour. The government gave misleading answers to most of the questions. Just as the BJP-JJP government has failed on every front, the winter session of the Assembly session has also failed to serve any purpose,” Hooda alleged. He claimed that at the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting, the Congress was assured that the session would be extended if needed but it wasn’t. “All demands of the Opposition, like getting the HPSC recruitment scam probed by the CBI, resolution on MSP, making public the investigation report of the alleged liquor registry and paddy purchase scams were not accepted by the government,” he alleged.Meanwhile, Khattar asked Hooda to officially share the WhatsApp chat purportedly between two senior functionaries of the HPSC. Hooda, however, refused to oblige Khattar, saying that it was for the government to investigate the matter raised by him on the floor of the House.Taking poetic jibes at Hooda, Khattar, however, conceded certain demands of the Opposition, including taking U-turn on university appointments and assurance on the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during their agitation against the three farm laws.The CM said a five-member committee comprising a nominee of the Chancellor (Governor), Principal Secretary (Higher Education) and three Vice Chancellors would be constituted to review the decision.He further said 276 cases had been registered against farmers during the agitation. “Of these, four cases are registered under serious offences. Of the 272 cases, chargesheets have been prepared in 178 cases. As many as 158 cases are still untraceable,” the CM asserted.Khattar said the state government would withdraw all cases registered against farmers, except those involving heinous crimes such as rape, murder etc.The Chief Minister further said the state government had decided to increase the dearness allowance of its employees and dearness relief for pensioners and family pensioners from 28% of basic pay and pension to 31% with effect from January 1, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-hooda-lock-horns-over-hpsc-scam-353523
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Both doses must to enter public places in Haryana||The state government today said from January 1, persons who were not fully vaccinated won’t be permitted inside crowded places like malls, cinema halls, restaurants and government offices.Health and Home Minister Anil Vij announced in the Vidhan Sabha that the decision had been taken because vaccine was the biggest protection against Covid, including new variant Omicron.Meanwhile, an order was later issued making the second dose of Covid vaccination mandatory from January 1, 2022. The first dose of vaccination has reached 93 per cent but the second dose is lagging behind at 60 per cent as on December 22.A large number of beneficiaries are due and overdue since long for the second dose of Covid vaccination. Further, new variants of Covid are emerging regularly and recently, Omicron cases are showing an increasing trend in our country, the order said.Also, neighbouring states likes HP, J&K, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Chandigarh have better second dose coverage than Haryana.Entry at places like sabzi mandi, bars, restaurants, hotels, grain markets, department stores, liquor and wine shops, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, ‘haats’, local markets and other places of public gathering should be allowed only to fully vaccinated (second dose).Only fully vaccinated people persons would be allowed to travel from bus stand, railway stations, the order said.Other places of gathering like religious places, petrol and CNG stations, gas cylinder collection centres, sugar mills, milk booths, ration shops should also allow only fully vaccinated people. Both private and public sector banks should allow only fully vaccinated people.Covid vaccination should be made mandatory for eligible students of colleges/polytechnics who are more than 18 years of age.Parks, yogshalas, gymnasium and fitness centres should allow only those who have received second dose of Covid vaccination. Truck and auto rickshaw unions should allow only fully vaccinated passengers. Meanwhile, no individual, including government servants, will be allowed to visit government offices without being fully vaccinated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/both-doses-must-to-enter-public-places-353524
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Don't fall for CM Window chief's bluff: Anil Vij to Congress MLA||Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday cautioned Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi against falling for bluff of the CM Window incharge, Anil Rao.Vij commented about Rao while replying to Gogi during the Question Hour in the Legislative Assembly.Gogi claimed that it was the CM’s announcement to increase the capacity of the Assandh hospital to 100 beds. To which, Vij replied that the CM’s announcement was the supreme decision in the government as it was recorded, computerised and closely monitored. But in the case of the Assandh hospital, there was no such development.“Yesterday too, you were saying that Anil Rao called you and told about the CM’s announcement regarding a stadium. Do not fall for his bluff,” Vij told Gogi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-fall-for-cm-window-chiefs-bluff-vij-to-mla-353525
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||2.9K farm fire plaints filed in Haryana in 3 yrs||A total of 2,943 farm fire cases have been registered in Haryana in the past three years (2019 to 2021), while 736 farmers have been arrested. Besides, a fine of Rs 2.22 crore has been recovered.The state government submitted these facts in reply to a question by INLD general secretary and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala.2021 saw just 100 cases against farmers for farm fires, while the number was 868 in 2020 and 1,975 in 2019.Among districts, Jind leads with 954 police complaints in the past three years, followed by Fatehabad (724) and Karnal (664). Surprisingly, no case has been registered in Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Nuh, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat. The arrests have been made against erring farmers only in Fatehabad (723) and Rohtak (13).Meanwhile, maximum fine of Rs 47.90 lakh was paid by farmers from Kaithal in the past three years, followed by Fatehabad (Rs 37.38 lakh) and Sirsa (Rs 32.65 lakh).According to the data collected by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, 6,630 farm fires were reported in the state in 2019, which rose to 9,751 in 2020, implying a rise of 47.1%. But in 2021, 6,987 incidents were reported, showing a decline of 28.3% over the previous year.As per the statement of the Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, before the Rajya Sabha on December 9, a central scheme on the ‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue in the States of Punjab, Haryana, UP and NCR of Delhi’ is being implemented from 2018-19. Under this scheme, financial aid is provided to the farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-9k-farm-fire-plaints-filed-in-3-yrs-353526
23-12-2021||Parveen Arora/Ravinder Saini||Not enrolled by private schools, EWS students at receiving end in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal/Rohtak, December 22Students belonging to the economically weaker section (EWS), selected under the rule-134 A of the Haryana School Education Rules, are at the receiving end as private schools have refused to enrol them as the state has not reimbursed the past dues for teaching such children.“I am a labourer and cannot deposit the fee due to loss of income during the pandemic. I borrowed Rs 20,000 to clear the dues of the school, but I have been told that no admission will be given to my daughter,” said Prithviraj, a resident of Karnal city. Raj Kumari Dahiya, a resident of Rohtak, also rued that his grandson was not being given admission to the school allotted to him as per the list released on Deember 16.Dr Vijay Laxmi, DEO, Rohtak, said, “The BEOs have been asked to ensure students get admissions in the schools concerned.”Rohtash Verma, DEEO, Karnal, said, “Parents approached us saying the private schools are not enrolling their wards. The issue will be resolved. We will write to the Director of the department.”ONLY 1% kids enrolledOnly 272 (less than 1%) of 41,860 EWS students have been given admission to pvt schools under rule-134A in the state on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-enrolled-by-private-schools-ews-students-at-receiving-end-353529
23-12-2021||Karnal/Panipat||2 in Panipat, 1 in Karnal test positive for Omicron variant||A 33-year-old man of Karnal has tested positive for Omicron variant of Covid, the first case in the district. In Panipat, a 22-year-old woman of Model Town, who had returned from the UK on December 16, and her father tested positive for the variant.The samples of the Panipat father-daughter duo were sent for genome sequencing a week ago after they had tested positive for Covid. However, they have been discharged from the hospital and are under home isolation now, as their RTPCR report came out to be negative.Dr Sunil Sanduja, Nodal Officer, said the girl had tested negative at the airport on her arrival from the UK on December 16. But the next day, she developed fever and tested positive for Covid as per the RTPCR test conducted at the civil hospital. The other contacts of these patients had tested negative.The patient from Karnal belongs to Barani village and is presently in the isolation ward of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College. Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said the patient had returned from Portugal. His son also tested positive for Covid and was in the isolation ward. A micro-containment zone has been made in the village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-in-panipat-1-in-karnal-test-positive-for-omicron-variant-353532
23-12-2021||Panipat||3 of a family die by suicide in Jind village||A couple and their son reportedly died by suicide by hanging themselves at their home in Jind’s Dhanori village.The victims have been identified as Omprakash (48), his wife Kamlesh (45) and their son Sonu (20).The villagers came to know about the incident on Wednesday and informed the police. Earlier, Balraj, brother of Omprakash, had died after consuming poison in his fields, a month ago.SHO Pawan Kumar said the body of a person, Nanha of Dhanori village, was found in a sack in the Hansdehar drain on November 21. A case had been registered against an unknown person under Sections 302, 201 of the IPC and the probe was on, he said.The family members of Nanha doubted that Balraj and Sonu were behind the murder, the SHO said. Balraj had already died by suicide a one month ago. Prima facie it seemed that the collective suicidal case was connected to the murder of Nanha and Balraj’s suicide, said ASP Kuldeep Singh.The deceased had shared a video on Facebook before taking the extreme step, in which they had said their names were falsely connected to Nanha’s murder and no one was hearing them, the ASP said.A case has been registered against eight persons, who are the members of Nanha’s family, under Sections 306, 506, 147, 149 and 34 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-die-by-suicide-in-jind-village-353534
23-12-2021||---||4,485 snatching incidents in Haryana, just 310 convictions in seven years||Chandigarh, December 22A total of 4,485 chain and purse-snatching incidents have taken place in the past seven years (2015-November 2021), but only 310 cases led to conviction. The state said in reply to a question by Congress chief whip BB Batra.There have been 3,076 chain-snatching incidents from 2015-2021, with 341 in 2019, 289 in 2020, and 376 in 2021. Challans have been presented in only 1,208 cases, implying trial was pressed in just 39.3% cases. Of them, conviction has taken place in 188 cases, including six in 2019 and nil in 2020 and 2021. In 638 cases, the trial is pending.There have been 1,409 purse snatchings in the state in the past seven years, including 242 in 2019, 154 in 2020, and 201 in 2021. But challans have been presented in only 777 cases, implying trial was pressed in just 55.1% cases. Of them, 122 cases have ended in conviction, including 16 cases in 2019, two in 2020 and nil in 2021. The trial is pending in 411 cases.Meanwhile, Batra said, “There is a huge gap between incidents registered and challans filed. It implies many cases have gone untraced. The convictions are so low.”To which, Home Minister Anil Vij replied that the snatching incidents had been much lesser during the BJP rule than during the Congress regime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-485-snatching-incidents-just-310-convictions-in-seven-years-353535
23-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||9 sedition cases lodged in Haryana in 2 yrs; terrorists, scribes among accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22In the past two years, the Haryana Police have registered nine sedition cases against terrorists, journalists and a farmer. The facts were submitted in the Assembly on Wednesday in reply to a question from INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala.All these cases have been registered under Section 124A of the IPC and in some cases, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was also invoked. Section 124A prescribes punishment for bringing hatred or contempt towards the Indian Government.Between April 1, 2019, and March 31, 2020, the state police registered two cases. First was registered on April 16, 2019, at the GRP station in Ambala Cantonment after a threat letter was received from Jaish-e-Mohammad’s (JeM) area commander Mysore Ahmed to blow up railway stations in Panipat, Karnal, Sonepat, Kurukshetra and Delhi. Another case was registered at the GRP station in Rohtak on September 14, 2019, after a threat letter from JeM area commander Maisud Ahmed (J&K) (Karachi), Pakistan.From April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, seven cases were registered. Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) was booked on July 2, 2020, in Gurugram and also on July 12, 2020, at Kurukshetra. Pannu was declared a terrorist by the Home Ministry on July 1, 2020.As per the police, a pre-recorded audio-video message was circulated by Pannu blaming the state government and its residents for being inimical to the interests of the Sikhs and Punjabis. The SFJ is also banned in India.On August 31, 2020, the GRP station, Ambala Cantonment, registered another case after a call was received from a woman, who said she had come to know that the Khalistanis would blow up railway tracks. Another FIR was registered on December 29, 2020, after the RPF helpline, Delhi, got a tip-off about some explosive material placed on the Shridham Express. The train was stopped at the Faridabad station and checked, but nothing was found.Also, a case was registered against senior journalist of India Today Rajdeep Sardesai, National Herald’s consulting editor Mrinal Pande, editor-in-chief of Urdu newspaper Zafar Agha, The Caravan’s editors Paresh Nath and Anantnath and its executive editor Vinod K Jose and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on January 28 at the Bhondsi (Gurugram) police station.They were booked for tweets on the death of a farmer during the January 26 protest. Later, the SC stayed their arrests in all FIRs.One Farmer booked tooOn January 15, a case was registered at Bahadurgarh on the allegations that Sunil Gulia, a khap leader, had uploaded a video on social media wherein he vowed to launch a cannon attack against the govt if it didn’t listen to the farmers protesting against the farm laws, recently repealed by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-sedition-cases-lodged-in-2-yrs-terrorists-scribes-among-accused-353537
23-12-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad: Cybercrime gang busted, 5 arrested||Busting a gang of cyber criminals, the local police have arrested five persons allegedly involved in cheating customers through cyber means.A spokesperson of the Police Department said that the accused identified as Vikas, Rohit, Imran, Mujib and Amanullah alias Guddu were nabbed from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi after a raid on December 19.He said the accused had been involved in cheating customers using credit cards by providing attractive offers online. It is reported that Vikas is the mastermind of the crime. While Vikas and Imran are serving jail sentence in Delhi, a transaction of Rs 65 lakh has taken place from the bank account of Rohit, another accused.The police had launched an investigation in response to a complaint lodged by one Yashpal, a local who had been cheated of Rs 95,000 by the accused a few weeks ago.Revealing the modus operandi, Nitesh Aggarwal, DCP Crime, said that the accused used to procure data of credit card holders of a bank from a website and contacted them through emails and SMS, offering facility of cashing the reward points instantly.Claiming that a fake link was sent to the customers to get the details of the cards, he said the accused had created a similar-looking but fake website of the bank to dupe the account holders.The money deposited in the wallet of the customers in the bank website was transferred to the account of the accused after completion of formalities, it is stated. The gang had been involved in more than 50 incidents, it is claimed. While Vikas has been in police remand, other four accused have been remanded to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cybercrime-gang-busted-5-arrested-353538
23-12-2021||---||Karnal: Two arrested for duping 280 persons on pretext of getting them Army jobs||Karnal, December 22A team of CIA-1 has arrested two persons including a woman who duped people on the pretext of getting them jobs in the Army. The accused have been identified as Manjur Ahmad Ganni of Jammu & Kashmir, and Pravesh Kumari of Gharaunda in Karnal.The accused used to take Rs 4.20 lakh per candidate and they used to give fake joining letter. The accused used to call the aspirants in J&K for job formalities. Later, they would give excuses such as court stay on the recruitment, said the police.Deepender Rana, incharge CIA-1, said in the preliminary investigation, both had duped around 280 persons of Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat and Jind of over Rs 6 crore. The accused Manjur was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000.“The action has been initiated on the complaint of an Ambala-based man, who runs a coaching centre for preparation of jobs, against Pravesh Kumari, alleging extorting huge amount from the students enrolled in his academy on the pretext of getting them jobs in Army,” said Rana.The woman was arrested from Kurukshetra on December 18 and was taken on four-day police remand. During the investigation, she revealed the name of Ganni, who was the kingpin of the gang. He was arrested from J&K on Wednesday.“We will take Manjur Ahmed on remand to determine the involvement of others and also to recover money,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-duping-280-persons-353539
23-12-2021||Parveen Arora||British-era Church Tower in Karnal to get makeover||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 22British-era Church Tower and graveyard of European soldiers and their family members will be given a facelift under the Smart City project. The tender process has been initiated by Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company, which is looking after the Karnal Smart City project. A sum of around Rs 1 crore will be spent on it.This step is being taken to promote tourism in Karnal which has rich heritage. It will be part of the around 4-km long proposed heritage corridor from Geeta Dwar to Karan Gate across which heritage buildings are being given a facelift.As per the historians, the four-storey church tower named ‘Cantonment Church Tower, which was earlier known as St James Church, was constructed by the Britishers who had captured Karnal in 1805. They made Army Cantonment in Karnal in 1806. The premises is spread over 8.3 acres. The height of the tower is around 35 meter surmounted by an ornamental cross. It is under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), said an official. After the outbreak of malaria, the Britishers had shifted their cantonment to Ambala between 1841 and 1843.“At present, both the sites are being preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). We have already received consent from the Archaeology and Museum Department, Haryana, for it. We have started the tendering process,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL.The broken links in the pathway will be connected for making the surrounding area more accessible. Lighting and CCTV cameras will be installed for the safety and security. It will boost tourism in the city, said the CEO.Along with it there is a cemetery where European soldiers, who had died between 1842 and 1843 because of the outbreak of malaria, are buried. More than 500 graves of the soldiers and their family members are there in 8172 sq meter cemetery. Tall memorial gravestones reflect the rich colonial gothic architecture of that time. Among these graves, one was of General Anson, Commander-in-Chief of her Majesty’s Indian Forces, who died on May 27, 1857 of cholera. Later, his family members had exhumed and taken his body to England. “The broken boundary wall of this graveyard will be repaired. The lighting work will also be done,” said Yadav.Earlier known as St James Church; Cantt built in 1806As per the historians, the four-storey church tower named ‘Cantonment Church Tower, which was earlier known as St James Church. It was constructed by the Britishers who had captured Karnal in 1805. They made Army Cantonment in Karnal in 1806. The premises is spread over 8.3 acres, said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/british-era-church-tower-in-karnal-to-get-makeover-353540
23-12-2021||Kaithal||Orientation programme for NSS volunteers in RKSD College, Kaithal||Seminar on facing interviewsFaridabad: The centre for career counselling, Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, organised a one-day seminar on "How to create an effective impression in an interview" in collaboration with the IMT Group of Institutions. Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta said it was part of the value proposition programme for the final year students of BBA, BBA CAM, BCom (H), BCom (CA),BCA and BA Eco (H) classes. Speaker Alok Kumar, a trainer and seminar leader, elaborated on the ways on how to create first impressions in an interview. Focusing on various short but crisp strategies related to interviews like show upon time, dressing sense etc., he gave important tips on time management and how to crack various competitive exams.'Nadi mahotsav' celebratedKarnal: "Nadi Mahotsav" was celebrated at Karan Lake under the guidance of Commanding Officer Colonel Naresh Arya. Cadets of NCC first year of Pratap Public School, Sector 6, also participated in the cleanliness drive. Cadets cleaned the area near Karan Lake and spread awareness on the importance of water and clean environment for sustainable development. The aim of the event was to encourage cadets and society for selfless service towards components of the nature.Mathematics Day celebratedKarnal: Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, observed National Mathematics Day to commemorate the birth anniversary of Srinivasa Ramanujan, the great mathematical genius who made exemplary contribution in the field of mathematics. The day was celebrated with an objective of creating awareness on the contribution of Srinivasa Ramanujan and helping creating students' interest in mathematics. The programme began with an informative speech highlighting the importance of mathematics in the modern world and its applications in the field of artificial intelligence. The real fun began with the number game as the excitement was at its peak while the students and teachers alike taxed their brains to get to solutions. Director principal Poonam Navet also graced the occasion. She also applauded the students for enthusiastically participating in such activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/orientation-programme-353541
23-12-2021||---||Admn arranges warm clothes for poor in Ambala Cantt||Ambala, December 22The district administration has setup a “Neki Ki Deewar” near Sewa Sadan in Ambala City to provide warm clothes and blankets to the poor and needy people on Tuesday.Deputy Commissioner Vikram Singh, who inaugurated the Neki Ki Deewar, distributed blankets and warm clothes among the needy persons.The DC said the winter season was here and to ensure that people don’t suffer for want of warm clothes, a “Neki Ki Deewar” had been set up here. “We will appeal to the public to donate clothes for the poor and needy so that they can get some relief during the winters. The staff of the Red Cross has been deployed to manage the booth here. They will collect and maintain the record of donated clothes, and distribute the clothes” the DC said.Vikram Singh said that facility of night shelters had also been provided for the poor people and the Municipal Corporation officials had been directed to ensure cleanliness, availability of water and clean toilets at the night shelters. The Red Cross officials have been directed to ensure that the people who come at night shelters are vaccinated. If any person is yet to get his covid vaccination then get them vaccinated as well.Ambala Deputy Commissioner Vikram Singh inaugurated a ‘Neki Ki Deewar’ near the bus stand in Ambala Cantonment and distributed warm clothes and blankets among the needy persons, on Wednesday.On this occasion, he also visited a night shelter there. He inquired about the facilities being provided to those taking shelter at night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admn-arranges-warm-clothes-for-poor-in-ambala-cantt-353542
23-12-2021||---||Sugar industry waste helps  revive productivity of sodic soil: Experts||Karnal, December 22In a major achievement in reviving the productivity of degraded soils with the help of sugar industry waste — pressmud— scientists of the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), have been successful in the trial on sodic soil in the fields of five villages in Kaithal district. The scientists used pressmud, which is considered an environmental hazard, not only revived the productivity of sodic soils, but also reduced soil sodification, claimed the scientists.As per the scientists, gypsum is generally used by farmers for reclaiming their sodic land, but the organic waste material from sugar industries has the potential to improve the sodic land and also increase crop yield in degraded environment.Under the Farmer FIRST project, the CSSRI scientists led by Dr Parvender Sheoran, Principal Scientist, had started trial of pressmud on sodic soil of five affected villages —Mundri, Kathwar, Sampli Kheri, Geong and Bhaini Majra in 2016, where around 40 per cent of total land was sodic and 90 per cent underground water had residual alkalinity problems. After a four-year experimentation, they have now received good results and the productivity of the sodic land has been revived, said Dr PC Sharma, Director, CSSRI.Dr Parvender Sheoran said the field assessments of more than 125 locations in rice-wheat system revealed positive influence of pressmud in alleviating the sodicity stress with appreciable reductions in soil pH and exchangeable sodium percentage, with better plant salt tolerance and enhanced grain yields. The economic analysis indicates that pressmud seems to be an affordable solution to lessening pressure on limited gypsum reserves, Dr Sheoran added. He claimed that the technology had potential agricultural benefits and paybacks with effective reclamation of degraded lands. The farmers are also elated with this technology as it has reduced sodicity in soil significantly. “The pressmud application gives more greenness to crop and requires less urea application and also improve soil health,” said Raj Kumar, a farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sugar-industry-waste-helps-revive-productivity-of-sodic-soil-experts-353543
23-12-2021||This photograph with streetlights on in a public park (number 803) and on various other internal roads (at around 3 pm) was captured in Sector 8||Streetlights on during  the day  in Panchkula||Road in pathetic condition near railway stationI am highlighting the poor condition of a road near the railway station in Bhattu Kalan, which has not been repaired for a long time. The department concerned should take note of this issue and should repair the road at the earliest. —Balwinder Singh, FatehabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/streetlights-on-during-the-day-in-panchkula-353544
23-12-2021||Gurugram||Rs 10K stolen from Gurugram ATM||By breaking the cash tray, two persons stole Rs 10,000 from an ATM at a mall here. An FIR has been registered at Sadar police station. According to the complaint filed by Shweta Pachori, manager of Indian Overseas Bank, ILD mall, Sohna road, on December 15, Rs 9 lakh were deposited in the ATM. When we checked on December 18, the machine was not working. An FIR has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-10k-stolen-from-gurugram-atm-353545
23-12-2021||---||Body of missing trader found  in canal||Karnal, December 22The body of 58-year-old timber merchant Vikas Jolly, who went missing on Sunday, was found from a canal at Ghogripur village on the outskirt of the city.As per the family members, he had left home in the evening on December 19, but did not return.The family members suspected that he was kidnapped and murdered. They demanded the arrest of the accused. Mukesh Kumar, DSP, told mediapersons that the body had been sent for the postmortem to determine the cause of death. “We are investigating all angles,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/body-of-missing-trader-found-in-canal-353546
23-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Specify if sentences are to run concurrently: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22In a significant judgment that will change the way multiple sentences are awarded to the convicts, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the trial courts across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to specify whether these will run concurrently or consecutively.“The court of first instance, while awarding multiple sentences of imprisonment in a trial, must specify in clear terms as to whether the sentences would run concurrently or consecutively and in case they were to run consecutively the order or sequence in which the same would run,” Justice Vikas Bahl asserted. The High Court Registrar-Judicial was also asked to circulate the judgment to all trial court judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Justice Bahl asserted Section 31 of the CrPC provided that the court had the power to sentence a person convicted in one trial for two or more offences to several punishments. The punishments, when consisting of imprisonment to commence one after the expiration of other, would be inflicted in such order as the court may direct, unless the court directed such punishments to run concurrently.Referring to Supreme Court judgments, Justice Bahl asserted the sentences would run consecutively where a person was convicted for two or more offences in a trial. But the sentence did not include life imprisonment and it was not specified that the sentences were to run concurrently.Justice Bahl added life sentences could not be directed to run consecutively and had to necessarily run concurrently in case of multiple life imprisonment sentences. This was because life imprisonment meant full span of one’s life. Such sentences would, however, be superimposed so that remission or commutation in one did not result in remission of the sentence in others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/specify-if-sentences-are-to-run-concurrently-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-353396
23-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana lowers drinking age from 25 to 21 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Youngsters in Haryana can now say cheers at 21 years as the legal age for drinking has been brought down from 25 years. The Haryana Vidhan Sabha today approved without any discussion the Haryana Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021, paving the way for reduction in the age limit for drinking.Tabling the Bill, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said socio-economic conditions had changed drastically from the time when the earlier provisions regarding drinking age were incorporated in the Excise Act. “The people are now more educated and participating in new endeavours and can also take rational decision when it comes to responsible drinking,” he said.Several other states, including Delhi, had recently lowered the drinking age to 21. Now, the age limit for grant of licence for manufacturing and wholesale and retail sale of country-made liquor has also been reduced from 25 to 21 years. Besides, the age for employment at licensed wholesale or retail outlets has also been lowered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-lowers-drinking-age-from-25-to-21-years-353511
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drinking age lowered from 25 to 21 in Haryana||The Haryana government on Wednesday amended its Excise Act paving the way for lowering of the legal age for consumption of liquor, its purchase or sale from the existing 25 years to 21 years in the state.In this regard, the Haryana Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by the state Assembly here.The National Capital Territory of Delhi has also recently reduced the age limit to 21. Moreover, the socio-economic conditions of the day have changed drastically from the time when the above provisions were incorporated in the Excise Act, the Bill said.The people now are more educated and participating in new endeavours and also can take rational decisions when it comes to responsible drinking, states the Bill. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drinking-age-lowered-from-25-to-21-in-haryana-353349
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to deny entry to restaurants, malls if not fully vaccinated against Covid-19||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said from January 1 people who have not got the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine would not be permitted to congested public places like restaurants, malls, banks and offices.In response to a discussion on the calling attention motion in the state Assembly here, Vij said the new variant Omicron is a matter of concern as the whole world is worrying about it along with the WHO.“We remember the officers and employees, including doctors and paramedical staff, who have died while rendering their services during Covid-19. A wall of memory’ has been built at the headquarters of the Health Department, which I inaugurated myself. So far 28 people of the department have lost their lives,” he said.The minister said the frontline workers, including the employees of police and Urban Local Bodies, want this type of wall of memory to be built.Vij said he had conducted a survey in which 30 per cent infected people were from outside Haryana in the second wave of pandemic.“But we did work to save their lives by providing additional beds. The government built 500-bedded hospitals in Panipat and Hisar.”“During the second wave, 15,000 infected people were coming on the daily basis. Due to success in vaccination in the country it is expected that the third wave may not come, but still we are identifying those hospitals which can be utilised in any situation.”The health minister said he passed an order to impose a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing the mask. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-deny-entry-to-restaurants-malls-if-not-fully-vaccinated-353316
