24-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Covid surge: Haryana announces night curfew from December 25 until January 5||Haryana government announced night curfew in the state from December 25 to January 5—a development that comes as the state tries to stem the surge in Covid cases during the holiday season.The order came after a meeting that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired on Friday.Curfew hours will last from 11 pm to 5 am, the order said.The order also imposes limits on gatherings. Both indoor and open gatherings could have only up to 50 per cent of their capacity with a limit of 200 people for indoor gatherings and 300 people for outdoor gatherings. Covid-19 mandates such as masks and social distancing must be strictly adhered to.Organisers of such events must ensure that only fully vaccinated people attend them.Only fully vaccinated people can enter public offices,  The order also says that “No Mask-No Service” will be strictly followed across the state, meaning that only those with face masks will be allowed on public or private transportation or allowed to enter any other government and private establishment.The order says that the new rules will be applicable from 5 am on December 25 to 5 am on January 5.A Haryana government statement quoting Chief Minister Manohar Lal said from January 1, both doses of vaccination have been made mandatory for entry to all institutions related to the public sector.It comes a day after Health Minister Anil Vij announced that the state was banning unvaccinated people from public places from January 1.Several states have banned New Year gatherings and parties fearing a rise in Covid-19 cases. The mandate comes at a time when the experts say the country is seeing a third wave of Covid-19 cases on the back of a new highly-transmissible Covid variant, Omicron.   प्रदेश सरकार ने 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' के तहत ओमिक्रोन के बढ़ते प्रभाव के मद्देनज़र राज्य में 25 दिसम्बर, 2021 से सार्वजनिक स्थलों व अन्य कार्यक्रमों में 200 से अधिक लोगों के एकत्र होने तथा रात्रि में 11 बजे से प्रातः 5 बजे तक लोगों के आवागमन को प्रतिबंधित कर दिया है। pic.twitter.com/cwbqgP1ssC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-announces-night-curfew-until-february-1-354055
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC calls for explanation on notice seeking recovery of ‘deficient stamp duty’||An officer who issued stamp duty recovery notice to landowners has virtually landed himself in a dock.The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the officer to file his “personal” affidavit explaining how he initiated the proceedings for recovery of alleged deficient stamp duty.This was despite the fact that exemption from stamp duty was duly mentioned in the sale deed itself.Justice Rajbir Sehrawat also directed that the proceedings against the petitioners, pursuant to the impugned order, would remain stayed. Issuing notice of motion to the respondents for April 20 next year, Justice Sehrawat made it clear that the order would remain in force till next date of hearing “only”.The notice issued by the Bench was accepted by Haryana Deputy Advocate-General Harish Rathee on behalf of the respondents.He also sought time from the Bench to file a written statement in the matter. The issue was brought to the High Court’s notice after a petition was filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Balwan and other landowners through counsel Shivansh Malik.After going through the documents and hearing Malik, Justice Sehrawat added that the certificates regarding exemption from stamp duty had also been issued by the District Revenue Officer and the competent authority under the Land Acquisition Act.Appearing before the Bench, Malik submitted the letters issued by Rohtak collector-cum-sub divisional officer were arbitrary, illegal, discriminatory and liable to be set aside.Elaborating, Malik contended the petitioners were granted an incentive to purchase a chunk of land within two years of acquisition of their land of Kherari village in Rohtak district to avail the benefits of certain policies duly approved by the council of ministers and published in the gazette of Haryana.As such, it attained a statutory character. But the respondent attempted to take away the rights granted to the petitioners vide the policy through a simple letter.“The act of the respondent is wholly arbitrary as a statutory right granted to the petitioners by the Government of Haryana cannot be taken away through a letter which is in the nature of an executive order,” Malik added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-hc-calls-for-explanation-on-notice-seeking-recovery-of-deficient-stamp-duty-354051
24-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Video: Neeraj Chopra turns 24, wishes pour in for Olympic gold medallist||Chandigarh, December 24Neeraj Chopra, the only Indian athlete to win the gold medal in Olympics, turned 24 years old on Friday.Wishes and congratulatory messages poured in for Olympic gold medalist on his birthday.Chopra, son of a farmer from a village in Panipat, Haryana, made the country proud by winning the gold medal in the men's javelin throw event at the Tokyo Olympics.He also thanked all his well wishers for their blessings.Thank you all for your warm wishes 😊 pic.twitter.com/CEehuK4S5z   टोक्यो ओलंपिक 2020 में गोल्ड मेडल जीतकर इतिहास रचने वाले श्री @Neeraj_chopra1 जी आपको जन्मदिन की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। आप स्वस्थ और दीर्घायु रहें, ईश्वर से यही कामना करता हूं।  बेहद शानदार एथलीट, टोक्यो ओलंपिक के स्वर्ण पदक विजेता, 'खेल रत्न' से सम्मानित, हरियाणा के लाल @Neeraj_chopra1 जी को जन्मदिन की ढेर सारी शुभकामनाएं।अपने Javelin throw प्रदर्शन से आपने पूरे विश्व में भारत का मान बढ़ाया है, आप हमेशा खुश रहें, चिरंजीवी हो, यही मंगलकामना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/2UFuAIQRXH  Birthday wishes to a man who inspired the entire nation & who let us all beleive that dreams do come true.Happy Birthday @Neeraj_chopra1, the golden boy of India. Your excellent performance & singlemindness are the key to ur success.Sky is just a limit for you!#NeerajChopra pic.twitter.com/n5jIdkq5t0  Wishing you a very happy birthday champ...we all proud of you 🇮🇳 All the best..❤️🤩 pic.twitter.com/q28eQpelIu  Many many happy returns of the day Golden boy🎂🎂🎉🎁👏🎇🤗God bless you🙏 Rab Raakha😊 pic.twitter.com/D0JKBnX2kX||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/video-neeraj-chopra-turns-24-wishes-pour-in-for-olympic-gold-medalist-on-birthday-353991
24-12-2021||---||Admn sets up 11 shelter homes in Karnal district||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 23Aiming at providing shelters to homeless people in chilling nights, 11 shelter homes have been set up in the district, including five in the city and one each in Gharaunda, Indri, Assandh, Nissing, Nilokheri and Tararoi towns.Facility of food, teaKeeping in mind the severe cold, we have established 11 shelter homes in the district. All are functional now. Directions have been given to ensure the facility of food and tea for those visiting the shelter. These will remain open round the clock. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy CommissionerAll these will have all facilities for the stay of 150 persons. Besides, HCS officers have been assigned the duty to ensure than no homeless person sleeps in the open on footpaths and other public places in the nights.“Keeping in mind the severe cold, we have established 11 shelter homes in the district. All are functional now,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.“All SDMs, HCS officers along with other officials will be on the job from 8 pm onward to ensure that nobody sleeps in the open,” he added.They will make rounds in the city and towns at different places daily to ensure they sleep in shelter homes, the DC maintained. “Directions have been given to ensure the facility of food and tea for such people,” he added.These will remain open round the clock and employees will be there to assist homeless people so that they can stay easily here. He maintained that several NGOs have also extended support for the smooth running of these homes by providing different materials.“We have also deployed a team of doctors to check the health of people staying there,” he added.One shelter home is functional below the flyovevr of Railway road, on Kaithal road, in Sector 12, near the Power Corporation office and one near the KCGMC gate, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admn-sets-up-11-shelter-homes-in-karnal-district-353823
24-12-2021||---||Show world path of tolerance: Dalai Lama||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 23The Dalai Lama interacted with students, faculty members and other staffers of the IIM-Rohtak via video-conferencing during a live online session on “Facing challenges with compassion and wisdom”. The session was also attended by people from various parts of the world.The spiritual leader said, “I came to India as a refugee due to conflict in Tibet. I was really captivated by the religious harmony of this nation. I believe that India is a living example of religious harmony across the world. Now, the western world too realises that the Indian way of life is the best for maintaining world peace and harmony.” He encouraged the students to focus on what they could give and not on what they could get. He maintained that while materialism was on the rise, modern India should continue to show compassion to those who do not have enough.“We need to rekindle our own age-old traditions of ‘ahimsa’ and ‘karuna’ to create a peaceful and joyful environment and show the world the path of tolerance, thoughtfulness and compassion,” he stated. A student asked the Dalai Lama: “Many youngsters feel that to develop a scientific temperament, they must detach themselves from religion”. He replied that the pursuit of truth cannot come without being a good person and a good person must have strong values.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/show-world-path-of-tolerance-dalai-lama-353824
24-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana ministers get Rs 9 crore for house upkeep, cars||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23The Haryana Council of Ministers has got Rs 9.33 crore for the maintenance of their houses and purchasing new cars.Should have used for developmentThis amount should have been used for development purposes and not on residences and buying new cars. The state’s revenue deficit has been rising. BB Batra, Congress Chief whipThe allocation is part of the Second Instalment of Supplementary Estimates for 2021-22, passed by State Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, the last day of the winter session.There are 12 ministers in the government, including Chief Minister.An amount of Rs 7.13 crore would be spent to meet the repair works of various ministers’ residences and Rs 20 lakh to meet energy charges.“An additional amount of Rs 2 crore is required for the purchase of new vehicles for the VVIPs in Minister Car Section during the financial year 2021-22. Being a post-budget development, the provision couldn’t be made in the Budget Estimates 2021-22,” said the demand raised in the Second Instalment of Supplementary Estimates (2021-22), which was later passed in the House.The new allocation will be in addition to Rs 31.67 crore earmarked earlier for the maintenance of the residences and cars, with Rs 13.30 crore in Budget Estimates 2021-22 and Rs 18.37 crore in the First Instalment of Supplementary Estimates for 2021-22 passed in August.In reply to a question of Congress Chief Whip BB Batra on the issue, the state government has replied in the winter session that in the Budget Estimates, only Rs 10 crore was earmarked for the maintenance of the residences and Rs 3.30 crore for the maintenance of their cars. Later, in the First Instalment of Supplementary Estimates, Rs 12.86 crore more was allocated for maintenance of residences, which included repairs and Rs 5.51 crore for cars.Out of the Rs 31.67 crore, Rs 25.64 crore was spent by December 12, said the government in its reply.Batra told The Tribune, “In the times of Covid, this new allocation should be avoided when already Rs 18.37 crore was provided in August as part of the First Instalment of Supplementary Estimates and Rs 13.30 crore in Budget Estimates. I would like to know which cars they are buying. Are they buying Land Cruisers? On the other hand, MLAs’ salaries have been cut by 30 per cent since the Covid started in view of the financial crunch.”“This amount should have been used for development purposes and not on residences and buying new cars. The state’s revenue deficit has been rising,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ministers-get-9-cr-for-house-upkeep-cars-353825
24-12-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Omicron scare: Clamour for booster grows among people||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 23Following reports of cases of Omicron variant in state and growing cases in the country, a number of residents who have received both doses of anti-Covid vaccine are now thronging vaccination centres to get the third or subsequent booster dose.No Govt instructionsNobody will be given a third/booster dose of anti-Covid vaccine as there are no instructions in this regard from the government. — Capt Manoj Kumar, Rohtak DCCanada returnee tests +ve for new variantGurugram: A student who returned to Faridabad from Canada has tested positive for Omicron variant. The woman, who had returned on December 13, tested positive for Covid a day later. Her sample was sent for genome sequencing which confirmed the Omicron variant on December 20.However, such vaccine enthusiasts are being turned back by the vaccinators as there are no guidelines from the government regarding the administration of third or booster dose of anti-Covid vaccine.“It has come to our notice that several residents are coming to Covid vaccination centres to get a third or booster dose. We hereby clarify that nobody will be given a third/booster dose of anti-Covid vaccine as there are no instructions in this regard from the state government,” said Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar.The Deputy Commissioner warned that if anyone gets a third or booster dose from any vaccination centre, the person in charge of the centre would be held responsible for it.“The Health Department has issued specific directions regarding the matter to all health centres, sub-centres, community and primary health centres and poly-clinics,” he said.The DC pointed out that the prevalence of Omicron variant has been reported from 79 countries and taking the prescribed precautions was the only way to prevent its spread.Dr RB Jain, the nodal officer for Covid vaccination drive at Rohtak-PGIMS, asserted that two doses of anti-Covid vaccines were found to be adequate for prevention of Covid infection.“Even if a person gets infected with Corvid after getting both doses of vaccine, the infection would be mild for which hospitalisation, oxygen or ventilator support is not required,” he stated.Meanwhile, the positivity rate of Covid in the district has come down to 4.27 per cent and the recovery rate has reached 97.73 per cent. There is one active case of Covid in the district.District Vaccination Officer Dr Aniljeet Trehan disclosed that 12,06,644 doses of anti-Covid vaccine have been administered to the beneficiaries in the district till date. “Of these, 25,024 doses have been given to healthcare workers and 15,735 doses to frontline workers. Residents in the age-group of 18 to 44 years have got 6,96,178 doses, while those in the age-group of 45 to 60 years have got 2,59,979 doses and those above 60 years of age have got 2,09,728 doses so far,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/omicron-scare-clamour-for-booster-grows-among-people-353827
24-12-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister launches 'drug-free society' drive||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 23Launching a ‘drug-free society’ campaign, the Haryana Chief Minister (CM), Manohar Lal Khattar, on Thursday administered oath to hundreds of students, teachers and other prominent people to say no to drugs. All should make efforts for restricting themselves from the drug menace, he added.Stadium named after Neeraj ChopraThe Chief Minister inaugurated newly constructed girls’ hostel on the Guru Brahmanand Women College campus at Anjanthali village in Karnal district. In a programme organised on the occasion of Jagat Guru Brahmanand Jayanti, the CM approved starting of a nursing course for women at the college and build a stadium on six acres in the name of Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra.Chairing a programme on drug de-addiction campaign organised by Kaushal Trust at the Karnal grain market the CM said the state government was continuously running an anti-drug campaign.This step was initiated by Union Minister of State Kaushal Kishore, who fixed a goal to administer oath to say no to drugs to 75 lakh people by 75th Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav on August 15, 2022. So far, 10 lakh people have taken a pledge to de-addiction.“Drug addiction is a menace. Anyone, who starts taking drugs, fails to understand the difference between good and bad. The misuse of various types of drugs causes a lot of harm to the abuser,” the CM added.“Along with deterioration of physical strength anyone, who takes drugs becomes prone to several other ailments like cancer etc. Not only this, instead of taking care of their family, addicts start spending their hard-earned money on drugs and distance themselves from their families and society,” the CM said.Khattar also appreciated efforts of the Union Minister of State, who is touring the country, to spread awareness against drug addiction.While recalling the unfortunate death of his son due to excess consumption of liquor, the Union Minister of State said he lost his 28-year-old son last year. Now he had started a campaign to save childen of others from drugs, the minister added. He appealed to youths to write a slogan, “My family is drug-free”, outside their houses. Children should actively campaign for this, the minister said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-minister-launches-drug-free-society-drive-353828
24-12-2021||Hisar||Hisar: Boxer's spouse, in-laws booked in dowry case||An international woman boxer from Haryana has accused her husband of mentally and physically harassing her in Hisar.The Hisar police have registered a case under Sections 323, 34, 354, 376, 377, 406, 498, 500 and 506 of the IPC for assault, dowry harassment, sexual harassment against her husband and other family members. In the complaint, the victim said she got married nine months ago. But her husband and in-laws were not happy with the dowry given at the time of marriage, she alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boxers-spouse-in-laws-booked-in-dowry-case-353830
24-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad MC's notice to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on water, sewerage connections||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 23The Faridabad Municipal Corporation has issued a notice to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and asked it to submit a reply on the issue of regularisation of water and sewerage connections and the recovery of civic charges, within a week.The water and sewerage connections to nine stations of the Metro rail in the city have not been regularised. The MC has also not recovered the property tax dues since the start of the Metro rail service in the city in 2015. The matter was taken up in a meeting held between MC Commissioner Yashpal Yadav and a senior official of the DMRC on Tuesday.A civic body official said the DMRC, which is yet to get the water and sewerage connections regularised for its stations here, has been asked to submit the details and documents regarding the exemptions, if any, for availing the civic amenities.The DMRC had rolled out the Metro rail in the city in 2015. While the DMRC has reportedly claimed that it enjoys certain exemptions regarding approvals from the local authorities, it gets water supply from borewells approved by the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB).According to Ajay Bahl, a local resident, who had moved an RTI petition in 2017, the MC had failed to take action despite a huge financial loss. In March, the State Information Commission had directed the Haryana Urban Local Bodies Department to conduct a probe into the matter in response to the RTI application. As per the sources, the city has over 2.5 lakh unauthorised water and sewerage connections.Dharam Pal Tahlan, Chief Town Planner, MC, said a final notice will be issued after the receipt of the reply to the queries raised by the civic body with the DMRC.The queries include the status of the water and sewage connections, fire NOC and submission of the property and trade licence fee for leasing out the DMRC station premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civic-bodys-notice-to-dmrc-on-water-sewerage-connections-353831
24-12-2021||---||Haryana's 12 scientists granted Rs 1.95 cr for research||Chandigarh, December 23The state government approved an amount of Rs 1.95 crore for research projects of 12 scientists of the state’s educational and research institutions for 2021-22.Dr Ashok Khemka, Principal Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, said that to improve the socio-economic standard of the general masses and solve their day to day problems, the Haryana State Council for Science, Innovation and Technology, is implementing Research and Development scheme. Under this scheme, an amount of up to Rs 20 lakh is sanctioned to each scientist for a maximum period of three years.This time, Dr Hari Mohan and Dr Darshana Chaudhary, both assistant professors of Maharishi Dayanand University, Rohtak, and Dr Manoj Kumar and Dr Swati Dahiya and Dr Sushila Maan, all from Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Science, Hisar, were chosen. Along with them, Dr Sunita Dalal, associate professor, Kurukshetra University, Dr Rajan, assistant professor, MMU University, Mullana, and Dr Anurag Gaur, Dr Rashi Gupta, Dr Sanjeev Goyal and Dr Ravi Kumar, all from JC Bose University of Science and Technology, Faridabad, and Dr Sangeeta Kamboj, assistant professor, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, are the selected researchers.On Chief Secretary’s order, dated November 8, all Administrative Secretaries were to get a gunman. The order was issued in view of farmers’ protest. However, IAS Ashok Khemka refused the services of gunman citing that the gunman should be deployed to protect ordinary citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-scientists-granted-1-95-cr-for-research-353832
24-12-2021||---||Kapil Sangwan gang member held after exchange of fire in outer Delhi||New Delhi, December 23A 25-year-old member of the Kapil Sangwan gang was arrested with a huge cache of arms following a brief exchange of fire with the police in outer Delhi on early Thursday morning, the police said.The accused Sidharth, alias Somveer, who hails from a village in Jhajjar district of Haryana, suffered a bullet injury on his right thigh and was admitted to hospital. Cops said the accused was caught with 12 pistols and 47 live cartridges which were allegedly meant to be distributed to the gang’s operatives based in Delhi. A preliminary inquiry has revealed that the accused is part of the gang led by Kapil Sangwan who now lives abroad. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Brijindra Kumar Yadav said, “Our special staff got a tip-off about the movement of member of dreaded Kapil Sangwan, alias Nandu, and Jyoti Baba gang. A trap was laid near Nala Road in Kadipur village here wherein the accused was intercepted while he was spotted coming on a motorcycle. “The accused opened fire on seeing the police party, so to restrain his activity and to stop him from fleeing, our staff also fired four rounds aiming at his legs. One bullet hit the accused on his right thigh,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangster-held-after-exchange-of-fire-353833
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MLAs lead in zero hour: Haryana Speaker||Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the Congress MLAs led in speaking during an adjournment motion on the HPSC scam and zero hour in the just-concluded winter session of the Haryana Legislative Assembly.He held a press conference on the productivity of the session. Speaking on the occasion, Gupta said during the adjournment motion which went up to 3 hours and 17 minutes, eight Congress MLAs spoke for 1 hour and 14 minutes, two BJP MLAs were given 16 minutes, INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala got 10 minutes and two Independent MLAs took 12 minutes. However, the CM’s reply went for 1 hour and 25 minutes.On three days, zero-hour sittings took place where 63 MLAs took part. It included 25 MLAs of the Congress, 23 of the BJP, eight of the JJP, and six Independent MLAs. Besides, eight bills were introduced and all of these got passed.According to Gupta, 206 starred questions were approved by the Legislative Assembly Secretariat. In four days, 80 questions became part of the proceedings, out of which the ministers concerned gave answers to 50 in the House. The replies of the remaining 30 were sent in writing to the members concerned.As many as 51 information proposals regarding Calling Attention Motions were received. Out of these, 10 Calling Attention Motions of similar subjects were attached, after which four Calling Attention Motions were discussed. The total proceedings of the four sittings of the winter session lasted 19 hours and 53 minutes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-mlas-lead-in-zero-hour-speaker-353834
24-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Ensure drivers don't work beyond 10 hrs a day: HC to Haryana Transport Dept||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the drivers employed by the Transport Department of Haryana would in the ordinary course not be made to drive on day-to-day basis beyond 10 hours, and 48 hours staggered over a week.Weekly time can’t exceed 48 hoursJustice Monga asserted Section 13 of the Motor Transporters Workers Act made it abundantly clear that no driver was to drive at a stretch for more than eight hours and could not be made to drive more than 48 hours in a weekThe assertion by Justice Arun Monga came on a petition by Pardeep against the State of Haryana and other respondents. Justice Monga observed the grievance of the petitioner, working as a driver in the Haryana Roadways, was against an administrative order dated November 20, 2018.Seeking its quashing, the petitioner contended that the impugned order was in violation of Section 13 of the Motor Transporters Workers Act “inasmuch as it authorised an employer to make a driver do a duty on a continuous stretch of 12 hours in a day as against maximum 10 hours prescribed in the Act”. He was also aggrieved by the fact that the drivers in the Haryana Roadways were being made to drive without being provided with rest after every five hours in accordance with Section 15 of the Act.Justice Monga asserted Section 13 made it abundantly clear that no driver was to drive at a stretch for more than eight hours and could not be made to drive more than 48 hours in a week.Justice Monga added a driver would be entitled to take extra rest on long stretches as stated in the impugned order itself, apart from being given half an hour break after every five hours of driving.Before parting with the order, Justice Monga added it seemed the intent of order was not to deny the drivers the statutory rights, which were in larger general public interest so as to avoid mishaps. “At the same time, the intent of impugned order seems to be to curb the unnecessary race amongst the drivers to indulge in working overtime so as to earn extra money, but at the same time defeat the very purpose of avoiding the accidents caused due to fatigue,” Justice Monga added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-drivers-dont-work-beyond-10-hrs-a-day-hc-to-transport-dept-353835
24-12-2021||---||Haryana Govt increases pension share by 4%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23The Haryana Government has decided to increase employer contribution from 10 per cent to 14 per cent for its employees under the New Pension Scheme with effect from January 1, 2022. Rs25cr addl burdenAn official spokesperson said due to implementation of this decision, an additional financial burden of Rs 25 crore per month and Rs 300 crore per annum was expectedAn official spokesperson said due to implementation of this decision by the state government, an additional financial burden of Rs 25 crore per month and Rs 300 crore per annum was expected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-increases-pension-share-by-4-353836
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||EWS admissions: No reimbursement paid by Haryana Govt, say pvt schools||The Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC) today said the state government was pressurising private schools across state to give free admissions under Rule 134A of the Haryana school education rules to economically weaker sections (EWS) by ignoring the High Court orders. The court orders state that if schools do not give admission under the rule, then no action can be taken against them.Also read: Not enrolled by private schools, EWS students at receiving end in HaryanaSuresh Chandra, vice-president, HPSC, held a press conference today.He said while issuing a letter in this regard the Education Department was misleading parents. “These orders are leading to confrontation between parents and schools,” he added.The case was filed in the High Court on behalf of the HPSC wherein it was stated that under Rule 134A, the state government had been continuously building up pressure for giving free admissions to 10 per cent students, but the reimbursement was not being released to schools, he said. The next date for hearing in the case is February 28, 2022.HPSC treasurer Sumeet Verma said the state government was not giving reimbursement under the RTE to private schools, which give free admissions under Rule 134A.Meeting on Dec 26Karnal: During CM’s visit at the grain market, several parents of students, who have been selected under the rule134A of the Haryana School Education Rules, had to return empty handed as they were not allowed to meet him. On being asked the CM said that they would ensure admission of students under the rule 134A. “A meeting is scheduled on December 26 in this regard. We will make sure all students get admission,” the CM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ews-admissions-no-reimbursement-paid-by-govt-say-pvt-schools-353837
24-12-2021||---||Hisar murders: Police collect weapon, blood stains from site||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 23The forensic department of the police has taken samples of the blood stains in the suicide and murder case that occurred in Nangthala village of Hisar district on Monday.They have also taken the suicide note and the heavy iron implement used in committing the crime for forensic examination.The police said that the body of Ramesh Varma was found from Agroha-Barwala road, 4 km from his home in Nangthala village. Later, the bodies of his wife Sunita (38) and children Anushka (14), Deepika (12) and Keshav (10) were also found from their house.Police sources said though it seemed to an apparent case of killings committed by family head Ramesh Varma, who later ended his life, they want forensic examination done to ascertain their theory.The police suspect that Ramesh had served ‘kheer’ which was laced with sleeping pills to his family members before killing them when they were fast asleep.The police have also found the ‘kheer’ and it will be sent for forensic examination to Madhuban.The police are also looking for the driver of the vehicle which caused Ramesh’s death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-murders-police-collect-weapon-blood-stains-from-site-353838
24-12-2021||Hisar||Foetus found in Hisar||A foetus was recovered from Jagjivan Nagar near Hisar bus stand today. The police said the foetus was about six-months-old. The police took the foetus in their possession and sent it to the Civil Hospital for examination.The foetus was wrapped in a red cloth. A local resident, Nirmal Sharma, said there was an empty plot in front of his house where he spotted the red cloth. He informed the police, following which the police have started investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/foetus-found-in-hisar-353839
24-12-2021||---||Yamunanagar: Drive against subsidised urea in plywood factories||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 23The local administration has started a drive against the use of the subsidised urea in the plywood industry here. A team comprising Jagadhri SDM Sushil Kumar and quality control inspector (QCI) of the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Yamunanagar, Dr Bal Mukand, conducted raids at 27 plywood factories in Yamunanagar district in the past week.Used to make glueSome factories use subsidised urea to prepare glue which is used as an adhesive to make ply, board and other related products“We have been conducting raids at plywood factories to stop the illegal use of the subsidised urea since December 16. We have so far raided 27 factories, but no such urea was found at any factory,” said QCI, Dr Bal Mukand.According to information, the rates of technical grade urea are much higher than those of the subsidised urea, therefore some plywood factories are allegedly using subsidised urea to prepare glue which is used as an adhesive to make ply, board and other related products.“The rate of the subsidised urea is Rs 266.50 per bag (45 kg bag). However, the rate of technical grade urea is about Rs 2,800 per bag of 45 kg (including 18 per cent GST),” said a source. The source further said that the plywood industry could use only technical grade urea or other chemicals to prepare glue and the subsidised urea could be used only by farmers in their crops.Jasvinder Saini, deputy director agriculture, Yamunanagar, said the inspection team was asking the owners of the plywood factories to produce bills of the technical grade urea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drive-against-subsidised-urea-in-plywood-factories-353840
24-12-2021||Deepender Deswal||Khap reservations on marriage Bill||Tribune News ServiceJind, December 23A khap panchayat has expressed its reservation over the Centre government’s decision to increase the age of marriage for girls in the country. The meeting resolved that a memorandum will be submitted to the Centre in this regard soon.No bar on marriage with consentIf marriage of a girl above 18 years is solemnised with the consent of her family and society, there should be no legal restriction on it. — Khap LeadersKhap panchayat leaders while addressing the meeting said that they were not opposed to raising the legal age of marriage to 21 years from the existing 18 years. But, they demanded that there should be no bar on marriage above 18 yearsfor society.“If marriage of a girl above 18 years is solemnised with the consent of her family and society, there should be no legal restriction on it,” said khap leaders.The khap panchayat has adopted two resolutions, which include seeking the age limit of 18 years for marriage of girls with the consent of family and amendment in the Hindu Marriage Act to ban same gotra and same village marriages, which are a societal norm in Haryana.Devvrat Dhanda, a khap panchayat spokesperson, said they would take up the matter with khap panchayats of western UP, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and the Centre government.Charkhi Dadri Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan, who is also pradhan of Sangwan khap, said, “It is good that girls are pursuing higher studies, but sometimes families have to marry them under pressing circumstances. There should not be a legal restriction on marrying girls at the age of 18 with the consent of family. However, in case of court marriage, the age limit can be raised to 21.”They want to build a better society and contribute in this direction, he added.“We have decided to form a committee of khap panchayat representatives, which will take up the issue with the Centre government. We will also discuss the matter in a panchayat scheduled to be held in Bhiwani’s Kitlana village on January 2,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khap-reservations-on-marriage-bill-353841
24-12-2021||Bhiwani||Farmers allege urea shortage in Bhiwani||After the shortage of diammonia phosphate (DAP) during the sowing of the rabi crops about two months ago, farmers are now running short of urea fertiliser, needed at the time of the first watering of the rabi crops in the region.Farmers, especially in Bhiwani district which is the home district of the state agriculture minister JP Dalal, said they had to wait for hours in queues at the fertiliser sale points to purchase urea bags. The farmers said this was the right time for sprinkling urea in the rabi crops wheat and mustard.Lacchi Ram, a farmer of Gignau village of Bhiwani district, said the farmers were not getting adequate bags of the urea fertiliser. “It needs to be sprinkled in the crops at the time of irrigating the fields. The crops are in dire need to be irrigated which cannot be delayed. If the urea is sprinkled three days after irrigating the field, it will be of no use”, he said.BKU leader from Bahal, Ravi Azad, said there was a heavy shortage of urea in the region. However, the deputy director of the Agriculture Department Atma Ram Godara stated that there was no shortage of urea in the district today. We have got 1830 MT fertiliser from the centre today, besides additional 600 MT from Hisar district. All sale points have urea in store,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-allege-urea-shortage-in-bhiwani-353842
24-12-2021||Karnal||2 killed in road mishap||Two friends, both in their twenties, were killed when the bike they were riding on was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Sector 4 in the city on Wednesday late evening.The deceased have been identified as Yash (21) and Rustom (25) of Gharaunda. The accident took place around 8 pm when they were returning to their homes from Karnal.“We have handed over the bodies to the family members after the post-mortem,” said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-in-road-mishap-353843
24-12-2021||Hisar||Adopt natural farming, Haryana Governor urges farmers||Governor Bandaru Dattatraya has stressed upon the need for natural farming while stating that it will give a new direction to farmers and farming in India.Speaking as the chief guest at the Haryana Agriculture University (HAU), Hisar, on the occasion of Kisan Divas today, the Governor said natural farming had gained importance not only in India but across the globe, which minimizes the use of chemicals in crops. He also felicitated 19 progressive women farmers of the state on the occasion.Dattatraya praised HAU scientists, researchers and students for their innovations, which have made agriculture more profitable“The prosperity of the nation depends on the progress of rural areas. Former Prime Minister Late Chaudhary Charan Singh was always concerned about the well-being of weaker sections of society, including farmers, and worked hard for their betterment,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adopt-natural-farming-guv-urges-farmers-353844
24-12-2021||---||Tailor shot dead in Rohtak village||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 23A tailor was shot dead by unidentified assailants at Saiman village in Rohtak district on Thursday.Some personal enmity was stated to be the reason behind the incident.The police registered a case and launched a hunt to nab the assailants.The body of the deceased, identified as Ashok, was sent for post-mortem. Ashok, who ran a tailoring shop in Saiman village, was sitting in front of his shop this afternoon. Some youths reached the spot on a motorcycle and a car and fired several shots at him.The assailants fled from the scene, while his neighbours called the police. A police team, along with forensic experts, reached the crime scene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tailor-shot-dead-in-rohtak-village-353845
24-12-2021||Karnal||Virtual extension lecture at KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal||40 students get jobs in InfosysKurukshetra: As many as 40 students of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Kurukshetra University, got placement in Infosys. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University said the selection of students was a matter of pride for the institute as well as university. Training and placement officer of the institute Dr Nikhil Mariwala and Dr Sanjeev Ahuja said the online drive was organised for the students who passed BE/BTech and ME/MTech from the institute.National unity programmeHisar: The conservation of available resources and saving them for the coming generations is also patriotism in itself, stated Prant Pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh Vijay while addressing NSS volunteers as the chief guest at the conclusion of the seven-day national unity camp organised under the aegis of the National Service Scheme at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, (HAU) in Hisar. He said it was important for the youth to be self-reliant for the progress of the country. HAU Vice-Chancellor Professor BR Kamboj said the volunteers had acquired qualities such as knowledge, discipline, personality development, social service acquired in this camp.Poster presentation contestYamunanagar: For exploring and nurturing scientific and technological talent among students, 'SIGMA-the Mathematical Society' of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised a poster presentation and power point presentation competitions. Convener Dr Savita Garg said 14 teams participated and showcased their artistry in the given competitions. She said Rewan and Rudrakash from BSc -II year and Praveen and Sakshi from BSc-I year were first in poster-making competition while Mukul and Khushboo secured second place and Ayush and Haritik from BSc non-medical-III year secured third place. She further said in power-point presentation Abhishek and Jatin secured first position, Komal Singh of BCA-II year secured second position and Ayush and Ritik from BSc-III year secured 3rd position. The officiating principal of the college, Dr Rahul Khanna, appreciated the members of society, Mukul, Arjun Dutta, Vaishali and Khushboo for their excellent work.Farmers' Day observedKarnal: The birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh was celebrated as Farmers' Day in Padhana village of the district by the Maharana Pratap Horticulture University, Karnal. Research director Dr RK Goel thanked the VC of the university, Prof Samar Singh for this programme. A large number of farmers participated in the programme. The farmers were made aware of tomato farming. On behalf of the VC, the research director urged the farmers to adopt horticulture and other crops for doubling the income.Students plant saplingsKaithal: To make the city green, students and faculty of Aakash Institute planted 130 saplings, equal to the number of selection of their students in competitive exams this year, at the Nehru Park in Kaithal. The fourth consecutive year of the campaign called the "Green Kaithal cean Kaithal". Lokender Singh, SP, Kaithal, was the chief guest in the presence of Parmeshwar Jha, regional director, Aakash Educational Services Limited (AESL). The tree plantation was preceded by felicitation of JEE and NEET toppers from institute's branch in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-extension-lecture-353847
24-12-2021||The floor of the entry point of Sector 51 from the main road has been lying broken for the last two years||Gurugram road cries for attention||Diivit and Aarohi, gurugramResidents face inconvenienceResidents of Panchkula are facing a lot of inconvenience due to several issues on various roads. Unauthroised speed breakers have been erected by various house owners which are unsafe for commuters. All B roads in the city's residential area are not pedestrian friendly and there is no check on speed of vehicles. Incomplete barricade opposite Tau Devi Lal Stadium road is also unsafe. At most places there is no zebra crossing for pedestrian, particularly opposite the Tau Devi Lal Stadium. There is no control on vehicles crossing the red light opposite the stadium.KC Katoch, panchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-road-cries-for-attention-353848
24-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Inept planning, Haryana power utility incurs Rs 786 cr loss||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has lost Rs 786.54 crore due to inefficiencies in the planning and execution of Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon (MGJG) scheme, reveals the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in its report tabled in the Assembly.The MGJG, a flagship scheme of the Haryana Government, was launched in July 2015, to cut T&D losses on rural distribution supply feeders and increase billing and collection efficiency.The power supply to villages was to be increased from 12 hours a day to 24 hours a day in a phased manner.The CAG highlighted delayed decision in awarding works on turnkey basis, as the department could execute work in only 8.2 per cent feeders from 2015-16 to 2017-18.After completing some part of the work, the UHBVN in 2017 realised that it was to use armoured cables as aerial bunched cables could be punctured to draw power illegally. So, the cables were changed over a large area.The CAG said two contracts worth Rs 39.94 crore were awarded to Ishwar Singh & Associates Construction Pvt Ltd in violation of tender norms. Six of the eight contracts awarded to the firm were completed with delays ranging from six to 29 months. The UHBVN awarded five more contracts to five other contractors, who also caused delays. “Work on 295 feeders was pending till January 2021. The power utility thus lost the potential revenue of Rs 786.54 crore,” the CAG said.The report said, “Even after completion of work on 349 feeders up to March 2019, the T&D losses remained more than 20% on 165 feeders during 2019-20. The scheme aim could not be fully achieved.”Besides, the Haryana Power Purchase Centre incurred extra Rs 209.33 crore in purchasing costly power from private producers and preparing incorrect merit order which put extra burden on consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inept-planning-haryana-power-utility-incurs-786-cr-loss-353812
