25-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Right-wing activists 'disrupt' Christmas prayers in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 25A group of men claiming to be right-wing activists allegedly barged into the premises of a church in Pataudi here on the eve of Christmas and disrupted the prayers, according to a viral video.Police, however, said they had not received any complaint.The video shows some men entering the church premises on Friday evening and raising slogans 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'.They are seen allegedly pushing the choir members down the stage and snatching the mic.The incident comes at a time when offering namaz in certain open spaces in Gurugram has kicked up a controversy.A local pastor told PTI, “It was scary as we had women and children around in the church. The nuisance is increasing with each passing day. It's an infringement of our right to pray and religion." Pataudi SHO Amit Kumar said the police did not receive any complaint so far.The local administration is yet to respond. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/right-wing-activists-disrupt-christmas-prayers-in-gurugram-354355
25-12-2021||Tribune Reporters||Amid Covid surge, night curfew back in Haryana||Chandigarh/Gurugram, Dec 24In view of Omicron emergence and a surge in Covid cases, the state on Friday reimposed night curfew and restricted the movement from 11 pm to 5 am.Gurugram sees highest spike in 6 monthsAlso, in indoor and open spaces, “gatherings of up to 50% of the hall/area capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of maximum 200 persons/300 persons respectively”, subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour.It will be the responsibility of the event organiser to ensure that only fully vaccinated persons are allowed to enter with effect from January 1, 2022. The rule also applies to all public places from January 1, 2022.Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal, in his orders, said the restrictions would continue from December 25 till January 5, 2022. The other relaxations announced earlier will continue.Meanwhile, the Covid scare gripped Gurugram as 48 cases were reported in the district on Friday. This is the highest single -day spike in the last six months. The surge has taken the active number of cases to 174. The spike has left the authorities worried in the wake of Christmas and New Year celebrations.It may be noted even after five days the genome sequencing report has not arrived. A 30-year-old returnee from the UK had tested positive on December 19, but whether he had Omicron variant or not was yet to be confirmed. Fortyeight new cases reported in district 13 were recovered also.Meanwhile, Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, said: “People should not put their guard down and avoid crowding as cases are rising. Those still waiting their second dose should get it soon and be careful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-surge-night-curfew-back-in-state-354122
25-12-2021||Ambala||Ambala meets 100% vaccination target||Ambala district today reached a milestone in the battle against Covid by achieving 100% of the second dose of the vaccination.A milestoneAs per the CoWIN portal, we’ve achieved 100% second dose target and vaccinated over 8.50 lakh eligible persons. We’ve been urging people to get the vaccination done. — Dr Sunidhi Karol, Nodal officer, Vax DriveAs per information, the district has 8,50,360 eligible beneficiaries. As per the CoWIN portal, 17,60,954 doses of vaccines have been administered, of which 9,09,469 were first, while 8,51,485 were second till 5 pm on Friday.Meanwhile, the Kurukshetra administration has decided to adopt a micro plan and take the help of different departments and associations in the district to increase the vaccination coverage.There are over 7.51 lakh people who are eligible for the vaccination in Kurukshetra. As per the Health Department, over 6.34 lakh persons were administered the first dose, which accounts for nearly 84% coverage, while 4.23 lakh were administered second doses, which accounts for 56% till 5 pm on Friday.The administration has decided to rope in gram sachivs, patwaris, nambardars in villages and outgoing municipal councillors, institutions and associations in urban areas to improve the coverage. The DC has also asked the SDMs to write to government departments to ensure that all officials and employees were vaccinated, else they would be not allowed to attend the office.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Anupma said, “The department has been continuously urging the public to get vaccinated, but they have been showing reluctance and making excuses. We are hopeful that after the government’s announcement on no allowing unvaccinated people in public places from January 1, there will be more turnout at the vaccination centres.”Home and Health Minister Anil Vij claimed that 2.61 lakh people got vaccinated in the state on December 23, which was one lakh more than the daily average vaccination of about 1.5 lakh per day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-meets100-vaccination-target-354123
25-12-2021||---||Report on Bastara toll plaza violence likely next week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24The term of Justice SN Aggarwal (retd) Commission of Inquiry into the Bastara toll plaza violence ended on Friday.It was on extension till today. Sources said the report of the commission couldn’t be submitted as the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was preoccupied and now it was likely to be presented next week.Justice Aggarwal, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, was appointed head of the Commission of Inquiry in September. The commission has inquired the entire sequence of events, leading to the incidents at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28.Ayush Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer, was caught on tape while allegedly telling personnel to “break the heads” of protesting farmers if they breached the barricades near the spot where the BJP’s event was taking place in Karnal. Sinha was then SDM Karnal. The commission was to inquire into his role as well.A lathicharge on farmers had taken place on August 28 at the Bastar toll plaza. They were trying to disrupt a BJP meeting. One farmer had died.The incident had led to a standoff between the farmers and the state government.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) laid a siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7 as they were demanding action against Sinha and compensation for the farmers.The talks remained inconclusive for four days, but later the government agreed to a judicial inquiry on September 11 and Justice Aggarwal Commission was set up to probe the violence.Meanwhile, the Centre confirmed Ayush Sinha as IAS officer by a notification, dated December 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/report-on-bastara-toll-plaza-violence-likely-next-week-354124
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Complaint filed against namaz in open||Some Hindu activists complained to the police today against offering namaz in the open besides designated spots. The complainants alleged that despite the CM’s announcement and reported statement in the Vidhan Sabha, namaz was still being offered at public places.“The CM has clearly ordered no tolerance to offering namaz in the open. The practice is still going on without any permission. We demand that the administration should take action against those who do not pray at designated places,” Kulbhushan Bhardwaj said at the Sector 29 police station.After almost two months the administration and the police managed to pull off a namaz disruption free Friday today. Some Muslims gathered at an open space in Sector 40 for offering namaz, but the police sent them back as the site was not designated by the administration.Meanwhile, namaz was offered at all 20 designated sites in Gurugram, including six open spaces. Sources said some Hindu activists did try to disrupt namaz at some sites, but were shooed away by the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/complaint-filed-against-namaz-in-open-354125
25-12-2021||---||Yamunanagar siblings booked for duping man of Rs 7 lakh on job promise||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 24The Ambala police have booked two people for allegedly duping a man of Rs 7 lakh on the pretext arranging a job of Naib Tehsildar for his son-in-law on Friday.The case has been registered against Aarti and Yogesh of Yamunanagar.In his complaint to the police, retired police official Ashok Kumar, a resident of Naraingarh, said the accused had sought Rs 35 lakh for arranging a job of Naib Tehsildar, of which Rs 8 lakh were given as advance.Ashok said Aarti met him in front of the police headquarters in Panchkula two years ago and claimed that she had good links in the government and could arrange jobs, admissions and get any work done. In February this year, Ashok informed his son-in-law Vikas about the woman. She told Ashok that she could arrange a job of Naib Tehsildar, advertised in 2014, for his son-in-law for which she had sought Rs 35 lakh. “I told her that Vikas had not filled the job form, to which she claimed that she already had three-four candidates, and she will take care of it. She has links in the government and will adjust them. Aarti claimed that she will arrange the job by August 2021. Aarti and her brother Yogesh had got Vikas’s signatures and thumb impressions on a few blank papers and also took the photocopies of his educational certificates. They demanded Rs 8 lakh in advance and remaining after getting the job. The amount was transferred in their accounts in several transactions,” he claimed.The complainant further said: “When we enquired in August, the accused claimed that she will arrange the job next time. On demanding the money and documents back, the accused gave only Rs 1 lakh and refused to return the remaining amount.”A case has been registered under Sections 406, 420 and 120B of the IPC at the Naraingarh police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/siblings-booked-for-duping-man-of-7l-on-job-promise-354126
25-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal Admn gears up to boost Swachh Survekshan ranking||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 24After a poor show in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 ranking, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has geared up to improve its ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2022.It has not only focused on citizen engagement programmes for the 100 per cent disposal of garbage, an important parameter for awarding rankings, but also started involving various stakeholders – hotels, dhabas, market associations, hospitals schools, various resident welfare associations, government offices and market associations. Competitions among these stakeholders will be conducted on various parameters, including condition of the building, toilets, segregation of dry and wet waste, compost pit, ban on single-use plastic, converting wet waste into composting, and zero waste. Drawing and wall painting competitions will also be organised.In 2021 ranking, Karnal has slipped to 86th place from 17th in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 in the 1-10 lakh population category. Shortage of sanitary workers, and resources after the abolishing of contractual system are the reasons behind the fall in ranking, said an official of the KMC.“No doubt, our ranking dipped in the last Swachh Survekshan, but now, we are focusing on the next survey to be held in the first quarter of 2022,” said said Dheeraj Kumar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner (DMC), KMC.A rapid task force has been constituted to address the complaints filed by residents on the Swachh Haryana App regarding sanitation, garbage lifting from open area, door to door collection, sweeping and toilets. The employees will ensure the addressing of the issue in the prescribed time,” Kumar maintained.Apart from it, wards of the city are being developed as self-reliant. In the first phase, ward 9 is being developed as self-reliant by ensuring segregation of waste at the source, disposal of waste, door to door collection, compost pits for complete disposal of wet waste. “Information, education and communication (IEC), will help us in achieving the target,” he said.The KMC has also focused on water+ status along with continuting ODF++ status. “We will ensure the status of water +, for which all toilets have been made functional along with complete treatment of sewerage water,” he said, adding that to address the menance of construction and demolition waste, they have started a toll free number and the KMC is extending free of cost service for lifting it.People are being made aware that they should not use single waste plastic for which resident welfare associations, NGOs, traders and associations have been roped in, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-admn-gears-up-to-boost-ranking-354127
25-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad air quality severe for fourth day||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 24The air quality of this industrial hub remained at the severe (hazardous) level for the fourth consecutive day on Friday. Topping the chart in the state, Faridabad continues to be among the most-polluted cities of the country.As the AQI (air quality index) hung between 414 and 417 on Friday, it is hazardous in terms of quality, as per Sameer, the official app of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Hitting 402 on December 21, it touched the levels of 413, 462 and 453 in the past three days. In fact, the city reached the top spot in the country on Thursday, according to the data.Nine other cities of Haryana, including Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Dharuhera, Sonepat, Panipat, Rohtak, Jind, Hisar and Yamunanagar, recorded very poor quality of air (between 300 and 400) on Friday. While the air-quality level is several times higher than the acceptable limit, this has become a cause for concern, according to experts, who believe that it could result in health problems. “Exposure to the high levels of air pollution can cause a variety of adverse health outcomes, as it increases the risk of respiratory infections, heart disease and lung cancer,” says Tarun Kashyap, a physician.Claiming that the GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan) implemented to contain the problem had failed to make an impact, sources in the CPCB said violations had been rampant with no curbs on dust generation, burning of waste in the open and plying of outdated vehicles.Blaming the weather conditions, a senior official of CPCB said the low speed of wind, decrease in temperature and factors like dust on damaged roads and transportation of building material in open vehicles had led to smoggy conditions.As the safe (good) level of PM-2.5 is 60 or less, a level between 60 and 100 is satisfactory. While it is moderate between 100 and 200, it turns poor between 200 and 300. The level between 300 and 400 is very poor. It becomes severe above 400.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-air-quality-severe-for-fourth-day-354128
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Anganwadi workers gherao Gurugram BJP MLA Sudhir Singla’s office||Anganwadi workers gheraoed Gurugram BJP MLA Sudhir Singla’s office and tried to force their way inside by breaking barricades on the 17th day of strike today. The MLA remained unavailable and protesters claimed that they would start dharna from tomorrow in front his office. When contacted MLA Sudhir Singla said he was in office till 1:30 pm. He would meet workers tomorrow and talk to CM about their demands, the MLA added.Anganwadi workers and helpers claimed that even after raising slogans for two hours, the MLA did not come out of his office. He ignored them and went out from the back door, protesters added.The Aam Aadmi Party also supported protesters. AAP leader Dr Sarika Verma said they stand with Anganwadi workers because their demands were justified, but the MLA’s attitude MLA was not satisfactory.“The MLA did not come out nor listened to our problems while we wanted to a give memorandum. We will protest again at MLA’s office tomorrow,” said Sarla, who led the protest.“As an MLA I have lots of work. I went to attend some programme, but I am ready to meet them,” said Singla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anganwadi-workers-gherao-mlas-office-354129
25-12-2021||Karnal||'Harassed', Narela arhtiya dies by suicide||Harassed by two arhtiyas over monetary issue, a 40-year-old man died by suicide by consuming poisonous substance at Ballah village on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Deepak Gupta of Ballah, who was an arhtiya at the Narela grain market in Delhi. He left a suicide note in which he alleged that two arhtiyas of Narela were harassing him on the financial issue.The Ballah police have booked both the accused.“Based on the suicide note and statement of the kin of the deceased, we have registered a case against Surinder and Vinod of Narela for forcing him to take the extremestep. There was an issue of around Rs 13 lakh between them,” said Sandeep Kadiyan, SHO, Ballah. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/harassed-arhtiya-dies-by-suicide-354130
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Trying to flee country after killing lover, Gurugram man nabbed near Bangladesh border||A taxi driver, wanted for allegedly murdering his girlfriend for refusing to marry him, was nabbed near Bangladesh border, by the Sector 31 crime unit team. He was produced in a court, which sent him to two-day police remand.The accused has been identified as Shafikul Islam (37), a native of Dakshin Dinajpur in West Bengal. He lived with his wife in Gurugram and was working as taxi driver.On September, 23 when the body of Nargis Khatun (25) of West Bengal was found in the South City-1 area and the taxi driver was also missing.Victim’s father alleged Shafikul might have killed his daughter. He told the police that his daughter went to bring milk, but did not return home. Next day, he managed to get a CCTV footage from a nearby gym in which she was seen with Shafikul. An FIR was registered at the Sector 40 police station. Now, the Sector 31 crime unit team is probing the case. The crime unit team led by Inspector Anand Yadav caught the accused from Fulwari Chowk, near Bangladesh border, when he was trying to flee the country. The accused confessed to murder. “The accused has been married three times. Now, he was pressurising victim for marriage. When she denied he killed her,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trying-to-flee-country-after-killing-lover-man-nabbed-354131
25-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Molasses-based ethanol plant opened in Yamunanagar||Saraswati Sugar Mills (SSM) has set up a molasses-based ethanol production plant with an investment of 200 crore.Benefits for MillThe plant will help improve financial condition of the SSM thus paving a way for timely payment to 20,500 sugarcane farmers associated with this mill. It was inaugurated on Wednesday through video link by Aditya Puri, managing director, SSM.After offering prayer, the plant was made operational by chief operating officer of the SSM, SK Sachdeva, by pressing a power button.Sachdeva said with a production capacity of 100 kilo-litre per day, the plant would be run using molasses produced at the SSM. They would supply ethanol to petroleum companies, he added.“This plant will produce 100 kilolitre ethanol per day. Ethanol is blended with petrol to reduce dependence on crude oil imports,” he said. The plant would also generate direct and indirect employment, he added.“Molasses of our sugar mill will be used in this plant to produce ethanol. It will help improve financial condition of the SSM and enable timely payment to cane farmers associated with the mill.”The ethanol plant was constructed by ISGEC, Noida, one of the associate companies of the SSM, he added.The ethanol unit would be a zero liquid omission unit for which a special type of boiler was installed in the plant, he said. “The potash content is high in ash of this boiler from which fertiliser will be prepared,” he added.The plant would produce 45 to 48% carbon dioxide during ethanol production, he said. “After liquefying, carbon dioxide gas will be used in various kinds of industries.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/molasses-based-ethanol-plant-opened-in-ynagar-354132
25-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC seeks answer on stamp duty recovery notice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24An officer, who issued stamp duty recovery notice to landowners, has virtually landed himself in dock.Act of respondent arbitraryThe act of the respondent is wholly arbitrary as a statutory right granted to the petitioners by the state govt can’t be taken away through a letter which is in the nature of an executive order. — Shivansh Malik, CounselThe HC has asked the officer to file his “personal” affidavit explaining how he initiated the proceedings for the recovery of the alleged deficient stamp duty. This was despite the fact that exemption from stamp duty was duly mentioned in the sale deed itself.Justice Rajbir Sehrawat directed that the proceedings against the petitioners, pursuant to the impugned order, would remain stayed. Issuing a notice of motion to the respondents for April 20 next year, he made it clear that the order would remain in force till the next date of the hearing “only”. The notice issued by the Bench was accepted by Deputy Advocate-General Harish Rathee on behalf of the respondents. He also sought time from the Bench to file a written statement. The issue was brought to the HC notice after a petition was filed against the state and other respondents by Balwan and other landowners through counsel Shivansh Malik.After going through the documents and hearing Malik, Justice Sehrawat said the certificates regarding exemption from stamp duty had also been issued by the District Revenue Officer and the competent authority under the Land Acquisition Act.Appearing before the Bench, Malik submitted the letters issued by Rohtak collector-cum-SDO were arbitrary, illegal, discriminatory and liable to be set aside. He said the petitioners were granted an incentive to purchase a chunk of land within two years of acquisition of their land in Rohtak’s Kherari village to avail the benefits of certain policies duly approved by the Council of Ministers and published in the Haryana gazette. As such, it attained a statutory character. But the respondent attempted to take away the rights granted to the petitioners through a simple letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-seeks-answer-on-stamp-duty-recovery-notice-354133
25-12-2021||---||Both doses must to tackle Omicron: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that in view of the possibility of the increasing cases of Omicron in the state, from January 1 both doses of the vaccination had been made mandatory for entry in all institutions related to the public sector. Along with this, a gathering of more than 200 people in public places, other programmes and the movement of public from 11 pm to 5 am would be strictly banned.The CM was presiding over the Covid review meeting on Friday. He said in order to curb the influence of Omicron, it was necessary that people should be made more and more aware. Special attention should be paid to ensure vaccination and it would be for everyone to get their vaccination done. The Health Department should complete all its preparations to deal with Covid cases. Wherever necessary, essential arrangements should be ensured.The CM said on December 23, more than one lakh people got the second dose of the Covid vaccine.Besides, 30-32,000 patients were being tested daily by the department and those found positive were being sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/both-doses-must-to-tackle-omicron-cm-354134
25-12-2021||---||Railway panel discusses Ambala division's performance||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 24A meeting of Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (DRUCC), Ambala Division, Northern Railway, was held at the Divisional Railway Office, Ambala Cantonment, on Friday.Gurinder Mohan Singh, Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala Division, highlighted the financial performance of the division during the current financial year and other various sanctioned projects at the meeting.The meeting is convened for better representation of railway users and for consultation between the railway administration and commuters on issues related to services provided. .DRUCC members also gave their suggestions for improvement of facilities. After meeting, Arjun Pandit, one of the DRUCC members from Yamunanagar, was elected to represent the Ambala Division in Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/railway-panel-discusses-ambala-divisions-performance-354135
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||No development, only scams in Haryana: Bhupender Singh Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupender Singh Hooda today said that the BJP-JJP rule in the state would be remembered as a time when there was no development and only scams. He said the government had pushed the state back by many years.He was addressing a press conference in Rohtak today. Hooda said the issue of scams was raised vigorously by the Congress during the Assembly session and the government did not have any answers.“The Opposition had raised the demand for the CBI to investigate the recruitment scam under the supervision of a sitting judge of the High Court, but the government adopted a sly approach. It was seen running away from a high-level investigation,” he said.The former CM said he had also raised the issue of fortified rice in the House and said a proper investigation was needed in the matter. “So far, the names of the culprits of scams in liquor, registry and paddy purchase had not been made public by the government, nor had any action been taken against the person holding high positions,” he stated.Hooda said there was strong opposition from the Congress against tampering with the autonomy of universities. The government had to eventually reconsider its decision and had assured that it would form a committee regarding appointments in universities.Govt trying to snatch rights of poor: SeljaHaryana Congress president Kumari Selja today said the BJP-JJP coalition government in the state was slowly trying to snatch all rights given to poor.“Recently, private schools have refused admission to EWS students under Section 134A of the Haryana School Education Rules,” said Selja. In a statement today, Selja said, “It has been nine months since the academic session started, but till date children from poor families have not been admitted to private schools. Even if these children are admitted in the next few days, then how will they be complete their syllabus?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-development-only-scams-in-state-hooda-354136
25-12-2021||---||Nurses on contract can get  eight-mark weightage, says Anil Vij||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij today announced that nurses hired on outsourcing or contract basis in any medical college, first aid centre, community medical centre or government hospital would be given maximum eight marks during regular recruitment, Vij added.“The Haryana Government has given its approval in this regard under which all such employees working or have rendered their services in government hospital on contract basis or on outsourcing basis for a minimum period of six months or less than one year,” said Vij.“Those who have experience of more than one year will get one mark, two marks for two years experience, three marks for three years experience, four marks for four years experience, five marks for five years experience, six marks for six years experience, seven marks for seven years experience, eight marks for eight years or more experience,” Vij added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nurses-on-contract-can-get-eight-mark-weightage-saysvij-354137
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sops for paying power bill online in Haryana's rural areas||The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has started a scheme to provide incentives to rural consumers on the digital payment of their power bills.An official spokesperson of the UHBVN said under the ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ scheme, more than 75% villages were being provided 24-hour power supply. He said the main objective of this scheme was to encourage rural consumers to make digital payments. Consumers can pay power bills digitally through their debit and credit card, Internet and mobile banking or applications like Paytm and Amazon, etc.The spokesperson further said for the first time digital payment of power bills by rural consumers, Rs 20 would be given as incentive. After this, on making a digital payment of power bill up to Rs 2,000, an incentive amount of.5% of the bill amount (up to a maximum of Rs 10) will be given.Besides, an incentive of Rs 50 will be given for the digital payment of six consecutive bills by the consumer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sops-for-paying-power-bill-online-in-rural-areas-354138
25-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Spreading environment awareness on cycles in Jagadhri||Officers of the local administration took a bicycle ride and went at several places in Jagadhri to finalise sites for two proposed common effluent treatment plants (CETPs).The purpose behind organising the cycle ride was to spread awareness among the masses to protect environment. According to information, several industrial units of Jagadhri are allegedly discharging untreated effluents directly into the sewerage or nullahs, polluting the water of the Western Jamuna Canal. Therefore, the local administration has taken a decision to install two CETPs in Jagadhri. DC Parth Gupta; MC Commissioner, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Ajay Singh Tomar; Regional Officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Yamunanagar, Nirmal Kumar Kashyap and some other officers visited Gulab Nagar, near the solid waste management plant at Kail village, Mohan Nagar, Parwalo village and Jammu Colony. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spreading-environment-awareness-on-cycles-354139
25-12-2021||Hisar||Worker dies in factory mishap||A factory worker was killed and three others suffered injuries when a chemical drum exploded in an industrial unit in Hisar town today.The police said one of the victims, Anarjeet, 37, hailing from Bihar, was killed in the accident, while three workers Kishan Lal, 50, Pawan, 23, and Dinesh , 29, were admitted to hospital in Hisar. The unit owner, Sandeep Modi, said the incident occurred at the time of the unloading of chemical drums. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/worker-dies-in-factory-mishap-354140
25-12-2021||---||Only 4,584 safai karamcharis for 8,656 primary schools in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 24There are 8,656 primary schools in Haryana, but only two permanent and 4,582 part time safai karamcharis are working there.The state government submitted facts in reply to a question by Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary in the just-concluded winter session of the Haryana Assembly.Only 34 safai karamcharis are employed in Panipat, which is the lowest number, followed by Rohtak 72, Nuh 81 and Charkhi Dadri 90.Chaudhary said, “If we attach one safai karamchari with a school, then close to half of the schools are left without them.”“Otherwise, there is so much focus on Swachh Bharat Mission. Even cities are graded as per cleanliness now. But the data reflects that primary schools are not the priority,” he added. Chaudhary said he asked this question from the government as primary school teachers had approached him because they were paying for safai karamcharis from their pocket. “In primary schools, children are not even toilet-trained. So, there is more requirement of safai karamcharis there,” he pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-4-584-safai-karamcharis-for-8-656-primary-schools-354141
25-12-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Awareness drive on career opportunities in Air Force||Prof Dhingra appointed KU proctorKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva has appointed Dr Sunil Dhingra, Professor of instrumentation as proctor of KU till further orders. Prof Brajesh Sawhney, director, public relations, KU, said Prof Dhingra will also be the chief vigilance officer of the university by virtue of being the proctor. Prof Dhingra thanked the Vice-Chancellor and said he would work with full dedication and honesty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/career-opportunities-in-air-force-354142
25-12-2021||Indeed it is a matter of great pity that opposite Lotous School in Sector 50||No cleanliness opposite Lotous School in Gurugram||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWater wastage from taps common sightWater running from taps seems to have become a common sight in Kaithal. What actually happens is, people open these public taps to use water but when they find the water is not flowing out, they do not turn off the tap. So when there is water supply, the water starts flowing out of these taps which have not been turned off. This adds to the wastage of water and this is a serious lapse on our part. We need to spread awareness among masses about water conservation.Kapil Sharma, KaithalIrregularities in garbage collectionThrough the column of your newspaper I want to draw the attention of municipal officers and workers towards the issue of irregularities in door to door collection of garbage. For the past two weeks the vehicle of the municipal corporation for door to door garbage collection is not coming in some areas of Yamunanagar which forces people to throw garbage in the open. Garbage heaps also invite stray animals which make it difficult for people to cross the streets. I request the municipal officials to resume 'door to door' garbage collection facility urgently and keep the city clean.Anubhav, YamunanagarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-cleanliness-opposite-lotous-school-in-ggram-354143
