26-12-2021||Ambala||Jesus Christ statue vandalised in Ambala||A statue of Jesus Christ at the entrance gate of a church in Ambala was allegedly vandalised by some unidentified people, the police said on Sunday.The incident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday at the Holy Redeemer Church in Ambala Cantonment, they said.SHO of Ambala Cantonment police station, Anil Kumar, said the police received the information about the vandalism in the morning.Footage from CCTV cameras in the area has been collected and two suspects have been spotted. A case for hurting religious sentiments has been registered and further investigations were underway, he said.Additional Superintendent of Police, Ambala, Pooja Dabla said a team has been constituted to conduct a thorough probe. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jesus-christ-statue-vandalised-in-ambala-354683
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature hovers close to normal limits in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperature in Haryana and Punjab hovered close to normal limits on Sunday.According to the meteorological department, Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala registered a low of 7.6 degrees Celsius while Hisar's minimum temperature settled at 8.4 degrees Celsius. Gurugram recorded a low of 11.7 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature in Panchkula was 6.7 degrees Celsius.  In Punjab, Amritsar registered a low of 6.9 degrees Celsius. The lowest recorded temperature in Patiala was 7 degrees Celsius while it was 7.4 degrees Celsius in Bathinda. Faridkot recorded a low of 6.5 degrees Celsius. The respective minimum temperatures at Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Moga and Sangrur were recorded at 7.2 degrees, 5.5 degrees, 6.1 degrees, 5.3 degrees and 5.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperature-hovers-close-to-normal-limits-in-haryana-punjab-354663
26-12-2021||Gurugram/Kurukshetra||Christmas eve prayers disrupted||High drama prevailed at a Christmas eve carnival at a Pataudi school as right wing activists gatecrashed the premises, shouting slogans.While a video of the incident went viral, the police claimed to have received no complaint. The activists alleged that attempts were being made to convert people by luring them with food and clothes. But the organisers said the allegations were baseless. In Kurukshetra too, Bajrang Dal activists reportedly disrupted a Christmas event at a private palace. — Tribune Reporters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/christmas-eve-prayers-disrupted-354436
26-12-2021||Yamunanagar||2 booked for fake sale of agriculture land||The police have booked two persons for allegedly duping a Radaur resident of Rs 10.70 lakh on the pretext of selling him a piece of farmland.On the complaint of Raj Kumar, a case was registered against Lokesh of Nachraun village and Harinder Singh of Radaur town under Sections 120B, 406, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 506, IPC, at the Radaur police station yesterday.The complainant said he wanted to buy the land in 2018. He said Harinder Singh of Radaur, a person known to him, told him that Lokesh wanted to sell his farmland.“I made an agreement regarding the land with Lokesh for Rs 16 lakh. I paid him Rs 10.70 lakh when the agreement was made,” alleged the victim.He said Lokesh started making excuses and I didn’t get the piece of land registered in my name for long.“Now, I have come to know that Lokesh doesn’t have any agriculture land. He made an agreement with me by using fake documents,” alleged the victim. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-booked-for-fake-sale-of-agriculture-land-354437
26-12-2021||Fatehabad||Land fraud case: Ratia SDM among six booked||The State Vigilance Bureau has registered a case against Ratia SDM Bharat Bhushan Kaushik (HCS officer) and his wife, in a matter of purchasing a piece of land of a factory by showing it as agricultural land in Fatehabad district.The bureau, on the complaint of the vigilance inspector, booked the SDM, his wife Sarika, dismissed head constable Bala Singh and his wife Karamjit Kaur and Ratia’s patwari Madan and another person under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the IPC.It was alleged that a piece of land measuring 5 kanals and 16 marlas, was registered on October 29, 2021. The land belongs to Laxmi Oil and Cotton Factory near Miglani Hospital, Ratia. In “jamabandi” and “fard”, this land has been mentioned as “gair mumkin” and factory, but it was registered for Rs 45 lakh by mentioning it as agriculture land.Sources said while getting the land registered, neither the property ID was made nor NOC was obtained from the municipality.A woman, Kanta Devi, sold this land as its owner. But Amritpal of Zirakpur had lodged a complaint to the administration, claiming ownership of the land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-fraud-case-ratia-sdm-among-six-booked-354439
26-12-2021||---||Surajkund crafts mela from February 4||Chandigarh, December 25Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the 35th Surajkund International Crafts Mela-2022, being organised in Faridabad, should be celebrated in such a grand and innovative manner that it leaves a lasting impression at the international level.The fair, being organised on Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, is scheduled to start from February 4 till February 20. The UK will be the partner country whereas Jammu and Kashmir will participate as the theme state.The Chief Minister was presiding over a meeting of officers in connection with the preparations for the Surajkund crafts mela on Friday. Tourism Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar was also present on the occasion.A draft of the said fair was also presented in the presence of the CM. This time, tourists coming from across the country and abroad will be able to book online parking space through the “Surajkund Mela app”, which will be launched soon. Through this app, tourists will be able to find the location and direction. With advance booking, it will be easier to control the crowd and the data will also be managed well. Tourists will be allowed to enter the fair through a barcode.Meanwhile, discussions were also held with the CM about inviting a VIP as the chief guest at the inauguration and closing ceremony of the mela. Khattar advised to continue the preparations for the fair while keeping in mind the Covid guidelines.In the meeting, Tourism Department Principal Secretary MD Sinha said so far, 30 countries had agreed to participate in the mela. He said last time, around 12 lakh tourists had attended the fair and 1,200 stalls were set up by artisans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surajkund-crafts-mela-from-february-4-354441
26-12-2021||Gurugram||To clean up Gurugram air, 2 MoUs inked||Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Municipal Corporation (MC) have entered into two tripartite MoUs with Lung Care Foundation along with Vital Strategies to work towards making Gurugram a liveable city by ensuring clean air and better health.The concerns over health impacts of air pollution on children, adults and the elderly of the city and neighbouring areas is a matter of grave concern. The present MoU is an outcome of the first roundtable on air pollution convened in the city as a joint initiative of the GMDA, MC, State Pollution Control Board and the government.Rajiv Khurana, founder-trustee and signatory to the MoU, said, “We all need to come together and move beyond blaming and finger-pointing. This is a collective opportunity to add to some of the good work already initiated by other civic organisations and raise the levels of impact with the help of multiple stakeholders of the city. This is our second-best time to work for results. The first was decades ago.”Vital Strategies is an international non-governmental organisation working in over 100 countries to address the world’s most pressing public health challenges.Subhash Yadav, CEO-GMDA, while signing the MoU said, “Such types of initiatives are the need of the hour in cities like Gurugram and Faridabad where pollution levels are very high to create awareness activities for various stakeholders. A series of activities will be planned and carried out under the MoU throughout the year.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-clean-up-gurugram-air-2-mous-inked-354438
26-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Year on, pollution curbs halt Faridabad flyover repair work||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 25The Badkhal flyover connecting national highway (Mathura road) and Sector-21 and the Surajkund area in the city has been lying damaged for about a year.The repair of this road used by a large number of commuters daily is yet to be taken up despite the announcement made by the authorities concerned two months ago.Commuting a risky affairCommuting on the Badkhal flyover has become a risky affair as people apply sudden brakes and deviate vehicles while trying to escape potholes. Devender Singh, localThe potholed road is a cause of inconvenience to hundreds of vehicles. The repairs have not been undertaken despite a part of the area being selected in the ongoing Smart City project worth Rs 3,000 crore, according to sources in the district administration.“Movement on the flyover has become risky and accident-prone due to sudden use of brakes and deviation of vehicles attempting to escape the potholes,” said Devender Singh, a retired government official residing in Sector 21C.Claiming that the matter of damaged roads, including the flyover, has been taken up several times with the local MLA, MP and civic authorities, he said the issue remains unattended.“Though Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, (MC) had announced to repair all the roads by November-end, the situation remains grim as several important roads in the city have been lying damaged, posing a threat to the safety of commuters,” said SK Sharma, coordinator, Road Safety Organisation (RSO), an NGO involved in road safety work.Describing the delay due to the lack of coordination, efficiency and direction, sources in the district administration claim that despite handing over several roads to the newly created FMDA (Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority), no work has been started, leaving the residents harassed.Meanwhile, Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MC, said the repair of the Badkhal flyover is to be done by the Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL). The deadline of repairing city roads has been missed mainly due to imposition of GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan — for containing pollution) measures according to which construction work has remained banned till recently. Tenders for repairs of some important roads have been released, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-on-pollution-curbs-halt-faridabad-flyover-repair-work-354440
26-12-2021||Ambala||Firms told to get permission for installing mobile towers||Taking action against mobile companies for installing towers under the Ambala Municipal Corporation limits without permission, the civic body has directed the former to get their towers regularised or face action.As per a survey, there are 130 towers under the MC limits, of which 12 were not even registered with the MC.Defaulters to face actionThe MC will seal the remaining 12 towers by Wednesday if the firms fail to comply with the orders. Demand notices are being sent to the firms, asking them to clear their dues, else they will also face action. Dhirendra Khadgata, ambala mc commissionerAs per the MC, mobile towers are one of the sources of income for the corporation but some companies have been installing the towers without the civic body’s permission. Mobile towers can be installed within the limits of MC only after the approval of the Commissioner Municipal Corporation.Taking action, three towers of a firm were sealed by the corporation, three days ago, and following the action, the telecom company not only submitted its documents, but also deposited the fee on Friday. All telecom companies have also been directed for the renewal of all sites, and in case of non-compliance, the corporation will take coercive action against them.Junior Engineer of Ambala MC Sahajpreet Singh said, “A drive has been launched to get all the mobile towers regularised. During a survey, 130 mobile towers were found under the MC limits, of which 15 were not registered. Some companies have been not cooperating. Taking action, three towers were sealed and then the companies came forward to get the towers registered, and these were de-sealed. There are still 12 unregistered towers in the MC limits. The companies have been asked to get their towers regularised or they will be sealed soon. Besides getting the towers regularised, and recovering annual charges, the corporation will also offer government sites on lease for towers to be installed in future so that more revenue could be generated.”Ambala MC Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said, “Mobile towers are also a source of revenue for the corporation. The MC for the last six months had been asking the companies to get their towers regularised and get their dues cleared but the companies were not cooperating. Now we have started taking action.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firms-told-to-get-permission-for-installing-mobile-towers-354442
26-12-2021||Hisar||Demands 'not met', Dalit man's body yet to be cremated in Hisar||The body of the Dalit man who was allegedly beaten to death 11 days ago following a row over stealing some electric items from the fields of a farmer in Mirkan village has not been cremated.The family of the victim, who was identified as Vinod, stated that they would not cremate the body until all the accused in the murder case are arrested and their other demands are met.The body is kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital. The relatives are not ready to accept it without the fulfilment of their demands. The family members alleged that the government is not listening to their demands.Accompanied by social organisations, family members gheraoed the residence of BJP MLA Kamal Gupta in Hisar today.As many as 33 different organisations staged a sit-in outside the MLA’s residence. They also submitted a memorandum to a representative of the MLA. Azad Samaj Party leader from UP and Bhim Army chief Chander Shekhar also met the victim’s family and assured them of all possible help. He also interacted with Hisar DSP to discuss the progress in the police investigation and other related issues.Vinod’s relatives are demanding Rs 50 lakh compensation, government job to a family member and the arrest of all 17 accused involved in the murder.Police sources said that so far, nine accused have been arrested. The administration has given Rs 4.5 lakh compensation to the deceased’s family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demands-not-met-dalit-mans-body-yet-to-be-cremated-in-hisar-354443
26-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Labourer killed, 3 injured in Gurugram accident||Gurugram, December 25A labourer was killed and three persons were injured when a speeding Honda Amaze car hit four bicycles near Arihant Hospital in Sector 52 this morning.The car driver, Manan Sanjiv, fled from the spot after leaving behind the car, but the police nabbed him soon. The driver was a practising lawyer, who was later let off on bail.An FIR was registered at the Sector 53 police station in this regard. The mishap took place around 8.15 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourer-killed-3-injured-in-gurugram-accident-354445
26-12-2021||Kaithal||1.71 lakh jabbed in 5 days in Kaithal||A total of 1.71 lakh doses of Covid vaccines were administered in just five days in Kaithal district.Of these, 1,11,975 people were fully vaccinated, while 59,374 people got the first dose. The district administration has restricted the entry of the government employees and others who are not fully vaccinated in the Mini Secretariat. Besides, around 190 teams have been working at different health centres as well and moving door to door to ensure 100 per cent vaccination in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-71l-jabbed-in-5-days-in-kaithal-354444
26-12-2021||---||24,000-ltr furnace oil seized from illegal factory in Hisar||Hisar, December 25The Chief Minister’s flying squad raided an unauthorised oil factory on the Balsamand-Bhadra road in Hisar district and recovered 24,000 litre of furnace oil on Saturday.CM’s flying squad Inspector Inder Singh said they got information about an illegal oil factory being operated near Aryanagar on the Balmasand-Bhadra road. A joint team of the CM’s flying squad, Food Supply Department, Excise and Taxation and Measurement Departments raided the factory operating under the name of Ganesh Enterprises on Friday evening. Naveen Kumar of Hisar is stated to be the owner of this unit. When asked for the factory licence, Naveen could not produce it.Inder said the team recovered about 24,000 litre of furnace oil from five iron tanks kept in the factory. Besides, another tank built in the ground in the factory was also filled with oil. The team has taken three oil samples and sent it to the Panipat refinery for testing.Notably, the petrol pump operators have raised the issue of the illicit sale of spurious biodiesel, which is reportedly made from furnace oil. With the skyrocketing diesel prices, the availability of spurious biodiesel at much cheaper rates in the market, especially in interiors of Hisar, has attracted the motorists who use it as fuel.According to information, there are some unauthorised sale points of the biodiesel in the interiors of the district. There is also a godown in the Adampur region in the district, which supplies the biodiesel to various parts of the district, sources said. This biodiesel is reportedly around Rs 30 per litre cheaper that the diesel prices at the petrol pumps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-000-ltr-furnace-oil-seized-from-illegal-factory-in-hisar-354446
26-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Formed 18 months ago, Haryana Narcotics Control Bureau headquarters finally gets its own premises||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 25Almost 18 months after its formation, the state Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) headquarters (HQ) will start operating from its own fully equipped premises on the ground and second floors of the State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB) in Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban.Home Minister Anil Vij will inaugurate the premises on Sunday. Since the inception, the NCB HQ was functioning from a room of the SCRB. To check the drug menace in the state and to form a strategy for all stakeholders, the state government had announced to constitute the NCB in June 2020. ADGP Shrikant Jadhav took charge of the bureau on July 3, 2020. The government had sanctioned 380 posts of police officials and other staff for the smooth working of the bureau.As per sources, the NCB was formed but with incomplete manpower, resources and a building.At present, of the total 304 sanctioned posts of the police officials, 111 are filled while 193 are lying vacant due to which the functioning of the bureau is badly affected. Of the total 76 sanctioned posts of ministerial staff, 62 are not filled so far.The bureau has 17 proposed units at the district headquarters, of them 11 were sanctioned and eight units in Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Gurugram, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatheabad, and Rewari were functional, said an official.Each field unit has a sanctioned staff of 22 persons, including one each of inspector and sub-inspector. However, the posted staff in these units is almost half, hampering the bureau work. Also, 11 temporary SUVs have been provided. The government has sanctioned a sum of around Rs 8.35 crore for, vehicles including SUVs and bikes. The process to purchase the SUVs had been started, while the bikes were yet to be bought, the official added.On October 13, 2020, the government had announced to set up the NCB headquarters at the second floor of the SCRB, but the building required renovation. With the cost of around Rs 57 lakh, the building was renovated and now, it was fully equipped, the official claimed.Meanwhile, Jadhav said: “We’ve not only been working to arrest the drug peddlers, but also spread awareness. We’ve conducted several seminars and administered oath to around 1 lakh students. The NCB has registered 192 FIRs, arrested 319 persons and seized huge amount of drugs so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/formed-18-months-ago-state-ncb-hq-finally-gets-its-own-premises-354447
26-12-2021||Karnal||Haryana schools better than Delhi's: Kanwar Pal Gujjar||Strongly reacting to the statement of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Naveen Jaihind that Haryana’s Eduction Minister is just a matriculate, state Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said, “Education qualification is not a parameter even if I am illiterate. I can challenge their Education Minister as our schools are much better than the schools in Delhi.”He was reacting to a question asked by mediapersons at Mini Secretariat during a programme to mark Good Governance Day on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.On being asked about the delay in admission to the selected students under Rule134-A of the Haryana School Education Rules, he said there was a meeting scheduled on December 26 and the issue would be resolved. “We will ensure the admission of all selected students,” the minister added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-better-than-delhis-kanwar-pal-gujjar-354448
26-12-2021||---||Over 8.5L grievances resolved through CM Window: Manohar Lal Khattar||Panchkula, December 25Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that now all types of public grievances were being solved easily through CM Window as more than 8.5 lakh issues had been resolved under the grievance redress system.He was addressing a programme organised here to mark the Good Governance Day here today.Transforming livesThe state government is constantly working towards achieving PM Modi’s vision of transforming the country through e-governance. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMUsing information technology, the CM said the lives of people of the state were being made better by bringing good governance reforms.He added that good governance reforms brought in the state by the current government had been developed in a way that now people don’t have to make frequent visits to Chandigarh or district offices for their works, as they could take advantage of all government schemes at the nearest Community Service Centre (CSC) in their village or online while sitting at their homes only.Talking about the Parivar Pehchan Patra initiative, Khattar said it would be a strong document in moving towards the direction of good governance in the state due to which it would be easy to get the benefits of the welfare services automatically.“With this robust system, now under the Old Age Samman Allowance, the pension of the beneficiary will start automatically. Now, the elderly people need not apply anywhere as the pension automatically starts when one attains the age of 60,” he said.The CM said nearly 13.47 lakh Svamitva cards had been made under the Svamitva Yojana in the state, out of which about 1.90 lakh cards had been distributed.The CM added that under the pilot project, the process of arms licence was being made online in two districts of Rohtak and Panchkula.At the event, the CM also launched a portal of Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam along with the announcement of setting up of an Atal Park and Smriti Kendra in Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-8-5l-grievances-resolved-through-cm-window-manohar-lal-khattar-354449
26-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||'Fake' income certificates irk private schools||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, December 25The Progressive Private Schools’ Association, a group of CBSE schools, has raised questions over the “authenticity” of income certificates being submitted to get admissions under the economically weaker sections (EWS) quota.“Many parents are furnishing income certificates of Rs 30,000 to Rs 1 lakh per annum for admitting their wards under the Rule 134A. All school owners are ready to pay them double the amount shown in their income certificates, if they are ready to work in the schools as per their qualifications,” tweeted Anil Kaushik, president of the association. He maintained that the certificates submitted by the parents to get their children enrolled in private schools under the Rule 134A should be re-verified by the district authorities as many of them managed to get the documents made despite being financially sound.“After apprising the district education authorities of such cases, we demanded verification of such certificates, but the officers washed their hands off claiming that they had no authority to verify the documents,” said Kaushik.Sunil Dutt, District Education Officer (DEO), Mahendragarh, said income certificates were issued by the tehsildars, hence the Education Department could do nothing about it.EWS quota admissionRule 134A of the Haryana School Education (Third Amendment) Rules, 2013, provides for free education in 10 per cent seats in private schools for students from the BPL category and economically weaker sections (EWS). The annual income of such parents should be less than Rs2 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-income-certificates-irk-private-schools-354501
