27-12-2021||---||5 killed as private bus rams into 2 stationary buses in Ambala||Ambala, December 27Five people were killed on the Ambala-Chandigarh national highway near here on Monday morning when a Delhi-bound private luxury bus rammed into two other tourist buses which were parked on the roadside, police said.Twelve passengers sustained injuries in the accident and they were admitted to the Civil Hospital in Ambala City.Most of the passengers in the buses were sleeping when the accident occurred in the morning, they said.Police said that the deceased were identified as Rahul (21), a resident of Jharkhand; Pardeep Kumar (22) of Uttar Pradesh; Mena Bai (4) of Chhattisgarh; Rohit Kumar (53) of Chhattisgarh and an unidentified passenger. Two of the buses were badly damaged in the accident and had to be removed from the highway with the help of cranes.All three buses involved in the accident were private vehicles, police said.Police said it seemed the bus coming from the Jammu side rammed into the parked buses after it tried to overtake some vehicle going towards Delhi.The driver of the offending bus, which was on its way from Jammu to Delhi, fled from the site, the police said, adding a case had been registered against the unidentified driver. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-killed-in-road-accident-in-ambala-355049
27-12-2021||---||Won't allow drug peddlers to ruin lives of youth: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 26Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has been formed so that drug peddlers do not spoil the lives of the state’s youth.980 doctors to be appointedOn the shortage of doctors, Vij said that the government was going to recruit 980 doctors in the state soon for which the process has been started. He said that they would fill all vacant posts soon.“The NCB will prove to be a game-changer in checking drug menace in the state. It will not only check the menace by sending the peddlers behind bars, but also by spreading awareness about drugs. We will prepare the data of drug addicts so that we can track them and bring them into the mainstream by shifting them to drug de-addiction centres,” said the Home Minister while inaugurating the building of NCB at Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban.Vij also inaugurated women’s barracks having a capacity to accommodate 896 people. With these barracks, the number of rooms has increased to 2,810 from 1,914. Besides, the Home Minister also reviewed the progress of the academy. Vij was accompanied by DGP PK Agrawal and other senior police officials.Vij said, “When I assumed charge as Home Minister, I had decided to eradicate drug menace from Haryana. We formed this bureau a year ago, but today, it got its fully functional office from where the police will track drug peddlers.”Vij said that he had said on the first day itself that political ambitions were behind the farmers’ agitation. “Political ambitions are behind the agitation due to which they were stretching it. They wanted to contest the elections from Punjab and UP,” alleged Vij while reacting to a question asked by mediapersons regarding formation of a political front by farmer leaders in Punjab.Vij praised the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said, “I salute our Prime Minister. He is worried about everyone. Predicting the third wave of Covid, the PM announced vaccination for teenagers in 15 to 18 age group and also booster doses for elders, Covid warriors and healthcare workers.”On being asked about the vaccination status, he said that 95 per cent target population has been administered the first dose and after the new restrictions that those people who are not fully vaccinated would not be allowed in public places, the graph of vaccination has increased across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-allow-drug-peddlers-to-ruin-lives-of-youth-says-vij-354955
27-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: 13 years on, farmers who offered land for IMT await Rs 600-cr relief||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 26A total of 2,610 farmers, whose land was acquired for the development of the Industrial Model Township (IMT) here around 13 years ago, are still reportedly awaiting Rs 600 crore compensation.Claiming that the held-up compensation was the part of the interest that applied on the delayed payment of the main cost of the land acquired in 2008, Ram Niwas Nagar, president, IMT Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said the delay that had stretched too long had not only left the farmers at the receiving end, but also exposed the tall claims of the government regarding the acquisition policy.He said 1,832 acres belonging to 2,610 farmers of six villages — Chandawali, Machhghar, Newada, Tigaon, Mujheri and Sotai — of Ballabgarh subdivision of the district had been acquired for the IMT through the HSIIDC.He said the pending payment had not been released despite meetings and assurances given by the government functionaries.It is revealed that though the land was initially acquired at Rs 16 lakh per acre, it got enhanced to Rs 60 lakh per acre after a petition was filed in the court for enhancement.While the amount of compensation has been due since September 2014, interest on the pending payment had swelled the compensation to Rs 600 crore, it is claimed.Jagdish of Mujheri village said despite several meetings and representations to the authorities, including the MP, relief was yet to be announced. “We had even got an assurance from the CM in 2018 and held a meeting with the authorities concerned last year, but even after no dispute over the issue, the wait for the compensation is not over,” he said. The promise of allotting alternative residential plots to farmers and jobs to local unemployed youths had also not been fulfilled, it is alleged.IMT estate manager Vikas Chaudhary said the compensation was to be paid by the government and the HSIIDC had nothing to do with it. “Over 450 industrial units have already become functional in the IMT with a total of 862 plots,” he added.“The issue is expected to be resolved soon as it is almost on the last stage,” said Nayan Pal Rawat, MLA, Prithla segment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-years-on-farmers-who-offered-land-for-imt-await-600-cr-relief-354956
27-12-2021||---||Haryana tops citizen-centric governance ranking||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26Haryana secured the top spot in Citizen Centric Governance Sector Ranking 2021. The state topped the Group-A category by securing a collective score of 0.914 in Citizen Centric Governance and four indicators.The Citizen Centric Governance indicator focused on outcomes like Right to Service Act, grievance redress mechanism and the progress made by the state governments in providing services online.Union Home Minister Amit Shah released the Good Governance Index-2021 on the occasion of Good Governance Day at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. This index has been prepared by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG).Taking forward the vision of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Haryana proved its mettle in various IT-driven initiatives in the state. These initiatives are not only bringing positive results but also ensuring that the state moves towards good governance with the help of e-governance, a press note issued by the government spokesperson said here today.Now, people can avail the benefits of government schemes from the comfort of their homes at a click. The state government is constantly working towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of transforming India through e-governance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-tops-citizen-centric-governance-ranking-354957
27-12-2021||Nitish Sharma||Year on, Ambala yet to get Dy Mayor||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 26It has been almost one year since the Ambala Municipal Corporation elections were held, but the Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor are yet to be elected.Election being delayed purposelyThe election is being delayed purposely. As per the rules, it should have been conducted within 60 days. We will submit a memorandum to the Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation. — Mithun Verma, Congress CouncillorWe Will soon initiate process for pollThe election of the Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor is pending. We will soon initiate the process for the election. — Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner, Ambala MCThe election of 20 councillors and the Mayor was conducted on December 27 last year, the results were declared on December 30 and the newly elected Mayor and councillors were administered oath on January 14.Out of 20 councillors, BJP had the maximum 8 councillors in the new house of Ambala Municipal Corporation followed by Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJP) with seven councillors, Congress with three, and Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) with two councillors. But later a Congress councillor switched over to the HJP, taking the HJP’s tally to eight. With the development, both the BJP and HJP now have eight members each in the house, while Congress and HDF have two each.A city resident and Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate Hemant Kumar said as per Rule 71 (2) of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Election Rules, 1994, the holding of elections for both the posts was to be ensured by the Commissioner within 60 days from the notification of the names of the Mayor and the elected members of the House. The notification in this regard was issued on January 1, 2021 by the State Election Commission, Haryana.Congress Councillor Mithun Verma, said, “The election is being delayed purposely. As per the rules, it should have been conducted within 60 days. We will submit a memorandum to the Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation.”Mayor Shaktirani Sharma, of the HJP, said, “We have been facing several issues. Even the House meetings are not being held properly and in such situations all other things become secondary. We have raised the issue with the officials. The date (for the election of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor ) is to be decided by the officials. Posts are lying vacant in the corporation in the absence of adequate manpower and I have written to the Urban Local Bodies so that adequate working strength is ensured.”Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel said, “It (election) is up to the government. We have asked the officials to ensure optimum the use of available resources in the development of the areas under the municipal corporation.”The Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation, Dhirendra Khadgata, said, “The election of the Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor is pending. We will soon initiate the process for the election.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-on-ambala-yet-to-get-dy-mayor-354959
27-12-2021||---||Brahma Sarovar gets 21 abstract sculptures||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, December 26The 21 contemporary abstract sculptures created by a team of 21 artists have started catching the eyes of devotees and tourists reaching Brahma Sarovar in Kurukshetra.The sculptures made from black marble have been prepared by the artists belonging to Haryana, Assam, Telangana, Rajasthan, Odisha, and Chandigarh after carving out single rock pieces.While the expenses have been borne by the Haryana Art and Cultural Affairs Department, the sculptures will be permanently placed at Purushottam Pura Bagh of Brahma Sarovar. The Kurukshetra Development Board has also planned to get a gallery to display these sculptures.The Art and Cultural Officer (Sculpture) of the Haryana Art and Cultural Affairs Department, Hirday Kaushal, who had also created one of the sculptures, said, “The sculptures have been prepared on the themes based on the Mahabharata, ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, and the Gita. Special black bhainslana marble was brought from Rajasthan for the project. The art pieces have been prepared by a team of 42 persons, including 21 artists and their assistants. While usually, it takes a period of over one month to create such sculptures but these have been prepared in 19 days, and these art pieces weigh between 5 tonnes to 12 tonnes.”“The objective of the project is to promote the dying art in Haryana, increase the aesthetic value of the Brahma Sarovar, and provide a platform to young artists. The artists were given the freedom to express their art and they have used mace of Bhima, Gita, Chakra, dices of Shakuni, soldiers’ rifle, trunk, and cap, and different Mahabharata characters in their compositions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/brahma-sarovar-gets-21-abstract-sculptures-354960
27-12-2021||---||Vax tally up post Haryana's 'no jab, no entry' order||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 26The state government’s recent order banning entry to public places for unvaccinated or single-vaccinated people has led to a considerable rise in the vaccination tally in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts.Big jump in 4 districtsMahendragarh and Rewari have recorded around 2.5 times and two times increase in vaccination, respectively ever since the government’s order, while the figure has shot up to over 70% in Rohtak and JhajjarInterestingly, those who received the first jab several months ago are now reaching the camps and health centres for the second dose so as to avoid any issue after January 1.Sources say Mahendragarh and Rewari have recorded around 2.5 times and two times increase in the vaccination, respectively, ever since the government’s order, while the figure has shot up to over 70 per cent in Rohtak and Jhajjar. The health authorities have also witnessed a rise in the vaccination camps in the past three days.“An average of 4,000 people were getting themselves vaccinated every day in Mahendragarh before the order, but the number has now crossed the figure of 10,000. A total 11,475 persons got vaccine on December 23 and the figure shot up to 12,504 next day, while it reached 11,124 on December 25,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Mahendragarh.He maintained that the ban on unvaccinated or single-vaccinated people for entry to public places from January 1 was the main reason for the rise in vaccination. The count of those who dropped the second dose was much higher than the first-timer, he added.Similar is the situation in Rewari. “The daily average vaccination was around 5,000 in Rewari before December 22, but the number has doubled now. A total 10,676 persons got jabs on December 24, while the figure rose to 13,793 on December 25,” said Krishan Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Rewari.Dr Paritev Singh, urban nodal officer (vaccination), Rohtak, said the ban orders had prompted even those people who were adamant on not taking the vaccine. “Earlier, three to four vaccination camps were organised daily, but the count is now over 15. The average vaccination per day was 4,000 in Rohtak, while 6,904 people got jabs on December 25,” he added.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar, said in all, 4,584 persons received the jab in Jhajjar on December 22 ,while the figure was 7,750 on December 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vax-tally-up-post-no-jab-no-entry-order-354961
27-12-2021||Faridabad||26-yr-old stabbed to death in Faridabad||A 26-year-old youth died after he was stabbed allegedly by some unidentified assailants on Thursday. Though a case has been booked, no arrest has been made so far.According to a police complaint, the victim, identified as Neeraj, a resident of Subhash colony here, succumbed to injuries at a hospital today.He was allegedly attacked by two persons with a knife on Thursday when he had stepped out of his office around 10 pm. While the reason for the attack is yet to be ascertained, it is claimed that the victim was assaulted after a minor scuffle over his identity. He was intercepted by the accused, who had asked about his identity and about the company he was employed at. It is reported that as soon as he responded, one of the accused took out a knife and stabbed him. He was taken to a hospital where he succumbed this morning. Hundreds of his co-workers staged a protest outside the company today, demanding compensation and relief for the kin of the deceased. It is alleged that the victim died after he was denied any help by the company staff where he was attacked.Meanwhile, in another incident, a 50-year-old man, identified as Shyam Chauhan, a shopkeeper in Sanjay Colony, was injured after he was fired at by an unidentified person last night. It is alleged that the accused, who had come to buy milk, shot at Shyam after he was told that milk was not available. The victim, who was hit in the jaw, has been admitted to a hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-yr-old-stabbed-to-death-in-faridabad-354962
27-12-2021||---||Bhupinder Hooda promises to boost development in Nuh district||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, December 26Calling the BJP government the biggest misfortune of Mewat, former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda promised a developed and problem-free Mewat today.Railway line to be builtWhen we come to power, all demands like bringing a railway line to Mewat, building a university and developing the Mewat canal will be fulfilled. — Bhupinder Hooda, Ex-CMAddressing the “Vipaksh Apke Samaksh programme” in Nuh, Hooda, accompained by local MLAs, heard problems of locals pertaining to schools, hospitals and even the “empty” government treasury. Hooda was accompained by the MLAs of the Nuh district Aftab Ahmed, Mohammad Ilyas and Maman Khan and many prominent leaders.The local MLAs presented an account of the development works done during the Hooda government and the main development demands of the area. “Whatever I was able to do for Mewat as Chief Minister, was my responsibility,” he said. “The BJP and BJP-JJP government of the state neither got any new development work done in Mewat nor carried forward the approved schemes of the previous government,” said Hooda.Addressing the programme, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda said, “Before 2014, Haryana was number one in per capita income, per capita investment, respect for farmers and sportspersons, agricultural productivity, schemes for the benefit of the poor and providing employment. Today, it is first in unemployment, crime, atrocities on farmers, corruption,” he said.“We take a pledge that we will not rest till Haryana comes back on the path of development and brotherhood and prosperity are fully established here,” he added.The Rajya Sabha MP said during the Hooda government, development works worth Rs 5,500 crore were carried in Mewat. “The district got all projects like Kotla Lake, state’s biggest ITI, ITI for girls, driving school, IMT, medical college, dental college, new hospital, new CHC, new PHC, Hodal-Pataudi highway. It was during Hooda’s tenure that Mewat was made a district, but during the last seven years, far from getting any new development work done in the district, the present government stopped the work initiated by the Hooda government,” he stated.Taking a jibe at the Modi-Khattar government, Deepender said this government has set many records not made in 70 years. “In 70 years, petrol, diesel, cooking gas, fertilisers have never been so expensive. Bank loans, atrocities on farmers and unemployment have never risen so much as in this government,” he said.People also raised the issue like bringing metro line in the area and ignoring of the medical college. Apart from this, different sections, including anganwadi workers, roadways union, safai karamcharis, Haryana physical education teachers, retrenched employees, sarpanches, social organisations, women and elderly also conveyed their problems to the Opposition through mics and memoranda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-promises-to-boost-development-in-nuh-district-354963
27-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Sans auction, impounded vehicles rust in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 26Several vehicles confiscated by the Excise Department in connection with smuggling or trading of illicit liquor in the district have got reduced to rubble due to inordinate delay in disposal.Around 40 vehicles, including cars, jeeps, vans and trucks, are lying in the open ground adjoining the old office of the Excise and Taxation Department, in Sector 12, here. “These vehicles had been impounded between 2000 and 2010 and remain in the custody of the department as the owners have failed to deposit the penalty. Though the cost of the vehicles dumped here is hard to ascertain, if they are disposed of now, they will fetch the amount of scrap,” said an official. The vehicles had been lying in open for the past several years, and in the absence of any guard, the vital parts had been stolen or taken away by scrap dealers, said the official.Reportedly, the owners were earlier allowed to take the custody of the vehicle after paying the penalty, but a few years ago, it was declared a criminal offence by the court and no fine was imposed by the department.Claiming that the auction of such vehicles had been done in the past after proper evaluation, Vijay Kaushik, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, said several vehicles confiscated years ago had turned into junk and would be auctioned as scrap. Announcing that a tender for the auction would be released soon, he said the department had stopped confiscating such vehicles since April 2020, after an amendment in the rules was made by the state government, according to which, the vehicles could be impounded by the police after an FIR was registered. “No penalty is recovered in such cases,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sans-auction-impounded-vehicles-rust-354964
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' registration for Haryana CM award opens||Farmers of Haryana can get themselves registered from December 27, 2021 to January 15, 2022 at website www.agriharyana.gov.in for awards under ‘Mukhyamantri Pragatishil Kisan Samman Yojana’.The state government has launched the yojana to motivate, identify and honour progressive farmers and to encourage other farmers to adopt best farming practices across the state.An official spokesperson today said that farmers selected under this scheme would get cash prizes for their excellent work in agriculture and allied fields, including more production in agricultural crops and adopting other practices like water-saving, crop-residue management, organic farming, integrated farming systems, sustainable agriculture etc.He said that the farmer getting the first prize at the state level would be awarded a cash amount of Rs 5 lakh. Similarly, two second prizes of Rs 3 lakh and five third prizes of Rs 1 lakh each would be given to progressive farmers. In addition, four prizes of Rs 50,000 each would be awarded at the district level. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-registration-for-cm-award-opens-354965
27-12-2021||---||North's first national disease control centre to come up in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 26Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said North India’s first National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) branch will be set up at Naggal in Ambala. The registration of the land, costing Rs 2.03 crore, has been done by the Ambala Municipal Council in the name of the Health Department.Vij said, “A state-of-the-art lab equipped with modern equipment would be set up here. So far, samples are sent to the NCDC Delhi and other branches, but now the facility of tests for Nipah virus, Zika virus, rabies, zoonotic disease, Covid, Omicron, Hepatitis, besides other viruses, will be done here in this lab. The nearby states will be covered through this branch as there is no such branch in Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.”He said the NCDC branch would be established on nearly 5 acres. A three-storeyed building will be constructed at a cost of Rs 14 crore. The branch would also be developed as a good training centre for epidemiologists, microbiologists and laboratory technicians. The NCDC team of the centre got a favourable atmosphere in Ambala due to its road, and rail connectivity. Besides, the Chandigarh airport is just an hour away, while Ambala is also proposed to be a domestic airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/norths-first-national-disease-control-centre-to-come-up-in-ambala-354966
27-12-2021||Ambala||Capacity building programme||Under the aegis of Regional Training Centre, DAV organisation, New Delhi, Ambala cluster, organised a two-day online capacity building programme.In this webinar, a total of 500 teachers from 11 schools of Ambala, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad participated. The chief guest BS Sandhu, former DGP, Haryana, adviser to president, DAV CMC, New Delhi, appreciated the endeavours of DAV organisation for conducting such types of webinars to enhance the skills of teachers. Sandhu inspired all delegates to update their knowledge. Keynote speaker Dr BP Bhardwaj, Department of Teacher Education, NCERT, New Delhi, sensitised the teachers about several effective techniques of teaching. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/capacity-building-programme-354967
27-12-2021||---||Yamunanagar: Farewell at DAV dental college||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 26The award and farewell of 2016 batch of DAV Centenary Dental College was celebrated on its campus. The theme of the programme was 'BELLA-CIAO' (beautiful goodbye). Superintendent of Police, Kamaldeep Goyal presided over the function as the chief guest and the other dignitaries, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Radaur, Dr Rajat Gulia, an alumni of the college, also attended the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farewell-at-dav-dental-college-354968
27-12-2021||---||Panchayat polls after HC verdict on quota: Haryana Dy CM||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 26Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the panchayat elections would be conducted in the state only after the decision of the court over reservation.He was interacting with mediapersons after attending a programme at Mokhra village in the district today.“Amendments have been made in the law regarding Panchayati Raj Institutions and the government has been looking forward to conducting the panchayat elections. However, we are waiting for the decision of the High Court which is likely to come next month,” said Dushyant.He maintained that the issue of giving 50 per cent reservation to women and 8 per cent to the BC-A category was sub judice. “It is the objective of the government that the people of the state should get the benefit of the new amendments, so we are waiting for the decision of the High Court,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchayat-polls-after-hc-verdict-on-quota-dy-cm-354969
27-12-2021||Ambala||Jesus statue vandalised in Ambala, two booked||A statue of Jesus at the entrance of the British Era Holy Redeemer Catholic Church in Ambala Cantt was vandalised by two unidentified persons, after the Christmas prayers late last night.As per information, the incident took place between 12.30 am and 1.40 am. Two suspects were spotted in the CCTV camera footage. A church official said Holy redeemer church was the oldest church of Ambala. It was established in 1843. Due to the lockdown, the church was closed on time. The Christmas prayers were completed by 9:30 pm, by 10 pm people had gone out and by 10.30 pm, the entire Church, including the gate, was closed. No such incident had happened in the past here.In his complaint, Parish Priest Patras Mundu said, “Around 12.30 am, two suspects entered the church by jumping over the gate. They vandalised electric lightings and around 1:40 am while leaving, they vandalised and desecrated the statue of Jesus. Our religious sentiments are hurt.”ASP Pooja Dabla said, “We got information about the incident in the morning. Two men have been spotted in the CCTV footage and efforts are being made to identify them. We will also check the cameras outside the church to establish their identity.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jesus-statue-vandalised-in-ambala-two-booked-354970
27-12-2021||---||Hisar bride flees with jewellery, cash, booked||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 26A bride ran away from her in-laws’ house after 15 days of marriage in Pabra village of the district. The police today booked the bride, Rubi, and three others in a cheating case and launched an investigation into the matter.The bride also took away jewellery and cash from the in-laws’ house. The complainant, Jagdish, stated that he was a daily wager. He said two persons, who acted as mediators, took Rs 2 lakh to find a suitable match for him.The Barwala police station registered a case against Suresh, Baljeet Soni, Kiran Devi and Rubi in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-bride-flees-with-jewellery-cash-booked-354971
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Japan keen to work with Haryana on climate change||Japan has shown a keen interest to provide technical support and collaborate with the Haryana Government on climate change and environmental issues, an official statement said on Sunday.Yuki Yoshida, Secretary, Environment, Embassy of Japan, along with Haryana officials, on Sunday visited Aravalli mountains at Bhondsi in Gurugram to explore the potential of setting up a centre of excellence related to climate change, waste management, e-vehicles, air pollution, biodiversity conservation, land degradation, desertification and other allied areas, it said.Pawan Chaudhary, adviser to the CM for Foreign Cooperation Department, and Managing Director and ex-country representative, International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Dr Vivek Saxena, discussed the potential areas of partnership and collaboration, it further said.During the visit, senior official of Climate Change Division of German Technical Cooperation, an international cooperation agency, Ashwin assured cooperation for technical and financial assistance from Germany on environmental issues, said the government statement.Head of IUCN India (Business and Biodiversity Programme and Leaders for Nature Programme) Minal Pahuja also expressed her desire to support and partner on sustainable challenges, it said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/japan-keen-to-work-with-state-on-climate-change-354973
27-12-2021||Hisar||1 held by Jind police for unfair means in NET||With a person’s arrest, the Jind police today claimed to have busted a gang involved in solving UGC-NET papers by impersonation. A police spokesman said a case against eight persons had been registered. The arrested accused has been identified as Rahul of Khatkar village, who had taken money from six persons, said DSP Jitender Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-unfair-means-in-net-354974
27-12-2021||Palwal||Haryana Diary: Farmer snubs minister, says graft ails system||MC polls: Training camp for Vaish communityJind: The Vaish community, known for its entrepreneurial skills and trade, has now aspired to get a bigger share in politics too. In view of the elections to be held for all municipalities, municipal councils and municipal corporations across the state, a special one-day training camp has been organised to train candidates of Vaish Samaj who want to contest the elections. A leader of Vaish community in Jind, Rajkumar Goel, said the camp was being organised in Garaunda town of Karnal district to give exposure to the potential candidates on topics like booth management, behavioural skills, personal development, etc. Goel said experienced leaders had been invited to impart training. Hundreds of potential candidates from all over Haryana will participate in this camp, he said.Jhajjar youths pride of defence servicesJhajjar: Known as the land of Army personnel, Jhajjar has yet again hogged the limelight with its several lads getting selected for prominent posts in defence services. Significantly, the achievement by local youths also got appreciation from Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, who congratulated kin of Hrithik Dhankar, Aman Sehwag and Ashish Sehwag over phone. The trio belongs to Chhudani village here and has been commissioned as Lieutenants in the Army. Besides, Sawan Mann from Lova Kalan (flying officer), Nitesh Jakhar of Sunderheti and Akshay Kumar of Jatwada (both Lieutenants) also brought laurels to the district. Former Army Chief General Dalbir Suhag, too, belongs to Jhajjar’s Bishan village.Indian traditions rooted in spirituality: MinAmbala: At the zonal youth festival, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar compared the Indian traditions with the New Year celebrations. “Our traditions have roots in spirituality. How will the New Year be celebrated? Nobody is going to perform a havan, but will consume liquor and create nuisance. But when the Indian New Year will arrive, people will perform havan and even if they don’t, they will at least prepare sweets.”FIRs against namaz trouble for admn, copsGurugram: It’s been two weeks since CM Manohar Lal Khattar announced an amicable solution to namaz in the open row. There has reportedly been no further communication in this regard and this has aggravated the trouble for the administration and the police. While the authorities have somehow managed to keep disruptions at bay, a series of police complaints has started with Hindus across the city filing FIRs against prayers in the open, saying it is against the CM’s orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-snubs-minister-says-graft-ails-system-354975
27-12-2021||Karnal||Christmas celebrated at Mount Litera Zee School, Karnal||Good governance award for KCGMCKarnal: Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College has been awarded with Good Governance Award by the state government for extraordinary work during the first and second waves of Covid-19 pandemic. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar honoured Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC, at a state-level function to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee held in Panchkula on Saturday. Dr Dureja gave credit to staff members for the award.Principals, teachers meetKarnal: The CGC, Jhanjeri, organised an associates' meet with principals and gave the platform for an open discussion under the agenda "Conceptual framework for quality of education at schools". Dr Ashwini, dean, placements of the CGC, launched a scholarship programme. He also announced new academic programmes like BSc forensic science, BSc data analytics, BSc cyber security, BA LLB, BCom LLB, LLB, D pharmacy, B pharmacy. Later, he threw light on how to avail the scholarship.Khadi exhibition at CUHMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) in collaboration with the District Khadi Gramodyog Karyakarta Sangh, Narnaul, organised a two-day exhibition of 'khadi' products. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar while inaugurating the exhibition said organisation of such programmes in a regular interval was necessary to realise the dream of Atamnirbhar Bharat.Training on dairy farmingRohtak: Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS), Hisar's, local centre in Lakaria village organised a training programme on 'dairy farming' under NABARD project 'Upgradation of knowledge and skills of farm women to increase livestock productivity and income" at Patwapur village. Dr Rajinder Singh, the centre incharge and organiser, informed that 50 women attended the programme and they were motivated to adopt of modern animal husbandry practices to increase livestock productivity and income.Workshop on 'Idea generation'Mahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised an online workshop on 'Idea generation' to groom students for generation of new ideas, innovation and entrepreneurship. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said youth played an important role in nation building hence such programmes motivated the students to work on new ideas.Annual functionKurukshetra: Kimti Lal Vatta, director, Tagore Public School, said it was our collective responsibility to make the future generation well educated and cultured. Instead of forcefully following the model, students should be motivated to adopt creative activities, only then they will lead towards empowering the society and the country. He was speaking as the chief guest at the annual function organised by Tagore Bal Niketan Senior Secondary School, Pehowa, on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/christmas-celebrated-at-school-354976
27-12-2021||The underbridge connecting Sector 9 and 10 is waterlogged for the past three days even though there has been no rain. This underbridge is the lifeline of Ambala and many top government officials serving in the corporation pass through this site. Nobody has taken cognisance of this matter. I hope the administration will be kind enough to look into the matter to set things right so that hapless residents get respite.||Muddy water at Ambala underbridge troubles commuters||Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityHouse ramps encroaching on street roads in Ambala CanttIt is seen that a fairly large number of houses in various colonies of Ambala have made ramps in front of their gates, jutting well into street roads. This has not only jeopardised commuters, but can also lead to accidents. Aesthetic beauty of the lanes is also spoilt. Some people have also made balconies projecting outside their houses. We have to be responsible citizens ourselves before we blame the authorities for the lack of civic facilities. The MC authorities will do well to take a stock of these encroachments and take corrective measures.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttPedestrian pathway not cleaned in PanchkulaLast week, I decided to take walk along the Zirkpur- Shimla highway, and was sad to see the condition of the pedestrian pathway near Sector 21, Panchkula. It was not maintained. The concerned department should take care of it.K Katoch, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/muddy-water-troubles-commuters-354978
27-12-2021||---||Never said farm laws will be back, Rahul Gandhi creating confusion: Narendra Tomar||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 26A day after his purported comments on farm laws led to political mudslinging, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar today clarified that he never said that the Centre would bring the legislations back.Cheap politicsPeople like Rahul Gandhi indulge in cheap politics. They have unsuccessfully tried to mislead the country. — NS Tomar, Agriculture Minister“I had said that the government had made good (farm) laws. We took them back due to some reasons. The government will continue to work for the welfare of the farmers,” he said. The Congress had reacted to his earlier comments and said the Centre would try to bring back the farm laws with amendments after the Assembly elections in five states.“There is no proposal to bring back agriculture reform laws. People like Rahul Gandhi indulge in cheap politics. These people have tried unsuccessfully to mislead the country by misquoting my statement. There is no such proposal to bring back the repealed laws,” Tomar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/never-said-farm-laws-will-be-back-rahul-creating-confusion-tomar-354901
27-12-2021||Deepender Deswal||Tributes paid to Dabwali fire tragedy victims||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 26A large number of people turned up here today for a blood donation camp organised as a tribute to the victims of the Dabwali fire tragedy, an incident that had claimed 442 lives at a school function on December 23, 1995. Among the dead were 173 children, all below 10 years.Blaze killed 173 kidsIt was perhaps the most heartrending day for not only Dabwali, but the entire country as hundreds of students of local DAV Public School and their parents, who had gone to attend the school’s annual day function, got trapped in the fire. The function was being held in a makeshift tent, which caught fire probably due to short-circuit. Almost every family in the town was affected and the scars of the tragedy are visible even today.Though a remembrance function is held every year in Dabwali on December 23, a self-help group, Surbhi Manav Kalyan Samiti, on Sunday organised the blood donation camp to mark the 26th anniversary of the incident.The group was constituted in the memory of five-year-old Surbhi who was among the victims, said founder member Surender Narang. She was the daughter of Anil Kumar Rao, adviser to the Haryana Chief Minister on public safety and good governance. A 1994-batch IPS officer, he retired as ADGP in 2020. Incidentally, Rao was then posted as Dabwali DSP and was present at the function and his daughter was about to perform on the stage when the fire broke out. “Rao had joined in Dabwali only four days before the tragedy. He suffered nearly 40 per cent burns and saved several children, but couldn’t save his own daughter,” said Narang.It was the group’s fourth blood donation camp and 90 units were collected. Interacting with the donors, Rao appreciated the gesture.Vinod Kumar Bansal, a municipal council member in Dabwali, had lost his wife Renu and children Nancy (6) and Himanshu (3.5). The general secretary of the Dabwali Fire Accident Victims Association, Bansal recalled how hundreds of lives were lost within minutes.“The scars can never be healed. The memories haunt me as well as other survivors,” he said, stressing the need for fire safety awareness in schools and other institutions so that such tragedies didn’t recur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tributes-paid-to-dabwali-fire-tragedy-victims-354903
27-12-2021||---||Another stir brings Punjab, Haryana farmers together in Sangrur||Sangrur, December 26The bonding, which developed between Punjab and Haryana farmers during their stir against the farm laws, is getting stronger as farmers from the neighbouring state have joined their Punjabi counterparts to protest against the state government at the district headquarters.Rajinder Rathi, a farmer from Haryana, said, “I had given them my plot in Bahadurgarh. I have developed brotherhood with farmers from Punjab. Since our Punjabi brothers are fighting for their demands, its our moral duty to support them. I have been here since December 21.”Sumedh Singh, a resident of Narwana, said, “I came along with three persons to support farmers in Sangrur. We have developed close relations with Punjabi farmers. These ties will strengthen further.”Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan), said: “This unity will help farmers in winning more battles against the governments in future as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-stir-brings-punjab-haryana-farmers-together-in-sangrur-354868
