28-12-2021||Thane||Two teen girls kidnapped from Haryana found in Maharashtra’s Thane||Two teen girls kidnapped from Haryana have been traced in Kalyan in Thane district and handed over to the police in the northern state to reunite them with their parents, an official said on Tuesday.An official from City Tauru police station in Haryana on Monday informed Maharashtra Police about the two girls, in the 15-18 age group, being present here after which a search was mounted and they were tracked down to Laxmi Market within two hours, said Senior Inspector Ashok Honmane of MFC police station. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-teen-girls-kidnapped-from-haryana-found-in-maharashtras-thane-355535
28-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Protesting guest teachers from Haryana booked for blocking national highway, breaching Covid-19 protocols||Protesting guest teachers from Haryana who were demanding regularisation of their services were booked for violating Covid-19 restrictions and blocking a highway in the state on Friday, police said.Protesters from several parts of the state had been holding a sit-in protest on Jagadhri-Ponta Sahib national highway near Aggrasain Chowk since Saturday evening.The protesters were booked for rioting (section 147), offence with a common object (Section 149),  and wrongful restraint (Section 341), among others, of the Indian Penal Code, provisions under the Highways Act and the Disaster Management Act on the basis of a complaint from a head constable, Akilesh Kunar from the Buria Gate police post, Jagadhri. They have been accused of violating the state’s ‘Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana’ guidelines.The complaint said that the protesters were blocking the highway and “causing public inconvenience”.Radha Krishan, spokesperson of Guest Teachers’ Union which organised the protest, said  the protesters were going to hand in a memorandum of their demands to Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar on Saturday evening but they were stopped by police barricades near Aggrasain Chowk of Jagadhri.Of their demands, he said that although the director of secondary education had accepted over 70 per of their demands, guest teachers have decided to continue to protest until they get their concessions in writing from the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-guest-teachers-from-haryana-booked-for-blocking-national-highway-breaching-covid-19-protocols-355532
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet expansion:  BJP's Kamal Gupta, JJP's Devendra Babli sworn in as ministers||Two new ministers—Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kamal Gupta and Jannayak Janata Party’s Devender Babli—were sworn in as ministers in Manohar Lal Khattar’s government in Haryana.Gupta took his oath in Sanskrit and Babli in Hindi.They were administered oath by Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at a ceremony held at the Haryana Raj Bhavan here.Chief Minister Khattar, Haryana assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, and Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa were among those present on the occasion.With the induction of the two MLAs, the strength of the Haryana council of ministers has gone up to 14, including the chief minister, which is the upper limit.Earlier, 10 MLAs were inducted into the cabinet in November 2019, days after the chief minister and his deputy were sworn in on October 27 in that year.After Tuesday’s cabinet expansion, the BJP has 10 ministers, including the chief minister, and the JJP has three ministers, including the deputy chief minister, while Ranjit Singh Chautala is the lone Independent MLA inducted as a minister.The BJP fell short of a simple majority in the October 2019 Haryana assembly polls, winning 40 of the 90 seats, and subsequently, it forged an alliance with the JJP, which has 10 MLAs.The BJP formed the government in the state with the support of JJP lawmakers and Independent MLAs.Talking to reporters, Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar, while commenting on the induction of the two leaders, said Kamal Gupta works dedicatedly on any task he takes up, while Babli is energetic and works with passion and dedication on the task assigned to him.When asked that Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was conspicuous by his absence at the oath-taking ceremony, Dhankar said, “He is our senior leader and we take decisions after consulting him”.When specifically asked if Vij was unhappy over any issue, Dhankar said, “He is our senior leader and best performer”.Interacting with reporters after the swearing-in ceremony, Dr Kamal Gupta, a two-time MLA, said his priority will be to ensure Hisar and the state’s development.Babli is a first-time MLA from Tohana in Fatehabad, which remained a hotbed of a farmers’ protest against three central farm laws earlier this year.The JJP legislator also had faced a strong protest by farmers in his constituency in June during which his SUV’s windscreen was damaged and his personal assistant injured.Babli had in the 2019 assembly polls defeated BJP’s then state unit chief Subhash Barala by a heavy margin of votes.Spelling out his priority after taking his oath, Babli said, “I will serve people of my state with full honesty. “Whatever responsibility is entrusted to me, I will try to deliver my best and live up to the expectations of the people”.The newly inducted ministers said the allocation of portfolios is the prerogative of the chief minister and whatever department they get they would try to give their best. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cabinet-expansion-bjps-kamal-gupta-jjps-devendra-babli-sworn-in-as-ministers-355493
28-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal Jail inmates learn computer skills for rehabilitation||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 27In an effort to rehabilitate inmates of jail and to give them a chance to start a new life, the Karnal jail authorities have started computer training for them. In the first batch, 21 inmates are being trained, who will be given training for three months.The jail authorities claimed that this step was being taken to make the jail inmates self-reliant, so that they could get employment after their jail term was over.India Vision Foundation, an NGO, has extended support in providing help through a technical and industry training institute. The institute is providing laptops and a trainer. The trainer will not only provide computer literacy, but also etiquettes, which will help in their mental and behavioral development. The institute will also provide them a certificate for their course.21 prisoners being trainedWe have started computer training for the inmates to make them self-reliant. In the first batch, 21 inmates have been taken and their training has started. A computer syllabus is being prepared for them. —Amit Bhadu, Jail superintendent, Karnal“We have started computer training for the inmates to make them self-reliant. The inmates are also showing interest in learning computer. In the first batch, 21 inmates have been taken and their training has started. A computer syllabus is being prepared for the inmates. The institute will offer them job after their jail term is over,” said Amit Bhadu, Jail Superintendent, Karnal.The aim behind this initiative is to keep them busy and also to utilise their time in fruitful way by diverting their mind from criminal activities, the Jail Superintendent maintained.“In coming days, the number of computer literate will increase in the jail,” he added.The Jail Superintendent claims that he would start more vocational courses in the coming days. He said at present, several inmates were involved in making products. Women inmates are utilising their time in stitching, embroidery and other professional activities. Several NGOs are helping the jail in conducting vocational trainings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jail-inmates-learn-computer-skills-for-rehabilitation-355268
28-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram councillors take on officials for not implementing approved projects||Gurugram, December 27The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) meeting was marred by uproar as councillors accused officials of not implementing previously approved projects. The councillors have also demanded a fair investigation in the cases and action against private agencies involved in the financial scams.Proposals for several development works were approved in the meeting, including the MCG to maintain public places of the HSVP, name of the biodiversity park in the name of former Chief Minister Rao Virendra Singh, removal of illegal street vendors near the schools and increasing the fee for the maintenance of parks from Rs 3 to Rs 4 per sq meter.In the General House meeting, Municipal Councillor Mithlesh Barwal of Ward 1 proposed installation of sewer line on all revenue routes in the ward, connecting it with the master sewer line from Bajghera Chowk to Sarai Alavardi STP, from Swaroop Garden to Sarai STP.Councillor Shakuntala Yadav demanded completion of potable water supply through stand post in the restricted area of the Ordnance Depot, Chandan Vihar, Sai Kunj, Shankar Vihar, Sahib Kunj, Ganga Vihar and EZ block of Ward 2.Councillor Ravindra Yadav gave information on various pending estimates related to Ward 3 and renaming of biodiversity park located at MG Road after Rao Virendra Singh. Councillor Virendraraj Yadav gave proposal for indoor badminton court in Dundahera village. Mayor Madhu Azad said officers should get the development works done on priority basis.Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the officers concerned should take further action on the basis of the resolutions passed after deliberation on the proposals by the members in the meeting. A sub-committee was formed in the last meeting to increase the amount given for the maintenance of the parks. While submitting the report prepared by the sub-committee, it was said it would be appropriate to fix the maintenance amount to Rs 4 per sq meter. In his action-taken report regarding the closed water ATMs and advertisements placed on them, Joint Commissioner (HQ) Hariom Atri said the water ATMs which were not functioning would be issued notices for the recovery and cancellation of tenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/councillors-take-on-officials-for-not-implementing-approved-projects-355269
28-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Contractor pulled up for 'poor work' in Panipat school||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 27The Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, on Monday pulled up a contractor, who was constructing the school building, after finding anomalies in the construction work of the structure in Ward 22 here.The Commissioner directed the MC engineering wing officials to initiate action in the matter. Besides, the Commissioner also taught students there. After getting information about the anomalies and delay in the construction of the school building by the contractor, RK Singh, Commissioner, MC, along with officials of the engineering wing of the MC visited Government High School in Guru Nanakpura, Ward 22 here. The Commissioner inspected the construction work of the building and found several anomalies in the work done by the contractor. He pulled up the contractor at the spot and directed the Superintending Engineer (SE), MC, and XEn to initiate action in the matter.XEn Naveen Sehrawat said the MC was constructing the structure of the school building in which 12 rooms were to be built worth Rs 70 lakh. The work done by the contractor was not according to the specifications, he added.Following the directions of the Commissioner, the contractor has been directed to dismantle the structure where the anomalies were found and to reconstruct it, the XEn asserted. Besides, the Commissioner also took note of the cleanliness on the school premises. He taught the students of Class IV and V sitting in classrooms and on the school ground. The Commissioner told them about drawing structures, maths and English.RK Singh said the contractor had been directed to reconstruct the concrete beam structure again and also complete the construction work at the earliest. Besides, mats and other equipment would also be provided to the students studying in the school, the Commissioner maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/contractor-pulled-up-for-poor-work-in-school-355271
28-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Man  booked on rape  charge||Gurugram, December 27A Pataudi woman approached the police, accusing her husband of raping her 12-year-old daughter. An FIR in this regard was registered under the POCSO Act at the Pataudi police station. The accused was reportedly at large.According to the complaint filed by the mother of the victim, she was from Rajasthan and lived with her family at a dairy farm near Pataudi. The incident took place late last night. “I was shocked when I saw my husband committing the crime, making me go to the police,” the woman said. Following the complaint the girl was taken to hospital for medical examination where doctors confirmed rape. An FIR has been registered against the father of the girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-on-rape-charge-355272
28-12-2021||---||In Jind, 68 foreign returnees untraced||Hisar, December 27The Health Department is searching for 68 foreign returned persons, who came to Jind district from other countries after the notification on Omicron variant of the Covid 19, last month.Health officials informed that amid Omicron danger, around 260 persons returned from abroad to Jind. The Health Department is assigned to trace such people, who return home, in order to keep them under observation. Sources said the airport authorities in Delhi and other cities took returnees samples for Covid test on their arrival. “There are some, countries which are not included in the affected list of Omicron. Travellers returning home from such countries do not require tests. But, the Health Department has been tasked to keeping a track of such persons,” the sources added.Dr Paleram Kataria, Covid in-charge, Civil Hospital, Jind, informed that the health staff contacts returnees on their mobile numbers and addresses given by them at airports.“There are some people, whose addresses and telephone numbers, are not traceable. It is a serious threat as far as the spread of Covid is concerned. These people should stay in contact with the Health Department,” Dr Kataria said.“People, who returned from Omicron-affected countries, are tested for Covid at the airport. They are allowed to return home on testing negative. But we need to take a sample for the second test after eight days. Besides, those who return from countries that are not affected by Omicron have to be quarantined for 14 days,” Dr Kataria added. A health worker at the Jind Civil Hospital said some when contacted refused to divulge details, while others abruptly disconnected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-jind-68-foreign-returnees-untraced-355273
28-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana stays at Rank 11 on Niti Aayog's health index||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Haryana has retained its 11th rank in Niti Aayog’s health index report released today, but its TB success rate, Under-five Mortality Rate (U5MR), Neonatal Mortality Rate (NMR) and the proportion of district hospitals with functional cardiac care centres has deteriorated.The report has 2019-20 as reference year and 2018-19 as the base year. The Niti Aayog has also pointed out low average occupancy on key administrative positions in the state’s health department, which included posts of Principal Secretary, Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM), and Director, Health Services, at the state level and also Chief Medical Officers at the district level.Lack of stability on top 3 postsThe overall score of Haryana for 2019-20 at 49.26 is 0.55 lower than what it was in 2018-19. It has been assessed in the large states category, which has 19 states, including Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.Punjab has improved its ranking from ninth to the eighth position with a score of 58.08, while Himachal has slipped from sixth to seventh with a score of 63.17. Kerala tops with a score of 82.20. Chandigarh has slipped from first to second, having a score of 62.53.Assessed on several indicators, Haryana’s NMR, which is defined as the number of deaths during the first 28 completed days of life per 1,000 live births in a year, has increased from 21 to 22. The U5MR, which is the number of child deaths of less than 5 years per thousand live births during a specific year, has increased from 35 to 36. For NMR and U5MR, Sample Registration System reports are referred.However, there is an improvement in sex ratio at birth and also in Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR).The level of birth registration has come down from 94 per cent to 90.60 per cent.The TB treatment success rate has come down by 1.16 points. Also, there is a dip in ‘Primary Health Centres (PHCs) with Kayakalp Score of More than 70 per cent’ by 0.88, and score on Sub Centres Functional as Health and Wellness Centres by 0.06 points.The score on district hospitals having a functional cardiac care unit, with ventilator, monitor, defibrillator, CCU beds, portable ECG machine, pulse oxymeter etc., drugs, diagnostics, and desired staff, dipped by 4.55 points.“A stable tenure of key administrative positions at the state and district level is essential for good governance,” said the Niti Aayog. But the top three administrative positions — Principal Secretary (Health), NMH Mission Director and Health Services Director — witnessed average occupancy (combined for three posts) of 7.35 months in 2017-18, 10.4 months in 2018-19 and 10.92 months in 2019-20 for the past three years.At the district level, the average occupancy of a full-time CMO in the last three years for all districts was 13.20 months in 2017-18, 11.35 months in 2018-19 and just 8.65 months in 2019-20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-stays-at-rank-11-on-niti-aayogs-health-index-355274
28-12-2021||---||Five killed as bus rams into stationary vehicle in Ambala||Ambala, December 27Five persons were killed and 10 injured after a private bus rammed into another bus from the rear side on the Chandigarh-Delhi road in the wee hours of Monday.While the four deceased were identified as Rahul (21) of Jharkhand, Pradeep (22) of Uttar Pradesh, Meena Bai (44) and Rohit (53) of Chhattisgarh, the fifth deceased was yet to be identified. All five were declared brought dead at hospital.At least 10 persons, including Navneet, Manoj Kumar, Ram Rattan, Arvind, Kavita, and Kirat, suffered injuries in the accident. Navneet and Kirat were later referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.Bike falls into pit dug up for flyover, 2 die Investigating officer ASI Dharmpal said a bus bearing Rajasthan registration number was parked when a UP registration number bus, on its way to Delhi, came behind the parked bus. Meanwhile, a Haryana registration number bus rammed into the UP numbered bus from the rear side. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Ambala City. While four passengers, travelling in the UP bus, were killed, the fifth deceased was travelling in the Haryana bus. He was yet to be identified.Most of the passengers were sleeping when the accident took place.A case was registered on the complaint of Androj Kumar, a resident of Bihar, under Sections 304-A, 279 and 337 of the IPC at the Baldev Nagar police station against the unidentified bus driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-killed-as-bus-rams-into-stationary-vehicle-in-ambala-355275
28-12-2021||Kaithal||Two held with Rs 15L drugs in Kaithal||With the arrest of two persons, the police claims to have busted a drug peddlers’ gang and seized 53.520kg of ganja and 405 gm of opium, worth Rs 15 lakh in the contraband market during a raid in the city.“The accused have been identified as Neeraj, a resident of Assandh in Karnal district, and Jitender Kumar, a resident of Mandi Gobindgarh, Fatehgarh district, Punjab,” said Abhimanyu Goyat, DSP.On a tip-off, a team of anti-narcotic cell raided a house at Mayapur Colony and recovered contraband from the possession of the accused, the DSP added. While opium was recovered from Jitender, ganja was seized from of both the accused, the DSP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-with-rs-15l-drugs-355276
28-12-2021||---||Panipat: Another accused nabbed in airmen recruitment case||Panipat, December 27The police have arrested a member of a gang for his alleged involvement in the recruitment of airmen by providing help to aspirants during an online examination of the Indian Air Force (IAF) in computer labs.The accused was identified as Harish, alias Pilot, of Ishapur in Dwarka of Delhi. He was posted as a constable in the Delhi Police. The Panipat police had announced Rs 15,000 on his arrest some days ago.Inspector Anil Chhiller, in charge, CIA-3 unit, said Vinod, another accused in the case, who was arrested in July, had stated that he had given money and roll numbers of some aspirants to Harish. After getting a tipoff, the accused was arrested from Ishapur Delhi and produced in court on Monday. The court sent him on two-day police custody for further investigation.The CIA-3 unit of the district police nabbed a four-member gang from a private school lab here in July this year allegedly for aiding the aspirants by collecting money from them. Ten accused have been arrested in the case so far, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-accused-nabbed-in-airmen-recruitment-case-355277
28-12-2021||---||BKU threatens protest if farm laws reintroduced||Ambala, December 27Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni today threatened to resume the farm agitation if the three controversial farm laws were introduced in any other form.He said nearly 750 farmers had died during the struggle to get the farm law repealed and if the laws were brought back, they would not only resume the agitation, but also enter Parliament this time.The Bhartiya Kisan Union chief said: “Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said the three farm laws were good, but under the pressure of some people, the government had taken a step back and repealed those. But they will go forward again. We want to warn thegovernment that if the controversial farm laws are brought back in any other form, causing loss to farmers, we will resume theagitation and will not limit ourselves to the Delhi borders this time. We will enter Parliament and stage a protest there.”The Union Minister had yesterday clarified that the government was not planning to bring back the recently repealed farm laws and blamed the Congress for spreading “rumours” about it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-threatens-protest-if-farm-laws-reintroduced-355278
28-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Revival of Khori forest zone delayed||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 27The proposed revival of the forest zone at Khori village in the Surajkund area here has failed to start even after five months of the demolition of the residential structures from the colony.The project was to take off after the clearance of the constructions and its rubble from the region. Spread over around 150 acres, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) had removed around 9,500 structures, consisting mainly houses in the form of a colony, which had come up illegally over the years on the land that comes under the PLPA (Punjab Land Preservation Act) or Forest, in July this year, in the wake of the Supreme Court order, according to the officials of the district administration.Located adjacent to the border with Delhi, the land belongs to the MCF. “The Forest Department, which was expected to take up plantation as part of the forest revival on the recovered land, has failed to take up the project till date, as the process of the removal of the debris from the area is yet to be completed,” claimed an official. Admitting that failure to rehabilitate the affected residents had made many of them stick to the same place despite repeated demolitions, he said many were still residing in tented or makeshift shelters. “With over 50 families still pitching here, many have returned here as living here is more affordable than a rented accommodation nearby,” said Pritam Kumar, who lost his house in the demolition drive that took place in July this year. Revealing that he was among hundreds of families who had shifted to rented accommodation in neighbouring colonies located inside the Delhi border, he said the failure of the administration to provide alternative housing facilities had led to the problem, forcing many to live in temporary shelters in the Khori colony itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revival-of-khori-forest-zone-delayed-355279
28-12-2021||---||Crop cluster centre will give good profits to farmers: Haryana CM||Karnal, December 27Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the pack house would play an important role in promoting agricultural diversification and help government’s aim of doubling farmers income. Besides, it would also give employment opportunities to workers, the CM added.Khattar was here at Taraori to inaugurate an integrated pack house-cum-crop cluster centre, set up at a cost of Rs 5.50 crore, in which tomatoes, bitter gourd, ghee and okra and other vegetables produced by farmers can be stored for a long time.The pack will give good profits to farmers. With the construction of this pack house, a group of 272 farmers under the banner of the Farmer Product Organisation (FPO) will help in storage of vegetables grown on 600 to 700 acres.“This is the seventh pack house of the state for which the government has given a loan of Rs 5.50 crore, on which a subsidy of Rs 4 crore will be given. Fifty more pack houses and crop cluster centres will be established in the state to encourage small farmers. This will increase farmers income,” the CM said.“The pack house has facilities for washing, sorting, cleaning, packing and cold storage of vegetables, so these can be kept safe for a long time,” the CM added.“For the prosperity of farmers, Kisan Samridhi Shivir is being organised by the Agriculture and allied departments. The Agriculture Horticulture, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry departments are participating in the shivir,” the CM said.Accompanied by Agriculture Minister JP Dalal and others, the CM said, “The government has been constantly making efforts for the expansion of mandis.”Khattar called upon farmers to cultivate other crops like fruits, flowers, vegetables instead of paddy. “Ground water is available in limited quantity,” the CM added.Meanwhile, the CM launched the Haryana Pragatisheel Kisan Samman Yojana and Reclamation of Waterlogged and Saline Soil portal, on which farmers can register themselves and avail benefits. Registration has started on portal from today. The last date for registration is January 15. “To save it in future, we should leave paddy cultivation and grow other crops. Today, the government is also giving incentive amount of Rs 7,000 to farmers, who give up paddy cultivation and sow other crops,” the CM said.Political motive behind farmers’ agitationTaking a dig on the formation of party by farm leaders in Punjab, Khattar said he had said earlier that there was political motive behind this farmers’ agitation, which has been exposed. “In democracy, everyone has the right to contest elections, but now farmers have come to know about their motive,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crop-cluster-centre-will-give-good-profits-to-farmers-cm-355280
28-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||540 drug peddlers put behind bars by Rohtak cops this year||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 27Tightening the noose around those indulged in smuggling of narcotic drugs, the Rohtak Range Police have registered 452 cases under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act in all five — Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri — districts this year. More than 540 persons have also been arrested in the cases.The probe into the cases disclosed that the narcotics were being supplied to various districts of Haryana, Punjab and Delhi from Rajasthan, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Nagaland. In many cases, local people have been found associated with the racketeers and they used to sell it to drug addicts in their area concerned. A heavy quantity of drugs had also been recovered from the accused, said sources.Sources maintained 156 cases under the NDPS Act were registered in Rohtak, 108 in Sonepat, 98 in Jhajjar, 64 in Bhiwani and 26 in Charkhi Dadri this year after the district police launched a special campaign to nab drug peddlers.“The first huge consignment of 245-kg ganja was seized in Jhajjar’s Beri town on January 1 by a police team guided by the then SP Rajesh Duggal when the drugs were being supplied to Delhi from Rajasthan in a truck. One month later, another consignment of 300-kg ganja patti being smuggled to Delhi from Odisha was confiscated near Soldha village. Similarly, a huge quantity of opium was recovered in the Aasoda area in June this year when it was being transported to Rohtak from Madhya Pradesh,” said a police official.Rohtak Range ADGP Sandeep Khirwar said the police of all five districts were coordinating with each other efficiently to snap the supply chain of narcotics and its distribution network in the region to bust the rackets and to put behind the bar those indulged in this illegal trade.“Ganja, opium, poppy husk and heroin are among those narcotics seized in a huge quantity this year. A total of 1,566-kg ganja, 772-kg puppy husk, 21-kg opium, 74-kg charas and 3-kg heroin have so far been recovered from the accused this year,” Khirwar added.Over 450 cases lodgedThe Rohtak Range Police have registered 452 cases under the NDPS Act in all five — Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri — district this year. Drugs are supplied from Rajasthan, Odisha, MP and Nagaland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/540-drug-peddlers-put-behind-bars-by-rohtak-cops-this-year-355281
28-12-2021||---||Three  found burnt to death in Hisar||Hisar, December 27The bodies of three youths were found in a burnt condition near Sector 27 on the national highway in Hisar today. The victims were identified as Manoj, a resident of Arya Nagar, Abhishek a resident of Surya Nagar and Ajay a resident of Bhattu Kalan in Fatehabad district.The police have registered a case of murder under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Vishnu, brother of Manoj, one of the victims.The victim’s brother alleged in his complaint to the police that a youth identified as Jindi and his accomplices were behind the incident. The police have started investigation after registering a case against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-found-burnt-to-death-in-hisar-355282
28-12-2021||---||Haryana CM urges Rajnath Singh to allow construction in buffer zone around Air Force Station in Faridabad's NIT area||Faridabad, December 27CM Manohar Lal Khattar today requested the Union Defence Minister to consider ending the restriction of 100-metre buffer zone around the Air Force Station in the NIT area here.The request has come in the wake of the issue taken up by the MLA from NIT Assembly segment, Neeraj Sharma, who claimed that the buffer zone had been posing a hurdle in development of basic amenities for residents of many colonies in the area.It is revealed that the CM in a letter to Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, said the authorities concerned might consider the 100-metre buffer restriction in the area surrounding the Air Force Station so that the living condition of residents of various colonies could be improved.According to Sharma, the CM made a reference to the DO letter written by him in August last year wherein he had drawn attention of the state government to the hardships faced by residents living in colonies located in and around the buffer zone.The provision of the 900-metre wide buffer zone around the station had been reduced to 100 metre in 2007. The MLA claimed that though a large number of houses had come up within zone , the local civic authorities had failed to provide basic amenities to residents of densely populated colonies like Saran, Ghazipur, Dabua, Odiya colony and Kapra colony due to restrictions imposed under the Defence Act, 1903.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-urges-rajnath-to-allow-construction-in-buffer-zone-355283
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||HCS officer gets addl charge of Panchkula shrine||The Haryana Government today issued transfer and posting orders of an HCS officer with immediate effect.Ashok Kumar Bansal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Sonipat district, has been given additional charge of the Chief Executive Officer, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcs-officer-gets-addl-charge-of-panchkula-shrine-355284
28-12-2021||The dust pollution due to construction activities and damaged roads in the city has emerged as a big problem and the authorities concerned have failed to take measures to contain the menace. Besides the delay in repair work of the roads bearing the heavy load of traffic||Dust pollution up in Faridabad, measures by government inadequate||Traffic congestion becomes a big challengeThe traffic congestion has become a bane of residents in Bhiwani. The uncontrolled traffic has been a major reason for traffic jams. Even at chowks, the traffic signals which are meant to control the traffic rush are not functioning. The district authorities must ensure better traffic management and the defected traffic signals should be repaired. —Kamal Singh, BhiwaniWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dust-pollution-up-in-faridabad-measures-by-government-inadequate-355287
28-12-2021||Hisar||Hisar: Sports competition at Chaudhary Maniram Godara Government Women's College||Annual athletics meetYamunanagar: Mukand Lal Public School organised its 17th annual athletics meet for Classes I to XII. Various races and different events for the junior section were held. Principal Dr Mamta Verma said the winner of the day was Satya house scoring 581 points, second position was achieved by Shanti house and Shradha house remained at the third position. She said football and march past trophy was presented to Shanti House and badminton trophy was shared by Shradha and Satya House. Satya House was awarded the best athletics trophy. Director Shashi Bathla expressed her heart's elation on seeing the performance of the students, back on the field after two consecutive years.Blood donation campYamunanagar: The 27th annual blood donation camp was organised in the memory of late Bhupinder Singh Jauhar, former president and patron of Guru Nanak Khalsa educational institutions. Teachers, students and blood donors of the society donated 184 units of blood on the occasion. The civil surgeon and former student of the college, Dr Vijay Dahiya was the chief guest. Besides other, former president of Lions Club Ashwini Dutta paid tribute to Bhupinder Singh Jauhar. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang highlighted the activities being undertaken by the college.Students plant saplingsKarnal: Students and faculty of Aakash Institute planted 243 saplings at Nirmal Public School in the city under the "Green Karnal Clean Karnal" campaign which was organised to create awareness on the importance of having green cover in the city. Indrajeet, regional head and Shekhar, asst director, Aakash Educational Services Limited (AESL) graced the event in the presence of Parmeshwar Jha, regional director, AESL. The tree plantation was preceded by felicitation of JEE and NEET toppers from the institute's branch in the city.National Mathematics DayYamunanagar: National Mathematics Day was celebrated by the department of mathematics of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the nation celebrated National Mathematics Day every year on the birth anniversary of world famous mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujam. Head of mathematics department, Professor Gurvinder Kaur, said with the cooperation of the college management and administration, the department was progressing day by day.Students visit Atal Sewa KendraKarnal: The 'Sahyog Club' of the KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised a visit to Atal Sewa Kendra for its students. The visit intended to enhance the knowledge of students regarding significant Haryana Government documentation and schemes pertaining to Adhar card, PAN card, birth certificate, death certificate, registration for employment, Saksham scheme, Eshram card, Micro Bachat scheme and many more. Principal Renu Mehta said such visits were extremely important for not only the students but also the people they are going to educate, which is the noble vision behind the inception of this club.Campus placementAmbala: Prof Harish Sharma Vice-Chancellor, MM (DU), said a training and placement centre had already been set up in the university for skill development and providing employment opportunities, which inviteed various technical companies and industries to the university to provide employment to students.Tribute paid to Swami ShradhanandKurukshetra: Gurukul students paid tributes to freedom fighter, social reformer and educationist Swami Shradhanand on his 95th Martyrdom Day. Remembering his contribution to India, students of Gurukul presented important events of his life through speeches and took pledge to follow his ideals. Director of Gurukul Col Arun Datta said Swami Shradhanand was a valiant warrior of the war of independence and presents a living portrait of bravery and sacrifice. President Kulwant Singh Saini, Lt Col BG Roy, Air Commander TK Rath, Commander SK Patnayak were present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sports-competition-355292
28-12-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Two more to  join Haryana Cabinet today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27The much-awaited expansion of the Haryana Cabinet will finally take place tomorrow with Governor Bandaru Dattatreya administering oath to new ministers at the Raj Bhavan here.“The swearing-in will take place at 4 pm,” tweeted Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The second expansion of the BJP-JJP government is likely to see the inclusion of two ministers, one each from the BJP and the JJP.Kamal Gupta, a two-time BJP MLA from Hisar, and Devender Singh Babli, JJP MLA from Tohana, are the frontrunners for ministerial berths. A meeting of JJP MLAs will be held tomorrow before the swearing-in to formally announce the party nominee while the BJP seems to have zeroed in on Gupta.In October 2019, Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had taken oath after the BJP and the JJP cobbled up an alliance. The first expansion of the council of ministers took place in November that year when 10 ministers were inducted. Six of them were of Cabinet rank and four Ministers of State.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-more-to-join-haryana-cabinet-today-355187
28-12-2021|| Chandigarh||Haryana Cabinet expansion on Tuesday||The much-awaited expansion of the Haryana Cabinet will take place at the Raj Bhavan here on December 28. The second expansion in the BJP-JJP Government in Haryana is likely to see the inclusion of two ministers, one each from both parties.The frontrunner for the Cabinet berth from the BJP was Kamal Gupta, a two-time MLA from Hisar. From the JJP, Devender Singh Babli, an MLA from Tohana, is the frontrunner. However, JJP MLAs will hold a meeting before the swearing-in on Wednesday to decide on the party nominee. The Cabinet was previously expanded in November of 2019---days after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala cobbled up an alliance to wrest power in the state.Haryana currently has 12 council of ministers, including the chief minister and his deputy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cabinet-expansion-on-tuesday-355124
