29-12-2021||Vijay Mohan||Punjab remains dry in December, excess downpour in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29Punjab has remained virtually dry in the month of December while rain received in Haryana is just about half of normal for this period. On the other hand, Himachal Pradesh has experienced surplus rain.Data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that rain has been deficient by 99 percent in Punjab. From December 1 to December 29, the state received 0.1 mm rain as compared to the normal of 11.3 mm.Haryana has recorded a deficiency of 54 per cent for this period, with the actual rain received being 2.5 mm against the normal of 5.3 mm. The hill state of Himachal Pradesh received 69 mm rain against the normal of 39.6 mm, translating to a surplus of 74 per cent.While rain has fared poorly during the year’s last month in Punjab and Haryana, precipitation has been above normal in all three states during the; last quarter of the year. IMD data shows that from October 1 to December 29, the total rainfall was surplus by 45 percent in both Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and by 39 percent in Punjab.Warning of cold wave conditions in isolated pockets over northwest India during next 4-5 days, the IMD has predicted that an intense western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region during 4-7 January 2022, with possibility of isolated heavy falls on January 4-7 over north western India.“A fresh active western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation is very likely to cause fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall during 04th to 07th with possibility of isolated heavy falls on 05th and 06th over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh,” a bulletin issued by IMD today said.“Light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh during 05th to 07th is also likely,” the bulletin added.In addition, the weatherman has also forecast cold wave and  severe cold wave conditions in isolated/some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during December 30 to January 3 along with dense fog in isolated pockets during night and morning hours over the next two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-remains-dry-in-december-excess-downpour-in-himachal-355927
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Cabinet rejig: BJP's Kamal Gupta gets Anil Vij's Urban Local Bodies Dept||A key department—Urban Local Bodies—held by senior Haryana Minister Anil Vij was allocated to newly inducted Minister Kamal Gupta on Wednesday, while Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also gave up one portfolio.Khattar has given up one department under him—Housing for All—which along with the ULB has also been allocated to Gupta, two-time BJP MLA from Hisar.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, on the advice of the Chief Minister, allocated/reallocated portfolios amongst the members of the Council of Ministers consequent to the induction of two new ministers to the Council, an official statement said.The Development and Panchayats Department, which was among several departments held by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, has been allocated to another newly inducted Minister Devender Singh Babli, a Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader.Besides, Babli will also hold the charge of the Archaeology and Museums Department, which was held by another JJP leader and Minister Anoop Dhanak.Dhanak will now also hold the Labour and Employment Department, earlier held by Dushyant Chautala, while the former has also been additionally allotted portfolios of Revenue and Disaster Management, Industries and Commerce, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, but these will be attached with the Deputy CM.Vij will continue to hold the departments of Home, Health, Technical Education, Science and Technology.Notably, Vij, was conspicuous by his absence at the oath-taking ceremony of the newly inducted Ministers.Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar, when asked about Vij’s absence, had on Tuesday said, “He is our senior leader and we take decisions after consulting him”.When specifically asked if Vij was unhappy over any issue, Dhankar had said, “He is our senior leader and the best performer”.Earlier last year, after the tug-of war with Khattar for days over the control of the CID in Haryana, Vij was stripped of the charge of the department, which was later allocated to the Chief Minister.Vij had then expressed unhappiness over not being briefed or given feedback on various issues by the CID.However, after being stripped of the CID department charge, Vij had said he has always maintained that the Chief Minister is supreme and can take away or divide any department.Earlier on Tuesday, Gupta and Babli were sworn in as ministers in Haryana after Chief Minister Khattar expanded his Cabinet in the second rejig carried out after a gap of two years.With their induction, the strength of the Haryana Council of Ministers has gone up to 14, including the Chief Minister, which is the upper limit.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) fell short of a simple majority in the October 2019 Haryana Assembly polls, winning 40 of the 90 seats, and subsequently, it forged an alliance with the JJP, which has 10 MLAs.The BJP formed the government in the state with the support of JJP lawmakers and Independent MLAs. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cabinet-rejig-bjps-kamal-gupta-gets-anil-vijs-urban-local-bodies-dept-355920
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Severe cold hits most places in Punjab, parts of Haryana||Biting cold swept most places in Punjab and parts of Haryana on Wednesday, with minimum temperatures hovering below normal limits.Moga in Punjab was the coldest place, recording a low of one degree Celsius.Amritsar, Bathinda, Faridkot and Ferozepur recorded identical minimum temperatures of 2.4 degrees Celsius each, according to the meteorological department here.Among other places in Punjab, Barnala, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot reeled under intense cold recording respective minimum temperatures of 2.7 degrees Celsius, 3.9 degrees Celsius, 3.3 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana recorded a low of 7.1 degrees Celsius while Patiala's minimum temperature settled at 6.5 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 5.8 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Hisar, Sirsa and Narnaul experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 5 degrees, 4.6 degrees and 6 degrees Celsius.Ambala recorded a low of 6.9 degrees Celsius while Karnal's minimum temperature settled at 7.7 degrees Celsius.Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/severe-cold-hits-most-places-in-punjab-parts-of-haryana-355893
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Video: BJP MLA's SUV set on fire in high-security Haryana hostel in Chandigarh||A Haryana BJP legislator's SUV was set afire by an unidentified person when the vehicle was parked in the high-security Haryana MLA Hostel complex here, police said on Wednesday.The incident, which occurred on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, was captured by CCTV cameras.The arsonist, whose face was not visible in the video, is seen breaking a windscreen of the Toyota Fortuner of Panipat MLA Pramod Kumar Vij and later setting the vehicle on fire.  A fire tender reached the spot and doused the fire, but the SUV's front portion was badly damaged. "A case has been registered and investigations are on," the Station House of Office of Sector 3 police station, Sher Singh, said.He said that two to three people could be involved in the incident and efforts were on to trace them. Speaking to reporters outside Hostel, Pramod Vij said he does not have enmity with anyone and has no clue why the vehicle was set afire. When asked why his SUV was targeted when other vehicles too were parked near it, the MLA said, "Police are conducting a thorough probe. Let them complete their investigations". "Hopefully, they should be able to catch the culprits soon," the legislator, who had arrived in Chandigarh on Tuesday to attend the Haryana cabinet expansion event, said. Notably, the site where the SUV had been parked is a stone's throw from the police station.Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who visited the MLA Hostel, said that "it is a serious issue and a matter of concern that the incident took place in a high-security area".With the incident taking place in Chandigarh, which is the common capital of Haryana and Punjab, the Speaker said he would soon hold a joint meeting with officials concerned of the two states and the Union Territory to ensure that security arrangements are foolproof and such incidents do not recur."I have also spoken to DGP Haryana regarding the incident," the Speaker said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-bjp-mlas-suv-set-on-fire-in-high-security-haryana-hostel-in-chandigarh-355891
29-12-2021||Amarjot Kaur||522 from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana region give up citizenship in past 5 yrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28A total of 522 persons from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana region have surrendered their passports in the past five years, according to the data provided by the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Sector 34.A ‘surrender certificate’ is issued to applicants willing to surrender their passports at passport offices, mainly for renunciation of Indian citizenship and acquiring foreign nationality. This is a chargeable miscellaneous passport service. Those who have acquired the foreign nationality on or after June 1, 2010, need to pay Rs5,000 and those who acquired the foreign nationality before June 1, 2010 need to pay Rs500.The RPO recorded the highest number of surrender certificates in 2019, just before the pandemic crippled the travel and tourism industry. That year, it issued a total of 162 surrender certificates. Despite the pandemic-induced restrictions, 99 people surrendered their passports in 2020. In 2021, the straight-line graph points at no change in the trend whatsoever. Till December 20, this year too, the RPO has issued 99 surrender certificates to the applicants wanting to give up Indian citizenship.In 2018, this number stood at 90, while in 2017, the RPO issued only 70 surrender certificates.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj said: “Mostly, the reason behind surrendering the passport is to acquire a foreign nationality. Over these five years, we have observed that more and more people are leaving for Canada from the region. It is probably because there have been relaxations in getting Canadian PR and how it provides easy access to other developed countries.”Chargeable serviceA ‘surrender certificate’ is issued to applicants willing to surrender their passports at passport offices, mainly for renunciation of Indian citizenship and acquiring foreign nationality. This is a chargeable miscellaneous passport service.OfficialspeakMostly, the reason behind surrendering the passport is to acquire a foreign nationality. Over these five years, we have observed that more and more people are leaving for Canada from the region. It is probably because there have been relaxations in getting Canadian PR and how it provides easy access to other developed countries. — Sibash Kabiraj, Regional Passport Officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/522-from-region-give-up-citizenship-in-past-5-yrs-355778
29-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Gurugram Roads in poor condition||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Gurugram Roads in poor conditionIt is matter of pity that roads certain areas in Gurugram district are in bad shape, especially the road leading to Darbari Pur road from Sector 69. The road going to Tata Segment from Sector 54 is in a poor condition and commuters have to face lot of problems. There is a temple near Tulip Purple, Sector 70 and the situation there is alarming. Even after a little rain, water accumulates. The authorities should take note of it and act at the earliest. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramUpkeep of toilets in Panchkula sectorApropos "P'kula MC hires new agency for maintenance of toilets"; the single-storey toilets housed in various rows of showrooms in different markets of Sector 20 lie deserted, discarded and locked. Their first floors should be auctioned and rooms be built for commercial use. The condition of the auction should mandate proper upkeep of the toilet on the ground floor. This way, the MC will earn from the auction and the liability of maintaining the toilet will be on the auctioned commercial units, besides, the public will get washroom facility in a clean environment. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaBroken manholes, accident threatIn Narwana, at a number of places and busy main roads, manholes are lying damaged in the middle of the road since a long time. People generally put up small flags to warn of the impending danger to motorists who commute on this particular road. All senior officers use this road but nobody bothers to get it replaced. The Public Health Department must replace all damaged manhole covers as soon as possible. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-roads-in-poor-condition-355707
29-12-2021||Karnal||NCC cadets felicitated||National Consumers DayYamunanagar: National Consumers Day was celebrated by the Legal Literacy Cell, Mukand Lal National College, Radaur. Vikram, Sub-Inspector, Food and Supply Department, Radaur, was invited to speak on the occasion, who enlightened the students regarding their rights and responsibilities as a consumer. He also informed them regarding consumer courts in the district, state and national level in case of any complaint regarding the purchased products. He was welcomed by Dr Deepak Kaushik, the principal of the college, and Dr Mala Sharma, the convener of the cell.Guest lecture organisedHisar: The department of mass communication, Dayanand College, Hisar, organised a guest lecture on "Freedom of speech v/s defamation: Navigating the constitution as a journalist in India". Sahil Dahiya, advocate, Punjab and Haryana High Court, addressing the students, said it was necessary to maintain the decorum and right to privacy while exercising freedom of speech and expression. The chairperson, Dr Suresh Kumar and Prof Narender Soni thanked the speaker and all other participants.Cadets pay tribute to martyrsKarnal: NCC Air Wing Cadets of Pandit Chiranji Lal Sharma Government College Sector14, Karnal, paid tribute to Shaheed Sardar Udham Singh on his 123rd birth anniversary by offering flowers at his statue. Taking inspiration from his biography, a pledge was taken to protect the motherland. The programme was organised under the leadership of ANO Flying Officer Dr Suresh Duggal with the direction of Wing Commander Pawan Goyal Commanding Officer of No. 2 Haryana Air Squadron NCC Karnal. Duggal said the cadets had cleaned the memorials of the martyrs and statues of freedom fighters near their respective homes - villages, localities, schools, cities etc. with the message of cleanliness.Painting competitionKarnal: Under the 'Swachhta Pakhwada' an inter-school painting competition was organised at the Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Regional Centre. In 'Rang Bharo' competition, students of Class I and II participated,in which Anya Singla of Pratap Public School, Sector 6 and Ayashna of OPS jointly won, while in slogan writing competition for Classes III to V, Harshpreet Kaur of Pratap Public School, main branch and Nidhi of Mount Litera Zee School jointly won the first prize. Students of Classes VI to VIII participated in the painting competition, in which Mohita of Mount Litera Zee School, Aarv Khurana of Pratap Public School, Sector 6, bagged the first place, while students of Classes IX to XII participated in the painting competition on the theme 'Swachhta Hi Seva' in which Kumari Ridhima of Pratap Public School, Sector 6 and Kumari Sakshi of Adarsh Public School, jointly secured first position. Prizes and certificates were distributed by the head of the centre, Dr SK Pandey and Dr Pooja.Stone for hockey Astroturf laid at KuKurukshetra: Minister of state for Sports and Youth affairs Sandeep Singh laid the foundation stone of the synthetic hockey Astroturf. It is to be built under the Khelo India Scheme of the Ministry of Youth Affairs And Sports at a cost of Rs 5.5 crore on the sports premises of Kurukshetra University on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncc-cadets-felicitated-355705
29-12-2021||Faridabad||Man axed to death in Faridabad village||A 36-year-old man died after he was assaulted by some persons with an axe in Pakhal village of the district today. The incident took place around 1.40 pm when the victim Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Pakhal village, was buying groceries at a shop, when three to four youths attacked him with the axe. While the victim, who fell on ground, was rushed to the Civil Hospital, he succumbed to his injuries soon after. An old enmity was stated to be the reason behind the incident. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-axed-to-death-355704
29-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: 2 booked for opening fire in Radauri Government College||Two unidentified persons allegedly opened fire into the air in Radauri Government College on Tuesday. The accused fled the spot and nobody was hurt in the incident.The police have registered a case against the unidentified persons under several Sections of the IPC and Arms Act at Radaur police station today.Several unidentified persons stopped their vehicle outside the college about 10.15 am. Two armed persons came out of the car and barged into the college. They allegedly opened fire into the air. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-booked-for-opening-fire-in-govt-college-355703
29-12-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar Wildlife Dept team arrests three ‘hunters’||A team of the Yamunanagar Wildlife Department arrested three persons, who were set to hunt wild animals, armed with weapons in the area of the Kalesar Wildlife Sanctuary.The team arrested them from two separate places and recovered two guns, several live cartridges, two search lights and two motorcycles from their possession. Yamunanagar Wildlife Department Inspector Sunil Kumar Tanwar, who was heading the team, said working on a tip-off, they had arrested the accused from the area of Darpur beat of the Wildlife Sanctuary, early on Sunday morning.He said two of the arrested persons, identified as Khursheed and Mehboob, were set to hunt wild animals. Tanwar said after their arrest, they nabbed another person identified as Jagmal from near Jatanwala village.Tanwar said however, one person identified as Shaheed (accomplice of Jagmal) managed to escape. He further said Khursheed, Mehboob and Jagmal were produced before a Special Environment Court, Kurukshetra, where they were sent to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wildlife-dept-team-arrests-three-hunters-355702
29-12-2021||---||2 held for ‘blackmailing’ Karnal civic body Superintending Engineer||Karnal, December 28A team of the CIA-2 arrested two persons for allegedly blackmailing the Superintending Engineer (SE) of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) by installing a spy camera and recorder at his office.They used to call Superintending Engineer Deepak Kingar, claiming that they had his several videos in which his employee was handing over money to him.The accused were identified as Subham, a computer operator of his office, and his friend Sahil, both residents of Kaithal.Following the blackmailing calls, the Superintending Engineer approached the Superintendent of Police, Ganga Ram Punia, and alleged that he was being blackmailed by unidentified callers.The Civil Lines police registered a case under Sections 384, 389 of the IPC and the SP handed over the investigation to the CIA-2 in charge Mohan Lal.They used to make WhatsApp calls from a foreign number, which was traced by the police, leading to the arrest of both accused, said Mohan Lal. However, he did not disclose how they had traced the number.“Since, the Superintending Engineer did not pay any money, the recovery of money was not required, but we have taken them on three-day police remand to recover mobile phone, SIM, voice recorder and an audio recorder from their possession,” said Mohan Lal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-blackmailing-karnal-civic-body-superintending-engineer-355701
29-12-2021|| Yamunanagar||Guest teachers demand regular jobs, block National Highway||Scores of guest teachers were booked for blocking the Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib National Highway and violating the pandemic protocol in the district today.On the complaint of head constable Akhilesh Kumar, posted at Buria Gate police post, Jagadhri, a case was registered against the teachers, including Maina Yadav, state president of Guest Teachers’ Union. The case was registered under Sections 147, 149, 341 and 283 of the IPC, Section 8-B of the National Highway Act and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Demanding regular jobs, the teachers have erected a tent near Aggrasain Chowk of Jagadhri since Saturday evening. In his complaint, Kumar alleged that the guest teachers were causing inconvenience to the public by blocking the national highway. He alleged that they were also violating the guidelines of “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana” imposed by the government to contain the spread of Omicron.Union spokesman Radha Krishan said the police had stopped them near Aggrasain Chowk when they were on their way to give a memorandum to Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar at his residence in Jagadhri. He said they met Secondary Education Director J Ganeshan, who assured them of accepting their 80 per cent demands and asked them to end the protest. “But the teachers have decided to continue their agitation until the government gives a written assurance,” Krishan said. Union president Maina Yadav said nearly 14,000 teachers had been working as guest teachers in government schools across the state for the past 16 years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guest-teachers-demand-regular-jobs-block-national-highway-355700
29-12-2021||---||Two arrested for vandalising Jesus’ statue in Ambala Cantt||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 28The CIA-1 unit of the Ambala police has arrested two accused who allegedly vandalised the statue of Jesus, installed at the entrance of the British Era Holy Redeemer Catholic Church in Ambala Cantonment, on Tuesday.The accused have been identified as Ravinder (27) and Sandeep Kumar (28) of Ambala Cantonment. They will be produced before a court on Wednesday. The accused were in an inebriated condition and the exact reason behind the act was yet to be ascertained, the police said.While Sandeep Kumar is a Class IV regular employee of a government department, Ravinder used to work for a pharmacy company.Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said, “A special investigation team was constituted, and the CIA-1 unit has arrested both the accused. During the preliminary questioning, the accused had disclosed that on December 25, Sandeep reached Ravinder’s house around 6 pm in the evening, and then they went to see the Christmas celebrations at the church. Later, they went out, consumed liquor, returned to the church late night, and vandalised the statue.”“The exact reason behind the act was yet to be ascertained. It is a part of the investigation. We are investigating the matter from all angles and we will also check if they have links with any organisation. Their bank accounts are being checked. They will be produced before a court on Wednesday and we will seek their remand. We will get the crime scene recreated”, he added.The SP further informed that Sandeep was a regular employee and has claimed that he has done B Tech and has also cleared the exam of Junior Engineer. His claims are being verified.A statue of Jesus was vandalised by the two accused after the Christmas prayers on the intervening night of December 25 and 26. The incident took place between 12.30 am and 1.40 am. Both suspects were spotted in the CCTV camera footage.The Holy Redeemer Church is the oldest church of Ambala. It was established in 1843. A case was registered at Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-vandalising-jesus-statue-in-ambala-cantt-355699
29-12-2021||---||Haryana minister Anil Vij announces  tax waiver till March 31||Chandigarh, December 28Haryana Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij said till March 31, the state government had decided to give one-time waiver on the interest of property tax to those who had not paid their property tax dues from the year 2010-11 to 2020-21.This decision will benefit about 18.80 lakh property tax payers of the state.Vij said if such property taxpayers pay all their property tax dues by March 31, they would be given the benefit of one-time waiver on interest. He said whoever had arrears of property tax till March 31, 2021 and paid all his property tax by March 31would get one-time waiver in interest.The Urban Local Bodies Minister said a proposal had been received in this regard that due to the prevailing conditions on account of Covid, a large number of property owners, facing financial crunch, could not take the benefit of property tax scheme announced by the government from time to time. Due to this, a decision was taken to provide relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-anil-vij-announces-tax-waiver-till-march-31-355698
29-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Notices to govt offices in Faridabad over pending Rs 63-cr property tax||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 28Intensifying the efforts to recover the pending property tax, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) authorities have started issuing notices to various government offices that owe dues of over Rs 63 crore.Efforts on to recover amountNotices and reminders are being issued to the departments concerned. Efforts are on to recover the pending dues despite the fact that government offices can not be sealed. Abhishek Meena, additional commissioner, MCFRevealing this, official sources in the civic body said though the total amount of pending property tax in the city had been nearly Rs 230 crore, 107 offices and buildings of the government departments have failed to clear dues of Rs 63.05 crore so far.According to the details prepared by the MCF, the defaulters include almost all departments which have not paid the tax for the past many years. While properties owned and operated by the police need to clear an outstanding dues of around Rs 10.86 crore, which include dues of Rs 7.24 crore pending towards the building of the police station in Sector31 here. Similarly, the properties of the HSVP, which include shops, markets and offices have an outstanding of about Rs 10 crore as property tax. The Estate Office of the HSVP owes an amount of Rs 7.50 crore.Among other defaulters, the BSNL has to pay a tax of over Rs 8.22 crore it is claimed. The under renovation Nahar Singh International Cricket stadium and the DCA cricket club located on its premises has also failed to pay a pending tax of Rs 4.58 crore,so far, it is reported. The stadium, undergoing renovation at a cost of RS 115 crore has been closed for the past several years.Similarly, the mini-secretariat which houses the offices of the district administration, including the office of the DC, needs to clear a tax of over Rs 2.69 crore, according to officials.The district court has to pay an amount of Rs 2.13 crore, HVPNL — Rs 1.14 crore, Government of India Press — Rs1.35 crore, RCH hospital, Sector 30 (Health Department) — Rs 2.30 crore, Power sub-station —Rs 2.16 crore, Telephone Exchange —Rs 3.19 crore, Panchayat Bhawan — Rs1.85 crore, Civil Hospital—Rs 81.8 lakh and Red Cross office — Rs 83 lakh.Claiming that notices and reminders were being issued to the departments concerned, Abhishek Meena, Additional Commissioner, MCF, said efforts were on to recover the pending dues despite the fact that government offices could not be sealed.107 have failed to clear duesOfficial sources in the civic body said though the total amount of pending property tax in the city had been nearly Rs 230 crore, 107 offices and buildings of the government departments have failed to clear dues of Rs 63.05 crore so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notices-to-govt-offices-over-pending-rs-63-cr-property-tax-355697
29-12-2021||Rohtak||Two school students murdered in Rohtak||UP policeman killed, five injured as SUV hits treeKarnal: A constable of the UP Police was killed, while five other police personnel were injured, as the SUV of the police collided with a tree near Modipur village of the district this morning. The deceased has been identified as Sumit (30) of Ghaziabad, while Sombir, Deepak, Davinder, Sunil and Rahul are among the injured. TNSClerk dismissed for hiding information to get jobKarnal: Kaithal Deputy Commissioner (DC) Pradeep Dahiya has dismissed clerk Kuldeep Singh, posted in the Revenue Department in Dhand, for allegedly getting the job by submitting false information that no one from his family was a regular employee in any department, board, corporation, statuatory body of the state or the Union government. Besides, the DC recommended criminal action against him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-school-students-murdered-in-rohtak-355695
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||6th finance panel report submitted to Haryana Governor||State Finance Commission Chairman P Raghavendra Rao presented the report of the State Finance Commission to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today at the Haryana Raj Bhavan.Rao said the 6th commission was constituted on September 22, 2020, and the report had been prepared and submitted to the Governor in a record time of 15 months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6th-finance-panel-report-submitted-355691
29-12-2021||Rohtak||Dr Shamsher Singh Lohchab appointed Rohtak PGIMS Director||Dr Shamsher Singh Lohchab, head of the cardiac surgery department, was today appointed Director of the Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science (PGIMS) here.He is presently serving as Dean (Academic Affairs) at the Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences here. “Dr Lohchab had joined the PGIMS as a lecturer in 1997. He performed the nation’s first cardiac surgery under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana,” said the spokesman of the PGIMS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dr-lohchab-appointed-rohtak-pgims-director-355690
29-12-2021||Hisar||Man dies 12 hours after Covid jab in Narwana town, kin protest||A 24-year-old man died reportedly after 12 hours of being administered the first dose of Covid vaccine in Narwana town of Jind district on Monday night. Identified as Mohit, his family members blocked the Jind-Narwana road today, alleging negligence by the Narwana Civil Hospital staff.Narwana ASP Kuldeep Singh said they had registered a daily diary report and an inquiry would be conducted before taking any further action.Mohit’s father Naresh Kumar alleged that his son got vaccinated for Covid and complained of breathing problem. “We took him to hospital at night, but he was not given proper treatment. An inquiry should be conducted into my son’s death,” he said. Medical officer Dr Hardeep Kaur said the patient complained of chest pain. “We advised the family to get the patient admitted at the hospital, but they refused and took him home. When he was discharged from hospital, the patient was medically examined and his oxygen level was reported at 98/99 and blood pressure was also normal,” she said. The ASP said a board of doctors would conduct the post-mortem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-dies-12-hours-after-covid-jab-kin-protest-355689
29-12-2021||Panipat||4 cops dismissed in Panipat||The Panipat Superintendent of Police (SP) has dismissed four police personnel, including a sub-inspector (SI), an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), a head constable and a constable in three separate matters for their alleged involvement in corruption, negligence in duty and for a man’s death in police custody.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan has dismissed SI Satbir Singh, former SHO, Sadar, and former munshi head constable Pradeep, ASI Dharambir of Quilla and constable Pankaj in three separate matters. The matter was reported in March this year.Another matter of custodial death was reported in May this year. SP Sawan reached the spot after custodial death was reported and a case was registered against ASI Dharambir under sections of murder and he was arrested. Following the directions of the SP, a DSP-level officer inquired the matter.On the basis of the inquiry report, SP Sawan has terminated ASI Dharambir.In another case, constable Pankaj was terminated. SP Sawan appointed the constable as a gunman to a businessman. But, Pankaj had started harassing the businessman. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-cops-dismissed-in-panipat-355688
29-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Haryana to create databank of drug peddlers||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 28Haryana will soon have a databank of drug peddlers as the state Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has started the process to prepare it with the help of software “HAWK”. It would only be used by police authorities, said an official.The names of drug peddlers with their photographs, mobile numbers, details of their bank accounts, social accounts, vehicles, relatives and property would be just a click away.Besides, there will be a map with details of the source of the drugs and the route of the delivery. The phone call details of the accused would also be available on it.Soon after the arrest of the accused, the district police will upload the photograph, video and other details of the accused with the help of the software designed by the NCB. The district police have to fill a detailed interrogation form designed by the NCB, especially for this purpose.A login and password has been given at each district headquarters. The officials of the district headquarters have also been imparted training by the NCB in four workshops.“The aim to prepare this databank is to easily provide information to the police across the country so that drug menace can be controlled effectively,” said Shrikant Jadhav, ADGP and chief of state NCB.“At just a single click, the complete history of any accused would be on the screen, including the number of cases registered against him/her and the involvement of others, if any, with the accused,” he added.The voice sample of the accused would also be available on this software, which will help the police in prosecution.“All details of the pharmaceutical drug manufacturing units of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh would also be available on this software,” Jadhav added.After the formation of the Haryana NCB, 192 FIRs had been registered and 319 accused arrested. The police have so far recovered 4.35 kg heroin, 24.811 kg charas, 1,045 kg ganja, 25 kg opium, 1,571 kg poppy straw, 33,519 tablets, 1,561 capsules, 10.7 kg opium plants from these accused.Details just a click away||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-create-databank-of-drug-peddlers-355686
29-12-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||BJP's Kamal Gupta, JJP's Devendra Babli join Haryana Cabinet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28In the second expansion in two years, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today inducted an MLA each from his own party BJP and alliance partner JJP into his Cabinet.Also read: With two more inductions, Hisar division gets lion's share in CabinetGovernor Bandaru Dattatreya, on the advice of the Chief Minister, administered the oath of office and secrecy to the two MLAs — BJP’s Kamal Gupta and JJP’s Devendra Babli — as Cabinet Ministers in the Haryana Council of Ministers.While Gupta took oath in Sanskrit, Babli took oath in Hindi at the swearing-in ceremony held at Haryana Raj Bhavan and attended by Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and other Cabinet and state ministers, including Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. However, Home Minister Anil Vij was conspicuous by his absence.The family members of the two new ministers were also present on the occasion.Sources said induction of Gupta had been finalised long ago and he was given a Cabinet berth as a representative of his community. “We have eight MLAs and did not have a single minister, while communities with six MLAs have got substantial representation in the Cabinet. The Speaker was the sole representative so far but he is not a part of the Cabinet,” sources maintained. Though most of the other MLAs from the trader community are first-timers, Gupta was also chosen because of his seniority.Babli, a rebel of the JJP who minced no words in attacking the Deputy CM and stoked repeated controversies in the past, was “rewarded” with a Cabinet berth. Sources maintained that this could be the party leadership’s “ploy” to silence him and make him fall in line. While a few other JJP MLAs have been made chairpersons of boards and corporations, it remains to be seen how the party will “accommodate” those who are still awaiting positions.Meanwhile, after the swearing-in ceremony, Khattar, when asked to comment on the expansion, said: “The suspense is over now.” He was responding to a question on the talk of expansion doing the rounds for many months without really coming through.Addressing mediapersons, Kamal Gupta, a two-time MLA, said the state’s and Hisar’s development would be his priority while first-time MLA Babli said he would live up to the expectations of the people.Though the portfolios of both the ministers are awaited, they maintained that allocation of portfolios was the prerogative of the Chief Minister.Vij skips ceremony||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjps-kamal-jjps-babli-join-cabinet-355684
29-12-2021||Deepender Deswal||With two more inductions, Hisar division gets lion's share in Cabinet||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 28With the induction of Hisar BJP MLA Kamal Gupta and his JJP counterpart from Tohana Devender Babli in the Haryana Cabinet on Tuesday, the number of ministers from the Hisar administrative division has gone up to five. The other three ministers are JJP MLAs Dushyant Chautala (Deputy CM who represents Uchana in Jind district) and Anoop Dhanak (Uklana, Hisar) and Independent legislator Ranjit Chautala (Rania, Sirsa). The JJP now has three ministers and the BJP 10.Also read: BJP's Kamal Gupta, JJP's Devendra Babli join Haryana CabinetOf the other five divisions, Rohtak has only one minister, Loharu (Bhiwani) MLA JP Dalal. This is despite Rohtak being the home district of CM Manohar Lal Khattar (Karnal MLA) and ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda (Rohtak).The NCR belt of Gurugram and Faridabad divisions has three ministers. MC Sharma (Ballabgarh MLA) is the only minister from Faridabad. Banwari Lal (Bawal, Rewari) and OP Yadav (Narnaul, Mahendragarh) are from Gurugram. Karnal division is represented by Khattar and Kamlesh Dhanda, an MLA from Kalayat in Kaithal. Ambala division has three ministers, including Anil Vij (Ambala Cantt MLA), Sandeep Singh (Pehowa) and Kanwar Pal Gujjar (Jagadhari, Yamunanagar).A second-term MLA from Hisar, Gupta had defeated veteran Congress leader Savitri Jindal in 2014. He got re-elected in 2019. A medical officer and belonging to Bhirdana village near Fatehabad, Gupta had served as a surgeon in Hisar and several other places. Babli had defeated then BJP state president Subhash Barala by a massive margin of 52,302 votes in 2019. With his induction, the JJP now has three ministers in the Cabinet, the others being Dushyant Chautala and Dhanak.The Bharatiya Janata Party fell short of a simple majority in the October 2019 Assembly polls, winning 40 of the 90 seats. It forged an alliance with the JJP, which has 10 MLAs.All slots filled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-two-more-inductions-hisar-division-gets-lions-share-in-cabinet-355632
