30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 23 more Omicron cases; tally mounts to 37||Haryana reported 23 more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Thursday, its highest daily spike so far, pushing the tally of such cases to 37 in the state, according to a health department bulletin.Of these 37 cases, 12 are active while the rest have been discharged, it stated.In view of a rise in Omicron cases, the Haryana government has imposed a night curfew and restriction on gatherings from Saturday.It said people eligible for vaccination but not fully vaccinated will be banned from shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and grain markets, among other crowded places from January 1.Meanwhile, the state continued to register a surge in COVID-19 cases, with 300 new infections being reported on Thursday, 180 of them from Gurugram alone. Faridabad and Panchkula reported 44 and 20 new infections respectively.However, no fresh fatality due to the viral disease was reported in the state.The total COVID-19 case count now stands at 7,73,361 in the state, while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,063.The number of active coronavirus cases in the state has almost doubled in three days, from 536 on Monday to 1,047 on Thursday, while 7,62,228 patients have recuperated, the bulletin said, adding that the recovery rate was recorded at 98.56 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-300-new-covid-infections-including-23-omicron-cases-356392
30-12-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Man kills son, attempts suicide after wife elopes in Gurugram||In a shocking incident, a 35-year-old man of Judola village allegedly poisoned and killed his 4-year-old son and attempted suicide after his wife eloped with her lover.The man is being treated in a hospital in a critical condition. An FIR of murder has been registered against the man at Farrukhnagar police station.According to the police, the accused is identified as Rajesh Mittal alias Bholu.He is married and father of two 10 and 4-year-old sons. His wife Payal allegedly eloped with her lover again on Wednesday morning.It was in late evening when he was at home with both sons. It was around 8 pm when his elder son Mohit went to buy chips, he gave insecticide to his 4-year-old son Bharat and had it himself but in meantime his son Mohit reached home and raised an alarm and neighbours gathered at their home. They rushed both the father and son in nearby hospital but Bharat died on the way to the hospital and Rajesh Mittal is still being treated.Following the complaint of Mittal’s sister Mithlesh, an FIR has been registered against Mittal under Sections 302 (murder), 328 (causing hurt by mean of poison) of the IPC at Farrukhnagar police station.The police said Payal, wife of Rajesh Mittal eloped with her love around a month ago and an FIR was registered. Later she had returned and claimed to be going to her sister’s home and started living with family but she again eloped with her lover on Wednesday early morning.The police said the suspected lover of Payal is identified as Monu, native of UP. Due to this, a tussle was going on between the husband and wife.“The accused is not fit for statement yet but we recovered the bottle of insecticide. We handed over the body of the boy to the kin after the post-mortem and further probe is on,” said Sub Inspector Krishan Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-son-attempts-suicide-after-wife-elopes-in-gurugram-356389
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Anil Vij says he offered to resign from cabinet when told he might lose home dept||Haryana minister Anil Vij on Thursday said he had offered to resign from the Cabinet after the Urban Local Bodies department was reassigned to a newly inducted minister and he was told that he might be divested of the home portfolio as well.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, on the advice of the chief minister, allocated and reallocated portfolios among the members of the Manohar Lal Khattar Council of Ministers on Wednesday consequent to the induction of two new ministers.The urban local bodies, a key department, was allocated to newly inducted minister Kamal Gupta. Chief Minister Khattar also gave one department under him - Housing for All - to Gupta, a two-time BJP MLA from Hisar.Asked about reports that he had offered to resign from the Council of Ministers, Vij on Thursday said when the chief minister expressed his intent to divest him of the home portfolio and keep it for himself, "I then said, if he so wishes, he may take all portfolios.""I said that I am willing to give up all my portfolios, why just one or two," he told PTI.After the reallocation, Vij, a senior BJP leader and six-time MLA, now holds Home, Health, Ayush, Technical Education, and Science and Technology portfolios.Newly inducted ministers - Kamal Gupta of the BJP and Devender Singh Babli of the JJP - were allocated portfolios on Wednesday.Vij was conspicuous by his absence at the oath-taking ceremony of the newly inducted ministers on Tuesday. Shortly before the ceremony, he had a meeting with the chief minister. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-minister-anil-vij-says-he-offered-to-resign-from-cabinet-when-told-he-might-lose-home-dept-356346
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Piercing cold in most places in Punjab, Haryana as Hisar shivers at 2 degrees Celsius||A biting cold wave swept through most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Thursday, with minimum temperatures hovering below normal limits.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department.Karnal, Rohtak, Gurugram, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Panchkula experienced a cold night recording respective minimum temperatures of 3.2 degrees C, 4.4 degrees C, 6 degrees C, 4.8 degrees C, 3.7 degrees C and 4.9 degrees C.Chandigarh recorded a low of 4.2 deg C.In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense chill recording a low of 2.6 degrees C.Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Moga and Sangrur recorded a low of 4.4 degrees C, 3.7 degrees C, 3.3 degrees C, 4.3 degrees C, 3.4 degrees C, 4.3 degrees C, 3.7 degrees C, 3.2 degrees C and 3.1 degrees Celsius, respectively. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/piercing-cold-in-most-places-in-punjab-haryana-as-hisar-shivers-at-2-degrees-celsius-356337
30-12-2021||---||Haryana cabinet: BJP minister Kamal Gupta gets key ULB portfolio, Devender Singh Babli given Panchayats||Chandigarh, December 29The newly inducted minister Kamal Gupta of the BJP was today allocated the key portfolio of Urban Local Bodies which was earlier with Home Minister Anil Vij. The two-time MLA from Hisar was also given the charge of Housing for All, which was with CM Manohar Lal Khattar.The second minister inducted yesterday, Devender Singh Babli of the JJP, was given the charge of Development and Panchayats department, which was among the several departments held by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. Babli will also head Archaeology and Museums department, which was earlier with Minister of State Anoop Dhanak.Reacting to the development, Anil Vij said, “It is the prerogative of the CM to allocate portfolios. He can do anything.” Vij was conspicuous by his absence at the oath-taking ceremony of the ministers yesterday. Dushyant loyalist Dhanak’s status has been elevated with the independent charge of Labour and Employment, which was earlier with the Deputy CM. He has also got the charge of Revenue and Disaster Management, Industries and Commerce, and Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, but these will remain attached with the Deputy CM.With the two new inductions, the strength of the Haryana Council of Ministers has gone up to 14, including the CM. It includes 10 ministers from the BJP, three from the JJP and one Independent. The CM has 16 departments.Independent charge for Dhanak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-minister-kamal-gupta-gets-key-urban-local-bodies-portfolio-devender-singh-babli-given-panchayats-356079
30-12-2021||Hisar||Haryana Agricultural University on top in Atal ranking||Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCS HAU) has secured the first position among farm universities across the country in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation and Achievements (ARIIA).The ranking was released today by the Union Ministry of Education and the AICTE.HAU VC Prof BR Kamboj congratulated the faculty, staff and students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agricultural-university-on-top-in-atal-ranking-356109
30-12-2021||Kurukshetra||2 Kurukshetra traders booked||Two fertiliser traders have been booked after a team of the Agriculture Department recovered 285 urea bags from an unauthorised godown in Pehowa on Tuesday.The case was registered on the complaint of Manish Kumar Vats, SDO of the Agriculture Department, against Amit and Monu under Section 7 of the Fertiliser Control Order, and Sections 7 and 10 of the Essential Commodities Act at Pehowa police station.Notably, BKU (Charuni) activists on Monday claimed the fertiliser bags were being stored by the trader at an unauthorised godown. The SDO said during checking, it was found that the trader in his point of sale machine had shown his stock as nil, while he had stocked 285 bags at the godown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-kurukshetra-traders-booked-356107
30-12-2021||---||Book officials for irregularities in seed distribution, orders minister||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 29Haryana Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh on Wednesday ordered the registration of an FIR against five officials for alleged irregularities in “dhaincha” seed distribution at Raipur Rani.He was presiding over a District Public Relations and Grievance Redressal Committee meeting at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1 here.“It’s a serious matter. The culprits should be dealt with strict action,” he said.In July, the minister had suspended the then District Mining Officer Om Dutt Sharma “for his failure to stop rampant illegal mining in the district”.As many as 24 complaints were taken up at the meeting, in which local MLA and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and DC Mahavir Kaushik were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-officials-for-irregularities-in-seed-distribution-orders-minister-356106
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Anganwari workers’ honorarium hiked||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced an increase in the monthly honorarium to anganwari workers to Rs 400 from September 2020 and Rs 450 from September 2021, and arrears for two years (years 2019-20 and 2020-21) along with an incentive of Rs 1,000 each to be given to all for working as frontline workers during Covid.Khattar held a meeting with office-bearers of the Anganwari Workers Union regarding their demands. The CM said no worker and helper would be removed from the anganwari centres. Rather, the state was moving ahead in the direction of opening crèches. Along with fresh candidates, anganwari workers would also get a chance for recruitment in these crèches.He said the anganwari workers would be covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. “Also, an amount of Rs 2 lakh will be provided in case of an accident under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana. Premium of Rs 12 per month will be paid by the state under the scheme.”He also announced a relief of Rs 2 lakh each for the kin of two workers who died in a Jhajjar mishap recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anganwari-workers-honorarium-hiked-356104
30-12-2021||Karnal||Superintending Engineer suspended after video of staff taking money surfaces||The Haryana Urban Local Bodies Department today suspended Superintending Engineer (SE) Deepak Kinger of the Karnal MC after the arrest of two persons, including a computer operator of Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), for allegedly blackmailing the SE.The action was initiated on the recommendation of Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, who took a serious note of the videos of the SE’s office, purportedly showing the latter’s PA accepting money from some people. He also handed the probe to ADC Yogesh Kumar. He has been given seven days to complete the inquiry.“Prima facie, it seems the SE office is involved in this, with a serious lapse on part of the SE. So, I have recommended action against the SE. The government has suspended him. To get the issue probed in depth, I have handed over the inquiry to the ADC,” said Yadav.Besides, MC Commissioner Manoj Kumar has issued a show-cause notice to the PA of the SE otherwise his services would be terminated by the civic body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/superintending-engineer-suspended-after-video-of-staff-taking-money-surfaces-356103
30-12-2021||Yamunanagar||45-kg subsidised fertiliser seized in Yamunanagar||A joint team of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department and the police has seized 1,520 bags (45 kg) of subsidised urea, stocked illegally in a building in Panjeto village of the district.A team of the Agriculture Department, Yamunanagar, headed by quality control inspector Bal Mukand had caught a utility vehicle from Chhachhrauli on Monday. The vehicle was loaded with 35 bags of subsidised urea.On Mukand’s complaint, a case was registered against the vehicle driver, Ankit of Panjeto village, under Sections 3, 7 and 10 of the Essential Commodity Act and Sections 120B and 42, IPC, at the Chhachhrauli police station on Monday. Ankit was then arrested as he failed to produce the bill.During interrogation, Ankit told the police that he loaded the urea bags in his vehicle from a godown at Panjeto village. When the police and Ankit visited the godown on Tuesday, they found urea bags in a huge quantity.“We found 1,520 bags of subsidised urea and seized them after the owner failed to produce the bill. The stock was also not entered in the point of sale machine,” Mukand said, adding a case was registered against the godown owner, Anil Kumar, too.According to information, the building in which the urea was prepared is an illegal hotel, which had been sealed by the team of District Town Planner sometime ago.Sources said the subsidised urea was allegedly being used by several plywood factories to prepare glue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-kg-subsidised-fertiliser-seized-in-yamunanagar-356102
30-12-2021||---||Amid crisis, farmers ‘capture’ 24 urea-laden trucks in Jind||Hisar, December 29The shortage of urea triggered protest by farmers, especially women, in Safidon town of Jind district on Tuesday morning.Enraged farmers forcibly held up 24 trucks loaded with urea, which were meant to be taken to Matloda town in Panipat district from the Safidon railway station.According to information, as many as 1,500 farmers were queued up at a sales counter in Safidon on Tuesday morning. However, they came to know that a rack full of urea has arrived at the railway station and was placed in a godown. Sources said 56,000 bags of urea had arrived at the railway godown, of which 30,000 were meant to be taken to Matloda while 26,000 were for Safidon farmers.Soon after, a group of farmers reached the railway godown and forcibly took possession of 24 urea-laden trucks.They demanded that the bags should be distributed among them as they were in a dire need of urea for the rabi crops.Sensing the gravity of situation, SDM Anand Sharma and area SHO Suresh rushed to the spot. We pacified the farmers after which the bags were distributed among them in an orderly manner, the SHO said, adding that the trucks meant for Matloda town in Panipat had departed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-crisis-farmers-capture-24-urea-laden-trucks-in-jind-356101
30-12-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Manhole on road poses danger to commuters||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Manhole on road poses danger to commutersA manhole on the Kunjpura road in the city, which is the busiest market here, is below the surface of the road and poses threat to commuters and pedestrians. As per the guidelines, the manholes should not be above the road surface and not below the road surface. The manhole should be with the level of the road. The manhole is causing hardships to the motorists while driving. The officials concerned should take note of it. Amit Ahuja, KarnalStray animals threat to road usersStray animals can be seen wandering, squatting on the roads and on the National Highway. Sometimes the cattle and dogs appear all of a sudden on roads, jeopardising the lives of commuters, especially bikers. The administration should find a solution to control the menace and make the roads safer for commuters. Sumit Jain, Ambala Cantt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manhole-on-road-poses-danger-to-commuters-356100
30-12-2021||Kaithal||RKSD College wins overall trophy||Workshop on intellectual propertyHisar: The Centre for Industry Institute Partnership (CIIP), Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised a workshop on 'Awareness and training on intellectual property'. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor was the chief guest, while Prof Avnesh Verma, Registrar, was the guest of honour. The VC said intellectual property rights were like any other property rights which are intangible in nature. The IP rights usually give the creator an exclusive right over the use of his/her creation for a certain period of time. With the rapid increase in globalisation and opening up of new vistas in India, the "intellectual capital" has become one of the key wealth drivers in the present era.Seven-day NCC campKarnal: A seven-day annual training camp started at Sainik School, Kunjpura, under the leadership of Commanding Officer Pawan Goyal by No 2 Haryana Air Squadron NCC Karnal. In the camp, cadets from Government College Sector 14, DAV Girls College, Dyal Singh College, NCC Air Wing and Army Wing of 7th and 10th Haryana Battalion participated. Wing Commander Goyal said this type of camp was very important for the development of the personality of the cadets, this camp is mandatory for NCC's B and C certificate.Expert lecture on social workFaridabad: The department of communication and media technology of JC Bose University, YMCA, Faridabad, organised an expert lecture for the students of bachelor of social work, recently. The session was addressed by Dr Rashmi Jain, senior assistant professor from the department of social work, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. The stage was shared by Dr Pawan Singh Malik, associate professor, department of communication and media technology and assistant professor Dr Akhilesh Tripathi.Alumni meet at KVA DAVKarnal: The 10th alumni meet of KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, was organised through online mode. The meet was attended by over 70 former students and faculty from all over India and abroad. Former students from USA, UK, Canada and Australia also participated in the alumni meet. Renu Mehta, principal, congratulated the alumnae for upholding the vedic values that they imbibed as students of DAV. She wished them well for brighter and fulfilling lives. Dr Sabira Sharma, president, Alumni Association, Vandana Rana, vice-president, Dr Anju Narwal, secretary and Dr Punam Kundu, treasurer coordinated for the successful execution of the meet. Technical support was lent by Prashantika, Megha, Leena, Tarjeet and Rahul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rksd-college-wins-overall-trophy-356099
30-12-2021||---||Badminton tourney in Panchkula from January 2||Chandigarh, December 29Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is the chairman of the Sports Promotion Society, has said first Ashwani Gupta Memorial Sub-Junior (under 15 and under 17) Badminton Ranking Tournament would be held from January 2 to January 9 in Panchkula.Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, Panchkula, will hold the event.Addressing a press conference, Gupta said for this tournament, about 2,450 entries have been received from across the country. To complete the matches on time, 10 badminton courts of Sports Complex, Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh, will be used.The qualifying matches of girls will be played in Chandigarh, while all main draw matches will be held in Panchkula. About 880 boys and 550 girls are participating in the event. About 55 officials have been arranged for the smooth conduct of the matches. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar will be the chief guest on January 2, while the the Speaker will preside over the function.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya will be the chief guest for the prize distribution function on January 9 while Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar will preside over the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/badminton-tourney-in-panchkula-from-january-2-356098
30-12-2021||---||Management registration module opens at Kurukshetra University||Kurukshetra, December 29Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva launched the registration module of the Integrated University Management System (IUMS) project on Wednesday.Prof Som Nath said this was a big step taken by the KU in the era of digitisation which will prove to be a milestone in the direction of automation of the university. He said IUMS would complete the process of registration of all new students taking admission in any course run by KU for University Teaching Departments and 280 affiliated colleges from the academic session 2021-22 through the registration module of the portal.This module will help the colleges in filling the online registration of the students directly through this portal. In the coming days this module of the IUMS project will be used for filling up examination forms, sending roll numbers, hall ticket generation, declaration of results, distribution of mark sheets, degree and migration certificates, the VC said.KU dean academic affairs Prof Manjula Choudhary informed that now colleges would also be able to make single online payment through this module which will include payment of registration, NSS, sports, and alumni. This module will be helpful in providing all services related to students of the university and colleges smoothly. The coordinator of the e-governance project of IUMS, Prof Pradeep Kumar, said an online training programme was organised to make all stakeholders aware of the initiative of the university and implement it effectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/managementt-registration-module-opens-at-kurukshetra-university-356097
30-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Pandemic delays construction of new college buildings in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 29The construction work of buildings of three new colleges in the district taken up in 2018 is yet to be completed. The delay has made the students suffer as their studies have remained confined in the borrowed rooms of other institutions.“The first batch of students completing graduation in June 2021 from the new colleges set up at Ballabgarh, Mohna and Nachauli villages have been those who have failed to study on the campus of their colleges, besides bearing the problems related to shortage of staff and facilities”, said sources in the Higher Education Department. “The classes are being held either at government schools or other colleges though the new colleges were established three and half years ago”, claimed an official on condition of anonymity. The buildings which were expected to be functional from July 2020, missed the deadline this year also perhaps due to the pandemic and other issues, it is revealed. The ongoing last stage work is likely to prolong the wait till June next, it is added.Start colleges when campus completeNew colleges should be started only when the building is ready as part-time arrangements fail to provide the required infrastructure. Krishan Atri, student leader of NSUIRegret not having studied on campusThough it was a matter of pride to be part of the first batch, the failure to study on the campus of the college is an issue of regret. Student from Mohna villageClasses being held at govt schoolsThe classes are being held either at government schools or other colleges though the new colleges were established three and half years ago. An officialWill be ready soonBuildings of the new colleges are almost ready and expected to be functional soon. Mool Chand Sharma, Cabinet minister“Though it was a matter of pride to be part of the first batch, the failure to study on the campus of the college is an issue of regret,” says a student hailing from Mohna village, who graduated this year. “ New colleges should be started only when the building is ready as part-time arrangements fail to provide the required infrastructure,” says Krishan Atri, a student leader of the NSUI. Claiming that while all new colleges remained short staffed and a victim of poor infrastructure, it has cost the students dearly. While the new colleges at Nachauli village and Ballabgarh are for girls, the college at Mohna village is a Coed. With cumulative student strength of 1,900, classes of Ballabgarh and Mohna colleges are held in nearby government schools. Students enrolled at Nachauli attend classes at government women college, Faridabad. Science practicals of Mohna college are held at Government College, Tigaon.Wait likely to be prolongedThe buildings which were expected to be functional from July 2020, missed the deadline this year also The ongoing last stage work is likely to prolong the wait till June next||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pandemic-delays-construction-of-new-college-buildings-in-faridabad-356096
30-12-2021||Ambala||Ambala man duped of Rs 11lakh||A man in Ambala has been duped of Rs 11 lakh by two people on the pretext of providing him a job in the Railways. The police have registered a case against Rahul of Ambala and Jai Kumar of Yamunanagar in this regard.In his police complaint, Prashant Walia, a resident of Ambala, said in October 2017, his relative Rahul informed Prashant’s father that he had good links with the then Mullana MLA and his son, and he could arrange a government job for Prashant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-man-duped-of-rs-11lakh-356095
30-12-2021||Gurugram||Metro occupancy halved, long queues in Gurugram||Heavy rush was witnessed across Metro stations in Gurugram today as Metro occupancy has been reduced to 50 per cent.Long queues — stretching as far as the road outside — were seen at the two main stations — HUDA city centre and IFFCO chowk.On the curbs, the passengers gave a mixed response as some were angered by it while others agreed with the decision. “In this situation, it is difficult to do a job as it is not possible to reach the office on time,” said Sudhir Singh, an executive in a private company.“We faced difficulty in getting into the Metro but the government has taken a good decision at this time of the Omicron threat,” said Priya, a BPO executive.A Delhi Metro official said due to increase in Covid infection, ticket counters and entries in the Metro station would remain limited till further orders. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/metro-occupancy-halved-long-queues-in-gurugram-356094
30-12-2021||---||4 booked for hurting religious sentiments in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, December 29Tension prevailed at the Milk Majra toll plaza on Wednesday on the Panchkula- Yamunanagar national highway after “photos of Sahibzadas and Mata Gujri and some verses of Gurbani” were allegedly torn on a flex board.On the complaint of Jasbir Singh, head of Gurdwara Sahib Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh at Barara town of Ambala district, a case was registered against four persons Satish Kumar, Ravi, Harish and Pankaj under Sections 120-B, 201, 295 and 295-A of the IPC at the Chhappar police station, today.The complainant told the police that they had temporarily placed flex boards with photos of younger Sahibzadas and Mata Gujri and some Gurbani written on them at the Mustafabad turn and on the highway bypass turn near Kail village in the area to organise the martyrdom congregation (Shaheedi Sabha) to commemorate martyrdom of the SahibzadasHe said the martyrdom congregation was organised from December 25 to December 27. “When we went to remove our flex on December 28, we found these missing. Later, we came to know that the flex was removed by some persons,” the complainant said.He further said that on checking, they found some torn parts of the flex on the frames.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-in-yamunanagar-356093
30-12-2021||---||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya opens Oxygen plant in Karnal||Karnal, December 29Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Wednesday exhorted faculty members of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) to make Karnal a model in the health sector and set an example for others with their services and behaviour with patients.“It is the duty of the government to ensure better health facilities and infrastructure,” said the Governor while interacting with faculty members of the KCGMC here today.The Governor also inaugurated an oxygen generation plant of 2,000-litre per minute (LPM) capacity developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at the KCGMC. He also reviewed the functioning of the hospital and inquired about the facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-opens-oxygen-plant-in-karnal-356092
30-12-2021||---||Haryana: Three-member government panel to check EWS pupils' income certificate||Rohtak, December 29The income certificates submitted by parents to avail the benefit of free education of their wards in private schools under rule 134A of the Haryana School Education Act will now be matched with the income shown by them in Parivar Pehchan Patra and other documents.Directorate Elementary Education has formed a three-member panel headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner in every district to find out the authenticity of the income shown by the parents in the certificate that is used for school admission purposes.District Education Officer (DEO) and District Revenue Officer will be other members of the committee.Sources said the action had been taken in view of the issue being raised by private schools across the state against income certificates produced by parents for enrolling their children in schools under the EWS category. The Progressive Private Schools Association, in its recent tweet to the Chief Minister and Education Minister, had demanded re-verification of income certificates while raising questions over their authenticity.“The committee will inquire into income certificates of EWS students’ family and will verify the cases within a week if any difference is found. After verifying the certificate, the committee will ask the schools to enrol those students without further delay,” reads a communiqué sent to all district administrative authorities from the Director (Elementary Education).The Director states the majority of private schools are not giving admissions to students selected under rule 134A. It should be ensured that the students whose income certificates are beyond doubt would be enrolled without further delay.Pvt schools had questioned authenticityThe Progressive Private Schools Association, in its recent tweet to the Chief Minister and Education Minister, had demanded re-verification of income certificates while raising questions over their authenticity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-member-panel-to-check-ews-pupils-income-certificate-356091
30-12-2021||Parveen Arora||Fund crunch hits shagun scheme in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 29“I got my daughter’s marriage solemnised in April this year and had applied for financial assistance under the Mukhya Mantri Vivah Shagun Yojana days later. However, after making several rounds, I couldn’t get the financial assistance,” said Neelam (name changed), a resident of a colony located on the city outskirts.DC assures early solutionSome applicants approached me a few days ago. When enquired, the fund crunch issue came to my notice after which I apprised the higher-ups. All applicants will get the incentive soon. Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCShe is not the only person who is running from pillar to post to get the financial assistance. As per the information, the scheme, which was started to provide financial assistance to the family members belonging to the economically weaker sections of the society for the marriage of their daughters, has been affected by financial crunch.As per officials, in the absence of the budget, around 280 applicants are waiting for the financial assistance. The information gathered by The Tribune reveals that in the current fiscal, as many as 2,398 people had applied for the assistance under this scheme. Of them, 1,883 applications have been sanctioned, 235 rejected and 280 cases are pending due to the lack of budget.This scheme has been started to honour the girl child and to ensure that those belonging to poor families and daughters of widows, destitute and sports women, and orphans are married gracefully. Under this scheme, a financial assistance is given to the members, for which the family either needs to apply a month prior or after the marriage on the website of the department. A financial assistance of Rs 71,000 is given to the family belonging to SC/ST/Tapriwas communities living below the poverty line, while Rs 51,000 is given on the marriage of the widow/ divorced/destitute children of the BPL family and Rs 31,000 to sports women and girls of all sections of the BPL other than the SC, all families (including SC/BC) having family annual income less than Rs 1,80,000 per annum, said an official.Meanwhile, Krishna, District Welfare Officer, said they had sent a request for the budget to the headquarters and soon after receiving the funds, they would transfer the amount to the applicants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fund-crunch-hits-shagun-scheme-in-haryana-356090
