01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Police beat Army jawan in Chatra for not wearing a mask||Policemen beating an army jawan during a mask checking drive in Mayurhund block in Chatra district on Wednesday, has sparked anger among residents who demanded action against the culprits. Eyewitnesses said the army jawan was coming on his bike and was not wearing a mask when policemen stopped him. They said instead of telling the jawan to wear a mask, policemen started misbehaving with him. When the jawan objected, six uniformed policemen started beating him with lathis and not only punched him but kicked him too. During this entire incident, BDO Saket Sinha who was incharge of the drive kept standing at one side and remained a mute spectator. Later villagers intervened and protested making police take the jawaan to Mayurhund police station. Sources said deputy commissioner Anjali Yadav had instructed officials to launch a massive mask checking drive in the district because of the possibility of a third wave. Due to this, in each and every block, a drive was launched which was also going on Wednesday afternoon at Karma chowk in Mayurhund block. Soon, a video of the beating went viral which made everyone criticise men-in-khakhi. Talking to The Telegraph Online, superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan said he came to know of the beating through a viral video. He confirmed that at the time of beating, BDO was present there. “I had asked DSP(headquarter) to probe this matter and to give a report immediately. Anyone found guilty will not be spared,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Four of family run over by Duronto Express at Chakradharpur||Four members of a family, including three women, were run over by Howrah-bound Duronto Express near Chakradharpur railway station while trying to save an elderly woman on Wednesday afternoon. The accident took place when four members of the family _ the three women and a youth _ came under the wheels of the Mumbai-Howrah Duronto Express (Dn) while trying to save an elderly women  who was crossing a railway track over river Binjai. "All four  got run over by the Dn 02095  Howrah-bound Duronto Express near the home signal of Chakradharpur station, " said chief public relations officer (CPRO) of South Eastern Railway Neeraj Kumar. He said the accident occurred at 3.25 pm. The bodies of the victims could not be immediately identified.  Railway police have cordoned off the area. "The deceased belonged to Badabambo village. The police recovered an Aadhaar card and a wallet from the spot.They were going to attend a local function when they met with the unfortunate fate, " said a railway official of Chakradharpur division which falls under South Eastern Railway zone. He said this was the first such railway mushap involving Duronto Express in that division. The accident led to disruption of train services in the section for about one hour. But, the railway police did not allow a crowd to gather at the mishap spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||August disappoints Jharkhand with 4% rain deficit||Jharkhand had a disappointing August monsoon month after surplus rain in June and July. Rain statistics revealed that August, the third monsoon month, ended with a four per cent rain deficit. Against normal rainfall of 820mm, Jharkhand actually recorded 787.3 mm of rain till August end, a deficit of four per cent August, the third month of the monsoon season, did see frequent downpours, but the rainfall was not enough to make up the deficit. Data revealed that last year in 2020 too, August ended with a deficit rain of 8 per cent. As many as 10 districts including Chatra, Garhwa, Simdega, Khunti and West Singhbhum figured in the rain loss list till August 31 while the rest 14 districts including Ranchi, Hazaribagh and East Singhbhum figured in rain gainers list. According to statistics, Daltonganj received the third highest rainfall of this decade (2012-2021) in the month of August. On August 1, the Palamau headquarters experienced the highest rainfall of 116.5 mm. Weathermen explained that the absence of a strong system over Bay of Bengal had resulted in less rainfall through August this year. "Shifting of the monsoon trough towards the foothills of Himalayas in frequent intervals is also another reason for less rainfall activity over the state in the month of August," explained Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Data suggests that several districts of Jharkhand had received below normal showers in August after a very good spell in June and July. The Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore, Calcutta, has held out hope for Jharkhand. "The deficit was not worrying. The rainfall in September, the last monsoon month, would help the state recover the deficit, "said a duty officer. Satellite pictures indicated that the monsoon trough line had descended to lower layers of the atmosphere and this is expected to trigger widespread rain in the second week of September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city special athletes mentor to coach northeast states||The Special Olympics Bharat has appointed Avtar Singh, steel city's veteran mentor of intellectually impaired athletes, as regional co-ordinator for the north eastern states. Singh, who, along with his wife Sukhdeep Kaur, runs a special school Jeevika in Sonari locality in Jamshedpur, will be responsible for channelising SOB's activities and train special athletes in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura. The SOB is a national organisation which promotes intellectually-impaired individuals through sports. The 72-year-old will visit the northeastern states once the Covid-19 situation improves. "I am thankful to the SOB for appointing me as a regional co-ordinator for seven northeastern states. I will try to give my best," Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion who captained the Indian team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi said. According to him, he would connect with the special athletes of northeast virtually and would visit the seven states once the pandemic-related situatiion improves. Even the SOB has issued the same instructions. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life to the cause of special athletes. He has been training and channelising the lives of the special athletes for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes who have won medals in international competitions organised under the banner of Special Olympics International (SOI). The septuagenarian is the only trainer from Asia invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015) and Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympic Games organising committee. Singh has progressed from community, state, national and a regional trainer of Asia Pacific countries. A fitness enthusiast, Singh maintains his body by daily cycling routine along the Marine Drive in Jamshedpur. "I need to keep myself fit for the sake of my wards. I can only train my wards if I am fit," Singh said. Singh, who has coaching diplomas from National Institute of Sports (Patiala), Germany and Malaysia said he feels immensely satisfied when his wards win medals in national and international competitions. "Their (special athletes) smile makes me very happy," he added. “We use Jeevika to bring our students to the social mainstream. Some of our students have got married and are leading a happy life. Besides sports and fitness drills, we train them on how to make Diwali diyas, paper bags and rakhis. We have also taught them the importance of social distance, greet people with namaste and to regularly wash their hands,” he informed. The list of international medal winners trained by Singh include Achal Gaurav (cycling and  floor hockey), Jehangir Gandhy (cycling), Sanjeev Sharma (floor hockey), Raju Pati (football), Harpal Singh (handball), Rajesh Kumar Singh (handball), Alpana Kumari (floor hockey), Nandita (badminton), Tejinder Singh (athletics) and N Sai Krishna (athletics).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi march to reopen temples across Jharkhand   ||Rrepresentatives of various temple trusts, backed by right-wing outfits, conducted a 4km padyatra in capital Ranchi on Wednesday evening, demanding opening of all temples in Jharkhand days after priests in Deoghar observed a bandh in the temple town seeking reopening of the Baba Baidhyanathdham. Close to 70 people comprising priests, members of temple trusts, florists and shopkeepers selleing puja paraphernalia marched from Ranchi Pahari Mandir via Upper Bazar with placards and posters voicing their demands and congregated at Albert Ekka Chowk.  Representatives from Maa Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh, Pahari Mandir (Ranchi), Shani Mandir, among others, took part in the march. Right wing groups such as Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Hindu Jagran Manch also joined them. Talking to reporters at Albert Ekka Chowk, Munchun Rai of Ranchi Jan Sewa Sangh said that temples be opened to devotees immediately. “Although the state government has about a month back allowed temples to function, devotees aren’t allowed because of Covid-19. But why did government open schools, universities, bars, offices in that case? Will Covid spread only through temples?,” he asked, demanding the constitution of proper protocols by the state government. A member of Ranchi Pahari Mandir Trust said that around 5,000 people were  directly or indirectly dependent on temples for their livelihood. “They include priests, shop keepers, florists, eateries etc as their earnings are directly linked with devotees. But since last year, since the outbreak of Covid-19, everyone is struggling to survive,” he rued. Agreed Rajiv Jaiswal of Maa Chinnamastika Mandir Trust stating that their temple in Ramgarh is a "shaktipeeth". "But people dependent on it are forced to arrange their bread and butter. In the past, we appealed to the government and the administration to provide some fiscal assistance but to no avail,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 22-year-old drug-peddler found murdered near Telco||Jamshedpur: A 22-year-old youth was found murdered at suburban Birsanagar near Telco about 10km away from the heart of the steel city on Wednesday morning. The murder victim was identified as Aniket Tiwari also known as Nanhu, a resident of Birsanagar zone No 3. Nanhu was wanted by the Sidhgora police in connection with a case of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act after his involvement was established in selling ‘brown sugar’ in Sidhgora locality a week ago.The body was found on a road a little distance away from his house near Kua Maidan at about 4.30 am following a brawl broke up between the victim and five other youths near the spot past midnight. The city SP confirmed that the murder victim was wanted in a case of drug peddling by the Sidhgora thana a week ago, but whether the murder was committed due to any dispute related to drug-peddling activity or due to love affair or due to old enmity is subject to investigation only. (Kumud Jenamani) Bokaro: A Memorandum of Understanding was signed through a virtual meet between SAIL-Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and IIT Roorkee to identify and pursue joint research projects. The premier engineering institution will now conduct research projects apart from enhancing knowledge in the areas of coke and sinter production, raw material handling and processing, iron and steel production and troubleshoot technical problems and digital transformation relevant to SAIL-BSL. The executive director (Works) of BSL Atanu Bhowmik signed the MOU with Professor Vimal Srivastava (HOD chemical engineering department) of IIT Roorkee. Others, Professor Manoranjan Parida (Dy. Director, IIT Roorkee), Professor G. P Chowdhary, (Head of Metallurgical & Materials, IIT Roorkee) and Professor Sanjeev Manhas were present during the ceremony. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A team from the anti-corruption bureau laid a trap arresting a police officer from Tandwa police station in Chatra district accepting a bribe of Rs.3000 from a local youth. Bureau officials got a complaint from one Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Mishraul village, following which a trap ASI Keshav Kumar Sharma was nabbed from the police station campus. Bureau sources said 25-year-old Rajesh Kumar's father Lukan Ram was made an accused in a beating case. FIR was lodged by Lukan's brother Ghuran Ram. Sharma was investigating officer of the case and he called Rajesh telling him that he would give case diary in his father's favour if Rs.5000 given to him. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Even at the time of pandemic there are many takers for talents of IIT(ISM) Dhanbad students. Around 190 students of the institute including 119 B Tech pre-final year (3rd year) as well as 23 students of M Tech, two MBA, 35 Integrated M Tech and 11 Dual degree programme students have received summer internship offers from top recruiters from across the globe, including Dassault, Walmart, American Express, Google and Disney+Hotstar at high packages. The highest package of Rs 2 lakh per month stipend has been offered by Sprinklr, an American software company based in New York to four students including one student each of B Tech and Dual degree programme and two students of Integrate M. Tech. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Kumar on Wednesday conducted a comprehensive review of Jharia Rehabilitation plan implementation during which he expressed reservation over the lack of coordination between coal company, BCCL and Jharia Rehabilitation and Developement Authority and instructed to put things in order and carry out fortnightly review of rehabilitation work. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad no-entry for trucks and buses to ease local traffic ||The Dhanbad district administration, to improve the road traffic situation, has banned the entry of around 250 inter-district and interstate buses from September 3, 9am to 9pm and a complete ban over the entry of heavy goods transport vehicles will also come into force from the same day. The series of steps have been taken in the district to overcome the perpetual traffic jam situation, as per which the illegally operated bus stand lying near the entrance gate of the concourse area of Dhanbad Railway station  has also been withdrawn and relocated 800 meter away at Interstate Bus Terminus of Bartand. Sandeep Kumar, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner who shared the information about the new traffic arrangement through his official twitter handle, further posted the new route chart for the new buses and heavy goods transport vehicles to be made effective from September 3. Rajesh Kumar, traffic DSP of Dhanbad, who is also the nodal officer of Road Safety Cell of the district said, “The new traffic arrangement and route allocation has been finalised as part of a comprehensive plan after several rounds of discussion according to which the modalities for the implementation of new traffic arrangement, including the deputation of policemen at strategic points have also been prepared.” This apart, steps are in progress for placing and positioning signboards, signages at different no entry points and no parking zones as per the new route chart. “All stakeholders, including the bus owners have already been informed and apprised about the decision in advance,” said Kumar and added that not only the buses but the finalisation of the route chart for auto rickshaw is also in progress after holding several rounds of meetings and would be given final shape after the last round of meeting on September with the Auto rickshaw operators association. As per the new route chart for Dhanbad buses heading towards Bokaro, Ranchi will follow the route Karkend More, Raja Yadav Smarak (Loyabad), Sijua Mor, Pandeydih, Tetulmari, Shahid Shaktinath Chowk, Binod, Bihari Chowk, Birsa Munda Park, Memco More, Bus Stand. Inter-district buses heading towards Purulia and Jamshedpur from the Bartand based bus stand will follow the route of Nagina Bazar, Jamadoba Mor, Putki Mor, karkend Mor etc. As per existing arrangement, all the buses after starting journey from Interstate Bus Terminus at Bartand used to follow the route of Bartand to Dhanbad station road where they stop at illegally operated bus stands for picking up passengers for long hours adding to the traffic at the station road. Regarding the plans to regulate around 15 thousand auto rickshaw, Traffic DSP said, “Our effort is to prevent the entry of all auto rickshaw towards the railway station which adds to chaos and for that we have decided to implement break journey like Auto Rickshaw running from Patherdih to Dhanbad will stop at Jharia and return back and from there passengers will reach Dhanbad in other auto rickshaw operating between Jharia and Dhanbad.” “We are also coordinating with government departments responsible for road construction to carry out repair of roads at strategic locations like near the Gaya underpass near Dhanbad Railway station which also adds to the Chaos,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's premiere college introduces foreign language courses||Dhanbad based premiere college Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University in its effort to diversify in new areas of education is gearing up to launch certificate and diploma courses in different foreign languages, including, French, Japanese, Spanish and German. The university launched the Geological Museum and Microscopic laboratory on August 6. To begin with, the college has decided to launch the one year certificate course in Japanese and French in the upcoming session as all necessary preparation including the liaisoning   with the faculty members for conducting classes has already been completed. Gradually the certificate course in other two foreign languages including Spanish and German will also be launched. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, B.K. Sinha, Principal of P.K. Roy Memorial College Dhanbad said, “The aim of launching the foreign language course is to provide the opportunity to the students to secure the high paid jobs in MNS, BPO, KPO, IT and call centres besides in embassies, travel and tourism industry and also in international organizations like, UNESCO, EU etc.” “The decision to launch the foreign language course is part of the our comprehensive plan to diversify in different areas of professional and vocational education besides the traditional areas of academics as per which we have also decided to launch the five year integrated B Ed course, Fashion designing course, BCA, BBA, B Sc Honours in Computer Science etc,” said Sinha. The launching of new courses will add to vibrancy to the college academic scenario that will ultimately help to improve the college ranking during the upcoming visit of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), scheduled next month as the College at present has B grade and is vying for A grade which will ultimately help to increase its funding from institutions like UGC, MHRD etc. Divulging more details, Mantosh Pandey, Head of Department of English of College who is also coordinator of the course said, “While the certificate course will be of one year duration the Diploma and Degree courses will be of two and three years duration respectively.” “Anyone who has secured at least 45% marks in aggregate at Plus two level with English as one of the subjects is eligible for admission in course and total fee for the course is Rs 7200 including Rs 5500 as admission fee, Rs 500 each for College admission fee and University Examination fee and Rs 700 as University registration fee,” said Pandey who is also the Head of the Department of Mass Communication of BBMKU. “We have decided to begin the certificate course with one European i.e French and One Asian language, i e Japanese  both of  which have tremendous job potentials,” said Pandey and added that mission behind launching of the course is to help students become proficient, listeners, speakers, readers and writers in target languages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dengue, malaria cases drop to half amid Covid-19 in Jharkhand||Cases of vector-borne diseases have dropped significantly in Jharkhand since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state in March 2020, officials from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) said on Wednesday, indicating that the aggressive sanitization work done to tackle the SARS-CoV-2 virus coupled with added measures taken to prevent an outbreak of vector-borne diseases during the ongoing crisis might be the reason for the drop in cases of dengue, malaria. As per data compiled by the Jharkhand unit of the NVBDCP, cases of malaria dropped by more than 50 per cent from 2019 to 2020 and hardly 3 per cent from 2020 to 2021, indicating that Jharkhand witnessed the highest drop in malaria cases in the period when Covid protocols were first introduced. Dengue cases also witnessed a significant drop since Covid-induced restrictions were imposed. As per the data, the state reported 37,133 malaria cases in 2019 compared to 16,655 cases in 2020. In 2021, the state reported 6,467 cases of malaria from January to July against 6,692 cases reported from January to July in 2020. As per government data, dengue cases dropped from 825 in 2019 to hardly 79 in 2020. From January to July this year, the state has reported 53 dengue cases. “It is hard to say if the cases of dengue and malaria dropped because of the measures taken to check Covid cases, but one cannot deny that sanitization works do kill insects and viruses that may cause vector-borne diseases,” said an NVBDCP official. Besides, NVBDCP had also intensified measures to check the spread of vector-borne diseases during this period following a heads up from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) that spread of vector-borne diseases may increase the gravity of the Covid-19 situation in the country, officials said. State Malaria Officer Dr Shesh Narayan Jha said that intensified campaigns against vector-borne diseases had a greater role to play in checking dengue and malaria cases than Covid-induced precautionary measures. “I agree that sanitization does kill germs and viruses, but the credit of curtailing dengue and malaria cases should mostly go to the dedicated campaigns run for checking the spread of vector-borne diseases in 2020 as well as in 2021,” said Dr Jha, adding that sanitization works done due to Covid-19 had their limitations. The pandemic, according to Jha, made control of vector-borne disease even more challenging for the teams in Jharkhand as they had to follow Covid protocols and take precautionary measures during the campaign. “The Indoor Residual Spray done to protect households from vector-borne diseases played a key role in checking the cases,” added Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates a record 1.80 lakh residents in a day ||Jharkhand on Tuesday logged its highest- ever single-day anti-Covid vaccination figure by administering doses to over 1.80 lakh residents as almost 1,500 session sites remained operational across the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,39,310 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 41,922 beneficiaries on Tuesday. More than 1.25 lakh beneficiaries were between 18 and 44 years. The state has so far administered the first dose to almost 1.02 crore residents and around 26 lakh of them have also received the second booster dose. Data available on the Co-Win portal reflected that about 25,000 residents were vaccinated in Ranchi alone on Tuesday as more than 80 session sites remained operational on Tuesday. More than 25,000 beneficiaries were inoculated in East Singhbhum, where at least 116 session sites opened their doors, while Dhanbad vaccinated at least 16,000 residents at 81 session sites. As per details shared by NHM, the state had at least 6.85 lakh doses of vaccines in stock before the session sites opened their doors on Tuesday morning. Over 4.47 lakh Covishield doses and 2.38 lakh Covaxin doses were available in stock in the state. While the vaccination numbers in Jharkhand continued to rise, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 130 on Tuesday as the state reported at least 20 Covid recoveries against a dozen fresh cases of coronavirus infection, a separate NHM bulletin said. As per this bulletin, at least 10 recoveries against two fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 72, while the count of active cases dropped to 13 in Dhanbad as the district reported two recoveries against one fresh case of infection. East Singhbhum and 15 other districts in the state did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, NHM data highlighted. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of at least 69,856 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. The state has so far reported over 3.47 lakh Covid cases and 98.48 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
01-09-2021||Jharkhand||Public action against closure of anganwadi centres in Jharkhand||The first public action against closure of anganbari centres — a crucial tool in fight against malnutrition among infant and lactating mother — took place on Tuesday in Jharkhand, which ranks among top Indian states for malnourished children. Nearly 70 villagers from across 116 revenue villages of Khuntpani block in rebel-hit West Singhbhum district, some 170km from capital Ranchi, staged a demonstration against closure of anganbari centres which are run under Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and provide infants, pregnant and lactating women with supplementary nutrition, pre-school non-formal education, health education, immunisation and health check-up. Asarfi Nand Prasad of the Right to Food campaign Jharkhand unit admitted that closure of the ICDS centres had increased malnutrition levels among mothers and infants across Jharkhand. “The centres have been closed due to Covid restrictions for the last 17 months and our recent survey found that even take-home rations are not being distributed properly and more than 50 per cent of beneficiaries had claimed that they had not received rations. The hot cooked meals, immunisation and monthly health check-ups which were crucial components of the anganbari centres for infants and mothers have been severely affected leading to an increase in the malnutrition level of the state. The government should immediately take a call on starting of the centres albeit with Covid protocols,” said Prasad. Jharkhand is among top five Indian states with malnourished — including stunted, wasted and underweight — children according to National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4), 2015-16. “Almost half (45.3%) of Jharkhand’s children below the age of five are stunted, compared to the national average of 38.4%. Again, almost half (47.8%) of Jharkhand’s children are underweight, placing Jharkhand behind only Bihar and Madhya Pradesh in child malnutrition levels as per NFHS-4. The infant mortality rate in Jharkhand is 44 deaths per 1,000 live births and the under-five mortality rate is 54 deaths per 1,000 live births, compared to national averages of 41 and 50, respectively,” added Prasad. Meanwhile, the villagers of Khuntpani submitted a memorandum addressed to the chief minister Hemant Soren, through Khuntpani block development officer, Ravi Jain, demanding immediate opening of anganbari centres. The copies of the memorandum were also sent to state’s social welfare minister Joba Manjhi. “In West Singhbhum district more than 50 per cent of the infant below five years of age are malnourished and in such a situation anganbari centres were the only source of proper food for the children and mother. “However, the centres have been closed for more 17 months depriving children of nutritious foods and also education. The malnutrition among children and mothers has increased. We demand that anganbari centres and primary schools should also be opened at the earliest with Covid protocols like masks, social distance etc,” said Ashok Mundri, a village of Khuntpani and a member of Denga Depenga Group (a youth group raising social causes of Kolhan).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
