02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Lady Tarzan & team to take on timber mafia operating in Dalma sanctuary||Environmentalist and Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu and her team from Van Suraksha Samity (VSS) have shifted their focus to Dalma wildlife sanctuary which is witnessing incidents of tree felling and running of illegal liquor producing units. Jamuna, who heads the VSS, will shortly hold a meeting with members of the eco development committee of Haludbani (in East Singhbhum) to discuss the issues of tree felling and illegal liquor producing units. Women members of VSS (Haludbani) will also attend the meeting. “I have spoken to eco development committee members of Haludbani about felling of trees and illegal liquor producing units inside Dalma sanctuary. It’s a serious issue which will affect the ecological balance of the sanctuary. I have decided to visit Haludbani to hold a meeting with members of eco development committee as well as VSS,” said Jamuna over phone from her village Maturkham in Chakulia block of East Singhbhum. Villagers of Haludbani had recently razed a liquor producing unit within the sanctuary. The villagers had been alerted by a guard of the sanctuary. They also recovered timber which was stored near the unit and was being used as firewood. “We will discuss the incident and also chart out plans to patrol the sanctuary for preventing tree felling. Separate team will patrol the Dalma sanctuary on rotation basis. The logistics will be worked out and a team will be formed during the meeting,” she said. According to the green crusader, there may be more liquor units operating inside the sanctuary. Members of VSS and eco development committee have been asked to keep a vigil. “I also tour the jungles on periodical intervals,” she said, while adding that there were 12 women members in the VSS Haludbani unit. I love Dalma sanctuary from the core of my heart. It is important to protect it from timber and liquor mafia. I would also like to motivate villagers living inside the sanctuary to fight them,” she added. VSS, formed in 1998, has been actively protecting the forests from timber mafia. It also has committees in Dumka, Giridih, Pakur and Godda. Lady Tarzan is known for the ferocity with which she fights the timber mafia. She had launched an awareness campaign against the futility of killing innocent animals in the name of Bishu Shikar, the annual hunting festival of tribals inside Dalma sanctuary as well as forests of Chakulia earlier this year. Thanks to her efforts, incidents of tree felling have come down in Chakulia jungles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi to resume service from September 12||Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express which goes via Tatanagar will resume services from September 12, 2021. South Eastern Railway's Calcutta-based headquarters on Thursday issued a circular announcing the time-table of the most popular train plying between the two destinations, which will run daily as Howrah-Barbil Special. The train (No. 02021), will leave Howrah daily at 6.20 am and reach Barbil at 12.55 pm. On its return journey, the train, 02022 Barbil-Howrah Special will leave Barbil daily at 1.45 pm and arrive at Howrah at 8.55 pm. The Up train will reach Tatanagar at 10 am while the return train will come to Tatanagar railway station at 4.42 pm. The train will have four AC chair cars and 14 non -AC chair car coaches. The train will stop at Kharagpur, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Chaibasa, Dongaposi, Noamundi and Barajamda stations between Howrah and Barbil. The return train will also stop at Santragachi. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Neeraj Kumar said, “Keeping in view the demand of passengers, it has been decided to resume the train service.” The train which serves the states of West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha was withdrawn on May 6 this year due to a drastic fall in seat occupancy. With Covid cases rising during the second wave, people had restricted their travel plans. Another popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, the 02829/02830 Howrah-Tata Steel Express, which was also withdrawn at the same time is yet to resume its service. The South Eastern Railway headquarters on Thursday also notified resumption of several other trains of various destinations including Jhargram-Dhanbad MEMU Special from September 7. The Jhargram-Dhanbad MEMU Special (08019) will leave Jhargram daily at 6 am and will reach Dhanbad at 1.45 pm on the same day. In the return direction, Dhanbad-Jhargram MEMU Special (08020) will depart from Dhanbad at 2.15 pm daily and will arrive Jhargram at 9.15 pm the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||State digest: Passenger train plying between Gomoh and Chopan derails near Gomoh Railway station||Dhanbad: Gomoh Chopan Passenger train plying between Gomoh and Chopan (53343) was derailed near Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Gomoh Railway station of Dhanbad division around 2.15 am today. However, the train movement, remained unaffected due to the incident as the incident took place a little away from the main line. No passenger of the affected train sustained any injury due to derailment as only one bogey of train was affected in the incident, which took place before the onset of the journey, however, 100 sleepers were damaged and the water supply pipeline of platform number 4/5 of the station was ruptured. The incident took place near the office of Chalak Niyantra Kaksha of Gomoh Railway station while the train was being brought from Yard of the station to platform number 4. Senior railway officers led by BC Mandal, Chief Yard Master and others including Rana Chankraborty and S Pal-inspector of works besides Shailendra Kumar, Permanent Way Inspector, rushed to site immediately after getting information about the incident. They supervised the rescue work during which the affected bogey was detached from train, before sending of the train to Chopan. PK Mishra, Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad Division said, “As the incident took place quite away from the railway main line so the movement of other trains remained completely unaffected due to incident.” Praduman Choubey Daltonganj: A 7-month-old make cub of a sloth bear was successfully transported to Ormanjhi- based Bhagwan Birsa Biological park in Ranchi from Gumla district today. DFO Gumla Srikant Verma told TT Online today that the cub was doing fine despite some minor scratches it suffered near one of his eyes. He said, “The cub was found alone at Bharno block’s Asro village, two days ago.” The cub appeared to have got separated from his mother opined Verma. According to him the cub is learning to lead a life without his mother. “Bharno and Sisai are two locations where sloth bears have a presence,” said the DFO Gumla. Renowned wild life campaigner Raza Kazmi said, “The villagers were the first to spot the cub and took all care of it.” He said the cub looked haggard and confused and this could be due to his separation. It has been put on a diet of fruits and milk, which he is relishing. Our Correspondent Dhanbad: Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway will be organizing camps to provide smart medical cards (UMID Card) to retired employees and family of pensioners, who have not registered for the same. These camps will be hosted at different railway stations which falls under its jurisdiction, beginning with camps at Dhanbad and Chandrapura Railway stations tomorrow. The series of camps are being organized by the personnel department with the aim of covering up the registration as well as uploading of documents of leftover retired railway employees’/family pensioners who have yet not registered/uploaded their documents for the Unique Medical Identification (UMID) card will conclude with the Hazaribagh Railway station camp, which will be organised on September 16. The employees or family pensioners are needed to bring required documents during the camp including photograph of pensioners and all the dependents, pension payment order (revised under 7th pay commission), death certificate of pensioner (in case of family pension), old medical card or Retired Employees Liberalized Health Scheme (RELHS) card, Aadhar Card of all eligible family members, latest pension slip (issued by concerned bank where pension is drawn) and Mobile number for OTP. While the camp of September 3 at Dhanbad Railway station will be held at Suvidha Kendra, camp at Chandrapura Railway station will be organized on the same day at Station Superintendent’s office of Chandrapura. The UMID registration camp at Gomoh is scheduled to be held at the Traction Rolling Stock shed of Gomoh Railway Station on September 6, while the camp at Barkakana will be held at the office of Station Superintendent (SS) of Barkakana on September 7. In Patratu the smart medical card camp will be held at the office of the Chief Yard Master on September 8 while the camp at Parasnath Railway Station will be held at the office of station master on Parasnath on September 9. The camp at Tankupa station situated in Icchoi area of Bihar will be held in the office it’s station master on September 10. The UMID registration camp for the remaining railway employees and family pensioners will be held at the officer of Station Superintendent of Daltonganj station on September 13 while the camp at Koderma Railway station will be held at its station superintendent office of Koderma on September 14. The camp at Barwadih Railway station will be held at its station superintendent’s on September 15 while the concluding day camp at Hazaribagh railway station will be held at its station superintendent office on September 16. PK Mishra, Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway said, “The concerned welfare inspectors of the area, besides a personal officer and another officer will be present at each of camp during which all issues pertaining to the registration for UMID Card will be resolved on spot.” Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s ISBT devoid of all passenger amenities, say bus operators||Dhanbad district administration’s move to ban the illegal bus stand near Dhanbad Railway station, has highlighted the messy state of affairs of Bartand Interstate Bus Terminus (ISBT). The sudden closure of the illegal bus stand now makes it mandatory for around 250 inter district and interstate buses to be parked at ISBT Bartand from tomorrow as per the new traffic rule, which will be implemented from tomorrow. Located about 800 kilometres away from the railway station, ISBT has over 18 acres of land near Bartand employment exchange, Dhanbad. But despite having a huge expanse of land, it is devoid of several key infrastructure facilities and passenger amenities like lack of seating arrangement and sheds for passengers, non-availability of drinking water facility, acute shortage of toilets and urinals, poor state and poor sanitation. This apart, lack of adequate space to accommodate around 250 inter-district and inter-state buses, narrow entrance and exit passage are turning out to be a major concern for the bus operators. The district administration as per its plan to regulate traffic in a better manner has declared closure of the bus stand operating from railway station road to avoid traffic snarls. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sanjay Singh, Vice President of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, “We are bound to abide by the new traffic rules but at the same time we would like to draw the attention of the concerned authorities regarding acute shortage of facilities at Bartand ISBT, like lack of seating arrangement and sheds for passengers.” He added, “If a new passenger comes at ISBT half an hour ahead of the scheduled departure he has no option other than to wait in one or the other shop. Also, the depot has only four toilets and two urinals and is ill equipped to handle a footfall of 5000 visitors.” “Due to lack of toilets and urinals many passengers relieve themselves in the open space, which leads to a nauseating stench,” said another bus owner, Sunil Singh. “Due to lack of availability of safe drinking water, the passengers visiting at the depot have no option other than to purchase the packaged water or queue up at the lone hand pump, which is often used by eateries to wash their wares,” said Singh. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, when contacted about the developmental work of ISBT, Anup Samanta, Executive Engineer, DMC, said “I am not aware about any new development concerning ISBT Bartand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee to set up smart parking lot at Sakchi||The shoppers visiting Sakchi market can heave a sigh of relief as a smart parking lot will be set up soon to take care of their car parking problem. The decision to have the parking lot in place was taken by Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) on Thursday. The proposed smart parking lot will be developed at the existing parking lot situated along Kalimati Road near Basant cinema. Revealing the details, JNAC city manager, Sandeep Kumar Singh said, “The smart parking lot will be a multi-layer parking facility, which will have charging points for electric vehicles.” “To make the multi-layer parking lot functional, car-lifts will be installed to ensure swift parking of the four-wheelers,” added Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also pointed out there will be adequate parking space for four-wheelers and two-wheelers in the proposed area. The JNAC city manager also mentioned about having taken a decision for bringing about a smart parking lot near the Basant Cinema, but details like the number of parking floors and capacity are yet to be worked out. “We will assign a consultant firm to make a detailed project report (DPR) for the proposed smart parking lot shortly. The details regarding the number of parking floors and vehicles-parking capacity beside other nitty gritty could be known only after the DPR is prepared,” he added. Parking while shopping has become a big issue near Sakchi market. During the festive seasons parking problems get aggravated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand mulls scrapping RTPCR tests for vaccinated, asymptomatic travellers||The state health department is thinking of considering scrapping mandatory RTPCR tests for fully-vaccinated interstate air travellers and asymptomatic passengers given that Covid cases are on the decline in Jharkhand. a letter from the health department stated. In a letter to the Disaster Management Division, additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh has cited an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory that recommends mandatory RTPCR tests for healthy individuals undertaking interstate travel be completely removed to reduce the load on Covid-19 laboratories. “To ease the pressure of testing at Ranchi Airport, it is proposed to take a decision that those who have been vaccinated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and 15 days have lapsed since the administration of the second dose of the vaccine and are in possession of the final vaccination certificate issued through the Co-Win portal be exempted from any additional tests for Covid-19 on their entry into the state,” the letter read. Besides, passengers who have either been partially vaccinated or not vaccinated at all may undergo Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) at the airport if they fail thermal scanning even if they do not suffer from any visible symptoms of the viral infection, the letter further stated. However, as per the letter, it is proposed that those passengers who have existing symptoms of the disease and also fail thermal scanning shall mandatorily undergo RTPCR test upon their arrival at Ranchi airport. At present, it is compulsory for interstate passengers to carry a negative report of an RTPCR test conducted not more than 72 hours prior to the time of departure from other states to Ranchi. Airport officials on Thursday said that passengers failing to produce a negative RTPCR test were made to undergo Covid tests upon their arrival at Ranchi airport. “Fully-vaccinated passengers with no symptoms of Covid-19 need not produce negative RTPCR test reports upon their arrival in Ranchi. But unvaccinated and partially-vaccinated passengers have to carry a negative RTPCR test report or undergo tests here after landing,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. The letter from the additional chief secretary (health), written in the wake of a communique from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, mentioned that the matter of changing the current mandates for air travellers needed “expeditious consideration.” However, a highly-placed official from the Department of Home, Jail and Disaster Management said that the department was yet to issue any official notification regarding any changes on the protocol for interstate travellers. “A decision will be taken after thoroughly studying the current situation and the risks involved in providing any relaxation,” he said, requesting not to be named. Covid cases in Jharkhand have dropped significantly in the past one month or so. As per government data, there were hardly 137 active cases of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday morning and the positivity rate in the state has been lower than 0.1 per cent throughout the month of August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||3 policemen suspended for beating army man in Chatra for not wearing a mask ||The merciless beating of an army man in Mayurhund block of Chatra for not wearing a mask made superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan act within few hours of the incident and suspending three policemen and other two were line closed. The incident took place on Wednesday afternoon in Karma Bazar area with Pawan Kumar Yadav, a general duty soldier at army's camp in Jodhpur. Ranjan took action on Wednesday midnight after getting a report in this regard from DSP(headquarter) Kedar Ram. To probe the matter, Ram reached the Karma Bazar and talked to local people and eyewitnesses. Ram also pacified villagers who had blocked the road soon after the incident. Later Ram handed over his report to Ranjan on Wednesday night which questioned the conduct of five policemen. Ranjan said three policemen were suspended with immediate effect and other two were line closed. He The Telegraph Online, "On the basis of report from DSP(headquarter), three policemen(1 Head Constable and 2 constables)  have been suspended. Two sahayak constables have been line closed." Pawan said as he reached Karma on his bike, when police jawan Sanjay Bahadur Ram stopped him and took away the keys of his vehicle. “I told them my identity but policemen there kept repeating as why I was not wearing the mask. When I showed them my helmet with face covered with visor, they started misbehaving with me followed by beating with lathis as well as punches and kicks too,” added he. Mayurhund block development officer Saket Sinha who was present on the spot and leading the mask checking drive was not held responsible for this incident. But local residents demanded action against him as he remained a mute spectator during the incident. To justify his action, Sinha issued a statement that Pawan started quarrelling first with one of the policemen which led to this incident. But DSP’s report punched a hole into this theory of Sinha. Pawan is a resident of Arabhusai village of Katkamsandi block in Hazaribagh district. Local residents, political leaders and representatives of army association has decided to meet senior officers to demand stern action against erring policemen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates record 2.05 lakh residents in a day ||Jharkhand on Wednesday achieved the highest ever single-day vaccination numbers since the launch of the immunisation drive in January with the daily figure crossing the 2-lakh-mark for the first time in the state, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,56,672 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 48,820 beneficiaries. In all, the state administered vaccines to 2,05,492 residents, the highest ever in a day. More than 1.50 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. NHM data reflected that at least 1956 session sites remained operational across Jharkhand on Wednesday. As many as 88 session sites opened their doors in Ranchi and 17,482 residents were vaccinated here. On the other hand, 26,491 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum, where 116 session sites were operational. At least 14,960 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Dhanbad on the day as 84 session sites remained operational there. As per figures shared by the health department on Wednesday evening, the state had 9,79,910 vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on the day. As per this data, at least 7.42 lakh Covishield doses and 2.36 lakh Covaxin doses were available in stock. The state has so far administered the first dose of vaccine to over 1 crore residents and at least 26 lakh of them have also received their second jab. Meanwhile, the state reported a marginal rise in the active caseload of Covid-19 as at least 27 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Wednesday while only 20 Covid patients recovered, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. The count of active cases jumped to 82 in Ranchi as the district reported at least 15 Covid cases against five recoveries. The active caseload also rose to eight in East Singhbhum as at least eight people were found infected by coronavirus there and only two patients recovered from the infection on the day. Dhanbad, Chatra and Bokaro reported two cases each, while none of the remaining 19 districts reported fresh Covid cases on Wednesday, as per the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Ranchi Municipal Corporation push for bio-gas plant construction||The Ranchi Municipal Corporation has decided to take up regular monitoring of the under-construction compressed bio-gas plant coming up in the Jharkhand capital to ensure the project is completed on time and dumping of waste at Jhiri is stopped. The trigger for the decision seems to be a video which was widely shared on social media a few days ago showing a model walking in a red dress at the garbage dump yard at Jhiri, around 15km from Ranchi. Surbhi, who said she was 2019 Miss Jharkhand, claimed that the video was intended to highlight the harmful effects of unsafe garbage dumping before the civic authorities and state government. A meeting was convened by RMC deputy municipal commissioner Sheetal Kumari on Wednesday to review the status of the waste processing project at Jhiri. “We had signed a concession agreement in March this year with GAIL (India), an integrated energy PSU in the hydrocarbon sector, for setting up a compressed bio-gas (CBG) plant in Ranchi to process the organic municipal solid waste and recycle it into compressed biogas and fermented bio-manure on a daily basis. The work began last month and we have decided to regularly monitor its progress so that the project is completed in time and waste dumping at Jhiri is stopped,” said Kumari. According to the agreement between GAIL (India) and the corporation, the plant would process 300 tonnes of organic municipal solid waste daily and will produce five tonnes of compressed biogas and approximately 25 tonnes of fermented bio-manure daily. “In the first phase, we would set up a plant with a capacity of processing 150 tonnes per day which would be completed by November-December 2022. The cost of setting up the plant would be approximately Rs 28.19 crore which would be borne by GAIL (India). We will also be setting up another plant. The RMC has given us eight acres of land near Jhiri on the outskirts of Ranchi to set up the plants. The RMC will be saving in 20 years around Rs 81 crore expenses incurred at present for waste disposal. It would also claim 100 per cent carbon credit in terms of waste disposal after the plants start functioning,” said a GAIL (India) officer on the condition of anonymity. GAIL (India) executive director (project), K.B. Singh, said that there were issues regarding construction of access roads to the plant at Jhiri which has been resolved. “The issues of the access roads to the under-construction CBG plant at Jhiri has been resolved and construction work began in August. The project is being monitored and would be completed before December 2022 after which the issue of waste dumping at Jhiri would come to an end,” said Singh. The maker of the video, Ranchi-based photographer Pranjal Kumar, claimed that the shoot was done in July for an international photography competition and uploaded on social media in the first week of August. “We know garbage dumping is an issue across all major cities of the country, not only in Ranchi. Our aim was to highlight the issue so that the government finds a solution,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||All India Football Federation to form a pact with Jharkhand govt ||The All India Football Federation will soon ink a formal agreement with the Jharkhand government to aid in the skill enhancement of players in the state, an AIFF official said on Wednesday. Former international footballer Abhishek Yadav, who is the deputy general secretary of AIFF, announced that talks with the government are in the final phase. Yadav was in Jamshedpur to oversee the conduct of the senior women’s national camp for the AFC Women’s Asia Cup scheduled to be held in India early next year. “We are happy at the proactive support shown by chief minister Hemant Soren in hosting the women’s national camp in Jharkhand during the Covid pandemic. He has sought the federation’s help in improving football standards in Jharkhand and soon a formal agreement would be inked with the government in this regard,” said Yadav, who is said to be the first international player to be appointed to a high post in the AIFF. Yadav, who had also been the national football director, further said: “The MoU with the state government would touch the verticals of providing AIFF expertise in domestic leagues, improving standards of domestic players and also the conduct national and international matches in Jharkhand, apart from hosting national camps.” Sumati Kumari, a 17-year-old forward, who hails from the extremism-affected and backward Bharno block of Gumla district, is among the 30 probables taking part in the national camp. The AFC Women’s Asia Cup is scheduled to be held from January 20 to February 6, 2022. Sumati is also part of the Indian squad for the Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup also scheduled to be held in India in October 2022. Jharkhand sports director Zeeshan Qamar outlined the objective behind hosting the six-month-long national camp in Jamshedpur. “We aim to improve standards of domestic women footballers through the camp. There will be practice matches between the national football teams and local players. It would be an ideal opportunity for Jharkhand players to learn the nuances of international standards from some of the best women’s players of the country. We would also aspire to host some of the international matches next year as we have a good sports infrastructure at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur,” said Qamar. Jharkhand sports minister Hafizul Hassan who was also in the city to encourage the women’s team said that the state government would soon launch its new sports policy. “The sports policy would be released soon in which we aim to provide jobs to 50 meritorious players every year and create sports infrastructure in each of the blocks (264) in Jharkhand to tap the talent at the grassroots level and hone their skills at the state-level training centres,” Hassan said. The national camp which began on August 17 at Jamshedpur is being supervised by Swedish coach Thomas Dennerby. Dennerby, who has over three decades of experience, previously guided the Swedish national team to a third-place finish in the 2011 Fifa Women’s World Cup, and to a quarter-final spot in the 2012 London Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
02-09-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key Durga Puja in Jharkhand this year too||The Jharkhand government was yet to issue guidelines for Durga Puja till Tuesday but puja organisers were getting prepared for organising a low-key puja this year too. “We already met last Sunday and took certain decisions,” informed Kundan Singh, general secretary of Ranchi Zilla Durga Puja Committee, adding they decided to organise Durga Puja this year “keeping the Covid situation in mind”. The puja is approaching fast and the state government is expected to issue the guidelines any day but orders have to be placed with idol-makers well in advance, he said, adding organisers have been advised not to go for too tall idols. “We have asked our member organisations not to erect any welcome gates or hold any mela or carnival near puja pandals,” Singh further said, adding all member organisations were expected to be careful while maintaining the tradition. “We have already approached the state government for allowing more relaxation this time,” he said, reminding that the last year’s guidelines had certain tough instructions. The guidelines issued by the Jharkhand government last year had evoked mixed response. While the organisers were happy that the pujas were allowed, they were also disheartened that some restrictions were too harsh. While issuing the guidelines last year, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh had informed that the state government “considered it was important to strike a balance between conducting rituals traditionally related to the Pujas and ensuring that there were no congregations which could lead to spread of Covid-19 infection”. The government had allowed the organisers to erect small pandals last year but asked to restrict entry to seven persons only, including priests and not to distribute bhog or prasad or organise any mela or cultural programme. Though the government had asked to limit the height of idols to four feet only, some resented it, saying it would be difficult as the goddess is seen astride on a lion and there is also a frame to be fitted to the idol. “We are still waiting for government guidelines and will decide in a meeting next Sunday,” informed Partha Sarathi Sengupta of Hirapur Hari Mandir Sharadiya Sammelini of Dhanbad when asked about their plan. “We are also waiting for government guidelines but have already started making idols with six to eight feet height,” informed Ram Chandra Pal who has a workshop at Tharpakna in Ranchi, adding they were also making four 12-foot-idols, expecting buyers would choose those following relaxation. “We will strictly follow the government instructions if Covid situation deteriorates,” Singh assured when reminded about the possibility of a third wave of coronavirus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
