03-09-2021||Jharkhand||On Day One of Dhanbad no-entry rule, traffic crawls for hours||Dhanbad's experiment with banning passenger buses and heavy vehicles from city limits to ensure snarl-free roads got off to a rocky start on Friday with several areas reporting traffic jams for reasons of flooding and poor road conditions. Traffic crawled, and at times was static for an hour, at Rangatand Chowk  due to water logging of the underpass beneath the railway over bridge called Gaya bridge. Residents claimed more than a thousand vehicles were caught in the traffic jam for more than two hours despite the best efforts of a large number of policemen who had been deployed through the day. A motorcyclist said, "Nothing is going to change with regard to the traffic situation in Dhanbad unless the narrow underpass beneath the the railway over bridge is broadened and comprehensive repairs of the existing stretch is carried out.” Bus owners,  who held a meeting at Rangatand, claimed that even though  buses did not ply in the town during  day time, there were snarls. They pinned the blame on auto rickshaws that occupied the space vacated by  the closure of the  station road  bus stand. Bus owners said they would request Dhanbad deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar to reconsider the decision to close the station road bus stand as livelihoods of hundreds of people working there as booking clerks and managers were at stake. Small traders and retailers also questioned the logic behind a new rule with regard to loading and unloading of goods in shops only during the night from 11pm to 8 am. They said the new rule violated  existing covid norms as per which all shops are to be closed after 8pm. Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, said “Although we have no problem with the ban on  buses and heavy vehicles, meant to ease traffic congestion, we oppose the loading and unloading rules. "As the loading and unloading time for goods by small vehicles has been fixed from 11 pm to 8 am it will cause shortage of even essential goods as no trader will be able to open his shop for loading of goods during night." Residents of Jharia, however, welcomed the move to ban buses to ease traffic congestion. A delegation of  residents  met Kumar Tarachand,  ADM (law and Order),  to thank the district  administration for the new traffic rules that led to no entry of coal-laden tipper trucks that cause pollution in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur using drones to map city ||Jamshedpur civic authorities have launched a project to map the steel city with the help of drones, an initiative they hope will help in urban planning in future. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), which looks after the upkeep of steel city alongwith Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (formerly Jusco), is pursuing the  project. Drone Mapping Control (DMC) System, explained officials,  is the process of surveying an area of land with an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). An operator flies the drone over an area of land, taking hundreds of pictures as it moves. Then, with the help of  drone mapping software, it helps in creating a model of the site with larger and more accurate composite images. Senior JNAC official Sandeep Kumar,  who is overseeing the project,  explained the many benefits of such an initiative. "It will help in planning the city for the future. Drone mapping will ensure proper and systematic development of various infrastructure facilities, apart from controlling the menace of encroachment and illegal buildings . It will also help in proper planning of other civic amenities, traffic and transportation systems," he said. Kumar said a highly detailed aerial map allows for insight into the property and civic  details without requiring a client to be there in person. "Such an initiative is a first for  the state of Jharkhand, " he added. Deputy commissioner  of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar is keen on the project and has been giving necessary inputs for the success of the new initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand Assembly: Day One of 5-day monsoon session over in half hour||On the first day of the week-long monsoon session on Friday, Jharkhand Assembly proceedings were held for barely half an hour during which customary condolence messages were read amid an uproar by the Opposition protesting against the Speaker for not recognising Babulal Marandi as leader of the BJP legislature party. The House was adjourned till Monday. Soon after the House commenced at 11am, MLAs condoled the death of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, Olympian Milkha Singh, legendary actor Dilip Kumar, among others. Thereafter, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto asked BJP chief whip Biranchi Narayan to read  out the condolence messages to which BJP MLA (Hazaribagh) Manish Jaiswal objected, stating that he shouldn’t do so when the party’s legislature  party leader, Babulal Marandi, was present. Later, BJP MLAs joined in protests against the delay in Marandi’s appointment as Opposition leader in the House. Amid the protest, the names of members of the House business advisory committee were declared. A list of presiding officers to run the House in the absence of the Speaker was also prepared. Chief minister Hemant Soren, after walking out of the Assembly, did not comment on the BJP’s protests, but said that the Opposition should ensure the House was run in a meaningful manner. The monsoon session will have five working days and will end on September 9 during which the state government is expected to introduce a Bill to mandate appointment of 75 per cent locals in the private sector. On September 6, the state is scheduled to table its first supplementary budget for the 2021-22 fiscal and is also likely to host a special session to debate and discuss caste- based census, which several Opposition parties across the country are demanding  ahead of this year’s nationwide census. Congress, which is part of the ruling coalition comprising JMM and RJD, has on the other hand  announced to pursue 27 per cent reservation to OBCs  in the state. The party's Jharkhand minder R. P. N. Singh said, “We will try to move a resolution for 27 per cent reservation to OBCs in the state government jobs. This was part of our election manifesto in the 2019 Assembly polls. We are also in touch with our coalition partners and are hopeful that all ruling and Opposition parties will be on board.” Singh, who arrived in the state on Wednesday for a two-day visit, also said that creation of jobs and streamlining a local employment policy were their priority areas. “We discussed it with the chief minister during a UPA meeting at his residence on Thursday night. The  CM has assured us that the state government will soon come out with a list of vacancies later this year. Also, a few Congress MLAs and workers have some reservations against the new employment policy which was passed by the cabinet recently. We will discuss these with our alliance partners,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||AIIMS-Deoghar OPD facilities doubled to 400 patients a day||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Deoghar decided to double the number of OPD patients it would attend to everyday in the wake of huge demand and also rolled out online registration facilities from Friday to enable people to schedule consultations. AIIMS- Deoghar director Saurabh Varshney said, "Earlier, we were only catering to 200 people at the OPD per day. But, people from far off places used to stand in queue since morning to register on a first-come first-serve basis. Many had to return disappointed. Hence, in order to cater to more people, we have decided to double visiting patients from today Friday.” Varshney told reporters that AIIMS-Deoghar had also operationalised an online appointment system through which 100 people could book appointment slots. “The online registration window is made available at our website www.aiimsdeoghar.edu.in. We have included a tab of online registration on the home page of our official website which has all the details,” he said. For better management of patients, the director said that among the 400 to be attended to at the OPD, 100 would be follow-up patients. “Of the 300, only 100 online slot bookings will be done per day and the rest will be through counter registration. It is because everyone may not have access to devices to book online services. Those booking online appointments will be attended to only between 8.30am and 9.30 am,” he said. Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated the OPD facilities at the new Ayush building at Deoghar-AIIMS on August 24. He also launched a night shelter facility. OPD services are available everyday except Sundays. One has to pay Rs 30 for registration. About 50 doctors are on duty across various departments to run the OPDs. Deoghar-AIIMS was approved by the Union government in its 2017-18 budget. The state government earmarked around 236.92 acre of land in Deoghar’s Devipur area for the project, and in May 2018, the Union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore. It began inducting MBBS students since 2019, admitting 50 students in the first batch. The number of students was increased to 62 last year. This year’s admissions are still to get over. The civil work of the hospital and academic buildings is in progress at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tit-for-tat jolts in Centre-Ranchi row over outstanding power dues||The ongoing tussle over outstanding power dues between the BJP-led Union government and the UPA-led Jharkhand dispensation has sucked public sector units into the controversy. The Union power ministry deducted Rs 714 crore from Jharkhand’s RBI account last week and issued a notice to the state energy department that Rs 2,100 crore will be deducted in two instalments, one in September and the other in December, in order to clear the dues owed by the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). In a quick response, the JBVNL (power distribution arm of Jharkhand government) snapped power supply to the Ranchi-based Heavy Engineering Corporation (a PSU not in the best of financial position) on Tuesday over outstanding electricity bills of Rs 129 crore bringing to a halt its foundry, forge and heavy machine-building plants. Power was restored only on Wednesday after the HEC promised a down payment of Rs 1 crore with an assurance that it would clear the remaining dues (Rs 128 crore) in suitable instalments. Principal secretary energy, Avinash Kumar, told The Telegraph on Thursday that JBVNL officials have sent notices to all PSUs under its power supply area to clear their outstanding dues. “Local JBVNL officials wrote letters on Wednesday to all PSUs in their respective power supply areas to clear their outstanding dues at the earliest,” said Kumar. He further said that chief secretary Sukhdev Singh has also written a letter to the Union energy secretary in this connection. “The chief secretary has written to the Union energy secretary to ensure that all PSUs operating in Jharkhand clear their outstanding electricity dues at the earliest,” said Kumar. The veiled threat by the Jharkhand government assumes significance with PSUs in the state owing over Rs 1,400 crore in power dues. “We had no option but to act tough with the PSUs with the central government adopting a step-motherly attitude towards us. There are several BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka which owe hundreds of crores to the central power companies. But they have not been touched. The money was deducted from our account even after the state government informed the Centre about the cabinet’s decision to exit the tripartite agreement between the Union power ministry, Jharkhand and the DVC. The deductions were made though Jharkhand is paying Rs 125 crore each month to the DVC to settle its outstanding dues leaving us in a very bad financial position during the Covid pandemic,” said Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon. So far, the Centre has auto-debited approximately Rs 2,100 crore from Jharkhand’s RBI account to settle DVC’s dues of Rs 5,608 crore between 2015 and 2017. “The dues were of the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government but we are having to pay the price,” said Oraon, a senior Congress leader. According to sources in the state energy department, various central government offices like railways, BSNL, department of posts and telegraph, Central Paramilitary Forces, National Highways Authority of India, Airports Authority of India, SBI, coal companies, All India Radio, Doordarshan, etc, owe around Rs 1,379.38 crore in outstanding dues. Over Rs 400 crore is owed by PSUs like Uranium Corporation of India Limited, Garrison Engineer, Sports Authority of India (SAI) and SAIL units. This apart, the JBVNL owes more than Rs 2,733 crore to private companies. In the tripartite agreement signed between the power ministry, Jharkhand government and RBI in 2017, a condition was laid down that in the case of non-payment of dues, the balance amount would be deducted from the state’s account. After the first instalment was deducted, the Jharkhand government informed the Centre about the state cabinet’s decision to exit from the tripartite agreement in January this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
03-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata foundation initiative prize in maternal and newborn health||The Tata Steel Foundation, a subsidiary of Tata Steel with presence in Jharkhand and Odisha, has bagged the BRICS Solutions for SDGs Awards 2021 for its initiative on maternal and newborn health. The foundation bagged the award in the SDG-3 (good health and well-being) category for its project called MANSI (Maternal and Newborn Survival Initiative). The BRICS (stands for Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) Solutions for Sustainable Development Goals Awards, which is organised by the BRICS business council and Ficci, recognises initiatives aimed at achieving SDGs especially through innovative solutions across the BRICS countries. The winners were selected on the basis of evaluation criteria of compliance, efficiency, uniqueness, coverage, replicability and quality of description. The awards are given in the categories of SDG-2 (zero hunger), SDG-3 (good health and well-being), SDG-4 (quality education), SDG-5 (gender equality), SDG-6 (clean water and sanitation, SDG-7 (affordable and clean energy) and SDG-9 (innovative in industry and infrastructure). Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services), Chanakya Chaudhary, said: “We are honoured to receive this prestigious award. This award is dedicated to all the sahiyas (rural health workers) who have saved the lives of countless newborns and build a culture where the well-being of women and children is a priority, even during a pandemic. It is also a reaffirmation of the commitment of each member of our team towards better societal outcomes and motivates us to reach out to many more through the Tata Steel Foundation.” The MANSI initiative engages in enhancing the capacity of the village-based healthcare system (embedded in villages through government health volunteers called accredited social health activists or sahiyas in Jharkhand) by training them on parameters which would address the root causes and underlying reasons for neonatal and infant mortality. The initiative covers around 2.2 lakh households across Seraikela-Kharsawan (eight blocks) and West Singhbhum (two blocks) districts in Jharkhand and Keonjhar (two blocks) district in Odisha. To reduce the response time to address high-risk cases, MANSI introduced a technical innovation called Operation Sunshine in June 2018. This digital tracking system enables seamless monitoring of high-risk cases of mothers and newborns on a real-time basis. This digital solution and innovation has facilitated the continuation of sustainable development agenda even in the backdrop of the pandemic. MANSI is implemented by the foundation in a public-private partnership model with American India Foundation (AIF) and National Health Mission. The programme is designed to leverage government schemes, building the capacity of existing public health system and strengthening of its processes to enable a sustainable setup. Further, the continuous support from the programme partners, the gravity of the development challenges being addressed and involvement of the sahiyas have made this programme a successful model capable of being replicated and scaled up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
