04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel Express to resume operations from Tuesday after four months||Steel Superfast Express, the most popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, will resume operation from Tuesday, September 7 after four months. The office of South Eastern Railway's chief passenger transportation manager in Calcutta notified the resumption of the train service on Saturday. “The decision for resuming the train service was taken keeping in view of the demand of passengers and declining cases of Covid -19. The train will run daily as per its schedule time. No alterations have been made in stoppages and composition of the train,” a railway spokesman told The Telegraph Online over phone from Garden Reach, Calcutta. The superfast express, which will run as a special train, will depart from Tatanagar at 6.10 am and reach Howrah at 10.20 am, covering a distance of 250 Km. On its return to Jamshedpur, the train will leave Howrah at 5.25 pm and reach Tatanagar at 9.20 pm. The train with 22 coaches will have stoppages at  Rakhamines, Ghatshila, Chakulia, Jhargram, Kharagpur and Santragachi. Rising cases of Covid-19 coupled with poor seat occupancy had prompted South Eastern Railway to withdraw the train in the first week of May this year. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association welcomed the decision to resume services. " Passengers from Tatanagar desperately needed the resumption of train. Requests were pouring in from patients in need of advanced medical treatment in Calcutta-based hospitals, " said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association. The senior functionary of the outfit, which works for welfare of passengers, had also recently sent a tweet to Union railway ministry, the Railway Board and South Eastern Railway, for resuming the train service. SER collects Rs 3.45 crore in fines During an intensive ticket checking drive South Eastern Railway collected penalty of Rs 3.45 crore during the month of August under its jurisdiction including two railway divisions in Jharkhand - Ranchi and Chakradharpur. Statistics available from SER headquarters revealed that during the intensive drive carried out throughout the month at Tatanagar, Ranchi and other railway stations, a total number of 66,476 cases were detected travelling without ticket or with improper ticket and unbooked luggage and an amount of Rs 3,44,65,779 was realized as penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Judge murder accused sent to Dhanbad jail||The two accused of allegedly murdering Dhanbad additional district and session judge Uttam Anand by ramming an autorickshaw into him on July 28 were sent to Dhanbad divisional jail on Saturday after being produced in court by CBI. The CBI brought the duo, auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma, from Ahmedabad to Ranchi on Friday evening by air. After that they were brought to Dhanbad on Saturday morning by road. In Dhanbad, the duo, along with a CBI team, were first taken to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) where their medical tests were conducted. Then they were taken to Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad where their Covid test was conducted, following which they were produced in court which sent them to jail. Jharkhand High Court had on August 27 directed CBI to provide proper security to the accused and also arrange for their air travel. The CBI special team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vijay Kumar Shukla, which took up the case on August 5, a day after registering the FIR, first took the duo on remand of five days on August 6. CBI then extended the remand to 10 more days on August 11. The CBI obtained court permission for further extension of remand till September 3 to carry out brain mapping and Narco test of the accused. The CBI team, accompanied by a 10-member team of Dhanbad police led by Inspector Surendra Singh, took them to Delhi for brain mapping test as well as Narco test. The brain mapping test of the two accused was conducted in New Delhi on August 20. But the Narco test had to be conducted in Ahmedabad after which they were brought back to Dhanbad on Saturday. Judge Uttam Anand was killed on July 28 near Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad during a morning walk around 5.08 am when he was hit by an auto rickshaw. It was being driven by Lakhan Verma while Rahul Verma was present in the vehicle. The case hit the national headlines when CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media within a couple of hours of the incident. Dhanbad police which carried out the initial probe arrested Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma on July 29. The police also managed to recover the autorickshaw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Their husbands were lynched, now they want Hemant to enact law against mob violence ||Two young widows of victims of lynching began an indefinite sit-in near Raj Bhavan here on Saturday to press for a strong legislation against such crimes, accusing the state government of being apathetic to their needs of compensation and rehabilitation despite several representations over the last year. Sahista Perveen (21), widow of 2019 Seraikela lynch victim Tabrez Ansari, and Tabassum Perveen (35), wife of Mubarak Khan, who was killed by a mob in Ranchi earlier this year, began their dharna under the banner of Mob Lynch Vidhwa Sangharsh Samiti which is being supported by a few Muslim social outfits, namely Indian Union Muslim League and Muslim Youth League. From Sunday, more widows are expected to join them, the two women said. Sahista said that her protest was to ensure the government woke up from its slumber.  “My husband was brutally killed by a mob calling him a thief. He won’t come back anymore. But I am still to get justice,” she said, adding that several political parties, including those now in power, promised help but that nothing had been done so far. She also claimed she had met chief minister Hemant Soren several times. Tabassum, who has a 2-year- old son, lives with her parents in Seraikela. “Somehow I am surviving. But I am staring at an uncertain future. I wasn’t given any compensation despite promises. I want the government to provide me a job, take care of my child's education. But most important, we need a strong law to curb such incidents,” she said. On 17 June, 2019, Sahista’s husband Tabrez Ansari (22), who was returning with two of his friends on a bike, was attacked by mob on the suspicion of having stolen a vehicle at Dhatkidih village in Kadamdih in Seraikela-Kharsawan. While his friends escaped, he was caught, tied to a tree, mercilessly beaten and forced to chant Jai Shri Ram. The matter came to light after a video went viral two days later leading to a nationwide uproar. He died in  hospital four days later. As many as 13 people were named accused in the case and arrested. But, subsequently a majority of them got bail after police converted the charges against them in September 2019 to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. On the night of March 14 this year, Mubarak Khan was killed on the outskirts of Sirka village in Angara block of Ranchi by a mob that accused him of stealing tyres of bikes. As many as 17 people were arrested. More than a dozen incidents of mob lynching/attacks occurred in Jharkhand during the tenure of the BJP government of Raghubar Das between 2014 and 19. After the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government of Hemant Soren came to power in December 2019, two incidents of lynching have been reported in Jharkhand. Md Sajid Alam, state president of Indian Union Muslim League, said that they would support the widows and help them sustain their protest till their demands were met. “One of the major poll planks of the state governmwent was to enact a law against lynching. There have been four Assembly sessions since the new government was sworn in. But there is no law against lynching yet. We want the state government to commit to such a law during the ongoing monsoon session,” he said. State rural development minister Alamgir Alam had said last week that his party (the Congress) was in favour of legislation to curb lynching and would coordinate with the state government to come up with one. JMM, which is also part of the government, has spoken in its favour too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Congress pledge 27% reservation to OBCs in Jharkhand govt jobs ||Former Union Minister and Congress in-charge for Jharkhand, R.P.N Singh, on Friday said the party is committed to providing 27 per cent reservation to Other Backward Classes in government jobs in the state. Singh told the media at the Congress headquarters in Ranchi that a meeting has been held with all other political parties of the state, including the JMM, BJP and Ajsu, to extend support to the issue. Singh, however, pointed out that there were no flaws in the recruitment policy unveiled by the state government. “There is a misconception about the recruitment policy among some of our party MLAs. The issue will be taken up with chief minister Hemant Soren by our Congress legislative party leader Alamgir Alam and state unit president Rajesh Thakur. The recruitment policy aims at providing maximum job opportunities to the locals,” said Singh. On the unemployment issue, Singh said that the Congress has been working continuously to raise the voice of the unemployed people in the state and across the country. “The country is going through a very bad phase at this time but the (Narendra) Modi government at the Centre is unaware of the current situation. All sections of people in the country are suffering due to inflation but the central government has been oblivious to the issue so far,” said Singh. On land bank issue, he said the party has no objections if industries are set up on the land bank created under the BJP government as it will create employment opportunities for local youths. “However, land which was forcibly taken from the poor, should be returned. The issue of displacement was a major problem for the state. Therefore, a displacement commission should be formed in the state,” said Singh. In a veiled threat to bureaucrats allegedly ignoring party MLAs and leaders in the state, Singh advised government officials to ensure that they hear the points raised by Congress leaders. “Government officials should listen to the points raised by party leaders. Otherwise, party workers will go to their offices and meet them and explain their demands,” said Singh. He also advised party leaders to visit every corner of the state and establish a dialogue with local people, understand their problems and try to solve them. “The community dialogue programme should ensure that the party flag reaches every household of the state. The new president and new working president should visit every block of the district and should make contact with workers in the remote areas,” said Singh. He said the Congress will give equal rights to all members of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel to open doors to transgender persons||Tata Steel will become the first company in the country to open doors to transgender persons in the mining sector. Tata Steel has sought applications only from transgenders for the role of heavy earth moving machinery (HEMM) operators (trainee) at its West Bokaro coalfields divisions in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district. “Tata Steel India Workplace Equality Index certified (for LGBTQ+ inclusion) is looking for candidates (transgenders only) for the post of HEMM operators trainee (dumper, drill dozer, excavator, payloader, crane, etc) for its coal division at West Bokaro, Jharkhand,” said the company in the job posting. “This landmark initiative not only aims to break the glass ceiling but also targets mainstream transgenders in the society. Historically, Tata Steel is known for creating a diverse, inclusive, safe, and fair workplace across the globe. From establishing 8-hour work to free medical aid to leave with pay to becoming the first to implement 5-day-work-week to becoming the first company to implement menstrual leaves to enabling gender transition to women@mines, Tata Steel continues to further extend its arm to the transgender community for a more inclusive industrial growth. Expanding beyond its confines of factory and offices, transgenders will now be deployed as HEMM operators at mining location in West Bokaro post proper training,” an official said. LGBTQ+ refers to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, and related communities. Tata Steel vice-president human resource management Atrayee Sanyal said: “At Tata Steel, we believe a diverse and inclusive environment enriches the variety of thoughts, perspectives, and therefore strengthens the organisation. In our experience, workplace diversity not only attracts the best talent and widens the talent pool but also drives business results. We will continue to work towards actively promoting LGBTQ+ and building a benchmark workplace.” To be eligible for the job, one should have passed Matriculation and be born between September 1, 1981, and September 1, 2003; and candidates would be evaluated with a written test, interview and practical orientation test, followed by Medical Examination, it stated. Tata Steel has been known for hiring candidates from the LGBTQ community. In 2020, the company was named as a Top Employer for LGBT+ inclusion by India Workplace Equality Index (IWEI), the country’s first comprehensive benchmarking study to measure and enable efforts for LGBT+ inclusion. “IWEI Top Employers is the definitive list showcasing the best employers in India for lesbian, gay, trans employees. Tata Steel’s place as a Top Employer 2020 recognises the company’s commitment to advancing equality for LGBT+ people. Tata Steel is one of 18 organisations to feature in the Silver category,” said a company official. In 2019, the steel manufacturer introduced a new human resource policy that enables its employees from the LGBTQ+ community to declare their partners and avail all HR benefits permissible under the law. In August, Tata Steel West Bokaro division announced that it has onboarded 16 women HEMM operators at  Tata Steel’s West Bokaro Division   in all shifts under its flagship programme — Women@Mines. Tata Steel’s Women@Mines programme aims to provide technical training to unskilled women workers and enable them to work in core jobs in mines. From the formation of MOSAIC in 2015 to participate in RISE — the largest job fair for LGBTQ+ in Asia to train  transgenders, Tata Steel has not only evolved as a global torchbearer but has also encouraged others to be inclusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
04-09-2021||Jharkhand||FJCCI says Jharkhand govt should rectify lapses in functioning||The Jharkhand government should identify the lapses in its style of functioning in the industrial development of the state and also rectify those. The office bearers of the state’s apex trade body, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), said this while addressing the media at Chamber Bhavan on Friday evening. “Attempts were made even earlier but those failed because of these lapses,” said FJCCI president Praveen Jain Chhabra, adding there was a need for a change if the government was serious in bringing in investments in the state. The traders’ representatives echoed what some of the industrialists had told The Telegraph a few days ago that this paper published last Monday. “We all had seen Momentum Jharkhand that failed but the government didn’t review the reasons behind the failure,” added Ajay Bhandari, reminding the fate of the global investment summit the BJP government led by Raghubar Das had organised in Ranchi in February 2017 and later declared investments worth Rs 3 lakh crore would come to the state. “Satisfaction of customers is the best advertisement,” said Chhabra, adding the investors would come to the state only when they would be assured about the progressive growth of the industrial units they plan to set up. Instead of improvement, the industrial environment continued to be gloomy in the state, he further said, adding the same could be seen in almost all spheres, be it electricity or pollution. “I’m planning to expand my existing unit in Hazaribagh but the state pollution control board is yet to give me ‘consent to establish’ though I applied long ago,” alleged Sunil Agarwal who was present at the meeting. The state of renewal of industrial license is no different, they further alleged, adding the few running units would also be forced to down shutter if the state of affairs continued like this. “Not only that, those who were allotted plots for industrial purposes in certain parts of the state were still awaiting possession,” Chhabra alleged, giving example of Santhal Pargana Industrial Area Development Authority at Debipur in Dumka. “The entrepreneurs were allowed 81 plots in that area two years ago but they are yet to get possession of those,” he informed. “Of the total 360 units in Tipudana Industrial Area of Ranchi, about 200 are lying idle,” added its president Surendra Prasad Singh, giving example of the sorry state of affairs. The FJCCI office bearers expressed doubt if the industries secretary was aware of the pitiable situation, adding she never visited the industrial area during the past one year she had been in charge of the department. During the first day of the monsoon session of the Jharkhand Assembly on Friday, health minister and former BJP MLA Dr Dinesh Sarangi sat on a dharna (picture above) on issues related to medical compensation of former MLAs and MLAs, withdrawal of non-financed education policy etc. He lifted the agitation on the assurance of parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam to look into the demands. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto lauded the performance of Indians in the Tokyo Olympics and passed a condolence motion for those dignitaries, MLAs, and frontline workers who had died during the period between the previous session and the monsoon session. The issue of denial of Leader of Opposition status to BJP legislative party leader Babulal Marandi in the House again came to the fore during the condolence motion as the BJP leader raised demands that Marandi should read the condolence motion on behalf of the Opposition. The House was adjourned till 11am on Monday. The monsoon session  will continue till September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
