05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Team of doctors inspect East Singbhum’s Japanese Encephalitis-affected areas||A three-member team of doctors from Ranchi reached East Singhbhum district on Sunday to extensively inspect the steel city and adjoining rural areas for Japanese Encephalitis cases. Led by Dr SN Jha, state programme officer for Vector Borne Diseases, the team inspected Parsudih area of the city suburbs, Galudih, Musabani and Potka blocks in Ghatsila sub-division of the district. “We are here to carry out control measures for the Japanese Encephalitis which is spreading in the district. The vector-borne disease has already claimed a life in the Ghatsila sub-division recently and has affected seven persons across the district, including in the Jamshedpur block,” said Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also mentioned about a 38-year-old woman, dying because of Japanese Encephalitis at Kalchitti village in Galudih on Thursday. “Apart from the death caused by the Japanese Encephalitis, seven persons have been affected by the disease. Cases have been reported from the Jamshedpur block, two from the Potka block and one each from the Ghatsila and Musabani block,” revealed the state program officer. Talking about control measures taken to contain Japanese Encephalitis, Jha said, “The team had to do vital health activities in the pockets from wherever the cases were reported.” “We had to conduct a mass fever survey with the support of local health department officials followed by testing of the suspected victims with diagnostic kits. Apart from this we had to ensure that insecticides were sprayed in and around the affected areas,” the state program officer said. He pointed out that a coordinated effort by all those concerned in the health department has been taken and necessary instructions from the level of Sahia (village-level lady health workers) to district civil surgeon has been passed on. They have been asked to remain vigilant for the detection of the Japanese Encephalitis cases. This disease affects mostly youngsters and is caused by mosquito bite. An affected person from this fatal disease suffers from high fever, headache and stiff neck. In the severe condition, the patient gets unconscious after the neck-stiffens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Week-long mega vaccination camp at Keenan Stadium||The East Singhbhum district administration, with the help of the health department, will launch a week-long mass Covid-19 vaccination drive at the sprawling Keenan Stadium here in Jamshedpur from Monday. Dhalbhum SDO Sandeep Kumar Meena, who is looking after the preparations, said they have set a target of 5,000 jabs daily at the venue. As many as 20 vaccination points are being set-up at the venue for administering Covishield and Covaxin vaccine doses. According to health department officials, during the mass drive vaccines would be provided for those between 18 and 44 and above. " Vaccination would be provided through online slot booking and walk-in mode, " said A. K. Lal, the civil surgeon of East Singhbhum. He said all necessary training had been given to health department staff and computer operators to ensure there are no glitches. The SDO and the district civil surgeon inspected the venue on Sunday. Earlier, JRD Tata Sports Complex was selected for the vaccination drive. But, later the venue was changed due to issues of logistics. Fresh stocks of both vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, have been ordered for the district. The consignment is expected to reach late in the evening on Sunday. The East Singhbhum health department is continuing with Covid vaccinations and tests at various other designated centres. According to data available with the district health department on Saturday, Covid-19 vaccines were administered to 11, 372 people on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad BJP hits the streets over namaz room row ||Over 50 BJP supporters hit the streets to protest against the  allocation of a room for offering namaz in state Assembly and burnt effigies of chief minister Hemant Soren and Speaker Rabindranath Mahato  near the district headquarters at Randhir Verma Chowk on Sunday. Led by Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, the group assembled at the chowk barely 100 meter from the district headquarters in the morning in the presence of BJP district president (urban)  Chandrashekhar Singh. The leaders also accused the Speaker of acting at the behest of the ruling dispensation headed by Hemant and not allowing BJP leaders to raise important issues in the Assembly. Talking to the media, Sinha said, “The allocation of a separate room for offering namaz is height of appeasement politics. The room has been allocated for only five Muslim MLAs who are also not five-time namazis, and remain busy in the Assembly even on Fridays.” “We will also demand allocation of a room for Hindu legislators for reciting Hanuman Chalisa,” he said accusing the state government of going against majority Hindu sentiments. Sinha claimed that soon people would join their protest and hit the streets against the state government's decision. Sinha accused Speaker Mahato of acting in a partisan manner. "Whenever any question is asked by any Opposition leader he looks towards the chief minister as if to seek his permission for allowing the leader to complete his question. “Why discussions are not allowed in the state Assembly on the complete failure of the Hemant Soren government on the issue of  employment?” Acting president of Congress Jaleshwar Mahto, during a felicitation function organised by the district unit of the Congress,  however, accused the BJP of raking up irrelevant issues. “They have the habit of taking the name of Pakistan and holding it responsible for the misdeeds of their own... What is wrong in allocating a  room for offering namaz? Who has prevented them from also demanding a room for holding a puja as the Assembly has no dearth of rooms,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Brawl at RIMS in Ranchi over post-exam party||A brawl broke out between two groups of undergraduate medical students at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Sunday morning over an alleged post-exam celebration by junior students which became “too loud” for  seniors preparing for PG NEET, police said. Cops from the Bariatu Police Station had to rush to the college campus and pacify the two groups of students and prevent the situation from escalating. “Our PCR van was already in the RIMS campus when the scuffle started. Cops from our police station also rushed to the spot to keep the situation under control,” said a sub-inspector at Bariatu Police Station, Pankaj Pramanik. Police sources said that initially the two groups clashed when final year students allegedly ragged their juniors after getting disturbed by their loud celebrations. Later, a group of junior students demanded a formal apology from their seniors for allegedly harassing them, police said. “Representatives of both the groups have held talks in our presence, and the situation was under control by afternoon,” said Pramanik. According to sources at RIMS, the brawl started between students of hostel number two-three and students of hostel number four. The junior students recently appeared for their supplementary papers and were on a celebration spree at the hostel, while the seniors were preparing for PG NEET, which is scheduled to be held on September 11, sources said. “We were celebrating with our batchmates. None of us disturbed the seniors, so their attempts at trying to school us on maintaining academic environment at the hostel was uncalled-for,” said a junior student. Even though the situation was under control by afternoon, police personnel were deployed at the hostel to prevent any further face-off between the two groups, police said. Local police also made regular announcements on loudspeakers, requesting the students to maintain peace. Thisr is not the first time that junior and senior students have clashed at the state-run medical college. In 2019, a group of junior and senior MBBS students had reportedly clashed over a beer party organised by the juniors at the hostel. A RIMS source said that alcohol consumption during such celebrations was common at the RIMS hostel, but went unnoticed. There was a brawl on Sunday because the senior students got disturbed by the loud celebrations and decided to give a piece of their mind to the juniors, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Political row brewing over namaz room in Jharkhand Assembly||The Opposition BJP launched an all-round attack on the Hemant Soren government on Saturday, two days after the Assembly Speaker allotted a separate room for namaz on the premises, lobbing accusations of "polarisation"  and demaning that it be allowed to set up a Hanuman temple within the Assembly precincts. The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD coalition goernment accused the BJP of "hate-mongering" to which the saffron party threatened to hit the streets to press for its demand for a temple in the Assembly precincts since a majority of the state's MLAs were Hindus. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, BJP's Ranchi MLA and former minister C.P.Singh said, “We have learnt today that the Assembly Speaker has allotted a dedicated room in the state Assembly for namaz. In a democratic country, all are free to practice their choice of religious faiths. At the same time, we demanded that the Speaker make provisions to set up a Hanuman temple. If the Assembly is starved of funds, give us the place, we will build a lavish temple." Singh said that a majority of the 82 MLAs of Jharkhand were Hindus. “Also, there are many Assembly staffers who are Hindu. So, a temple should come up there so that all Hindus can offer prayers," he said. The BJP social media ecosystem also initiated a campaign against the state government. Sing warned the state government of protests in the coming days. “Assembly or Parliament is regarded as a temple of democracy. The BJP will not tolerate the state government's attempts to appease a particular community and caste. We will leave no stone unturned to protest against it both inside the House and on the streets,” he said. JMM and Congress hit back at the BJP, accusing it of trying to rake up a hate campaign against a particular community. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said a provision for a place to offer namaz in the Assembly was there in the past too. "The BJP must know that the our Constitution and secular ethos offer everyone the right to practice religion of his/her choice. But the BJP is again doing what it knows  best—attack the secular fabric of Indian democracy,” he said. Agreed senior Congress leader and  former MP Furkan Ansari. He said that in 2000, then chief minister Babulal Marandi and then Speaker Inder Singh Namdhari had made provisions for a separate room for namaz in the Assembly building. “Why is the BJP protesting now? In 2000, it was a BJP government run by Marandi which made this provision. This clearly shows the BJP’s attempt to divide society now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: MSME plea for hand-holding||The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in Jharkhand face the same problems as other businesses do. This was revealed during a daylong business meet organised by the state unit of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) at a Ranchi hotel on Saturday for exploring possibilities of creating a favourable ecosystem for the MSME. Though some panellists pointed out the opportunities the MSME sector could grab, those actually running micro and small enterprises in the state said the ground reality was entirely different. “The ongoing expansion of the Indian steel industry offered enough opportunities but the MSME sector didn’t realise its potential and showed no inclination to capture those,” said Atul Bhatt, chairman and managing director of Mecon Limited in Ranchi. “Indigenously built components could reduce import dependence on China and eastern Europe,” he said, adding that the opportunities were still there as India was the potential “epicentre for growth of steel industry and the solution for crises that may crop up have to come from within the country”. ICC state council chairman Avijit Ghosh said: “MSME sector, with its 6.33 crore units, is the backbone of Indian economy.” Ghosh added that the MSME sector provides employment to 12 crore people and contributed 45 per cent of the total exports. But only 45 lakh of the total 6.33 crore MSME units availed bank loans, resulting in 50 lakh units getting either sick or closed, he said, adding that the banks should organise outreach programmes in rural areas for giving loans to such units. “The Union government has introduced many financial schemes and also incentives for helping MSME units to flourish,” said S.K. Sahoo, joint director in the MSME ministry, adding that loans were released to 89 per cent of eligible applicants in Jharkhand. “The MSME sector, despite being the growth driver contributing 31 per cent to the country’s GDP, mostly depends on funding from informal sources,” said Nand Kishore Singh, a deputy general manager of State Bank of India. Only 22 per cent of the total MSME funding was being sourced from banks and other financial institutions, he further said, adding that lack of financial information was the reason behind it. “The ground reality is entirely different,” contested Philip Matthew, president of the Jharkhand Small Industries Association, adding that bank officials often pretended to be ignorant about the schemes when its members approached them for collateral-free loans. “Besides loans, MSME units in Jharkhand also face the same problems as other industries in getting pollution clearance certificates and renewal of licence,” said Matthew’s predecessor Y.N. Ojha, adding that a single-window-system was still a distant dream for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||National award for Jharkhand mathematics teacher||Manoj Kumar Singh, a mathematics teacher from Jamshedpur, is the sole recipient from Jharkhand of the National Award to Teachers 2021 to be presented on Teachers’ Day on Sunday. Altogether 15 teachers from eastern and northeastern states have been selected for the coveted award which will be given by President Ram Nath Kovind through a webinar due to the Covid pandemic. The award carries a medal, a certificate and Rs 50,000. The teachers from eastern states include Haridas Sharma (Ramgarh, Bhabua) and Chandana Dutta (Rajnagar, Madhubani), both from Bihar, Ashok Kumar Satpathy (Bhadrak) and Ajit Kumar Sethy (Chatrapur, Ganjam), both from Odisha, and Hariswami Das (head teacher of Sovanagar High School, English Bazar, Malda, Bengal). Teachers from northeastern states who will receive the awards are Duda Sora (West Siang, Arunachal Pradesh), Swedesunuo Zao (Kohima, Nagaland), Ningmareo Shimray (Ukhrul, Manipur), Prem Das Chhetri (Gangtok, Sikkim), Mingma Sherpa (North Sikkim), Jacinta Vanlalengzami (Serchhip, Mizoram), Sib Sankar Pal (West Tripura), and Kangkan Kishor Dutta (East Jorhat) and Binanda Swargiary (Baksa), both from Assam. Expressing happiness, 49-year-old Manoj, a resident of Adityapur who is deputed as a mathematics and science teacher at Hindustan Mitra Mandal Middle School in Golmuri, Jamshedpur, attributed his selection for the award to his passion to teach complex mathematical concepts through innovative practical and art-based pedagogy mostly done outside the boundaries of classroom. “Students in state-owned schools are not that well versed in English to understand the concepts of mathematics, especially complex theorems and formulae. For the last one decade, I have devised my own art-based pedagogy with focus on ‘learning by doing’ concept to teach students hailing from poorer strata without good language skills the concept of mathematics. I can proudly say that most of the students in the schools I have been deputed have fetched good marks in mathematics at the matric level,” said Manoj, who conducts online teaching through his YouTube channel — Creative Learning with Manoj. Manoj is also a part of the e-content developer team of the Jharkhand Council of Education Research and Training (JCERT) who created online content for mathematics during the pandemic through the Digi School app. He has converted one room in his house into a classroom, in which all the necessary digital equipment like computer, camera, tripod stand, microphone, headphones and a big LED screen with a whiteboard, are available. “I live in a two-bedroom house but had to do this for the sake of my YouTube channel and also for imparting education through the Digi Sath app to students,” said Manoj. The e-content created by Manoj is broadcast continuously from the portal of Digi School. The Digi School app has been created by the state education department and JCERT for online learning of students from Classes I to XII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
05-09-2021||Jharkhand||Chhattisgarh: Bhupesh Baghel govt in Bastar outreach||People living in the remote areas of rebel-hit Bastar region of Chhattisgarh, who have been deprived of basic facilities for years, are now getting the services through special camps organised by the government. The Chhattisgarh government under Bhupesh Baghel has been organising these camps for redress of grievances related to Aadhar card, ration card, Ayushman Bharat (central health scheme) card and pension. In Maoist-hit areas such as Silger, Minapa and Sarkeguda villages in Sukma district, villagers throng similar camps in large numbers. The positive response by the villagers has prompted the administration to increase the duration of the camps. To provide various facilities to the villagers of these sensitive areas in Sukma district, a facilitation camp was organised at Sarkeguda. Vehicles were also arranged by the administration so that the villagers do not face any problem in commuting to the campsite. “Villagers of Minapa and Silger had informed the administration about their problems, for which facilitation camps are being set up in these areas for quick redress. Similar camps will be organised in other villages in the coming days,” said a source in the Sukma district collectorate. The camp strategy adopted by the Chhattisgarh government to provide basic facilities like education, health, employment, drinking water to the remote villages are proving to be very effective. There are seven districts in the Bastar division — Sukma, Bijapur, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Bastar (Jagdalpur) and Kanker. These seven are included in the list of aspirational districts of the country. In these tribal-dominated districts, access to facilities in the hinterland has always been a challenge due to geographical complexities and Maoist activities. The Baghel government decided to adopt a camp strategy according to the local conditions for the development of the Bastar division by moving away from the traditional methods. “This new strategy of governance is based on the principles of development, trust and security. To ensure an environment of security in the Maoist-affected interior areas, security force camps were set up at various places,” said an official in the chief minister’s secretariat. These safety caps opened the way for other camps related to public conveniences. After the mobile clinics under the Mukhyamantri Haat Bazaar Clinic Yojana, now medical camps have started in the weekly markets in tribal areas, where the villagers are getting the facility of free check-up, treatment and medicines. Success has been achieved in restarting hundreds of schools that were closed due to Maoist violence. Apart from the Hindi medium in traditional schools, English medium schools have also been started at various places along with teaching in local dialects. The English medium schools are being operated under the Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme, in which free education is being provided to every student with facilities at par with private schools. Amid the Covid pandemic, Chhattisgarh collected the maximum amount of minor forest produce in the country. “Most of the minor forest produce in the state is collected from these seven districts of Bastar division. With better strategy, now the collection of minor forest produce is being done in a more systematic and organised manner. From their collection to purchase, the work is being done by the forest dwellers only. These forest produces are being procured by self-help groups through purchase camps set up in haat-bazaars,” the official said. The enthusiasm of the villagers has increased due to the increase in the price of minor forest produce given by the government and increasing the number of such products purchased on support price from seven to 52. The minor forest produces collected from the forests of Bastar are being processed locally, due to which people are getting employment and benefits on a large-scale, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
