06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant writes to Modi for funds to curb malnutrition||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday seeking his intervention to release funds to the tune of Rs 312 crore under the 15th Finance Commission for the year 2020-21 to fight malnutrition. “A substantial part of the population in Jharkhand belongs to the ST and SC community in which malnutrition is rampant.  Therefore, on behalf of all citizens of Jharkhand, I would like to request that the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, be directed to release the recommended amount of Rs 312 crore for the year 2020-21 for the state of Jharkhand,” he wrote. Quoting the findings of the National Family Health Survey-4, Hemant noted that every second child aged between 0-6 in Jharkhand was suffering from malnutrition. About 45 per cent of such children were underweight, 23 per cent were skinny, 11.3 per cent severely malnourished and 40.3 per cent stunted. “Besides the programmes of the Government of India, the state government has also decided to fight malnutrition with its limited resources. The state government has also planned to provide egg and other equivalent protein-rich food to children between 3 to 6 years from its resources. Therefore, if the central government releases the funds allocated for the cause, it will prove to be big support for the state government in its fight against malnutrition,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Low-pressure hub leads to rain across Jharkhand||A low-pressure area which formed over Bay of Bengal resulted in rain across several parts of Jharkhand on Monday. Several places, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro, woke up to overcast conditions with intermittent rain accompanied by wind blowing at speeds of 20kmph-25 Kmph. Weathermen said under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over north and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal, a low-pressure had area formed over northwest and west central Bay of Bengal off south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts. An associated cyclonic circulation was extending upto 7.6km above mean sea level. "The impact of the low-pressure would remain for the next 24 hours or so as it is likely to move northwest wards during the next 48 hours. We are also expecting heavy rain at a few isolated pockets of the state in the next 24 hours," said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met office also issued an alert of thunder and lightning in various districts during the next 24 hours. On Monday, the monsoon trough at mean sea level was passing through Bikaner, Jaipur, Guna, Gondia, Gopalpur, stretching up to east central Bay of Bengal. The forecast suggests formation of another back-to-back low-pressure zone this weekend. Rain data suggests that so far, Jharkhand has received 803.8 mm rain against a normal of 876.9 mm, a deficit of eight per cent. Weathermen said the expected good spell of rain due to the impact of the prevailing low-pressure was likely to bring down the deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand add-on Budget tabled in Assembly amid chaos ||The state government presented its first supplementary budget to the tune of Rs 4,984cr in the Assembly on Monday amid bedlam by BJP MLAs who chanted slogans and rushed to the Well of the House to express displeasure at the Speaker's decision to allot a separate room for namaz within the premises, prompting chief minister Hemant Soren to criticise the Opposition for its disruptive ways. Question Hour had to be suspended because of the continuing chaos. A scheduled discussion on employment and price hike could not be held too. The Assembly had to be adjourned thrice since the start of the day's proceedings at 11 am. The first adjournment was at 11.30am. The House re-assembled at 12.45pm and was adjourned again within 10 minutes after state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon tabled the first supplementary budget. The House reconvened at 2.08pm, but had to be adjourned soon after till 3.03pm. The BJP first moved an adjournment motion before the start of Question Hour seeking cancellation of the namaz room allotment. Party MLAs also demanded amendments to the state's employment policy by including Hindi, Sanskrit, Magahi and other local languages. But the Speaker disallowed the motion, asking the MLAs to allow the House to function. While Congress MLA from Barkagaon Amba Prasad rose to question the government on the employment situation in the state, BJP’s Bhanu Pratap Shahi led the ruckus in the House, forcing the Speaker to adjourned the House till 12.45pm. Finance minister Oraon tabled the supplementary budget after the House re-assembled but repeated disruptions meant that a debate on the supplementary budget could not be held. The pandemonium continued even after lunch break. Before the start of the day's proceedings, BJP MLAs sat at the entrance of the Assembly performing bhajans with many playing traditional musical instruments. Deoghar MLA Narayan Das danced while singing "Hare Rama, Hare Krishna", while others chanted "Jai Shri Ram" _ all this to protest against the Speaker's decision day's ago to allot a separate room for namaz within the Assembly premises. Talking to reporters later, Hemant criticised the BJP for stalling the House. “As an Opposition party, the BJP doesn’t have any issues. Hence, its MLAs are disrupting the House. They are doing injustice to the people (voters) of this state. Today, the CM’s Question Hour could not be held. It was an occasion for them to ask questions directly. We were ready to answer all their queries," he said. Asked if the decision to allot a separate namaz room in the Assembly would be rolled back, the chief minister was clear. "I don’t think there is any need. Mann mein agar astha ho toh sab jagha prarthana kar lenge. Lekin mann mein agar rakshash ho toh sab dusman hi lagega (If you have faith in your heart you can pray anywhere. But if you have demons inside you, you will consider everyone as your enemies).” Former chief minister Raghubar Das, however, threatened to sit on a dharna near the Assembly if the state government did not go back on its namaz room decision within the next 48 hours. In a letter to the Speaker, Das said, “Being the head of a constitutional and democratic institution, the onus of maintaining the virtues of constitution and its norms solely lies on you. I, therefore, urge you to take back this unconstitutional notification within 48 hours. Or else I will sit outside the Assembly entrance to hold a protest."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant inaugurates much-needed power substation in Garhwa||Chief minister Hemant Soren inaugurated a power substation (132/33 KV grid) at Bhagodih in Garhwa district and laid the foundation stone for two other substations of similar capacity at Nagar Untari in Garhwa and Chhatarpur in Palamau district through a virtual ceremony here on Monday in the presence of senior bureaucrats, an MLA and state minister Mithilesh Thakur, among others. Sources said that the sub-station in Garhwa would help the district cut down on its dependence on neighbouging states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The Bhagodih sub-station, set up at a cost of Rs 26.74 crore, will get electricity from Power Grid Corporation of India (PGCIL)’s grid in adjoining Palamau district. Hemant said the move would end power cuts in Garhwa and the entire Palamau commissionary region. “Our government is focusing on improving the overall electricity situation in these areas to light up the lives of people residing there. Seamless electricity will also mitigate problems related to irrigation facilities and help in overall development of the region,” he said. Both Garhwa and Palamau are regarded as dry districts owing to scanty rainfall. Lack of regular power supply oftrn leads to paucity of drinking water. “Soon, these shortcomings due to power crunch will be over. Our aim is to make the state power sufficient in the coming days so that people can get electricity round- the- clock," Hemant said. State energy department secretary Avinash Kumar said the new facilities would improve the electricity situation in the Palamau zone. “So far, vast parts of Garhwa and Palamau remained devoid of proper power supply. Other areas suffered erratic supplies. Those problems will be solved now,” he said. Speaking about the two new sub-stations whose foundation stone was laid, Kumar explained that these would be built at a cost of around Rs 90 crore. “The work is targeted to be over in two years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jhargram Express to resume service from tomorrow||Passengers from different stations of Dhanbad Chandrapura Railway line as well as those travelling frequently between Dhanbad and Tatanagar relieved as Jhargram Dhanbad MEMU Special (08019/08020) is all set to resume its services from tomorrow. Notably, at present the passengers running between Dhanbad and Tatanagar and vice versa have no other option other than to travel by buses or other private vehicles. Ashish Bansal, divisional railway manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central, shared a detailed time table of the train through his official twitter handle yesterday informing that the train (08019) will begin its journey from Jhargram at 6 am, tomorrow to reach Dhanbad at 1.45 pm. The train will be crossing different intermediate stations like Ghatshila (7 am), Tatanagar (7.50 am), Chandil (9 am), Purulia (10 am), Bokaro Steel City (11.30 am), Chandrapura (12.06 pm), Phulbartan (12.26 pm), Sonardih (12.35 pm), Katrasgarh (12.45 pm), Sijua (12.51 pm), Bansjora (12.56 pm), Baseria (13.02 pm), Kusunda (13.10 pm). The train however will not stop at several intermediate stations including Tetulia, Tundu, Budoda, and Jamunia Halt as the railway has discontinued the stoppage of trains on these stations since October 2019 itself. During the return journey the train will start operation from Dhanbad Railway Station at 14.15 am and reach Jhargram at 9.15 am. PK Mishra, Public Relation officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway said that the train will operate on all seven days of the week beginning from tomorrow. Notably, the train used to operate for six days a week. Its services were not available during Saturday. He further said, that besides Jhargram Dhanbad MEMU express, another train Adra Barkakana Memu train will also be resume its service from tomorrow as the train will begin its journey from Adra at 4.55 am and reach Barkakana Station of Dhanbad Division at around 9,45 am. During the return journey the train will begin journey from Barkakana at around 2.05 pm and reach Adra at around 19.15 pm Talking to Telegraph Online today, Ranjit Kumar, a resident of Katras said, “With Jhargram Dhanbad MEMU train resuming its services, the residents of Katras and Baghmara along those travelling between Dhanbad and Tatanagar will heave a sigh of relief. Lack of trains has left us with no option but to travel in buses which are expensive as well as unsafe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Auto-immune disease among kids rising in Ranchi, warn doctors ||Doctors in Ranchi have sounded an alert over rising cases of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS) among children following hospitalization of over a dozen kids affected by this auto-immune disease in which antibodies produced in response to Coronavirus start affecting organs and damaging them from within. At least two children suffering from MIS were admitted in the paediatrics ward of Sadar Hospital in Ranchi recently, while over a dozen patients were admitted in Rani Children Hospital, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar said. “This is a serious disease and it can prove fatal if it is not treated on time. In children suffering from MIS, the antibodies produced in response to the exposure to SARS-COV-2 virus start gradually damaging their organs,” said Dr Kumar, adding that children in the age bracket of four to 10 years were most susceptible to this disease. Children who were either infected by coronavirus or developed antibodies due to exposure to their Covid-positive parents or other family members develop MIS, said doctors, claiming that the treatment includes administering immunosuppressants and even steroids. “Timely diagnosis and treatment is extremely important in such cases. Undetected MIS may damage heart, liver, kidney and other important organs,” said the civil surgeon. Any child suffering from high fever or cough and cold for five to six days is an MIS suspect if there is a history of coronavirus infection in his or her family. It can be confirmed only after some tests, including the Covid antibody test. Paediatricians said some patients also suffer from severe abdominal pain, diarrhoea or vomiting. Also, MIS-induced diarrhoea leads to quick dehydration in children and needs immediate attention, say doctors. While the cases of Covid-19 have dropped significantly in Jharkhand lately, doctors fear that MIS could be a cause for concern. MIS, doctors said, may impact kids just like post-Covid complications affect adults. As per government data, the state has so far reported 3,47,957 cases of Covid-19 and more than 98 per cent of patients have recovered. While the state doesn’t have separate data on the number of kids affected by Covid-19, doctors believe that the deadly virus may have affected several kids, who were never tested for Covid-19 but still have antibodies against SARS-COV-2. However, every child with antibodies against coronavirus is not prone to develop MIS, the civil surgeon clarified, adding that in some cases, “too much” immune response to the virus may lead to this ailment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Speaker defends decision to offer namaz room in Assembly||Jharkhand Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto defended his move to provide space for namaz within the Assembly precincts,  accusing the BJP of raking up a "non-issue" even as the Opposition party held protests and burnt effigies of the chief minister and Speaker in some districts, including Ranchi. On Sunday evening, over two dozen party workers, led by state BJP  general secretary Aditya Sahu staged a protest in Harmu in  stte capital. BJP has accused the Speaker and state government of "appeasement politics" and demanded space for construction of a lavish Hanuman temple with similar arrangements for people of different faiths within the Assembly building. Speaker Mahto, however, maintained that there was nothing "unconstitutional" about the move to offer space for namaz in the Asembly premises. “I don’t know why the BJP is protesting over a non-issue. This trend of a earmarking a separate room for those who want to offer namaz, mainly on Fridays, was there even in the old Assembly building which was used over a decade ever since creation of Jharkhand in 2000. Now that the Assembly has shifted to a permanent building, we have simply  notified a room where people can offer prayers (namaz). Why so much fuss?" he wondered, claiming that such facilities were present in other states too. "The Vidhan Sabha,” he said, "will always be the temple of democracy. It is where we celebrate all festivals like Sarhul, Holi and the like.” The Opposition BJP, however,  isn’t ready to climb down. State party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said on Sunday that they would continue thier protest till the order was taken back. “The Hemant Soren government has kept doors of the temple for devotees closed for months citing Covid-19, but provides a room for namaz at the Assembly. This move exposes his intention to polarise,” he said. On Saturday, Ranchi MLA C. P. Singh had demanded that the Speaker provide a space for the construction of a Hanuman temple within the Assembly premises. He also said that the BJP was ready to bear the cost. BJP chief whip in the Assembly Biranchi Narayan has threatened to challenge the Speaker's decision in court. In a letter to Mahto, he appealed to him t withdraw the notification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid situation shows further improvement ||The Covid situation in Jharkhand showed further improvement during the past one month. The active caseload that stood at 223 on the state a month ago, slid to 133 on Saturday evening while the number of new cases also went down from 30 to 9. According to data released by the state health department, no new case was found in 20 of the total 24 districts on Saturday. Of the 9 new cases detected in the state on that day, 6 were detected in Ranchi district alone while East Singhbhum, Hazaribagh and Sahibganj districts had one each. One Covid death was recorded in Dhanbad on Saturday, the second in the state since August 17 when another Covid patient had died in the same district. Of the total 133 active cases in the state on Saturday, Ranchi alone 84 or 73 per cent caseload while Jamtara was the only other district where the number of cases was in double digit of 13. Among the rest 22 districts, 6 districts — Dumka, Giridih, Gumla, Koderma, Pakur and Palamau  — did not have a single active case on that day while East Singhbhum had the maximum 8 active cases. All 15 other districts had less than 5 cases each. The recovery rate in the state 98.48 per cent on Saturday compared to the national figure of 97.40 per cent. “Ranchi being the gateway of the state, people from many other Covid-affected states and even abroad are coming here everyday and being detected Covid-19 positive on arrival,” Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of Covid-19 task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, replied when asked why Ranchi had maximum Covid patients in the state, adding many of them may belong to other districts but were found positive after put on test in Ranchi. The infection can be checked if people adhered to Covid-appropriate behaviour and also got vaccinated at the earliest, he further said. A heritage tour began in Puri on Sunday to promote the rich culture of the holy town in Odisha. Fifty-three famous heritage locations like mathas, temples and ashrams have been identified and divided into five cycling and walking routes, the Puri district administration said on Twitter. "Every Sunday, a group of 40 children from government schools take this educative ride with guides and volunteers," it said. A quiz contest would also be held at the end of the tour and winners will be rewarded. The ride and walk will be open for tourists and senior citizens very soon, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
06-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly likely to witness rough monsoon session||The Jharkhand Assembly is unlikely to witness smooth business during the rest of the monsoon session if the happenings on the opening day are any indication. The 5-day monsoon session that began on September 3 has only four more working days left — from Monday to Thursday. While the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine is preparing for getting some important business done during the brief session, the BJP is also trying its best to corner the government on certain issues. The government is all set to present the first supplementary budget for 2021-22 on Monday. It also wants to push through 75 per cent reservation of private jobs with monthly salary amounting up to Rs 40,000 for local people. The Congress, an alliance partner of the ruling combine, has already declared that it would pursue 27 per cent reservation in state government’s jobs for other backward classes (OBCs). Besides, the government also has on its agenda passing of a resolution favouring caste-based census. But the question at the moment is whether the Hemant Soren government would be able to get those done during the current monsoon session smoothly. More so as the BJP, on the other hand, has also declared that “anti-people policies of the Hemant government will be opposed”, adding they would also protest against deteriorating law and order situation of the state and also “fight for getting the new employment policy scrapped”. Besides, the party also announced it would continue to demand recognition of their legislative party leader, Babulal Marandi, as the leader of the Opposition. This is a long pending issue as the Speaker did not recognise him as the leader of the opposition because Marandi who, along with two others, had won the last Assembly election as JVM (P) candidates but switched parties. Marandi joined the BJP after dissolving his party while two other MLAs went to the Congress fold. Their political status in the Assembly was yet to be decided. It was the same issue that the BJP picked up for protesting when the Assembly started for the monsoon session last Friday. As it is customary on the opening day of the session, obituary references were taken up and the Speaker asked BJP’s chief whip Biranchi Narayan to read out the same for quite a few who died recently, including former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, Olympian Milkha Singh and actor Dilip Kumar. But his party colleagues asked Narayan not to proceed with it as it should have been ideally done by Marandi who, being the leader of their legislative party, was supposed to be the leader of the Opposition as well. The BJP leaders then started shouting slogans against the Speaker who adjourned the House till Monday morning after the obituary references were hurriedly made. “BJP threw the parliamentary traditions to the wind by disrupting the House during obituary reference,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya alleged afterwards, adding the Speaker should initiate action against those involved if they did not apologise for their act. Many others also criticised BJP legislators for shouting slogans when obituary references were being made. But that certainly did not guarantee smooth business in the House during the rest of the session. Meanwhile, the BJP also got a new issue when Jharkhand Assembly earmarked a room within its premises for offering namaz. “We are not against any religious practice but condemn the politics of appeasement  that hurt others' sentiments,” said BJP state president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash, adding they would demonstrate against the decision across the state till Thursday, beginning with burning of effigy of the Speaker on Sunday. Ranchi MLA C.P. Singh went a step further and demanded construction of a temple of Bajrang Bali within the Assembly premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
