07-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP demands 30-minute Hanuman Chalisa in Jharkhand House amid Namaz room row||Unrelenting BJP MLAs disrupted Jharkhand Assembly proceedings on Tuesday for the third consecutive day as they protested against the allotment of a Namaz room by the speaker and demanded allocation of 30 minutes every week for reciting the Hanuman Chalisa. The BJP members chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' and snatches of the Hanuman Chalisa. Many lawmakers of the party, which is the main opposition in Jharkhand, sported saffron outfits and saffron angavastram with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ printed on them. The protest against the allotment of a room in the Assembly for Namaz began even before the House assembled for the day's proceedings. BJP MLAs sat on the stairs at the entrance of the Assembly and chanted the Hanuman Chalisa and party MLA Narayan Das was seen wearing a garland made of 'belpatra' (wood apple leaves). As soon as the House assembled, they began to vociferously protest against the allotment of the namaz room and the state's employment policy even as Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto repeatedly urged them to allow the House to function. The unrelenting opposition members, however, continued to shout slogans during the question hour which lead to the adjournment of the House till 12.30 pm. “No disrespect would be tolerated to the Chair. Beat me if you are angry, but don't disrupt the proceedings,” Mahto was heard telling the protesting MLAs. “Please go back to your seats ... I am pained. The Chair is not a subject of mockery. Yesterday you behaved badly ...This is the question of the faith of 3.5 crore people and your conduct gives pain,” he added. In reply, BJP MLA CP Singh said though the Business Advisory Committee had decided to take up the employment policy issue it was changed. “This (speaker's statement) is an emotional statement. We are also sad. Speaker is supreme in the assembly but it hurts when we see that your behaviour is not impartial,” he told Mahto. Amid the din, the speaker asked BJP MLA Bhanu Pratap Shahi to respect Hanuman Chalisa and not to use it for political gains. He said may ‘Bajrang Bali’ grant wisdom to the agitating MLAs. When the House reassembled after the adjournment, BJP members trooped into the well of the house and Singh demanded allocation of 30 minutes every Tuesday for recitation of Hanuman Chalisa. “If a room can be alloted for Namaz, why can't 30 minutes be allotted for Hanuman Chalisa? I take pride in being a Hindu,” Singh said. Jharkhand Minister Mithlesh Thakur was heard voicing his protest and ruling JMM MLA Pradeep Yadav said that there should not be any politics in the name of God. He demanded to know why BJP did not do so when it was in power in the state. Mahto said the demand should come from majority of the speakers to which Singh immediately demanded to know which majority gave permission for a Namaz room in the Assembly. The protest by BJP continued when the House reassembled at 2 pm. Its members again stormed into the well of the house chanting slogans. The House, however, took up the debate on the supplementary budget for 2021-22 amidst the din. Ruckus by BJP over the allotment of a room for offering namaz in the assembly had disrupted proceedings on Monday as well. The BJP is demanding the recall of the order pertaining to the allotment of the namaz room. The speaker has allotted room number TW 348 for offering namaz, prompting demand from the BJP to build a Hanuman temple and places of worship of other religions in the assembly premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Bill to reserve 75% jobs in private sector for locals cleared ||The select committee formed by Jharkhand Assembly speaker to review the proposed law to reserve 75 per cent of existing jobs in the private sector for locals on Tuesday submitted its report in the House with some key changes in the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, which originally tabled in the budget session, paving way for the Act to be notified soon. Once notified, the Act would reserve 75 per cent of existing jobs with monthly salary up to ₹40,000 for the locals. Andhra Pradesh and Haryana have earlier passed similar laws reserving jobs for locals in the private sector. During the budget session this year, the government had decided to send the Bill to the select committee after several members sought amendments in it. The Speaker had formed the six-member select committee chaired by the state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta, who tabled the committee report with amendments in the Bill on Tuesday. The bill with amendments will be taken up for adoption by the House on Thursday. “The government would form the related rules and regulations to implement it. This is a landmark law as people, especially for those who are displaced for setting up industry and are often forced to protest and hit the streets for jobs. At present, they are often threatened with cases for raising their voice. With increasing privatization and the Centre pushing for NMP (national monetisation pipeline), this law would prove to be a boon for the locals,” said CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, one of the members of the select committee. BJP legislator and former health minister Ramchandra Chandrvanshi, who was also a member of the select committee, said they cleared the Bill as it is in the interest of the state. Few key changes made in the original Bill includes adding “Private Sector” in the amended Bill, now named “The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021”. The Bill also increased the salary cut-off from ₹30,000 to ₹40,000 besides including a new clause vis-à-vis the public sector undertakings. The original Bill had kept these firms out of the purview of this law. “The central government of the state government shall not be included but the provisions of this Act shall apply on the organizations providing services through outsourcing to the central government or the state government organistaion/undertakings,” reads section 2(e) of the amended Bill. While the new law does not fix quota for any vulnerable group, including the displaced or social groups, as done in government jobs as affirmative action, the amended bill adds a new clause saying attention will be given for their representation. The amended Bill has also expanded the monitoring committee for implementation and addressing complaints. Now, deputy commissioner in each district would chair the committee which will have local MLAs, employment and labour department officers. Earlier, the deputy commissioner was given the sole right to settle disputes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||CII donates medical equipment to East Singhbhum||The Jharkhand state council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Tuesday donated medical equipments worth several lakhs to the East Singhbhum district administration for combating Covid-19. The consignment comprised 20 oxygen concentrators of 10 litre each, five oxygen concentrators of five litre each, oxygen cylinders (A - Type) with flowmeters and 15 pieces of oxygen masks and oxygen cylinders (B-Type) with flowmeters and 15 pieces of oxygen masks. A CII team handed these over at a modest function organised on the premises of the district collectorate in Sakchi to East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar. The CII delegation was headed by Tapas Sahu, vice- chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council, and Vijay Bhuller, state head, CII. The second wave of Coronavirus had tremendous strain on healthcare infrastructure as the number of patients rose rapidly. Hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators and other necessary medical equipment and facilities were in short supply and people were often travelling great distances in the hope of getting medical support. While the government was taking several steps to increase and strengthen existing healthcare infrastructure, CII, CII Foundation, and its affiliates stepped in to augment existing Covid-care facilities. "CII has been proactively engaging itself to support the government both in Centre and state in combating the second wave of COVID-19," said Sahu. State head Vijay Bhuller said, "We need to be very cautious and follow Covid appropriate behaviour while getting vaccinated to carry on with our livelihoods and put growth back on track." He explained that there is also an urgent need to augment the healthcare infrastructure in the state and this was the best time for CII members to step in and help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad restricts number of autos to ease traffic in town||The Dhanbad district administration has decided to allow only 2,500 auto-rickshaws to ply within the town as a part of a comprehensive plan to decongest traffic in the coal capital. At a meeting with auto-rickshaw associations here on Tuesday, it was agreed that the movement of three-wheelers _ there are over 20,000 operating in Dhanbad district _ would be regulated according to a set of norms, discussions on which were on with drivers over the last two months. As per the new rules, auto drivers would have to adhere to a dress code and carry valid licences as well all requisite vehicle papers. Autos would operate within 15 routes and stop only at designated pick-up and drop points in Dhanbad. Each route would have a designated code which will have to be displayed prominently on the three-wheeler, namely, on the windscreen and in the side. The new rules will come into effect  from September 16. The district administration's move comes less than four day after the imposition of a ban on the entry of all passenger buses and other heavy vehicles in to the town. Talking to the media after Tuesday's meeting, district transport officer of Dhanbad Om Prakash Yadav said, “We have taken several crucial decisions as per which the number of autos entering  Dhanbad town from different routes has been restricted to 2,500 only from existing 8,000.” To achieve this, he said,  each route had been  divided  into several parts. For example,  an auto till now running between Patherdih and  Dhanbad would have to turn back from Jharia instead of coming all the way to Dhanbad. "There will be other autos to transport  passengers from Jharia to Dhanbad," he explained. Yadav said that the process of identifying designated  auto stops was also launched on Tuesday in the presence of officials of the motor vehicle department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Volleyball melas planned across Jharkhand from October||Volleyball melas are being organised across Jharkhand from October onwards to promote the game. Jharkhand Volleyball Association (JVA) has asked all 24 district affiliates to organise melas, that can be in the form of training camps or tournaments, in their respective areas at intervals of three months. The East Singhbhum District Volleyball Association (ESDVA) has planned a training camp in mid-October. "We and other district affiliates have been asked by the state association to organise a mela. We have planned a training camp in mid-October which will conclude in two-three days. The Covid-19 pandemic has kept our spikers indoors for a year now," said association secretary Rajeev Mishra. According to him, since the   Covid  situation is under control in Jharkhand, they would soon identify a venue for conducting the training camp for sub-junior, junior and senior players. It is a good step taken by  JVA as melas will help in promoting and popularising volleyball across the state," Mishra added. The East Singhbhum district association holds training camps and tournaments at JRD Tata Sports Complex and R.D. Bhatta Community Centre at Bistupur. District volleyball outfits have come up with impressive performances in state championships. Some spikers regularly earn berths in state teams for national competitions. It started with a separate tournament for girls over two years back. The tournament received a good response. "We have serious plans to promote girls and the tournament we hosted two years back was intended to development interest for volleyball among girls," Mishra said The district association also plans to host the state youth (Under-21) tournament in January-February next year. "The pandemic has affected all our programmes. Otherwise we organise tournaments at regular intervals. The game is popular in the steel city and there is no dearth of facilities," the ESDVA secretary added. Chatra District Volleyball Association is organising an open tournament to mark the mela. "The tournament will be for different age groups. The dates are yet to be finalised but the tournament will be organised sometime in the third week of October," an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Decision on reopening temples, schools likely on Wednesday||Jharkhand is likely to take a decision on reopening of places of worship at a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) to be chaired by Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday, highly placed government sources said on Tuesday. “Covid cases have dropped in the state, so the SDMA is likely to take a call on reopening places of worship at its next meeting,” an official from the disaster management department said. “We also need to consider the effect of keeping temples closed on the livelihood of shopkeepers who are entirely dependent on worshippers for generating income,” he added. Various religious bodies from across the state have been pressing for reopening temples citing the rapidly dwindling financial condition of small-time businessmen solely dependent on worshippers who visit temples, gurdwaras and other religious places  regularly. Last week, members of the Pahari Mandir committee and shop owners in the vicinity of the temple had jointly asked the government to reopen the  place of pilgrimage. Besides, the Opposition BJP has also been criticising the government for keeping temples closed but allowing places of entertainment resume services. The SDMA meeting, which will also be attended by disaster management minister Banna Gupta, is also likely to come up with a decision on reopening  schools for students of class 5 and above, sources from Gupta’s office said. Schools as well as places of worship have remained mostly closed since the Covid-19 pandemic hit Jharkhand in March 2020. While online classes were arranged for students, the government tried to gradually resume in-person classes earlier this year but had to stop the process due to the second wave of Covid-19. The state has so far reported over 3.47 lakh cases of Covid-19 and more than 98 per cent of patients have recovered. As per government data, there were 126 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand as on Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates a record 2.10 lakh residents in a day||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated a record 2.10 lakh residents against Covid-19 as nearly 2,000 session sites remained operational across the state from morning to evening, figures shared by health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday night, the state administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1,58,303 residents, while the second dose was administered to as many as 52,256 beneficiaries. Almost 1.50 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44. With more than 27,000 doses administered, East Singhbhum topped among the 24 districts in vaccinating residents. About 15,000 residents got vaccinated in Ranchi. As per figures shared by the health department on Monday evening, the state has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to over 1.10 crore residents and over 28 lakh of them have also got the second jab. Jharkhand reported at least 24 Covid recoveries against 18 fresh cases and the active caseload dropped to 126, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone reported eight of 24 cases, while West Singhbhum reported six cases. At least 21 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases on Monday. The state tested swab samples of 51,067 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The state has so far reported 3.47 lakh cases of Covid-19 and 98.48 per cent of patients have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
07-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly disrupted following ruckus over namaz room||The monsoon session of the Jharkhand Assembly on Monday was disrupted following ruckus created by the Opposition over allotment of a room for offering namaz in the House. BJP lawmakers chanted slogans of Jai Shri Ram and Har Har Mahadev to protest over the room allotment. Amid the constant disruptions, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon tabled the first supplementary budget of Rs 4,684.93 crore for fiscal 2021-22. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato adjourned the House at around 3.00pm on Monday to 11am on Tuesday. A maximum allocation of Rs 1,786.05 crore has been made to the energy department followed by Rs 1,000.30 crore for the mines and geology department while home jail and disaster management department  Rs  337.32 crore, rural development department Rs 284.34 crore and Rs 279.29 crore to the health department. Earlier, all the BJP MLAs performed bhajan kirtan outside the Assembly with traditional musical instruments like dhol and jhal and sung religious songs. They chanted slogans of Jai Shri Ram to protest the decision of the Speaker for allocating the room for performing namaz inside the Assembly. Later, as soon as the proceedings of the House commenced the BJP MLAs welcomed speakers with chants of Jai Shri Ram and Har Har Mahadev.  As the MLAs were not relenting to repeated requests the Speaker was forced to adjourn the house from 11.30am to 12.45pm in the first half of the day. After the House was reassembled, the MLAs continued with their slogans and demanded that the recruitment policy excluding Hindi, Sanskrit and English for Classes III and IV vacancies is cancelled. After the lunch break, the BJP MLAs once again stormed in the well of the House and indulged in slogan shouting. MLAs Randhir Singh, Bhanu Pratap Sahi and Kishun Das stood on the reporting chair and shouted slogans. On the other hand, BJP MLA Manish Jaiswal sat on the reporting table and kept tapping with his hands while MLAs Raj Sinha and Amar Bauri sat on the Secretary’s table. The act of the MLAs drew sharp reactions from the Speaker who said that the chair was not weak and the acts of the MLAs were against the parliamentary norms. During the question hours, Congress MLA Amba Prasad and Alamgir Alam raised the issue of inflation and the need for change in recruitment policies.  However, the BJP MLAs continued to disrupt the proceedings by dancing in the well of the House forcing the Speaker to adjourn the House till Tuesday. Speaking to reporters outside the Assembly, chief minister Hemant Soren termed the ruckus as unfortunate. “They could have put their question during the question hours and we would have answered. But it seems they were keen on disturbing. It is unfortunate that Opposition parties instead of raising issues on government policies is causing disruption,” said Soren. BJP Rajya Sabha MP and state president Deepak Prakash addressing party workers at Dumka warned that if the government does not withdraw the order of allotment of a room in the Assembly building for offering namaz, BJP workers would stage a dharna outside the House on September 8. The monsoon session is scheduled till September 9. BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das has also written to the Speaker on Monday to withdraw the decision of allotment of the hall for offering namaz within 48 hours or else he would sit on a dharna in front of the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
