08-09-2021||Jharkhand||CBI doubles reward to Rs 10 lakh in Dhanbad judge death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) led by Superintendent of Police (UC) Vijay Kumar Shukla doubled its reward money to Rs 10 lakh on the death of Dhanbad-based additional district and session judge Uttam Anand. The probe agency had earlier announced reward money worth Rs 5 lakh for providing worthwhile information in connection with the murder case. Posters in this regard have been put up at different nooks and corners in the district on Wednesday. The posters mentioned phone numbers - 7827728856, 011-24368640, 011-24368641 - on which information can be shared. It also had the permanent address of CBI’s Special Crime 1 cell, New Delhi and its camp office address – CSIR Satkar Guest House – mentioned. “Shri Uttam Anand, Additional Session Judge of Dhanbad was allegedly murdered on 28.07.2021 at around 5 am after being knocked down by auto near Randheer Prasad Verma Chowk, Dhanbad, Jharkhand. The investigation of the case is being conducted by CBI at Dhanbad,” the posters read in Hindi and English. “If any person is having any kind of knowledge/information of importance related to this murder he/she may kindly inform CBI’s Special Crime 1 cell, New Delhi, Camp CSIR Satkar Guest House on the phone numbers given below,” it said. “Cash reward of Rs 10,00,000 will be given to the person who will furnish worthwhile information relating to the crime. The name of the informant will be kept secret,” the posters read. The CBI had on August 15 put up posters announcing a reward of Rs 5 lakh for anyone sharing information of importance on the death of the 49-year-old additional district judge and after a gap of around 23 days, another set of posters mentioning the double reward money were spotted on Wednesday. The CBI has been investigating the case since August 4. They have sent the two main accused including the auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma to jail. The CBI conducted narco-analysis on two accused and used various scientific tests on the accused in its bid to solve the mystery. CBI registers two more FIRs The CBI team investigating the Dhanbad judge murder case registered two more FIRs. One FIR relates to an alleged theft of three mobile phones from the home of one Purnendu Vishwakarma while the other is for the theft of a three-wheeler of Sugnu Devi which was allegedly involved in the incident. Notably, the theft of the auto-rickshaw took place days before the incident but was reported to the police only on July 29. The second FIR was registered with regard to the theft of three mobile phones from the temporary accommodation of Purnendu Vishwakarma, a staff of a railway contractor at Hill Colony based railway outhouse. The mobile theft, however, was carried out two-three days ahead of the auto theft. The two accused are also involved in several other mobile theft incidents earlier. These cases were reported as isolated incidents by the state police. Going by the procedure, the agency has taken over these FIRs as its own cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
08-09-2021||Jharkhand||Police thwart BJP march to Assembly over namaz room row||Police used water cannons and resorted to lathicharge to disperse an unruly crowd of thousands of BJP supporters who were marching to the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha on Wednesday to protest against Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto’s decision to allocate a room for namaz within the assembly premises in Dhurwa. There was commotion on the roads leading to the Assembly through the day. Despite prohibitory orders, in addition to the curbs on political procession in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, over 7,000 BJP workers joined the march forcing police to resort to lathicharge after a group of protestors broke a barricade near Jagannath temple, about 2km from the Assembly. Before that, police used water cannons to try and disperse the crowd. But the BJP supporters turned even more violent and uprooted barricades, prompting cops to wield lathis. Later, the BJP issued a statement claiming that at least a dozen of its supporters suffered serious injuries, while many others sustained injuries of varying degrees. At night, the BJP announced its decision to observe Thursday as "Black Day" across the state. Party MLAs will also wear black badges to the Assembly on the last day of the monsoon session. Ranchi district administration defended the police action, pointing out that BJP did not take permission for such a large gathering. SDO Deepak Kumar Dubey said, "No one took any permission, especially when such things are banned as per Covid-19 norms. Thousands of BJP workers attempted to break the security barricades forcing police to use water cannons and resort to mild lathicharge. There are prohibitory orders in force around a radius of 750 meter from the Assembly.” Around 12 noon, scores of party workers, drawn from all 24 districts of the state, assembled at Ranchi’s Harmu ground and began a 10km-long padhyatra towards the Assembly chanting "Jai Shree Ram", "Har har mahadev" and shouting slogans against chief minister Hemant Soren. A large posse of policemen were deployed on roads leading to the Assembly, but traffic went haywire due to the sheer number of protesters. Former chief minister Raghubar Das, state unit president Deepak Prakash, Ranchi MLA Sanjay Seth and several other leaders were part of the protest. Around 2pm, protesters broke barricades near the Jagannathpur temple despite repeated pleas by police to maintain order. Police were left with no option but to use water canons and then resort to lathicharge to disperse the unruly crowd. After that, several BJP leaders, including Das and Prakash, sat on dharna for hours, accusing the Hemant Soren government of attempting to muzzle democratic protest. BJP MLAs, led by its legislature party leader Babulal Marandi, also raised slogans against the government for the lathicharge and joined the dharna. Prakash announced that the BJP would intensify its fight against the "unconstitutional" decision of the Assembly Speaker to "appease a particular community" at the behest of state government.  “We are not going to sit silently no matter how many lathis the Hemant government uses on our workers. BJP will not allow the Assembly to be used for polarisation at any cost," he said. Former chief minister Das also condemned the Hemant government for using force against BJP protestors. “Our fight is not against any community or faith, but against the state government’s attempt to polarise people," he said. Both the ruling JMM and Congress criticized the BJP for trying to promote unrest at the time of pandemic. Congress MLA Irfan Ansari said, “It is the BJP’s plan to rake up unrest and violence in the city and state over a non-issue. But, the state government will deflate all such attempts.” Three Bills passed The state Assembly passed the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, along with two other bills on Wednesday amid protests by the Opposition BJP in and outside the House against the allocation of a namaz room in the assembly. After the formal notification of the law on employment of local candidates, 75 per cent jobs in private sector for employees earning up to Rs 40,000 will have to be reserved for local persons. Two other bills which were rushed through the House include Jharkhand Municipal (Amendment) Bill 2021 and Jharkhand Goods and Service Bill 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
08-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant cites SC order, to decide on reopening shrines next week ||Chief Minister Hemant Soren directed the state disaster management secretary on Wednesday to follow Supreme Court's latest order and prepare accordingly for reopening the historic Baba Baidyanath Temple in Deoghar, thereby deferring any decision on reopening places of worship till the next week. Chairing a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) at the Vidhan Sabha building on Wednesday, Hemant was informed about the latest order of the apex court in response to a plea seeking a direction to the Jharkhand government to consider opening the centuries-old old temple. “Please get a copy of the Supreme Court’s order and act accordingly,” the chief minister was quoted as saying in a press communique from his office. As per this communique, Hemant has directed state disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal to get all the details of the SC orders regarding reopening of temples and meet next week to take a decision on the issue keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation in the state. The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected an urgent hearing of the plea to the direct reopening of the Baba Baidyanath Dham for worshippers, claiming that there was no need for urgency. A three-bench observed that people were suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic across the country and the matter of reopening temples did not require immediate attention. "People are suffering from Covid-19 and you want the temple to open?" Chief Justice N.V Ramana said. In the petitioner’s defence, lawyer Prashant Kumar told the court that cases of Covid-19 have dropped significantly in Jharkhand. The Baba Baidyanath temple, one of the 12 jyotirlings of Lord Shiva, sees hundreds of devotees daily through the year. It has been closed for the public since the second wave of Covid-19 hit Jharkhand. Rituals at this temple are, however, performed daily by priests. Various religious bodies from across the state have been pressing for reopening temples citing the rapidly dwindling financial condition of small-time businessmen solely dependent on worshippers who visit temples, gurudwaras and other religious places on a regular basis. It was expected that the government would take a favourable decision regarding reopening places of worship at Wednesday's meet. But, no announcements regarding any further relaxations in Covid-induced restrictions were made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
08-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant seeks time from Modi to press for caste based census||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has announced that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for a caste based census, throwing his weight behind his counterparts in several Opposition-ruled states that have voiced a similar demand. Hemant has writtent to Modi seeking an appointment, his office said on Wednesday afternoon. Chief minister of neighbouring Bihar  Nitish Kumar, who is heading a coalition government of the JDU and BJP, also favours caste based census and led an all-party delegation to meet the Prime Minister on August 23. Now weeks later, Hemant too is gearing up to lead a delegation to pressure the Union government even though the BJP has so far remained non-committal on the issue. In his brief letter dated September 7, Hemant wrote: "A nine-member delegation under me wants to meet you to demand and discuss caste based census. Requesting you to give your appointment at the earliest.” The chief minister's office has not elaborated on the composition of the delegation. But sources in the JMM, the party heading the ruling coalition government,  said the nature of the delegation would be announced soon but it waqs unlikely that representatives from all parties would join the team. “While AJSU-P, which is part of the NDA in the state, has supported caste based census in the past, the state unit of the BJP is yet to air its views. If any proposal comes from it to join the delegation, we will be happy to accommodate," said a JMM leader, adding that the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government will certainly try to take everyone along to make a strong representation to the Prime Minister. The JMM leader said they would also press for inclusion of the Sarna code in the nationwide census to provide a distinct identity to tribals. “Last year, the state government had passed an Assembly resolution for inclusion of the Sarna code and sent a proposal to the Union government,” he said. Several rights and social outfits too have been demanding a caste based census. On August 27, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), a conglomeration of civil and tribal rights organisations, appealed to the Union government to accept the growing demands from across different parts of the country for a caste based census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
