09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Speaker sets up 7-member committee on namaz room row||Jharkhand Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto constituted a seven-member committee on Thursday, the concluding day of the monsoon session of the Assembly, to evaluate his decision to allocate a separate room for namaz within the Assembly precincts, giving it 45 days to present a report with suggestions on the issue that has snowballed into a major controversy with the Opposition BJP blaming the Hemant Soren government for resorting to "appeasement politics". The members of the committee are Stephen Marandi, Sarfaraz Ahmed (JMM), Vinod Singh (CPI-ML), Lambodar Mahto (Ajsu), Deepika Pandey Singh (Congress), Pradeep Yadav (Independent) and Neelkant Singh Munda (BJP). “Even though the committee has a deadline of 45 days to submit its report but I would welcome it if it gives the report earlier," Mahto said. Earlier in the day, a BJP delegation met governor Ramesh Bais and handed over a memorandum seeking his intervention on the namaz room issue and complained against Wednesday's police lathicharge on its supporters. There was pandemonium in the Assembly over the issue on Thursday too, the conculding day of the monsoon session. Amid the bedlam, the House cleared four more bills, namely, Jharkhand State Open University Bill 2021, Jharkhand Panchayati Raj (Amendment) Bill 2021, Jharkhand State Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill 2021 and Finance Bill- 2021 without any debate or discussion. Speaking to the media in the evening, chief minister Hemant Soren condemned the BJP for creating trouble in the Assembly over anon-issue. “But I thank the Assembly Speaker for the way he conducted the House to maintain the dignity of MLAs of all parties. The state saw how the BJP tried to create social unrest. People will evaluate it. All I want to say is that this is the Assembly, the highest seat of democracy and a temple of people of all faiths, not a ground for gulli-danda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||RSS affiliated trade union protests against price rise||More than 20 activists of the district unit of an RSS affiliated trade union on Thursday staged a day-long Dharna at district headquarters. The agitation by Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh was part of a nationwide protest of the union government on price rise and black marketing of essential goods. The protestors released an eight-point charter of demand addressed to Prime minister Narendra Modi demanding immediate steps to control the rising prices of food items and petroleum products. The protestors also threatened to up the ante if their demands are not met. Talking to the media, KP Singh, former district general Secretary of Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh said,  “Due to the wrong policies of the government at the centre, the inflation is at its peak and everybody right from farmers to the those in services sectors are facing its brunt.” “The hike in prices of petroleum products coupled with the lack of control on the prices of essential products has made the prices of all household items including potato, onion, mustard oil, refined oil, pulses reach an all-time high. The management of house expense has become difficult for one and all,” said Gupta, adding that despite the one nation one tax provision, the oil prices are out of purview of GST due to which both state government and central government are imposing seperate taxes, leading to its skyrocketing prices. “We are staging Dharna in all the district headquarters as part of the nationwide protest against the wrong policies of the central government as we are concerned with the difficulties faced by people across the country during the time of pandemic as they are already facing all kinds of issues due to unemployment owing to the closure of industries, offices etc,” said Gupta. He also accused the central government of closing the public sector industries in name of monetization aggravating the situation of unemployment and price rise and said they would work to dislodge any government that will work against the common people. Echoing sentiments, Bindeshawari Prasad, former state General Secretary of BMS said, “The price rise situation in the country is at its peak and we demand the central government to make provision for mentioning the production cost by producer on each product to solve the issue of black marketing of different products by hoarders.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP delegation meets Governor, calls for withdrawing namaz room decision||A BJP delegation handed over a memorandum to Governor Ramesh Bais on Thursday to seek his intervention in the immediate withdrawal of the Assembly Speaker’s decision of dedicating a room for offering Namaz at the Vidhan Sabha building, terming the move “undemocratic”, “unconstitutional” and “hazardous” to the secular fabric of governance in the country. “The BJP respects all religions and believes in the freedom of practising one’s religion of choice, but the decision taken by the State Assembly Speaker to dedicate a room for members of a particular community is clearly an attempt to polarize the people of the state and appease one particular community for political gains,” the memorandum stated. The delegation was led by state BJP  general secretary Aditya Sahu. State party vice president Gangotri Kujur, treasurer Deepak Banka and senior leader Balmukund Sahay were also part of the team. In the memorandum, the saffron party claimed that the Speaker's September 2 decision of dedicating a room for offering Namaz has resulted in demands by various groups of allotting dedicated places in the Assembly for offering prayers as per their religious beliefs – a trend that dilutes the inherent purpose of the State Assembly, which is to pass legislation for the betterment of the public irrespective of their religious beliefs. The BJP, which is the largest Opposition party in the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly, also sought a probe into the lathicharge on its workers and leaders during a protest against the Speaker's decision on Wednesday. In its memorandum to the Governor, the party claimed that police lathicharged BJP workers protesting peacefully and did not even spare women party workers during the “barbaric onslaught”. Former chief minister Babulal Marandi and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash were also attacked, but security personnel deployed for their safety saved them from suffering major injuries, the BJP stated in its memorandum. The Jharkhand Assembly’s decision of allocating a room for offering Namaz in the Vidhan Sabha building has caused ripples in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, with a Bihar legislator demanding a facility for chanting Hanuman Chalisa in the Assembly and a Samajwadi Party MLA asking for a Namaz room in the state Assembly on the lines of Jharkhand. As a mark of protest, BJP lawmakers turned up at the state Assembly in Ranchi dressed as priests and chanted “Jai Sri Ram” on Tuesday during proceedings of the monsoon session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Tatas foray into using electric vehicles to transport finished steel||Tata Steel has introduced  Electric Vehicles (EVs) for transportation of finished steel at its Jamshedpur plant. The steel major, which had launched the initiative at the Sahibabad plant in Uttar Pradesh in July, extended it to Jamshedpur with an inaugural run from the company's Billet Yard to Beekay Steel Plant on Wednesday evening. Tata Steel has tied up with an Indian startup to pursue its aspiration of deploying EVs for the transportation of finished steel. The company has been contracted to deploy 27 EVs with a minimum carrying capacity of 35 tonnes of steel. The company plans to deploy 15 EVs at its Jamshedpur plant and 12 EVs at its Sahibabad plant. Sudhansu Pathak, vice- president, (Steel Manufacturing), Tata Steel, referred to the adoption of this technology as an important initiative to reduce carbon footprint and further the cause of sustainability. "The initiative is a reinforcement of Tata Steel’s commitment as a responsible corporate towards the residents of steel city," he added. Company vice-president ( Supply Chain) Peeyush Gupta said the initiative was aimed at reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and would help protect the environment in the long run. The EVs being deployed comprise a 2.5 ton, 275kWh lithium-ion battery pack with a sophisticated cooling system and a battery management system having the capability to operate at ambient temperatures of up to 60 degrees Celsius. The battery pack is powered by a 160 kWh charger set-up which is able to charge the battery from 0 to 100 % in 95 minutes. With zero tailpipe emission, each EV would reduce the GHG footprint by more than 125-tonne carbon dioxide equivalent every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand vaccinates 1.35 lakh residents amid rise in Covid cases ||Jharkhand on Wednesday vaccinated more than 1.35 lakh residents, while the upward trend of active Covid cases continued for the second day in a row, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 99,848 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 37,046 beneficiaries. About 1 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44 years. The active caseload of Covid-19 jumped further to 139 as Jharkhand reported at least 23 fresh cases of coronavirus infections against only 13 recoveries, a separate bulletin from NHM highlighted. Ranchi alone accounted for 13 of the 23 fresh cases and the count of active cases witnessed a spike here as well. As many as seven patients recovered from Covid-19 in the district and the active caseload jumped to 82. At least 16 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while East Singhbhum reported three cases against two recoveries. Dhanbad, Deoghar, Bokaro, Jamtara and Khunti reported one case each, while two people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 in West Singhbhum. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of at least 50,045 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, more than 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. With nearly 18,000 residents getting vaccinated on Wednesday, Ranchi achieved the best vaccination numbers among the districts. Dhanbad also vaccinated at least 16,000 beneficiaries. In East Singhbhum, about 5000 residents got vaccinated. According to a document shared by the health department on Wednesday evening, Jharkhand had more than 8.43 lakh vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors. More than 7 lakh Covishield doses and 1.34 lakh Covaxin doses were in stock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 500 trap cameras to be used in animal census in Palamau Tiger Reserve||Over 500 trap cameras would be used in the census of animals including tigers in the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), an official said. Altogether 509 trap cameras spread over 1,129 square km will be used in counting the animals including tigers, Director of PTR, Kumar Ashutosh told reporters on Wednesday. He said the process of installing the cameras in identified spots will take place from October to December and 300 trekkers will be pressed into service for the job. Apart from the photographs, the excreta of tigers will be collected and it would be sent to wildlife laboratory in Dehradun for testing, the PTR Director said. Ashutosh said the counting of wildlife would be conducted under the supervision of four expert forest officials. Currently, the reserve has 72 leopards. The results of the counting were expected to come in July next year, he said, adding that the counting would be conducted scientifically. He said a proposal has been sent to the state government to develop Ketchki as a tourist destination. Ketchki is an attractive place of Beta National Park, where several Bollywood stars including Sharmila Tagore and Bimal Roy have filmed their movies, he said. The Betla National Park will be opened for visitors from October 1, Ashutosh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly: Ex-speakers decry BJP hoopla over Namaz room||Two former Jharkhand Assembly Speakers and a BJP ally have condemned the BJP’s disruption of the House over the allotment of a room on the premises for MLAs to offer namaz, saying everyone should encourage religious tolerance in these troubled times. “I would have given a place also to them (BJP members) for reciting the Hanuman Chalisa, though I’m sure they wouldn’t do it (recite the Chalisa),” Inder Singh Namdhari, Jharkhand’s first Assembly Speaker, said at a panel discussion on the subject organised by the state-run Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha TV on Tuesday night. “They (BJP members) are pursuing the matter with an attitude of nahle pe dahla marna (a Hindi saying meaning outdoing an adversary),” added Namdhari, who was with the BJP before he left the party and contested and won in 2009 as an Independent candidate. The Jharkhand Assembly has had a namaz room since the state was carved out of Bihar in the year 2000. The BJP suddenly made an issue out of it when on September 2, a day before the current session opened, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato issued an order making the allotment official, perhaps feeling the need to do so because the Assembly had a few months ago shifted to a new building. The BJP picked the matter up as it “does not have any other suitable issue to pursue”, another former Speaker, Shashank Shekhar Bhokta, said at the panel discussion. Since Monday, BJP lawmakers have been in uproar in the Assembly, reciting the Hanuman Chalisa, singing bhajan-kirtans, chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Har Har Mahadev”, and occupying the Well to try and prevent any business until the room allotment is withdrawn. Namdhari said the Assembly of undivided Bihar had a room for members to offer namaz, and Jharkhand had retained this and all other rules and practices of the parent Assembly. He said the Muslim MLAs of undivided Bihar had applied for a place to offer the Friday prayers because there was no mosque near the House. Bhokta, a member of the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, said at the panel discussion: “The practice (in Jharkhand) continued even when MLAs from the BJP became Speakers; it never became an issue till now.” “A temple was built within the chief minister’s official residence when (BJP politician) Arjun Munda was chief minister but no one objected.” Bhokta added: “Even Muslim constables never demanded that mosques be built within the premises of police stations although many of those already housed temples.” He said everyone needed to show tolerance. “It’s an old tradition in this country to (give people the) right to observe their respective religious practices,” Lambodar Mahato, an MLA from BJP ally All Jharkhand Students Union, said at the panel discussion with Namdhari and Bhokta. Namdhari said the channel should have also invited “someone sensible” from the BJP to the discussion so that they could be requested “not to fan communal issues”. Congress MLA Deepika Pandey Singh told this newspaper: “Youths are worried about employment, not about who’s offering namaz where.” She expressed frustration that the ruckus was preventing the House from discussing and conducting business. “People are discussing unemployment and price rise outside while the legislators are doing bhajan-kirtan within the House,” CPIML Liberation MLA Vinod Singh told this newspaper. On Wednesday, police used water cannons and then their batons as 1,500-odd BJP workers tried to break barricades about 2km from the Assembly as part of a programme to surround the House. Former BJP chief minister Raghubar Das sat on a dharna outside the Assembly. A PIL has been filed in Jharkhand High Court against the allotment of the room for namaz but is yet to be listed for hearing. Petitioner Bhairav Singh is the prime accused in a mob attack on chief minister Hemant Soren’s convoy in January. He is out on bail. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
09-09-2021||Jharkhand||Two kids killed, four injured in bee attack in Jharkhand||Two children were killed and four others were injured in a bee attack in Giridih district of Jharkhand on Tuesday evening. According to reports, 12-year-old Uttam Bhula and his brother Gautam, 10, sons of Narayan Bhula, had gone to graze goats in Devani forest near Baghjant village on Tuesday evening and had climbed a tree to pluck fruits when they were attacked by a swarm of bees. Hearing their cries, their aunt Malwa Devi, uncle Arjun Bhula and cousin sisters Soni Kumari and Karishma Kumari rushed to the spot only to be attacked by the bees causing injuries to them. However, they managed to bring the two children back with them to the house and opted for treatment by a village quack. When the condition of the children deteriorated in the night, they tried to take them to the nearby primary health centre on Wednesday morning but they succumbed to their injuries on the way. Baghjant falls under Nimadih panchayat of Gawan block in Giridih district, around 240km from Ranchi. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar said that they will verify if the forest department has any provision for compensation. “The incident took place in a forest when the bees attacked them. I have asked the local block officials to submit a report in this connection which would be forwarded to the forest department to explore any possibility of compensation for the bereaved family,” he said. The bodies of the children were handed over to their relatives for the last rites. A week ago, a 10-year-old boy of Singho village under Tisri police station area in Giridih district was killed in a bee attack along with four other members of his family. Vishal, son of Kauleshwari Turi, died while being taken to the hospital. The family members had relied on a village quack for treatment before deciding to take him to hospital. Vishal had also gone to the forest to graze goats with two friends and had climbed a tree when he was attacked by a swarm of bees. The bees attacked the three children and family members who had rushed to the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
