10-09-2021||Jharkhand||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrives in Dhanbad for 3-day convention||RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat who was in Dhanbad on Friday to participate in the three-day convention of the organisation discussed ways to strengthen it at the grass root level and increase its reach to tribal hinterland of Jharkhand as part of Mission 2024. Bhagwat who arrived here from Patna on Friday morning at around 5.30 am through Ganga Damodar Express was taken straight to Rajkamal Sarwaswati Vidya Mandir of Dhansar, the venue of the programme, amidst strict security. He held two rounds of meetings with 40 pracharaks of RSS from different parts of the state from 2pm to 5pm and again from 6pm to 8pm during which he took stock of the ongoing activities of the organisation from them. Bhagwat who arrived in the district after a gap of three years after participating in the sports wing, Krida Bharati programme of RSS in 2018 will also hold discussion with the pracharaks of Bihar on Saturday during the second day of programme during which some senior leaders of BJP are also expected to participate. In 2014, Bhagwat participated in the programme of Ekal Vidyalaya held in Dhanbad. Notably the three day programme during which organisation members from different parts of Bihar and Jharkhand are expected to participate will deliberate on a wide range of issues and discuss the strategy to increase its reach to various nooks and corners of Jharkhand ahead of 2024 elections. The RSS Chief during his three day stay at Dhanbad will also hold discussions with regional executive committee besides the Mahanagar Sakha Chief teachers, and arond 100 memeber of Buddhidhijivi Prakostha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP cries foul as Ranchi police file FIR against 28 leaders ||Ranchi police lodged an FIR against 28 named BJP leaders,  including two MPs, and at least 1,200 unknowns, for violence during the party's march to  the Vidhan Sabha on September 8 in violation of Covid-19 protocols to protest against the allotment of a namaz room within the Assembly precincts. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash and Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth are among those named in the FIR. A senior officer at Dhurwa police station said, “An FIR was lodged against 28 named and several unnamed people,  numbering over 1,200 from the BJP,  for illegally taking out a  padyatra and resorting to gherao of the  Assembly based on a complaint submitted by city circle officer Amit Bhagat.” Bhagat has confirmed that he  submitted his complaint to the police on Wednesday. Asked about the sections under which the FIR was registered, the Dhurwa police officer said, “Several cases of IPC pertaining to obstructing government officials from performing duties, violence, attempts to communalise, threatening peaceful environment, among others. These apart, relevant charges under the Disaster Management Act were also pressed for holding the protest in violation of the state government’s Covid-19 curbs.” Calls by The TelegraphOnline to Senior SP S.K. Jha and city SP Saurabh went unanswered. Around 7,000 BJP supporters from across  districts, led by the state BJP top brass, began a march to the Assembly from Harmu ground covering a distance of about 10 km on September 8. However, a section of the protestors clashed with police near the Jagannathpur temple after allegedly breaking   security barricades, forcing police to first use   water-cannons and then resort to lathicharge. The BJP claimed  the police action resulted in  serious injuries to at least a dozen of its supporters. On Friday, the BJP criticized  police and the Hemant  Soren government of lodging "false" cases against its  party leaders. It also claimed that the Speaker’s move to form a review panel on the namaz room indicated that the government was on the defensive. Addressing a joint press conference, state  BJP  president Prakash and MLA Amar Kumar Bauri said that under no circumstance would the BJP climb down on the issue. Commenting on the  FIR, Prakash said the state government was  trying to muzzle voices of protest in a democratic country.  “We took out a silent protest on September 8. All our party workers were unarmed and on a silent padyatra. But we have been accused of violence. We were beaten by lathis by police without any provocation.  Let the government file cases, BJP will continue to fight for the people.” Prakash welcomed the  Speaker's move to set up a committee. “We welcome the decision to set up a seven- member panel. It was only because of the BJP’s fight to safeguard constitutional norms that the Speaker was forced to do so. We see it as a step back by the Hemant Soren government.” Bauri warned of more  protests if the namaz room order was not rescinded. “BJP is committed to serve the nation and its constitution and we will not allow Talibanisation of Jharkhand. It will not become second Afghanistan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city observes a low-key Ganesh Chaturthi||Ganesh Chaturthi celebration was a low-key affair in steel city on Friday. For the second year in a row, steel city residents missed the century-old Ganesh Puja fair, one of the most awaited annual events organised at the Ganesh Puja ground at Kadma. Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas, the organisers, cancelled the 17-day long Ganesh Mahotsav for the second consecutive year due to the Covid- 19 pandemic. Only Ganesh Puja rituals were organised in the presence of a few members in a simple manner. This year too, the organisers performed the puja at a small idol of lord Ganesh. The Puja organised by Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas entered its 103rd year. The Ganesh Mahotsav at Kadma is best known for its elaborate pandal and the grand fair, which happens to be the biggest in the state. The puja celebrated its centenary year in 2018. The Ganesh Chaturthi celebration at the G. Town Club ground in Bistupur was cancelled due to the pandemic. The organisers said if the situation improves they will resume the celebration next year. Several puja organisers in Sakchi, Sonari, Kadma and other places skipped the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration due to the pandemic. "We do not want to take chances as the fear of Covid's third wave still persists. Therefore, we decided to skip the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration, said a member of a Ganesh Puja committee at Sonari. Several puja committees appealed to people to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at their homes to reduce the risk of spread of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal trader in Dhanbad jail for alleged fraud||Anil Goyal, a Dhansar based coal trader, who was arrested from Calcutta at night on Thursday along with his son Hemant Goyal in connection with a Rs 5.36 forgery case was sent to Dhanbad jail on Friday afternoon after being produced in the court of first class judicial magistrate, M Guin of Dhanbad. The father-son duo are accused of supplying stone and ash mixed waste products in lieu of Australian imported coal after taking Rs 5.36 crore as advance from Ratanji Road, Purana Bazaar, Dhanbad, coal trader Prakash Agarwal, owner of Ayasha Coal trading company, as part of a carefully planned conspiracy. Prakash Agarwal registered a case against Anil Goyal, his son Hemant Goyal and several others including, Dinesh Goyal (Hare Street BBD Bagh Calcutta), Sanjay Kumar Poddar (Bhagalpur, Bihar), Sanjeev Bose (Burdwan), Dharmendra Rai (Gopalganj, Bihar) of forgery of Rs  5.36 and also charged Hemant Agarwal of threatening him in various ways when he demanded return of his money. Talking to media outside the Dhanbad court, Vikash Bhuvania, Agarwal's  lawyer, said, “The duo, who own Nursing Ispat Udyog Pvt Ltd at Calcutta, as a part of a well-planned conspiracy trapped my client, Prakash Agarwal in the name of supply of Australian imported coal and instead supplied stone and ash mixed scrap and also took around Rs 5.5 lakh in advance.” “When my client asked them to take back the waste scrap and instead return back the money Hemant Goyal started threatening them in various ways,” said Bhuvania and added that Hemant Goyal has served a jail term of one and a half months in a GST fraud case. “A case has been registered in this regard by my client Dhansar Police station on August 19 and police after prima facie finding the allegation true arrested them from Calcutta with the help of Calcutta Police,” said Bhuvania.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal India welcomes first woman excavation engineer||Coal India achieved another milestone on Friday after Shivani Meena became the first mining engineer in the excavation cadre to work in an open cast mine weeks after Barkagaon mining engineer Akanksha Kumar became the first woman in the PSU  to work in an underground mine when she joined Churi mines. “Shivani Meena joined the Rajrappa project, a mechanised open cast mine in the Rajrappa area of CCL as an excavation engineer. This is unprecedented as she is the first woman engineer in the excavation cadre to work in an open cast mine. She has been given the responsibility of maintenance and repair of heavy earth moving machinery (HEMM),” the company said in a statement. Rajrappa is an important project of CCL. Recently, it received an award from the coal ministry. Meena is from Bharatpur in Rajasthan. She completed her engineering from IIT-Jodhpur.  “I thank my family and the government for their unwavering support which opened doors for women to venture in hardcore mining work,” she said. Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi  congratulated Shivani. He tweeted: “#NariShakti all the way! Congratulations @CCLRanchi. Hoping that this will open avenues for more female professionals to join the mining sector. @smritiirani.” CCL CMD P.M. Prasad maintained that after underground mines, women engineers have registered their entry in open cast mines, thus giving the required impetus to gender equality and women's empowerment in the coal mining industry. “Until now, the niche work typically has been a foray of men. Girls like Shivani and Akanksha have not merely brought laurels to themselves and their families, but they are a motivation for many others who wish to pursue their leads across the country,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain expected in Jharkhand on Sunday, Monday||The Ranchi Met centre has forecast  heavy rain over Jharkhand on Sunday and Monday (September 12 and 13) due to the impact of a low-pressure system brewing over the Bay of Bengal, expected to intensify into a depression in another 48 hours. Weathermen said a cyclonic circulation over east-central Bay of Bengal was on Friday extending upto 7.6 km above mean sea level. "Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the central Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and concentrate into a depression," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Friday passing through Jaisalmer , Tikamgarh, Pendra Road, Paradip and stretched till east-central Bay of Bengal extending upto 1.5km above mean sea level. Weathermen said the intensity of rain will be more in the north-eastern and southern parts of Jharkhand. The Met centre also warned of moderate lightning and thunder in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next 72 hours. Data revealed that light to moderate rain occurred at few places over Jharkhand in the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall of 55.2 mm was recorded at Chandil in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Till now, Jharkhand has received rainfall of 822 mm against a normal of 900.3 mm, a deficit of nine per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) secures its best ranking in Union government list ||IIT (ISM) has secured its best ever ranking among engineering colleges in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released on Thursday by Union Minister of Education Dharmendra Pradhan. IIT (ISM) which has been ranked at 11th position with a score of 64.07, improving its ranking by one place as it was ranked 12th last year in the same category. IIT Madras secured the top ranking  in the same category with a score of 90.19 which was followed by IIT Delhi at second position with 88.96 scrore and IIT Bombay at third position with a score of 85.16. All top eight positions in engineering colleges were bagged by different IITs while the 9th position went to NIT Tiruchirappalli with score 66.08 while the 10th position went to NIT Karnataka which has secured a 64.10 score. In management category, Jamshedpur based XLRI however has secured 8th rank with the score of 69.93 while IIT Ranchi secured 21st Position with the score of 58.26.  IIT (ISM) has secured a 30 rank in the management category with the score of 54.54. The first position in Management category was awarded to IIM Ahmedabad with the score of 83.69. The second position among management institutions went to IIM Bangalore with a score of 83.48 while the third position was bagged by IIM Calcutta with 80.04 score. In overall ranking, IIT (ISM) however slipped by one position over the last year as it secured 26th rank with 53.88 score while its rank last year was 25th. The first position in overall ranking went to IIT Madras again with a score of 86.76 while second position went to Indian Institute of Science with a score of 82.67. The third overall ranking was secured by IIT Bombay with a score of 82.52. NIRF has introduced a new Category of ranking of Research this year and IIT (ISM) has secured 20th rank in this category with the score of 52.40. The first rank in the research category went to Indian Institute of Science at Bengaluru with the score of 86.48 while the second position was bagged by  IIT Madras with the score of 86.01. IIT Bombay was ranked 3rd in research Category with the score 80.93.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases continue to rise for third day in a row in Jharkhand ||The active caseload of Covid-19 crossed the 150-mark in Jharkhand on Thursday as fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection outnumbered Covid recoveries in the state for the third day in a row, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. According to a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 27 fresh Covid cases against 12 Covid recoveries took the active Covid caseload in the state to 154. Ranchi alone accounted for 18 cases with the  active caseload jumping to  94 as only six patients recovered from the viral infection in the district. At least 20 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on Thursday. Dhanbad reported four cases against one recovery, while East Sighbhum reported two cases and the same number of recoveries. At least three people were found infected in Deoghar, while no patient recovered from the viral infection there. While the trajectory of active Covid cases witnessed an upward trend, the vaccination numbers in Jharkhand could not cross the 1-lakh-mark on Thursday. The state vaccinated close to 80,000 residents. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 57,539 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 22,200 beneficiaries. Ranchi vaccinated about 11,000 residents on Thursday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, NHM data highlighted. According to a press communique from the health department, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to over 1.14 crore residents and around 30 lakh of them have also received the second jab. The state, as per government records, had at least 15.38 lakh vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on Thursday. As per government data, there were 1.5 lakh Covaxin doses and 13.87 lakh Covishield doses in stock before vaccination began on Thursday. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 49,950 residents and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.48 Jharkhand residents have been infected by Coronavirus so far and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reaches water pact  with Asian Development Bank||A tripartite loan agreement of Rs 1,168 crore was signed between Jharkhand urban development department, Asian Development Bank and the Union government to develop water supply infrastructure and strengthen the capacity of urban local bodies for improved service delivery in four towns in Jharkhand. The signatories to the agreement for Jharkhand Urban Water Supply Improvement Project was ministry of finance’s department of economic affairs additional secretary Rajat Kumar Mishra, who signed for the Government of India, and ADB country director for India Takeo Konishi, who signed for ADB, state urban development authority director Amit Kumar and deputy project manager Juidco, Utkarsh Mishra. “The project is aligned to the Government of Jharkhand’s priority to improve urban services in the state and will ensure continuously, treated piped water supply in the state capital of Ranchi and other three towns of Hussainabad, Jhumri Telaiya, and Medininagar located in economically and socially backward areas,” said Rajat Mishra after signing the agreement. “The project will be ADB’s first urban project in the state and help establish a model for continuous water supply combined with policy reforms for sustainable operation, which can be replicated by other low-income states for providing safe drinking water to urban households as envisaged under national Jal Jeevan Mission,” said Takeo Konishi. Four water treatment plants, with a combined capacity of 275 million litres per day, will be established in the project towns to provide safe drinking water, meeting the national drinking water quality standards. The project will also establish 940km of the water distribution network to provide continuous water supply to about 115,000 households, including those below the poverty line, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe members, and other vulnerable groups. To ensure sustainability, the project will strengthen the capacity of ULBs on urban service delivery and governance through the development of an asset management strategy and training on the design and implementation of urban projects. Innovative technologies will be introduced to minimise water losses in water treatment and distribution. The project also includes the use of supervisory control and data acquisition system for water supply operation and geographic information system-based asset management in Ranchi. The project will provide drinking water to about 5 lakh 85 thousand urban population. In the first phase, a total project of Rs 1,168 crore has been made for water supply in four urban bodies and ADB will give a loan of Rs 817.80 crore under the first phase, while the share of the state government will be around Rs 350.40 crore. In the Ranchi project, 3,04,660 people (60932 houses) will be benefitted while 31,515 people (6303 houses) will be benefitted in Hussainabad urban water supply, 1,25,000 people (25,000 houses) will get water in Jhumritilaiya urban drinking water supply and 1,23,555 people (24,711 houses) will be benefited under Medininagar urban water supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||Book on Stan Swamy’s work to be released in New Delhi on Friday||A book on octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, who died in judicial custody in July, which aims to highlight he was a “law-abiding”, “peace-loving” and “truth-speaking citizen”, will be released in New Delhi on Friday. Fr Stan Swamy: A Maoist or a Martyr?, written by academic and human rights defender Prakash Louis, is divided into seven chapters which present facts and figures, arguments and counter-arguments, dates and data on the priest’s work. “This book aims at presenting facts and figures, arguments and counter-arguments, dates and data to highlight that Father Stan Swamy, who died in judicial custody after being arrested on the accusation of being a Maoist, was a law-abiding, peace-loving, truth-speaking citizen. The book also examines the fact that he was fundamentally and foundationally connected with the lives and struggles of the Adivasis of central India whose lives, rights and dignity was his primary focus,” said Louis, who has been working and writing on the issues of Dalits, tribals, minorities and all marginalised communities. “Fr Stan also saw, observed, researched, spoke, wrote, and trained the Adivasis to voice their concerns whenever and wherever their rights were violated and trampled upon. Hence, those in power from the dominating caste, class, gender saw him as a threat to their power, position and privileges. So, they named him a friend of the Maoists and called him anti-national, anti-development and anti-peace. This age-old game of naming, blaming and shaming was not enough for them since (Fr) Stan was not the one to be cowed down,” said Louis. He is currently the convener of the Bihar-UP Jesuit Migration Hub, a Jesuit organisation that addresses the issues of distress migration from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, tries to identify the originating points from these states and follows up with the organisations working on migrants in destination states like Maharashtra, Andhra, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Louis, while thanking everyone who contributed to the creation of this book, said: “They incarcerated Fr Stan in false cases and remanded him in custody. Even from Tajola jail, he tried to obtain bail so that he can work towards securing bail for all the political prisoners. But now his martyrdom has raised fundamental questions about the extraordinary laws and unconstitutional way of governance. Fr Stan’s martyrdom liberates every citizen of this country from tyranny.” Fr Stan was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on October 8, 2020, from his Namkum residence near Ranchi in Jharkhand and lodged in Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. He died under judicial custody while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai in July. Louis has served as the executive director of the Indian Social Institute, New Delhi and Bangalore and South Asia director of Jesuit Refugee Services, was the co-founder of the South Asian People’s Initiative and initiator of Indian Christians for Democracy. Some of his books are — Extraordinary Laws in India, Peoples Power: Naxalite Movement in Central Bihar, Political Sociology of Dalit Assertion, Indigenous Peoples’ Struggle for Self-Determination, Rights of the Minorities in India and Catholic Social Teachings. He holds a doctorate in sociology on social movements and his thesis was published as People Power: The Naxalite Movement in Central Bihar. Louis was and is part of many organisations, forums, campaigns, networks and movements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
10-09-2021||Jharkhand||CAG report points out irregularities in construction of bridges||A report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, which was tabled in the Jharkhand Assembly on Wednesday, has pointed out several irregularities by the state government’s rural development department in the construction of bridges. According to the CAG report for 2018-19, the rural development department had neither framed any operational guidelines nor conducted any survey to assess the gaps in rural road network that warranted the construction of bridges. Moreover, the bridges were selected mostly on the recommendations of MPs and MLAs under the Mukhya Mantri Gram Setu Yojana without examining their feasibility, the report stated. The audit team therefore found out that three bridges — all within one-and-a-half kilometres — were built on Kesho river in Koderma for Rs 13.44 crore to cater to the same habitat, suggesting that it was an infructuous expenditure. “The department also didn't have any guidelines for engaging consultants for preparation of detailed project reports (DPRs) (for construction of proposed bridges) and that provided them with an undue benefit of open-ended engagement period,” Indu Agarwal, the state’s principal accountant-general (audit), told the media about the CAG report at her Doranda office in Ranchi on Thursday. “The office of the chief engineer that sanctions these bridges also doesn’t have any design cell, compelling it to accept the DPRs as submitted by the consultants,” she added, indicating that the department had no mechanism to detect and correct any design faults that might creep in during the construction of bridges under MMGSY that was launched in Jharkhand in September 2001. “The consultants didn’t conduct the required geo-technical Investigations and analysis of hydrological and traffic data,” Agarwal said quoting the CAG report. As a result, eight of the test-checked 42 bridges, constructed at an expenditure of Rs 52.12 crore, got fully or partially damaged subsequently, she added. The audit team also found faults in bridge designs as the consultants provided sharp curves up to 90 degrees in approach roads at entry or exit points of 16 bridges and also shortened the width of approach roads to almost half in the case of 28 bridges. According to the report, the tender and agreement documents were loaded in favour of the contractors and no responsibility was fixed for the execution of sub-standard work valued at Rs 52.07 crore for six bridges. “During 2014-19, 571 bridges were tendered in the state. Of these, 57 bridges with a total agreement value of Rs 251.41 crore were awarded to 13 contractors with each one getting two to seven projects,” the report added, citing examples. In the absence of periodic maintenance of completed bridges, scouring in bridge foundations, wear and tear in expansion joints, cracks in RCC (reinforced cement concrete) work and damages of various kinds were noticed during physical verification, the CAG report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
