11-09-2021||Jharkhand||RSS distances itself from namaz room row  ||RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat who is on a three-day visit to Dhanbad to discuss the ongoing activities of the organisation and discuss the future plan, laid emphasis on expanding its activities to all the 1067 rural units titled mandal and 847 urban units titled Bastis. Giving details of the deliberations held first two days of the meeting Rakesh Lal, Sah Prant Karyawahak of RSS said, “We will be celebrating the 100 years of establishment of RSS in 2025 and therefore discussed the details of expanding our activities in all the rural and as well as urban pockets of Jharkhand before that to make our services available to the common people.” “We have apprised him about the service to society carried out by our organisation during first two phases of the Covid right from providing medicines and foods to affected people and family to shouldering the dead bodies of victims of the pandemic to the crematorium and have also completed all preparations right for the identification of place and appointment of manpower for establishment of block level isolation centres during the third wave,” said Lal. Rakesh Lal who addressed the media to inform about the deliberations however avoided a direct comment for the recent controversy over the allotment of room for offering Namaz in the Jharkhand Assembly and said, “The issue relates to the prerogative of the government here.” “We have heard that the government is planning to reconsider the decision and a committee has also been constituted in this regard and we will comment as per the development after the government reconsideration of the issue” said Lal. When asked by the media about the caste based reservation issue he said, “RSS believes that distinction can’t be carried out between two persons on the basis of their caste as we rather believe in propagating and establishing social harmony and carrying out regular campaigns to narrow down the differences on the basis of caste and origin.” Asked by media about Congress leaders, Digvijay Singh’s recent statement equating RSS with Taliban, Lal said that, “A sea can only be compared with a sea, a mountain can be compared only with mountain so there is no meaning of the statement as Sangh can be compared only with Sangh (read) RSS.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: CBI probing judge death focuses on his pending cases||The Central Bureau of Investigation, probing the alleged murder case of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand has now shifted focus on the cases being dealt by the deceased judge ahead of the incident of July 28 when he was hit by an auto rickshaw near his house during a morning walk leading to his death. The CBI team has collected the details of important cases being dealt by the deceased Uttam Anand and is likely to search for connection, if any, of the accused persons of other cases with the two arrested persons including auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma. The CBI is also likely to find out if any other person who has been denied bail in the court of Uttam Anand may have any link with his death. Notices are being sent to several such persons including the accused persons besides the complainant persons for questioning by the investigation team from Delhi. Two youths including Vikram Singh of Barora and Shahid Ansari of Katras whose cases were also pending in the court of Judge Uttam Anand were questioned by the CBI in the last two days. Vikram Singh, an accused of the violence at a colliery site was questioned on Friday at Katras police station while Shahid Ansari an accused of another colliery violence, was questioned on Saturday. The CBI team which reached Barora police station on Friday called Singh with the help of local police and later took him to Katra police station for questioning. The CBI team later also tried to question Shahid Ansari on Friday but as he was away he was later questioned today. Notably, the SIT of state police led by Sanjay Anand Latkar, ADJ (Operations) which carried out the probe into the cases ever since the incident of July 28 till August 5 when CBI took over the case interrogated several key persons whose  cases are being dealt by judge Uttam Anand including two members of the gang of UP based shooter, Aman Singh whose bail were denied by Uttam Anand. The state police as part of its investigation also questioned over 250 criminals and history sheeters of Dhanbad lodged in different jails across the  state including in Ranchi and Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Football Academy wins award for encouraging youngsters to join sports ||The Tata Football Academy, the youth arm of Jamshedpur FC, has been awarded ‘The Hall of Fame – Youth Development Award’ for its contribution to Indian football by Global Soccer Conclave in its virtual event. The event took place between September 5 and 7 and concluded with the award function. TFA has produced 150 national team players since its inception in 1987 in Jamshedpur, which has been a pioneering effort by Tata Steel, where sport is a way of life.       Jamshedpur FC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari was one of the esteemed panellists for the GSC live discussion where he discussed the Asian football business and various other topics. Jamshedpur FC also had player Ishan Pandita as a representative in the conclave as he won the ‘Most Popular Emerging Player’ award for his heroics in the Indian Super League in the previous season. GSC is a didactic platform of knowledge networking between developed and developing football ecosystems to explore, identify and implement measures to improve football performance of businesses. The event had participation of international clubs, federations, and various other stakeholders. Jamshedpur FC is taking serious steps to develop the football ecosystem in Jharkhand through a grassroots programme launched in 2018. The grassroots programme is helmed by Kundan Chandra. Kundan, a retired Indian Navy officer with a background in aeronautical engineering, has a rich pedigree of coaching background. He is an AFC A Licensed Coach, FIFA Grassroot Instructor, AFC C License Instructor and an AIFF D License Instructor. Besides football festivals for kids under the age groups of 5 to 12,workshops for the coaches, which is an open session for anyone above the age of 18, is also part of the grassroots programme, The primary focus of the club is to educate and develop grassroot coaches so that the children can identify their true potential and graduate to the senior team (read JFC) which participates in the cash-rich Indian Super League. Three graduates -- Mobashir Rahman, Sandeep Mandi and Pronay Halder -- of the elite TFA are presently in the JFC squad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to harness power from its waterfalls ||Jharkhand has identified about a dozen waterbodies, including four waterfalls in Ranchi, for setting up hydroelectric power plants as a part of a green initiative to rely more on renewable sources of energy for meeting the power demands within the state, officials said on Saturday. The four waterfalls in Ranchi – Dasham, Jonha, Hundru and Sita – will be included in this initiative, said sources in Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (JREDA), adding that generation from each of the hydroelectric power plants will be in the range of 1 MegaWatt to 20 MegaWatt, depending on the current and nature of the waterbody. State energy secretary Avinash Kumar said the department of energy has been on the lookout for water bodies for setting up hydroelectric power plants. "We have been identifying water bodies across the state for instaling hydroelectric power plants. Increasing our dependability on renewable sources of energy has always been a priority,” said Kumar. An official from JREDA, requesting anonymity, said that besides the four waterfalls in Ranchi, hydroelectric power plants will also be installed at Torpa, Manoharpur, Basia, Arki, Sugabandh and Raidih. JREDA has prepared the DPR for some of these projects. Setting up hydroelectric power plants at the four waterfalls in Ranchi is likely to cost about Rs 100 crore, sources in the energy department said. Ranchi, also known as the city of waterfalls, is yet to utilise most of its natural waterfalls for generation of energy. This initiative, officials said, will ensure that the waterfalls in the state capital are not just known for their beauty but also for their utility in production of energy. During the recently held investors’ summit in New Delhi, Chief Minister Hemant Soren had stressed on the government’s push for renewable energy and invited investors to set up plants in the state. The hydroelectric power plants may also be run in private public partnership (PPP) mode, sources in the energy department said. The government, however, will provide all possible infrastructural facilities to investors. JREDA has already floated tenders for installation of solar panels at five airports, including the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi, for generating solar power that can not only light up the airports but also provide electricity to some residential localities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
11-09-2021||Jharkhand||Rebel den Latehar witnesses Taiwan papaya farm||Mahuadanr in Latehar, infamous for rebel activities and known for its wolf sanctuary, is witnessing a novel and progressive farming of the Taiwan papaya. The initiative is being done by a young intermediate commerce graduate Ujjawal Lakra. Lakra told The Telegraph Online that he first searched on the internet as to what to grow and then fell in love with the Taiwan papaya for its exotic name like Red lady 786. 786 has been a popular Hindi film heroes badge like Amitabh Bachchan in his film Coolie and Govinda wears it in the film Coolie Number One. For Ujjawal Lakra 786 has clicked too, he said. "I am growing Red lady 786 Taiwan papaya in my one acre of land at Baira Toli in Mahuadanr just 5km away from the Mahuadanr block and 110km away from Daltonganj," said Lakra. "I did my intermediate commerce course from the prestigious Marwari college Ranchi and then I decided to build a house on this one acre of land when someone told me about Taiwan papaya and its good market value," he said. Lakra got Taiwan papaya saplings from West Bengal at Rs 60 per sapling. Taiwan papaya plants last for 18 months which means fruits will be coming for eighteen months only in one Taiwan papaya plant before it has to be uprooted for new ones to be sown there. “Taiwan papaya is tasty and grows as little as a papaya plant of three to five feet in height,” he said. Lakra has 600 papaya plants in his one acre of land and one plant can give little over one quintal of papaya. Sources said the papaya has a great market in Lohardaga in Jharkhand and Lakra is too happy to sell his papaya consignment there. A noted physician Anand Kumar here said intake of papaya in everyday meals is good for people of all ages especially in this time of Covid 19. He said there is a misconception that costly fruits give energy only whereas papaya, guava,banana etc a regular use of them can do wonders. About irrigational constraints Lakra said he faced water crisis before, but now with MGNREGA he has a deep well and has started drip irrigation too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
