12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court transfers Rupa Tirkey case to Dhanbad from Sahebganj||The Jharkhand High Court has ordered the Rupa Tirkey suicide case, being investigated by the CBI, to be transferred to a Dhanbad special court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate Shikha Agarwal. The trial is likely to begin after the transfer of documents pertaining to the case from Sahebaganj Court to Dhanbad. The body of Rupa Tirkey, officer in-charge of women police station of Sahebganj was found hanging from at her official residence on May 3. Police investigation in the case claimed that Rupa Tirkey was allegedly harassed by her friend and colleague Shiv Kumar Kanujia leading to her death by suicide following which Kanaujia was arrested on May 9 for abetting her suicide. The case, which has remained in the media spotlight for the last two to three months due to political connotations, has been transferred to Dhanbad special court in the absence of a CBI court in Sahebganj. Dayanand Oraon, father of Rupa Tirkey, claimed his daughter did not die by suicide but had been killed as part of a conspiracy. Oraon who also filed a petition in Jharkhand High Court in June demanding a CBI probe into the death of his daughter charged that she was harassed by some of her colleagues at the instruction of Pankaj Mishra, MLA representative of Chief Minister, Hemant Soren and Dahu Yadav as she didn’t listen to the their request to manage some of the cases being dealt by her. Various tribal right organisations as well as opposition BJP raked up the issue forcing the government to announce a judicial probe into the case and a one-member commission was constituted by the government of a retired high court justice. Dissatisfied with the government move, Oraon continued his demand for a CBI probe into the issue and challenged the government decision of a judicial probe in high court. The court bench of justice SK Dwivedi finally ordered a CBI probe into the case  after which the Patna team of CBI took the case into its hand by registering an FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Mirzapur camels for a joyride on Jharkhand highway ||Camels from Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh travelling to Puri in Odisha through the state highway have become a source of entertainment and means to earn money for its handlers. “People show their hands and ask us to stop by the side of the highway where we make men and boys sit atop the camel and they in turn give us twenty rupees,” said Rinku of Mirza Tahseel under Allahabad district, one of the handlers of the camels. “We are on our way to Puri in Orissa. It has taken nearly two weeks to reach Daltonganj from where we are moving with our camels towards Gumla in Jharkhand for Puri in Orissa,” he said. A sitting on the hunch of the camel is worth Rs 20. The camel obliges it too without making any grudge if a new sitter comes on top of it every five to ten minutes. He said the daily earning is Rs 400. Rinku has two more assistants with him to take care of the camels. “More than half of the income of it goes to our Malik in Mirzapur and the rest we spend on our camels and on our food,” said Rinku. He showed this correspondent his 'dicky' on the camel which one finds in a car. His dicky is the side of the camel from where hang bags which carry rice pulse and clothes and some medicines. Rinku said camels manage their food themselves. If they find palatable leaves in the trees across the state highway they stop and then they have their  mouthful of it. Rinku and his assistants cook food only twice in 24 hours. He said sometimes women of the villages lying across the state highway give them food in lieu of their children having a free camel ride. Asked as to where he and his camels spend the night to which he said, “We spend our night in any government building and one of us remains wide awake for our camels at night.” “It is for dogs not to disturb the camels at night,” he said. A well known wildlife campaigner D.S. Srivastava said the camels are put to torture by making them walk hundreds of kilometre on the black top which their hooves find difficult and hard to negotiate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city special athletes get second Covid jab||Eighteen special athletes took their second dose of vaccine for Covid-19 at a camp organised by the East Singhbhum district administration on Sunday. Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO which runs a special school, requested the district administration to organise the camp for the second dose of vaccine at their school. A team, including three nurses, completed the formalities in around two hours. The special athletes, including, Ryan Francis, Raju Diwan, Akash Sharma and Pankaj Kumar (all students of Jeevika) were afraid to take the vaccine and refused to roll up their sleeves. However, they relented after a while when presented with chocolates. "Things went off peacefully. Our students had taken the first doze of Covishield vaccine on June 16 and it was time for the second dose. We had informed the district administration that the second dose of vaccine was due. We are thankful to the district administration," said Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika. According to him, they felt it was their responsibility to convince parents of our special children to get their wards from a safety point of view. "We are happy that now our students are safe," added Singh, a former international cyclist. Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur was also present on the occasion. New state shuttle association Badminton Association of Jharkhand was formed on Sunday. Dinesh Kumar has been nominated president of the outfit while Vijay Singh (vice-president) Rajeev Sengupta (secretary) and Mohammad Rashid (treasurer) are other office bearers. "The association has been formed for developing the game and promoting shuttlers in the districts. We are organising a two-day tournament in Telco later this month," Kumar said at a media meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town colleges launch teacher exchange plan to tide over staff crunch||Coal town colleges of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalachal University have launched faculty exchange programme in the face of acute shortage of teachers obstructing the timely completion of courses. Three prominent colleges of Dhanbad, including SSLNT Women’s College, Dhanbad; PK Roy Memorial College of Dhanbad and RS More College, Govindpur have already launched the exchange programme, while talks are on with two other colleges including BSK College Maithon and KB women’s College Bokaro, which are also facing the same problem. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Praveen Singh, Principal of RS More College, Govindpur said, “As per laid UGC norms, the teacher student ratio should be 1:25 while in coal town colleges the ratio is more than 1:300 in many of the subjects.” “We have none of faculty in any of science subjects, including Physics, Chemistry and Zoology and somehow managing classes with contractual teachers who can’t relied as keep on leaving service as and when they get regular jobs,” said Singh. “As classes are being held through online mode so there is no issue with the TA DA payment with regard the teachers taking classes in other colleges under faculty exchange programme as only per class payment is being made,” said Singh and added that though classes are presently being held under the faculty exchange programme with SSLNT Women’s College and PK Roy Memorial College, Dhanbad. Elaborating over the teacher’s crisis Singh said, “We have only four regular teachers for a student strength over 7000 and we are facing great issue with the managing the administrative work like as these teachers are also overburdened with a number of responsibilities like one regular teacher who has retired yesterday was holding the charge of several posts like burser, accounts in-charge etc.” “We even can’t entrust the contractual teachers with such key responsibilities as they due to non permanent nature of their job can’t be given task involving financial issues as they are unaccountable,” said Singh and added that due to teacher’s exchange progamme the academic can be carried out smoothly and regular teacher can have some space for discharging administrative work other than taking classes. Principal of PK Roy Memorial College, Dhanbad BK Sinha said, “We are facing scarcity in faculty in various subjects as we have only two teachers in Commerce and one each in Political Science and Zoology.” “Though many of teachers are not agreeing to teachers in other colleges but we are somehow motivating them to cooperate in the interest of students to ensure timely completion of courses,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Acid attack victim turns counsellor for people in distress||Sonali Mukherjee, an acid attack victim from Bokaro, presently associated with a wide range of social work, including women empowerment, medical and equipment support to physically challenged persons besides support to transgender community, has now taken the cudgel to provide counselling to people facing depression or mental stress due to pandemic and lockdown related difficulties. A helpline number 6287172173 has been launched by her to provide counselling support to people in distress. Sonali Mukherjee, a student of B.Sc at BSS Women’s College of Dhanbad was attacked by Tapas Mitra, a resident of Telipara who had proposed to her but she declined. Tapas, along with two friends entered her Bhelatand, Dhanbad house on April 22, 2003 and poured Sulphuric acid on her face due to which her face was badly damaged.  The family shifted to Kasmar in Bokaro after the incident and forced to live in penury for more than 10 years. Sonali’s plight attracted media attention on June 2, 2012 when she came to office of chairperson of state women’s commission seeking financial help. After her appearance in KBC, support came in from different organisations and she underwent a series of surgery at BL Kapoor Hospital of New Delhi. Talking to The Telegraph Online today she said, “We have received four calls after the launch of the helpline yesterday one of which was from a Dhanbad resident related to delay in getting job on compassionate ground.” “I am myself providing counseling to the depression victims based on my long experience with mental trauma besides that we have a professional counselor, and referring the critical cases which require expert handling,” said Mukherjee who is presently working in district collectorate as a clerk ever since she was given a job by the state government seven years ago. Mukherjee and her husband Chitranjan Tiwari run a trust called Ucchshikhar Foundation “We are engaged in social work since last two years and during interaction with the people came to know about the depression caused due to job loss, income loss to business failure during lockdown, closure of shops and outlets, neglect of the senior citizens, many of whom have either attempted suicides and thus have launched the helpline number yesterday,” said Sonali, a native resident of Kasmar block of Bokaro who is presently living in Bokaro town along with her husband and five-year-old daughter. “Not only financial constraints or job losses but depression is affecting the youth and women due to being confined at home for long during Covid and lack of interaction with friends, failures among students on academic front, on line classes related stress  and all of them requires counseling,” said Muherjee and added that majority of these cases can be handled only by listening to their problem diligently while in some cases some support in order to address their financial problem etc can help prevent the worst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi's political advisor arrested in UP on charges of sexual harassment||BJP leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi’s political advisor, Sunil Tiwari, accused of sexually harassing a minor tribal girl in Ranchi, was arrested from a locality in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, sources in Argora police station where an FIR was lodged against him, said. Tiwari, police said, was on the run since his plea for interim bail was rejected by a Ranchi court. Later, another case was lodged against him in connection with child labour. A tribal girl from Khunti, who claimed to have worked as a domestic help at Tiwari’s Ashok Nagar residence, lodged an FIR with the Argora police station in Ranchi on August 16, accusing Tiwari of sexual exploitation and coercion for sexual favours. Tiwari has also been booked under sections of the ST/SC Atrocities Act, police said. “Three teams from Ranchi police were constituted to track and arrest Sunil Tiwari. He was arrested this morning from a locality somewhere between Agra and New Delhi,” said a police official. “He will be brought to Ranchi once all formalities are completed in UP,” he added. In her FIR, the girl has alleged that Tiwari forced her for sexual favours in the absence of other family members and threatened her to stay mum or face consequences. She has also accused Tiwari of beating her up when she resisted his sexual advances. According to the girl's statement, she was victimized for the first time in March 2020, but she could not move out of Tiwari’s house due to Covid restrictions. After several months, she shared her ordeal with her family in Khunti and decided to lodge an FIR, police said. In the last week of August, a Ranchi court had issued an arrest warrant against Tiwari on charges of sexual exploitation. Tiwari's arrest prompted the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) to target the BJP. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya  questioned the BJP’s stand against crimes against women, claiming that the party’s protective attitude towards a person accused of a heinous crime against a tribal woman showed its leaders’ actual stand against such crimes. The BJP, on the other hand,  termed the incident "political vendetta", claiming that Tiwari was framed because he knocked on the door of the apex court, demanding a directive to the Mumbai High Court to hear a matter related to allegations of sexual exploitation against Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active cases drop in Jharkhand, 1.45 lakh get vaccinated||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated close to 1.45 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload dropped to 128 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection by a fair margin for the second day in a row, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to at least 98,143 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 45,983 beneficiaries. More than 1 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44. With more than 18,000 residents vaccinated on Saturday, East Singhbhum topped in terms of vaccination numbers among districts. About 17,000 residents were vaccinated in Ranchi, while over 10,000 got vaccinated in Dhanbad. Accordint to an MHM bulletin, the state on Saturday reported at least 21 Covid recoveries against seven fresh cases, while none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike. The count of active cases dropped to 77 in Ranchi as the district reported at least 13 Covid recoveries against only three fresh cases. At least 20 districts did not report fresh cases. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported one case each, while two persons were found infected in West Singhbhum. Jharkhand on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 43,368 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2. A press communique issued by the health department highlighted that Jharkhand had till Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1.16 crore residents. Over 30 lakh have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||11-year-old suspected to have been bludgeoned to death in Dalma foothills ||The decomposed body of an 11-year-old boy was found lying on a hill in the foothills of Dalma under Mango thana area about eight km away from the heart of the city on Saturday morning. Identified as Sujit Gorai, the deceased was suspected to have been bludgeoned to death as the body bore marks of injuries and a blood-stained boulder was lying beside it. Son of Dharnidhar Gorai, a resident of Kumrum Bustee along the NH-33, the deceased was missing from his house since September 9 morning and the body was found on the hill, about one kilometre from his house at about 10.30 am on Saturday. A police party led by deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-1) Birendra Ram reached the spot after the body was found. "The boy was suspected to have been bludgeoned to death as a blood-stained boulder was found beside the body," said OC, Mango thana, Vinayak Kumar to The Telegraph Online. Kumar said they can conclusively say it to be a case of murder after getting an autopsy report only. "At the time the body was found today, it was filled with magots. Though a boulder bearing marks of blood was found near it but it is yet to substantiated whether the boy has been murdered. Moreover, the deceased's father did not hint at any enmity with anyone," said the OC. He pointed out they have shifted the body to the MGM medical college mortuary for the post mortem so that the truth can be known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Congress leader plea to Hemant Soren on namaz room ||The furore over the allotment of a room for namaz in the Jharkhand Assembly refuses to die down though the Speaker has formed a committee to look into the issue. While MLAs have fiercely put forward their respective views, either for or against the allotment of the room, and at least two of them engaged in a verbal duel outside the House, Ajoy Kumar, a former MP and state Congress president, on Friday suggested that not all in his party, a constituent of the ruling dispensation in Jharkhand, are happy with the arrangement. Kumar, also the Congress in-charge for Tripura, Nagaland and Sikkim, wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday requesting “our government” to keep politics and religion separate. “In view of the recent happenings involving religious issues in Jharkhand Assembly, I request our government to keep religion and politics separate,” Kumar said in his letter in Hindi. “The Assembly is a temple of democracy and should be kept apart from religious practices,” he further said, adding that “religious practices and political affairs should not be mixed up though religion had been playing an important role in politics for a long time now”. “There would be chances of unrest if a political party extends support to a particular religion,” he cautioned, adding that it might come in the way of treating everyone equally and working for overall development. The Assembly, in a notification issued on September 2, allotted a room within its new premises for offering namaz, an issue on which BJP members virtually paralysed the House through the brief monsoon session that began the very next day. While the BJP legislators disrupted the House proceedings on all the five working days, the party supporters tried to reach the Assembly by breaking barricades on Wednesday leading to the police using water cannons and then batons to disperse them. The administration later lodged an FIR against 28 BJP leaders and about 1,200 unidentified others, slapping various charges like violating norms of the disaster management law, spreading communal hatred and encouraging violence. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto then formed a seven-member all-party committee to look into the namaz room issue and submit a report within 45 days. But the MLAs, speaking to the media outside, strongly advocated their party’s stand as Randhir Singh of the BJP and Irfan Ansari of the Congress got engaged in a verbal duel. Inder Singh Namdhari, Jharkhand’s first Assembly Speaker, and one of his successors Shashank Shekhar Bhokta had dismissed it as a non-issue as they said the namaz room was part of the undivided Bihar Assembly. The Jharkhand Assembly has also had a namaz room since the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000, they added. “The practice continued even when BJP MLAs became Assembly Speakers,” Bhokta had said, naming C.P. Singh and M.P. Singh of the BJP. “I consider the namaz room issue unimportant,” said former BJP minister and now Independent MLA Saryu Roy. He said that it is laughable that former ministers who once patronised the practice of offering namaz within the Assembly premises were now staging dharna to protest it. “It was like giving an easy catch to the opponents when the match was at a crucial stage,” a mediaperson commented on the timing of the notification to allocate a namaz room, adding that the practice was always there but the BJP found an issue to disrupt the proceedings of the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Bhupesh Baghel plans to turn Chhattisgarh into millet hub||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has expressed confidence that his state can become the millet hub of the country in the coming times. “Like minor forest produce, we want to make small grain crops also the strength of Chhattisgarh,” said Baghel at his residential office in Raipur where a memorandum of agreement was signed on Friday between the Indian Institute of Millet Research, Hyderabad, and the collectors of 14 districts under the Millet Mission. Baghel said that under the Millet Mission, an initiative has been taken to give the farmers the right price for small cereal crops, provide input assistance, procurement arrangements, processing and ensure that they get the benefit of the guidance from experts. The districts covered under the scheme are Kanker, Kondagaon, Bastar, Dantewada, Bijapur, Sukma, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kawardha, Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi, Balrampur, Koriya, Surajpur and Jashpur. Under the MoU, the IIMR will provide support and guidance for increasing the productivity of kodo, kutki and ragi, technical knowhow, availability of high-quality seeds and the establishment of seed banks in Chhattisgarh. Apart from this, arrangements will be made for training farmers of Chhattisgarh through the Krishi Vigyan Kendra for disseminating scientific technology developed at the national level related to millet production by the IIMR at the field level. In view of the increasing demand for millets like kodo, kutki and ragi in the country and abroad, the Millet Mission will not only increase the income of the farmers of Vananchal and tribal areas but will also give a new identity to Chhattisgarh. At the same time, the processing and value addition of millets will also provide employment to farmers, women’s groups and youth. Kodo, kutki and ragi are produced in 20 districts of Chhattisgarh. In the first phase, MoUs were signed with the collectors of 14 such districts. “Minor cereal crops like kodo, kutki and ragi are mostly sown in our forest areas. Crops like kodo, kutki and ragi are rich in nutrition. There is a good demand for these in the country. These are sold at very good prices in urban areas. But kodo, kutki and ragi grown in Chhattisgarh have not been able to come out of Vananchal. Till now, neither the support price of these crops was fixed, nor was there any arrangement for their purchase. Even after producing such an important and valuable crop, the farmers who grew it remained poor,” said Baghel. He added: “The sate government has now started the Millet Mission to increase the yield of these crops, ensure good procurement arrangements and take them to the city markets after processing. Along with fixing the support price of kodo, kutki and ragi, the state government has also included these under the purview of Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. With this, now the farmers growing these small cereal crops will also be able to get input assistance like other farmers.” The purchase of minor cereal crops would be done through the Van Dhan societies of the Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation Limited. After processing these crops, they will be used in midday meals, public distribution system and nutrition programmes. Arrangements will be also made to take the finished products to the markets of the metropolitan cities. It has also been decided to manage Rs 170 crore 30 lakh for the next five years under the Millet Mission through the district mineral fund and other means. “Under the Millet Mission, farmers would be given input assistance of Rs 9,000 per acre and Rs 10,000 per acre for growing kodo-kutki and ragi respectively instead of paddy,” said Baghel. The chief minister said that like minor forest produce, large-scale employment opportunities would be created at the local level due to the value addition of small grain crops. “Like minor forest produce, we also want to make small grain crops the new strength of Chhattisgarh. In the next phase, MoUs will be signed with more such districts, where production of kodo, kutki and ragi is abundant,” said Baghel. IIMR director Vilas A. Tonapi said there is a need to increase food diversity to address the problem of lifestyle diseases and malnutrition. “The year 2023 will be celebrated as the International Year of Millet. Through the Millet Mission, Chhattisgarh will be successful in making a mark as a millet hub in the country by 2023,” said Tonapi. Federation managing director Sanjay Shukla said that IIMR specialists will be posted in the districts by the state government to guide the farmers to increase the production of millets while seed banks for small grain crops would be established in Bastar, Surguja, Kawardha and Rajnandgaon. State forest minister Mohammad Akbar, industry minister Kawasi Lakhma, additional chief secretary to the chief minister, Subrata Sahoo, agriculture production commissioner M. Geeta, industry secretary Ashish Bhatt and industry director Anil Tuteja were also present. Tonapi, IIMR chief scientist Dayakar Rao and the collectors of 14 districts joined the programme online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
12-09-2021||Jharkhand||Man ‘cast out’ from village for opposing child marriages in Dumka||A man has been allegedly cast out from his village in Dumka district of Jharkhand by the panchayat for opposing child marriages. The issue came to light on Thursday when Basharat Ansari, 50, a resident of Chirudih village in Morbhanga panchayat under Mufassil police station area, around 17km from Dumka town, was found by a few local reporters waiting outside the office of the Dumka superintendent of police seeking a meeting. “I approached the local police station but the SHO (station house officer) said that I should appeal to the deputy commissioner or the superintendent of police. I have made a petition to the SP. I have been raising voice against child marriages in my village for the last few years. I had even stopped the marriage of my niece (elder brother’s daughter) in 2012. I had informed Childline officials who came to the village and stopped the marriage. Now, the panchayat has given an order to expel me from the village. My own brothers have thrown me out of my father’s house,” said Basharat. Basharat said that after opposition from his brothers and villagers, he had gone to Delhi with his family leaving his father and mother behind in the village. “My elder daughter went to Old Delhi after marriage. I used to do a carpenter’s job and also had a small grocery shop. I had to leave the village in 2012 after my brother decided to get his minor daughter married. I had only fought for the child and wanted her to complete matriculation at least before marriage. The villagers used to hurl expletives at me for calling Childline members and stopping the marriage of my brother’s daughter. I decided to settle down in Delhi,” said Basharat. However, in February this year, his elderly parents requested him to come back to Dumka. “My parents were not keeping well. They requested me to come and stay in Dumka as they needed me as they are not only dependent on the money which I used to send every month from Delhi. I came to Dumka with family (wife and two sons) to stay with my parents in my ancestral house,” said Basharat. He, however, continued to protest against child marriages. “As I continued to educate people against the ill effects of early marriage, I became a thorn in the eyes of villagers who were also influenced by my brothers. In August a panchayat was called and I was asked to leave village or give Rs 5 lakh fine for every marriage I oppose. I refused to abide by their directives,” said Basharat. On August 31, while Basharat was in his house, his elder brother along with a few villagers forcibly threw out his household items from his room and told that he should leave the village according to the panchayat diktat. “I had no option but to take shelter in my sister’s house in a neighbouring village with my family and parents. However, I sought justice from the police. The SP has assured to initiate a probe into my case. Let’s see,” said Basharat. Dumka SP Ambar Lakra confirmed that he had received the complaint. “I have asked the local police station to investigate the issue as I know that Basharat had been doing a good job in stopping child marriages. Action will be taken against anyone found guilty in this case,” said Lakra. According to data from the United Nations Population Fund, a UN agency aimed at improving reproductive and maternal health worldwide, Jharkhand is among the top three states of India where the practice of child marriage is prevalent. The average number of such cases have never gone below 50 per cent in the past 10 years in Jharkhand as against the national average of 47 per cent, according to the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
