13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega to host 11th national junior women's hockey meet ||Simdega, considered as the state’s hockey nursery, will host the 11th national junior women’s hockey meet from October 30, Hockey India announced on Monday. The statement paves the way for a national level meet in Jharkhand post the second wave of Covid-19. The district last hosted the big ticket tournament in March this year, before the outbreak of the second wave of the covid-19 pandemic in the state, by successfully organising the 11th sub junior and junior women’s tournaments. Welcoming the announcement of the meet, Hockey Jharkhand secretary Vijay Shankar Singh said that over 600 players from different states along with technical officials are expected to be at the tournament. “Even though Covid-19 cases have dipped, we are keeping our fingers crossed that the situation doesn’t turn ugly once again. The state hockey outfit will ensure all the prescribed health protocols are maintained to put up a great show during the tournament,” he said. The upcoming tournament will also be important as it will also pave the way for selection of players for the national junior team said Hockey Jharkhand officials. Hockey Simdega President Manoj Konbegi informed that the upcoming meet was originally scheduled from April 3 but had to be postponed due to the pandemic. “In 2016, when Ranchi hosted the national junior women’s meet, Salima Tete got a break in the national squad based on her performance. Gradually, she ended up playing in the Tokyo Olympics this year. We hope that the 11th edition will be another opportunity for our players to get through the national side,” said Konbegi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||JMM founder's family donates land for Dhanbad cricket stadium||The descendants of JMM founder and renowned educationist of Dhanbad, Binod Bihari Mahto have offered land for the development of a cricket stadium in Dhanbad. Vinita Singh, daughter-in-law of former Tundi MLA, late Rajkishore Mahto  who is also granddaughter-in-law of Late Binod Bihari Mahto had offered over 11 acres of her ancestral land in Baliapur for developing a cricket stadium in the district as the administration is yet to find land for the establishment of a stadium in the district. Singh, a graduate in Political Science from Banaras Hindu University, who was married to Late Rajnish Mahto grandson of Binod Bihari Mahto in 1997 and announced her plan to contest Municipal Election for the post of mayor recently, announced she will provide altogether 23 acres of land in Baliapur that will be used for establishing a cricket stadium (11 acres) besides an engineering college (8 acres) and a museum (4 acres) in memory of Binod Bihari Mahto. Talking to The Telegraph  Online on Monday, Singh, who decided to come in public life after the death of her husband in April this year while elaborating over the issue said, “The coal capital of India despite having so many players including that of the ilk of team India player Shahbaz Nadim is devoid of cricket stadium due to lack of land and since the stadium besides promoting the sports will also generate the source of employment for local people I have decided to provide the land as part of charity work which is tradition of our family.” Binod Bihari Mahto provided land for establishment of a large number of educational institutions across Dhanbad and himself developed several educational institutions on his land for the development of the area including,  Binod Bihari Mahto College at Baliapur, Dhanbad law college and a large number of schools. The tradition continued during the tenure of Tundi MLA late Rajkishore Mahto, son of Late Binod Bihari Mahto who also headed Binod Bihari Mahto Smarak Samiti to carry out education and social activities. Circle officer of Baliapur, Ram Pravesh Ram said, “Though the family owns around 33 acres of land at Bandarchuan area of Baliapur Block, Vinita Singh declared to provide 11 acres of land from her share but for developing an international cricket stadium at least 20 acres of land is required.” The Dhanbad Cricket Association has been demanding land for a cricket stadium for the last several years. On August 24, a delegation from the association met Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Singh demanding land for a cricket stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Depression triggers heavy showers across Jharkhand||Heavy rain, triggered by a depression, drenched Jharkhand for the second day on Monday. According to IMD officials, the low-pressure area which originated from  Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression, and later a deep depression, that crossed the coasts of West Bengal and Odisha, leading to heavy rain in Jharkand and the two neighbouring states from Sunday. Jagannathpur in West Singhbhum topped the rain chart with 71 mm recorded during the past 24 hours (8.30 am of Sunday to 8.30 am of Monday). Madhupur in Deoghar district recorded 63 mm rain while several places in the Kolhan region in southern Jharkand including Chakradharpur and Chaibasa recorded over 45 mm rain. Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Latehar, Khunti, Simdega and its adjoining areas recorded over 30mm of rain. Ghatshila, Tenughat in Bokaro,Chandil in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Chatra and several other places recorded over 20 mm of rain. Met data indicated that over 20 IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 8mm and 15 mm. The heavy showers in Jharkhand and neighbouring Odisha resulted in sudden rise of water levels in both Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers. Three radial gates of Chandil dam in Seraikela-Kharsawan district  and Bankabal dam in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha were opened on Monday due to the incessant rains. Officials of the state  water resources department said water levels of both the rivers were flowing close to the danger mark on Monday afternoon. Rain water entered several low lying areas. The East Singhbhum district administration issued an alert and asked people residing in low-lying areas to move to safer places. The depression was crossing through Jharkhand on Monday and was likely to move towards north Chhattisgarh before reaching Madhya Pradesh in the next 48 hours. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said the  system  turned into the strongest rain-bearing system of the month so far. He said the impact of the depression would be felt in Jharkhand till Tuesday after which rainfall would reduce as the system weakened. Satellite pictures suggested that the  monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Saturday passing through Balaghat, Raipur and Sambalpur in neighbouring Odisha extending 0.9 km above mean sea level. The Met centre also issued an alert of moderate lightning and thunder in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next 24- hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC to kick-off ISL campaign against SC East Bengal||The Jamshedpur FC will launch their Indian Super League (ISL) 2021-22 campaign against SC East Bengal at Tilak Maidan in Vasco da Gama, Goa on November 21. Football Sports Development Limited (FSDL) on Monday announced fixtures for the first 11 rounds of the tournament which will be played at three stadiums in Goa. The tournament starts on November 19 with a match between ATK Mohun Bagan and Kerala Blasters FC at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. In their second match, the Men of Steel will square off against hosts FC Goa at Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on November 26 before taking on Hyderabad FC at the same venue on December 2. The Tata Steel-owned club's next engagement is versus ATK Mohun Bagan at Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on December 6 after which the team travels to Fatorda to cross swords with Mumbai City FC on December 9. Jamshedpur will face Odisha FC at Tilak Maidan on December 14. The Red Miners will lock horns with Bengaluru FC at Bambolim on December 20 before taking on Kerala Blasters FC at Tilak Maidan on December 26. Jamshedpur's next match is scheduled against Chennaiyin FC at Bambolim on January 2 next year. The Owen Coyle-mentored side will finish off their first 10 matches with a tie against Northeast United FC at Bambolim on January 6. Rest of the fixture will be announced later. Barring the match versus Chennaiyin FC, all matches of Jamshedpur will kick-off at 7.30 pm. The engagement against Chennai will commence at 9.30 pm. The tournament will feature 115 games. Jamshedpur, who are desperate to make it to the knock-out round this season, finished sixth with 27 points last ISL. The team has never qualified for the knock-out round after making their ISL debut in the season of 2017-18. Jamshedpur have experimented with four coaches namely Steve Coppell (United Kingdom), Cesar Ferrando and Antonio Iriondo (both from Spain) and the current incumbent Owen Coyle (Scotland) but are yet to make it to the knock-outs. The Men of Steel will be off to Goa for the pre-season at the end of this month or first week of October. “We have stitched out a crack unit with some solid players with proven track records. We are hopeful of positive results this time,” a team management member said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Black fungus cases halve in four days in Jharkhand||The active caseload of mucormycosis, a disease notified as an epidemic in Jharkhand, has halved in the past four days with at least eight patients getting discharged from hospital during this period, data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted on Monday. There were at least 16 patients of black fungus in Jharkhand on September 9. Cut to Monday, the count of patients dropped to eight. At least six of the eight patients, according to IDSP, were from Ranchi, while Dhanbad and Gumla had one patient each. East Singhbhum, a district that reported the second highest number of mucormycosis cases, did not have any active cases of this fungal infection on Monday. As per government data, this district reported at least 25 cases of mucormycosis in 2021 and at least five patients died of this disease there. With at least 66 reported cases, Ranchi was the worst-affected district in terms of mucormycosis caseload and fatality in Jharkhand. At least 11 of the 66 patients died of black fungus in Ranchi, as per IDSP data. Besides a significant fall in the count of active cases, the state has also put a check on fatalities caused by the lethal disease, officials said. Black fungus has claimed at least 31 lives in Jharkhand so far, but no deaths caused by this disease were reported in August and September. As many as 168 cases of black fungus have been reported in Jharkhand so far. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Following an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline, the state government has also included Posaconazole injections in the list of medicines that can be administered to mucormycosis patients. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India earlier this year and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. In almost all these cases, the fungus affected either eyes, nose or brain of the patient. However, Jharkhand also reported rare cases of black fungus affecting lungs of Covid survivors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.67 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated more than 1.67 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of SARS-CoV-2 infections dropped to 127, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,14,575, while the second dose was administered to at least 52,694 beneficiaries. More than 1.20 lakh beneficiaries were between 18 and 44. A document from NHM highlighted that East Singhbhum alone vaccinated more than 35,000 residents on Sunday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. At least 12 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and 11 people were found infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand on Sunday, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. While none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases, Ranchi, Dhanbad, West Singhbhum and East Singhbhum reported two Covid cases each. Ramgarh, Deoghar and Khunti reported one case of the viral infection each. At least 17 districts did not report fresh Covid cases. As per government data, at least 74 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by Sunday night, while the count of active cases in East Singhbhum was nine. In Dhanbad also, nine people were suffering from Covid-19. According to a press communique released by the health department on Sunday evening, the state has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 1.17 crore residents and at least 31 lakh of them have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
13-09-2021||Jharkhand||Govt money for OBC scholarships embezzled in Chatra district||Government money meant for payment of scholarships to backward class students was embezzled in Jharkhand’s Chatra district. This was revealed in the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India for 2018-19 that was tabled in the Jharkhand Assembly last week. Chatra district welfare officer (DWO) maintained 12 bank accounts in which Rs 95.05 crore was credited and Rs 85.85 crore withdrawn from it and misappropriated during 2013-18, the CAG report informed. “Of these, payments worth Rs 70.01 crore made to individuals, agencies etc could not be vouchsafed in absence of related records,” it further informed, adding those records were not made available to the audit team and told those were destroyed in a fire. “Audit observed that the remaining amount of Rs 15.84 crore was withdrawn and fraudulently transferred into bank accounts of NGOs, institutes, suppliers, teachers, officials and individuals,” the report further informed, indicating the extent of collusion among them. The ST, SC, minority and backward class welfare department of the state government had instructed in May 2015 that scholarship would be paid directly to bank accounts of the beneficiary students through DBT (direct bank transfer) mode but the DWO instead asked the banks to make credit to accounts of certain schools. But those accounts were found to be belonging to some individuals, not schools. The audit team also found that two persons who functioned as DWO Chatra between June 2017 and May 2018 fraudulently transferred Rs 6 crore to bank accounts of the cashier of the office, his relatives, NGOs, non-existent institutes and other individuals. “It was also noticed that DWO, Chatra maintained cash books for only three of the 12 bank accounts even after the fire incident and never did reconciliation with banks till March 2020,” the CAG report further said. “The accused DWOs did not adhere to internal control measures and the department also failed in monitoring the genuineness of expenditure reported by DWOs and ensuring that payments were made through DBT,” the report observed. It was revealed that DWO made fraudulent payments to 27 bank accounts maintained in 11 banks. Though the administration requested 7 banks to freeze 19 of those 27 bank accounts, only 3 banks suspended operation of 7 of those 19 accounts. This resulted in 20 accounts involved in the fraud remaining active. “Audit observed that Rs 2.89 crore out of the total fraudulent payments of Rs 15.84 crore were credited into 14 bank accounts of the cashier and his relatives and balance fraudulent payments of Rs 12.95 crore were made to the accused NGOs, individuals, non-existent schools, suppliers etc,” the CAG report informed, adding Rs 2.55 crore of Rs 12.95 crore were also later transferred to 18 bank accounts of cashier and his relatives. “We were told that the main accused cashier and head clerk have been dismissed from service and departmental inquiry initiated against the two DWOs,” state’s principal accountant general (audit) Indu Agrawal replied when asked about the action taken report. The embezzled amount of Rs 13.59 crore was not recovered till March this year (2021), she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
