14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand allows shrines to open to public||The Jharkhand government announced a series of relaxations on Tuesday, allowing entry   of devotees to places of worship, classroom teaching in colleges and universities in addition to schools for classes 6 to 8. With Covid cases coming down in the state, the state government also issued guidelines for the upcoming Durga Puja and extended the timing of restaurants to do business by an hour till 11pm. These decisions were announced on Tuesday after a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) under the aegis of chief minister Hemant Soren. According to a statement issued by the state IPRD, all functionaries of religious places must be vaccinated at least with the first dose before reopening their premises. "Religious places must adhere to all the Covid appropriate norms while at places that draw large crowds, such as Baba Baidhyanath dham in Deoghar, the district administration is directed to ensure entry of a maximum of 100 people through e-passes per hour. "Those below 18 years of age will not be allowed entry and all religious places can only host a crowd of up to 50 per cent of its capacity, " the statement said. Till now, in-person classes were allowed in schools only for class 9 and above. While the state school education department sent a proposal for reopening all junior classes, but SDMA chose to consider it only for class six to eight for the time being. “The state government has taken a conscious decision to go for staggered reopening of schools even though there have been surveys and reports by different agencies citing how online classes have failed to help children in our state,” said an official, adding that even though Covid-19 cases have dipped the government was keeping a strict watch in developments. With regard to Durga puja in October, the state government has banned the entry of devotees to pandals which must be closed from three sides. Immersion processions will be banned too. "Organisers can build pandals without adhering to any theme. Idol sizes can’t exceed five feet, and there should be no fairs or distribution of bhog,” said the government statement. Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti, an umbrella outfit of puja organizers in the city, sounded upset with the guidelines. “Five-feet high Durga idols is impractical. We will oppose it. Last year, the government initially said four feet but later on backed down. We will hold a meeting soon to take a further call,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to impose toll tax on trucks carrying minerals||Heavy vehicles carrying minerals from various mining zones of Jharkhand will now have to pay toll tax, according to a decision taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday. The state cabinet also gave its nod to set up e-FIR police stations in 22 out of 24 districts to make it convenient for people to file police complaints. State cabinet coordination department secretary Vandana Dadel said modalities of their operations were being worked out. On the levy of toll tax on vehicles carrying minerals, she said the state government was expecting to raise about Rs 700 crore revenue annually. “Rates of toll taxes differ from place to place. These were approved by the cabinet on Tuesday. The road construction department will set up earmarked points for collection of toll on select roads,” she said. About e-FIR police stations, Dadel said, “E-FIR police stations will come up in 22 districts except Khunti and Ramgarh. People can file e-FIRs in cases where the identity of the accused is unknown without having the need to come to police stations.” A total of 17 proposals were taken up by the state cabinet on Tuesday. The cabinet sanctioned Rs 80.75 crore to Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Authority (JREDA) for implementation of the Union government’s solar city project. “In the first phase, Giridih district will be developed as solar city. As per the Center’s guidelines, households having annual income less than Rs 3 lakh will be given 100 per cent subsidy for installing rooftop solar power systems. Households with incomes of more than Rs 3 lakhs will be given 70 per cent subsidy of which the Centre and state’s shares will be 40 and 30 per cent respectively,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to implement new auto rules from September 20||A new set of rules that limit the number of autos that will ply within Dhanbad town will come into effect from September 20, deputy commissioner Sandip Singh has announced but operators alleged on Tuesday that the district administration was reneging from the agreement reached with them on September 7. “As the per the new regulations, only 1,500 auto-rickshaws will be allowed to enter Dhanbad town from September 20. But as per the negotiations held with us on September 7, the number agreed upon was 3,000," claimed Chhotan Singh, the president of Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahasangh. He also accused the district administration of reducing the number of auto-rickshaws by more than half in almost all the six agreed upon routes. As per new regulations, each of the six finalised routes had been further curtailed for operational convenience.  For instance, autos running from Lodna to Bhowra, Sindri and Patherdih will have to stop at Jharia and return. From Jharia, 400 autos will ply to Dhanbad town. Similarly, in other routes too autos would stop their journey at intermediate stations from where a limited number of three-wheelers would ferry passengers to Dhanbad. District transport officer Om Prakash Yadav said, "We have completed all preparations to implement the new regulations after taking data from the auto-rickshaw association. The number of autos finalised for each route will be communicated to the association in a day or two.” On Tuesday, a delegation of auto drivers went to the office of the district transport officer to meet him. But the DTO was away on official work. Sources said drivers and operators have decided to hold a meeting of all auto unions and present a joint memo to the authorities in a day or two. “How will the auto operators eke out a living if they are banned from entering the town. Due to lack of sufficient passengers in suburban areas, they will not be able to make sufficient income," said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Special teams to inspect ultrasound clinics across Jharkhand||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday directed deputy commissioners of all 24 districts to constitute special teams and conduct surprise inspection of ultrasound clinics in a bid to check if norms of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act were being adhered to. Chairing a meeting of the PC-PNDT State Supervisory Board, Gupta said that legislation could also be introduced in the e Assembly to make necessary changes in laws related to pre-natal diagnosis if the concerned officials feel the need of certain changes for proper implementation of the law. “First of all, every district should constitute a team and inspect all ultrasound centres running under their jurisdiction. A state team should also be constituted to see if the teams are doing their job,” said Gupta. The meeting on Tuesday was also attended by three legislators – Deepika Pandey, Mamta Devi, Sita Soren. Besides, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, National Health Mission (NHM) director Umashankar Singh and doctors from the radiology wing of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) were also present. Addressing the supervisory board, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh directed all district administrations to take strict action against ultrasound clinics and diagnostic centres that flout PC-PNDT Act norms. Sources present in the meeting said inspection of ultrasound clinics would be started within a week and facilities found violating the law would be sealed until further notice. “All teams inspecting ultrasound centres have to follow the set rule for evidence collection and documentation,” he said. NHM director Umashankar Singh said that at least 836 ultrasound clinics will be inspected in the next two months in Jharkhand. “Teams constituted at the state level as well as district level will conduct these inspections,” he said. Some of the stakeholders attending the meeting raised concern over the misuse of portable ultrasound machines and requested the government to ensure that such machines stay only within licensed diagnostic centres and clinics. The PC-PNDT Act was passed in 1984 to put a check on female foeticide by making identification of the gender of a baby before birth a legal offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Women not safe in Jharkhand, says Babulal Marandi ||Senior BJP leader Babulal Marandi on Tuesday said the law and order situation in Jharkhand had collapsed and that the Hemant Soren government was a total failure. Addressing the media at Circuit House, Marandi said women, particularly adivasis and dalits, were frightened since they were falling victim to crime almost every day. "Women are frightened and are becoming victims of rape and murder almost every day. The state government has failed to control the rising crime graph in Jharkhand. It’s a total failure on part of the government,” the leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly stated. Marandi, who was in the steel city to attend a scheduled caste and scheduled tribe conference, alleged the development projects have not taken off in the state in the name of Covid-19."Moreover, the government has also failed to give shape to development projects of the Centre," he added. Criticising the state government, Marandi termed the allotment of a room for namaz in the legislative Assembly unconstitutional. "We will continue to protest against this issue in a constitutional manner," he said and called upon party workers to work together and get ready for the next assembly polls. On the issue of the leader of Opposition not being recognised by the Speaker, he alleged the  chief minister and his father (Shibu Soren) do not want any adivasi leader to make progress. “This is the reason why they are stopping me. If they (Hemant and Shibu) will, they can make Basant Soren and Sita Soren ministers and no one else,” Marandi said. Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto, state party spokesperson Kunal Sarangi, senior leader Abhay Singh, district president Gunjan Yadav, general secretary Anil Modi and city spokesperson Prem Jha were among those present on the occasion. Marandi on Monday attended a conference of scheduled caste and tribe.in the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Water levels of Maithon, Panchet dams rise following heavy downpour||Incessant rains since Sunday led to the rise in water levels of different water bodies including Maithon and Panchet dam situated on the Barakar and Damodar river respectively at Nirsa block of Dhanbad. The water level in Maithon rose to 481.8 feet, the highest in the last six years in the month of September though it is still flowing 9 feet below the danger level. The water level in Panchet which rose to 411.7 feet and is 14 feet lower than the danger level. The situation is also the same in Topchanchi lake, a natural lake located around 35 km from district headquarters which is overflowing at the height level of 75 feet. Meanwhile, the heavy downpour also caused the water level of river Damodar to rise and preparations have been made to raise the level of two motors situated outside the Jamadoba Based Water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. The move has been made to prevent the submergence of the motors which would result in thwarting the water supply to more than 10,000 residents of Jharia and Katras. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Apurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC),said, “Heavy rainfall in the upper valley including Koderma, Giridih, Chatra etc led to the rise in water level but the situation is under control and we have also yet not received any direction from our regulatory Body, Central Water Commission (CWC) with regard to the increase in Water level of Maithon.” “As rain is still continuing, we are expecting more rise in water level today and accordingly will take decisions,” Saha said. Regarding the rise in water level of river Damodar, Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA said, “We have made arrangements for the lifting of motors situated outside the Water Treatment Plant of Jamadoba to avert any Water Supply disruption in Jharia and Katras." Meanwhile, the safety department of coal company BCCL has also sounded alert in its different operational areas in Barora, Block 2, Govindpur, Katras, Sijua, Kusnuda, West Jharia, Putki Balihari, Bastacola, Lodna, East Jharia and Chanch Victoria area. AK Singh, General Manage (Safety) of BCCL said, “All 12 area level control rooms besides the headquarter level control rooms have been put on alert while sufficient deployment motors pumps for carrying out dewatering have also been made” Meanwhile, the incessant rains have also led to waterlogging in several parts of the district including, the Tapovan Colony of  Dhanbad, Barmasia, Jahaztand in Bhowra, DRM Chowk etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Nearly 1.8 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated close to 1.8 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped further down to 117 in the state as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,22,354 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 57,210 beneficiaries. At least 1856 session sites remained operational across Jharkhand on Monday. East Singhbhum vaccinated over 25,000 residents, the highest among the 24 districts. On the other hand, at least 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Ranchi. About 8,000 residents got vaccinated in Dhanbad. Jharkhand on Monday reported at least 16 Covid recoveries against six fresh cases of coronavirus infection, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone reported at least five of the six cases, but the count of active cases here dropped as at least six Covid patients recovered in the district. East Singhbhum reported one Covid cases against five recoveries and the active caseload dropped to five. According to a press communique released by the health department on Monday evening, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 1.18 crore residents and at least 31.58 lakh of them have also received the second jab. So far, more than 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. As per government data, at least nine of 24 districts had zero active cases of Covid-19 by the end of Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Union industries secretary visits Heavy Engineering Corporation||Ranchi: Arun Goel, secretary of Union ministry of heavy industries, visited Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) here on Monday to review operations of the ailing PSU which is hoping for a central package for its revival.  Goel reached Ranchi after a two-day tour of Chatra district where he inspected National Thermal Power Corporation projects in North Karanpura. While the HEC management remained tight-lipped about the visit, sources said that Goel was given a full tour of the company premises and was briefed about its current fiscal health and work orders. Later, HEC Hatia Mazdoor Union  submitted a memorandum to the secretary underlining the hardship faced by workers who have not been paid salaries for five months. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: The indefinite dharna being staged in front of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University headquarters at Dhanbad by semester three B Ed students of three different colleges, including RSP College Jharia, B.S. City College, Bokaro and SSLNT Women’s College Dhanbad continued for the third consecutive day as talks between the agitators and university authorities held to end the deadlock remained inconclusive. The agitators who are demanding 20% concession in the course fee were adamant in their demand for concession before filling up of the examination form while university authorities expressed their inability to take any decision in the absence of Vice Chancellor Kamal John Lakra and assured them that a decision is likely to be taken on Tuesday after the arrival of the VC to Dhanbad from Hazaribagh. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Seven persons were arrested from different parts of the district in connection with the murder of Katras criminal Niraj Tiwari of September 2. The arrested persons included, Raunak Gupta, the arch rival of Niraj Tiwari, who recently came out of jail and was apprehending an attack from Niraj Tiwari against him. Police also admitted the involvement of UP based shooter Aman Singh behind the case who provided arms etc for executing the crime. (Praduman Choubey) Garhwa: Ranka police on Monday arrested two JJMP extremists accused of circulating notices against L&T Construction Company for collection of levy in Garhwa district. Udai Paswan  and Vijay Bhuiyan both residents of Baghwar village under Bhandariya police station were taken into custody from Hurdag and Tamge Khurd village under Ranka police station on Monday. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt plan to launch free app-based ambulance service||The Jharkhand government is planning to launch a free app-based ambulance service, which would make it the first state to offer such a facility. The project named “Jeevan Doot 108 Emergency Medical Ambulance Seva” would be on the lines of app-based cab aggregators like Uber and Ola. “We are ready for the rollout of the first phase of the app-based interactive ambulance service. We will seek a time for its launch during the review meeting of the health department projects with chief minister Hemant Soren. We would become the first state government to roll out a free app-based ambulance service in the country,” additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh, told The Telegraph. Doctor turned bureaucrat Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, who is the brain behind the project, said that in the first phase they would roll out the nearly 330 ambulances under the 108 emergency service. “We are ready to launch the service any day with 330 ambulances under the 108 emergency service. However, in the second phase we would integrate it the ambulances under the Mamta Vahan project, bike ambulances and also private ambulances in various districts,” said Bhuvnesh Pratap. According to data available with the health department, there are nearly 3,000 ambulances under Mamta Vahan (round-the-clock ambulance facility at panchayats to bring pregnant women to health centres for institutional delivery and is a joint collaboration of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and Unicef) and around 3,000 in private hospitals across all the 24 districts of Jharkhand. As of now, after receiving a call under the 108 service, it is routed to the nearest ambulance driver through the call centre, which reaches the spot. “The chief minister felt the need for an app-based free ambulance service after cases of ambulance drivers charging exorbitant amounts during the first and second wave of the Covid pandemic were reported from several parts of the state,” said a senior health department official. All the ambulances will have updated GPS and GPRS systems. The mobile application will be linked to the existing 108 toll-free number operated by the Jharkhand Emergency Medical Ambulance Service. “One would have to download the app from the Google Play Store as in the case of Ola and Uber. Then they would have to log in using the mobile number and OTP for registration. “The app will detect the location of the caller using GPS and the call centre would call the individual seeking details about the patient’s health condition and direct the nearest ambulance to reach the spot. The caller can track the location of the ambulance and also call the ambulance driver and guide him to the location. “The app will also inform the caller about the nearest hospitals. The app will have features for doctor consultation so that the hospital where the patient is being brought is in a state of readiness and if necessary a green corridor can be made to bypass a traffic snarl,” said Arun Kumar. The review meeting of the health department schemes scheduled on Monday afternoon (3pm) by Soren has been postponed and is likely to be held after the cabinet meeting scheduled on Tuesday. The health department will seek a date from the chief minister for launching the first phase of the app-based ambulance service during the review meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||AIKS leader calls to focus on cooperative farming, agro industry||The Jharkhand government should adopt an alternative policy of development based on cooperative farming and crop-based agro industries, an All India Kisan Sabha leader has said. P. Krishna Prasad, finance secretary of the AIKS (the farmers’ wing of CPI) and chairman of the Wayanad-based Brahmagiri Development Society, a worker-peasant cooperative in Kerala, who was in Ranchi to attend the two-day state-level farmers’ convention, said on Monday that cooperative farming and crop-based agro industries are the only way to prevent an agrarian crisis in the state and the country. “The alternative policy is essential to resist corporatisation of agriculture backed by the three new ‘black’ farm acts adopted by the BJP-led Union government. Without developing large-scale production and modernising agriculture under cooperative farming, the present alienation of tribal land, displacement and pauperisation of peasantry, converting them into migrant workers, cannot be resisted,” said Prasad, the former CPM legislator from Sultan Bathery in Kerala. Prasad, who will be meeting Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Tuesday before leaving for Kerala, added: “Cooperative farming will provide relief and prevent the crisis in agriculture to a certain extent.” Prasad, who is known as one of the major proponents of the cooperative movement in India, told farmers at the convention: “The crop-based agro industry especially food industry and the growth of domestic market are inevitable to find a solution to the present crisis. This will help Jharkhand to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and enhance the purchasing power of workers and peasants.” He said that he would submit a recommendation to the state agriculture minister. “The state government should adopt a law in support of cooperative farming and modernisation of agriculture production by linking with agro-based industry especially food industry to ensure more employment and increased wage to agriculture workers and facilitate surplus sharing to enhance MSP on all crops to farmers. The state government should come forward to save farmers and agricultural workers from the cooperative loot under the (Narendra) Modi-led Union government,” said Prasad. He also had a suggestion for Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren who has often expressed support for the farmers’ agitation in Delhi. “In solidarity with the peasants, especially tribal farmers and agricultural workers, the chief minister should consider calling a special session of Assembly to adopt an alternative law based on cooperative farming” said Prasad. The convention in Ranchi asked all farmers to come out in all the blocks of Jharkhand during the Bharat Bandh called by the Samykta Kisan Morcha in Delhi against the new farm laws and against the central government on September 27. “The farmers’ movement will go beyond 2024 if the Modi government does not repeal the new farm laws. Jharkhand’s farmers have decided to extend full support to the bandh. The bandh would be historic,” said Prasad. “The nine months of the farmers’ movement and the martyrdom of 600 farmers will not go in vain. A large number of farmers will hit the road on September 27,” said Sufal Mahato, state coordinator of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity, an outfit coordinating the agitation against the three farm laws in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
14-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to have new pharma policy and develop a pharma park||Jharkhand will soon have its new pharma policy and develop a pharma park, around 50km from Ranchi. “We are drafting a dedicated pharma policy with necessary incentive provisions for medical equipment manufacturers. Chief minister Hemant Soren has directed the industry department to ready the dedicated pharma policy at the earliest. The officials have been directed to include provisions for plot allocation for medical equipment manufacturers in the upcoming pharma park,” said a close aide of the chief minister. The industry department has identified area for the pharma park. “We have identified site for developing a pharma park and a food processing park in the Barhe village in Chanho Block of Ranchi. The department has reserved an open area of 35 acres for the creation of pharma park. As per the plan, the government has reserved 55 plots for allocation to micro, small, medium and large-scale pharma industries. Out of these 55 plots, 30 plots are reserved for the micro pharma industry, 14 plots for small units, 7 plots for medium units and 4 plots are reserved for large scale pharma production units,” the aide added. The park will be equipped with all the necessary infrastructure facilities, including an administrative building, a canteen, utility centre, effluent treatment plant, a road network, drainage system, bridges, street lights and many more. Sources in the industry department informed that during the recent Investors’ Meet held in Delhi for the launch of the Jharkhand Industrial Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP-2021), interested investors raised their concern about the lack of provisions for medical equipment manufacturers in the old pharma policy. “Chief minister Shri Soren assured them of solution and directed officials to work on drafting a dedicated pharma policy and include necessary incentive provisions for medical equipment manufacturers,” said a source in the industry department. The pharma park will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 34.94 crore. Of this amount, the state government will give Rs 13.47 crore. Spread across 50 acres of land, the pharma park will increase Jharkhand’s share in the pharmaceutical business in the country. It currently stands at just one per cent. Jharkhand’s share in the pharmaceutical sector across eastern India is five per cent. Companies that are interested in investing in the upcoming facility can also avail several government benefits. The state government has made a provision of up to 20 per cent subsidy on project investment while giving 100 per cent exemption on stamp duty and registration. Companies can also get the assistance of up to Rs 10 lakh on quality certification. A rebate of Rs 10 lakh on patent registration is also being offered. At present, Jharkhand depends on Sikkim, Gujarat and West Bengal for a major part of its medicinal requirements. The state has about 80 pharma manufacturing units, but all of them are operating in small-scale sector with not much high profile products. But the government wants to establish a pharma park and attract big players from Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad to invest in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
