15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Rajrappa temple prasad now at your doorstep through speed post||Devotees across the country can now avail prasad from the famed Maa Chinnamastika temple in Rajrappa in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district sitting in the confines of their homes just by sending a money order. Jharkhand circle of India Post on Wednesday announced commencement of doorstep delivery of prasad from Rajrappa temple through their postal network as part of their prasadam yojana. Chief post master general Sanjeev Ranjan said that India Post has already been running prasadam yojana in 57 cities across the country under which they are delivering prasads at doorsteps of all key religious places such as Tirupati temple (Andhra Pradesh), Hanuman Gadi temple (Ayodhya) and even Baba Baidhyanath temple (Deoghar, Jharkhand) for quite some time. “Rajrappa temple is the new addition to this scheme,” said Ranjan, adding that a memorandum of understanding (MoU) has recently been signed between the postal department of Hazaribag circle and Maa Chinnamastika Nyas Samiti. On how one places their orders, he said, “Anyone can send a money order to the master of the sub-post office in Gola with their requirement for delivery through speed post. For 200 gm pack prasad, one has to pay Rs 251 and for 500 gm, a payment of Rs 500 needs to be sent through money order. Along with the prasad, the temple authorities will send items such as bangles, a photo of Maa Chinnamastika, belpatra etc.” The official maintained that the postal department had begun this unique scheme in view of the covid-19 outbreak which caused slew of travel restrictions since last year. Even though the state government yesterday announced opening of all the shrines and entry of devotees in strict adherence to covid norms, many will still be apprehensive to venture in such crowded places fearing infection. “Hence, we chose to run this scheme and are gradually adding up more religious sites in our list,” he said. Notably, Chhinnamastika temple dedicated to Goddess Chinnamasta is one of the revered pilgrimage sites in the state which draws lakhs of crowd annually from different states. The main attraction of the temple is the headless deity of the goddess standing on the body of Kamadeva and Rati in a lotus bed. The temple is popular for its Tantrik style of architectural design.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||After 2 days of heavy rain, some respite from Thursday||The weather condition will improve in most parts of Jharkhand from Thursday, said weathermen on Wednesday. According to weathermen, the depression which originated from the Bay of Bengal and resulted in widespread and heavy rain in Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal in the last two days, moved towards Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. "The impact of the depression would wane from tomorrow as the system is gradually weakening as it is moving towards Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. The intensity of rain over Jharkhand decreased today," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Anand said that some parts of Jharkhand were expected to witness light showers accompanied by lightning and thunder in the next 48 hours due to formation of convective clouds. "The depression has left behind a lot of moisture in the atmosphere due to bearing of land during day time; it will facilitate formation of convective clouds, "explained Anand. Rain data revealed that Kuru in Lohardaga district recorded the highest heavy rain of 128.4 mm in the past 24 hours (8.30am of Tuesday to 8.30am of Wednesday). The other places which recorded significant rain included Mandar in Ranchi district ( 126 mm), Arki in Khunti ( 115 mm ), Lohardaga ( 106 mm ) Latehar ( 105 mm ), Ramgarh ( 104 mm), Hazaribagh ( 80 mm ), Chaibasa ( 70 mm) and Ranchi ( 58 mm). Koderma, Jamtara, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Daltonganj, Giridih and Dumka experienced moderate rain during the last 24 hours. Several places in central and northern Jharkhand including Ranchi and Hazaribagh witnessed intermittent rains on Wednesday. Most parts of Jharkhand woke up to gloomy weather on Thursday. The sun was mostly cloaked behind cloud cover. But, weathermen said the Sun will come out tomorrow as the weather condition improves. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre in its sector-wise forecast issued an alert of moderate thunder and lightning in the next two days. According to the Met office data, Jharkhand has so far received 909 mm rainfall, against a normal of 952 mm, a deficit of four percent. The deficit figure dipped to four percent from yesterday's eight per cent due to a good shower show. The water level in river Subernarekha and Kharkai which had witnessed a rise was gradually receding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's first oxygen plant launched at Tata Central Hospital ||The first Pressure Swing Adsorption Oxygen plant of coal town established by Jharia Division of Tata Steel, since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic in March last year was commissioned on Wednesday at its Central Hospital at Jamadoba in Jharia. Set up over an area of 400 square feet in the hospital by Tata Steel Foundation, the PSA Oxygen plant of 833 litres per minute capacity launched in presence of Chanakya Chaudhary, Vice President (Corporate Services) as chief guest will not only make Tata Central Hospital fully sufficient in medical oxygen supply at the hospital but will also enhance the medical facility by providing continuous oxygen support to 15 beds (five ICU beds and 10 beds of Covid 19 ward) inside the hospital. Dr Alok, Chief Medical Officer of Jharia Division of Tata Steel was also present during the occasion along  with Dr Sudhir Rai, General Manager (medical services) of Tata Steel; Dr Rajan Chaudhary, advisor (medical services)  Tata Steel; Saurav Roy, Chief (Corporate Social Responsibility) and Sanjay Rajoria, General Manager (Jharia Division) of Tata Steel said that besides the PSA Oxygen Plant, Oxygen Manifolds and storage area for keeping filled and empty oxygen cylinder have also been developed at the Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba.   Chanakya Chaudhary, on the other hand said that the plant has been established as part of the effort of Tata Steel to combat Covid-19 and be future ready. Three other PSA Oxygen Plants have also been established by the district administration, including two at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) of Dhanbad of the capacity of 1000 litres per minute and 600 litres per minute and another plant of 600 litres at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad. The trail of all the three newly established PSA Oxygen plants, including two of SNMMCH and one of Sadar Hospital for which gas pipeline has already been laid and has also been completed during August end and is awaiting it’s formal inauguration which is likely to carried out online by Chief Minister Hemant Soren from Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stresses on socio-economic survey of mining areas||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday stressed on the need for socio-economic surveys in all mining strongholds of the state to evaluate the living conditions of local inhabitants so that effective intervention plans can be finalised for them. Speaking at a closed-door meeting with the members of Niti Aayog here, Hemant also suggested area-specific development plans as per the need of the state. Besides placing a host of demands before the Central team, he also raised the issue of dues amounting to crores the Centre and its agencies/companies owed the Jharkhand government. An eight-member team of Niti Aayog, under the aegis of senior member V K Paul, held its first consultation with the state government in Ranchi on Wednesday. The meeting which began at noon went on for about three hours. Addressing the Press later, Hemant said the meeting was forward looking and expressed the hope that such interactions would help strengthen the federal structure of the country. He said discussions took place on about 22 issues across various sectors, including agriculture, roads and railway projects. "The first and foremost issue before us was auto-debit of money from the state’s RBI account by the Centre since last year against pending payments to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Till date, Rs 2800 crore has been cut and Rs 2200 crore more will be taken out from our account. These deductions are arbitrary as the state government had exited the tripartite agreement. More so, the claims made by DVC has been contested by us. Till the time this is sorted out, such auto debits must stop,” the chief minister said. “On the contrary, Coal India, Central Coalfields, which operate here, haven’t paid us royalties worth thousands of crores for long. Similarly, some Rs 1,800 crore is pending as GST compensation. We must get those for the state’s development,” Hemant added. He said the Niti Aayog team promised to arrange a meeting with Central officials in the coming days to settle these issues. Hemant outlined his plans for mining belts of the state. "Since mining activities are happening here for decades, I have suggested holding socio-economic survey so that we can know if at all it benefitted locals or not. This will help us plan proper schemes,” he said. The chief minister also called for special incentives for the SC/ST people. “We have demanded relaxation of GST and other kinds of taxes to SC/ST entrepreneurs so that they too can get proper assistance to pursue start-ups. There is a need for a special policy to boost SC/STs. From our end, we have recently come up with a new industrial policy to boost trade and create jobs,” he said. Hemant said he had asked for more vaccine stocks to fight Covid-19. “Against our capacity of vaccinating over 3.5 lakh people per day, we are barely doing around 1.25 lakh a day. We must get good quantity of vaccines in advance so that  we can speed up the drive," he said. Since Jharkhand was a rebel infested state, the chief minister urged Niti Aayog to ensure that funds to tackle left wing extremism be extended for another two years. “Earlier, 13 districts were classified as highly rebel hit. But now, the Centre has revised it to eight."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Stir for amenities hits train services in Chakradharpur division||The train services in Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway, was affected on Wednesday due to a public agitation at Garposh station, close to Sambalpur in neighbouring Odisha. Apart from stoppages of a few mail and express trains, local residents of Garposh demanded improvement in passenger amenities at the station. The agitation which began at 7am continued till 3.30 pm. Several trains were cancelled due to the agitation. The Rourkela-Puri Special was cancelled both from Rourkela and Puri. The Jharsuguda-Rourkela Passenger train was cancelled both from Jharsuguda and Rourkela. The Ahmedabad –Howrah Special was detained for two hours in Chakradharpur division. Several other trains including  Bangalore Cantt-Hatia Special, Titlagah – Howrah Special, Howrah-Ahmedabad Special (Up train), Puri-Yog Nagari Rishikesh Special ,Rajendranagar-Durg Special,  Howrah- Mumbai CSMT Special  and Howrah-Titlagarh Special were also detained for several hours in Chakradharpur division, due to the public agitation. Director of Tatanagar railway station H.K. Balmuchu said several passenger trains including the Howrah-bound Jan Shatabdi Express were also running late, due to the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Centre sets up committee to review Jharia rehabilitation project||A nine-member technical committee constituted by the Union ministry of Coal  under the chairmanship of Coal Secretary Anil Kumar Jain, to find the way forward for accelerating the ongoing Jharia rehabilitation project has initiated the review in progress of the Jharia master plan. The committee of chairman and Managing Director of BCCL, P.M. Prasad besides experts from other relevant institutions including, Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDIL) and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) will carry out inspection of underground fire affected sites within a day or two to ascertain the ground realities of the  underground fire situation, condition of residents of subsidence prone areas as well as newly developed colony for rehabilitation at Belgarhia to make a long-term as well as short-term plan to accelerate the rehab project. An introductory meeting of the technical committee was conducted on Tuesday at New Delhi during which the members were apprised by BCCL team led by its CMD PM Prasad about the activities of the ongoing rehabilitation work at 595 fire affected sites. So far, only around 2666 families out of the total 1.04 lakh families have been shifted to safer places ever since the launch of rehabilitation work by Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority (JRDA), the agency constituted to carry out rehabilitation, comprising of officials of district administration, state government and district administration. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Wednesday, a senior member of committee said, “No comprehensive technical review of the Jharia Rehabilitation Project has so far been carried out and the committee having experts from background of diverse areas like, Krishna S. Vatsa, member of NMDA; Ram Madhav Bhattacharjee of IIT (ISM); Shekhar, Sharan, retired CMD of CMPDIL will analyze the project based on their experience and provide fresh inputs.” The committee comprising of others, like Pramod Agarwal, chairman of Coal India Limited; Anandji Prasad, Project Advisor of Ministry of Coal;  Sukhdev Singh, Chief Secretary, Jharkhand; Humum Singh Meena, additional secretary, Department of Land Resources (DOLA) of Jharkhand will hold several rounds of meetings and carry out ground inspection and present a report within two months. The committee will be preparing the report based on the ground inspection as well as deliberation with different people will suggest ways for ensuring constructive participation of the affected people of underground coal fire areas in the rehabilitation process and preparing rehabilitation schemes as the convenience. PM Prasad, CMD BCCL while talking to The Telegraph Online said, “As many of members of committee have not witnessed the fire affected sites they were scheduled to carry out immediate inspection of fire zones immediately after the introductory meeting which was postponed for one or two days due to incessant rains but will take place soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to conduct fever survey in 15 malaria-hit districts||Jharkhand will conduct a fever survey in villages across 15 malaria-affected districts from September 15 to 30 in a bid to identify cases of infection among rural residents, health officials said on Wednesday, adding that the survey was a part of the state’s plan for quick identification and treatment of malaria patients. Special testing kits have already been distributed among Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANMs), Sahiyas and Public Healthcare Centres (PHCs) across the districts for the survey, said State Malaria Officer Dr Shesh Narayan Jha, adding that all rural residents suffering from fever or other symptoms of malaria in these 15 districts will be tested during the survey. “As per guidelines from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, we need to conduct fever surveys in districts that have an Annual Parasite Index of more than five. People living in these areas are prone to malaria and other vector-borne diseases,” said Jha. Annual Parasite Index is the number of malaria patients found per 1000 population in a specific geographical location in a year. This means that all the 15 districts where fever survey would be conducted reported more than five malaria cases per 1,000 population in a year. The districts where this fever survey will be conducted are West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Palamau, Pakur, Latehar, Koderma, Khunti, Hazaribagh, Gumla, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, East Singhbhum and Dumka, a document from the health department stated. The teams constituted for conducting fever survey will adhere to Covid-19 protocols and wear necessary protective gear while visiting villages, officials said. While the kits distributed among the teams will give quick test results, the Sahiyas have also been trained to conduct slide tests for malaria, which gives more efficient results. “If a person suffering from fever tests negative for malaria on the test kit, the teams will conduct blood test on a microscopic slide as a confirmation (of the test result),” said Jha. As per data compiled by the Jharkhand unit of National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, the state reported 37,133 malaria cases in 2019. As many as 16,655 cases of malaria surfaced in Jharkhand in 2020. In 2021, the state has so far reported 6467 cases of malaria from January to July against 6692 cases reported from January to July in 2020, highlights government data. While figures indicate that measures taken to fight Covid-19 were partly responsible for the drop in cases of malaria, Jha said that intensified campaign against vector-borne diseases had a greater role to play in checking dengue and malaria cases than Covid-induced precautionary measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||5 charred to death as car catches fire after colliding with bus in Jharkhand||Five persons were charred to death as their car caught fire after a head-on collision with a bus in Jharkhand's Ramgarh district on Wednesday morning, police said. The accident happened at Murbanda in the Rajrappa police station area, they said. The driver of the bus was also critically injured and admitted to a hospital, police said. A WagonR car collided head-on with a bus on Ramgarh-Gola Main Road around 8 am, Superintendent of Police Prabhat Kumar told PTI. Soon after collision, the car caught fire, killing five persons, he said. The deceased include four adults -- two men and two women, and a teenage boy, the officer said. The victims were from Patna and police were find out their addresses and other details, he said. The cause of the accident was being investigated, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Child rights activist shot, his body hacked in Gumla||A 35-year-old child rights activist was shot and then his body hacked to pieces in broad daylight at his home-office at Gokulnagar in Gumla district on Tuesday. Mithilesh Kumar Sahu was associated with Bal Mazdoori Mukti Sansthan, an NGO. Officer in-charge of Gumla police station Manoj Kumar said the attack on him occurred between 9am and 9.30am. “We are probing the case from various angles. Prima facie, it looks like a case of personal enmity, judging by the manner in which he was killed. Attempts are on to identify his killers,” he said. A woman employee of the NGO, unwilling to be named, said that two persons came to thei office at 9 am, but left soon after. “A few minutes later, four others barged into his room, shot at him first and later hacked him to death and fled,” she said, adding that Sahu was operating his office from his residence located in Gokulnagar in Gumla town. Notably, Sahu had registered his  NGO this February, said associates. Sources in the NGO claimed that Sahu had rescued two child labourers (girls) from Delhi a month back. The suspected that his murder could be linked to that case. Police, however, told the media that Sahu also faced murder charges. “He was also in jail and had come out a few months back in connection with a murder case," added Gumla police station OC Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.30 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated more than 1.30 lakh residents against Covid-19 as at least 1,515 session sites remained operational across the state from morning to evening, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine to 88,641 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 42,523 beneficiaries. About 75,000 beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 and 44. According to a press communique released by the health department on Tuesday evening, more than 1.20 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and more than 32 lakh of them have also got the second jab. The state had about 7 lakh vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on Tuesday, as per government data. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 111 in Jharkhand as the state reported at least 13 Covid recoveries against seven fresh cases of coronavirus infection, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone reported three of seven fresh cases of Covid-19, but at least six Covid recoveries brought the active caseload here down to 70. Khunti reported two cases of coronavirus infection, while Jamtara and Bokaro reported one case each. At least 20 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, highlighted NHM data. As per government data, at least nine of 24 districts, including Dumka, Giridih, Garhwa and Palamu, had zero active Covid cases by the end of Tuesday. On the other hand, Ranchi alone accounts for more than 60 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. The active caseload of Covid-induced mucormycosis also dropped to seven on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet approves online registration of FIRs||Jharkhand has become the second state after Delhi to notify police stations where a complaint can be lodged online. The state cabinet at its meeting in Ranchi on Tuesday approved the home department’s proposal for formation of e-FIR police stations in 22 out of 24 districts. “Except Ramgarh and Khunti, all the remaining 22 districts will have e-FIR police stations. Now if someone wants to file an FIR, then he/she will not need to go to the police station. They can file a complaint online at the respective police station of the districts concerned,” Jharkhand cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel told the media after the cabinet meeting. Sources in the state police headquarters said that ideally they would have liked to notify e-FIR police stations in all the districts. However, since Khunti and Ramgarh, which were notified as separate districts in 2007 carved out from Ranchi and Hazaribagh districts respectively, did not have a composite control room of their own, the e-FIR concept could not be implemented. “However, we will soon be notifying e-FIR police stations in Ramgarh and Khunti districts too. We are the first state or Union Territory after Delhi to start e-FIR police stations across the state for the convenience of the masses,” said a senior IPS officer in the state police headquarters. In another important decision, life-size statues of three more tribal freedom fighters — Bhagirath Majhi, Ganga Ram and Pota Ho — will be installed at the newly constructed Birsa Munda Museum in the Old Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi. “These would be apart from the 11 statues of tribal freedom fighters already installed at the Birsa Munda Museum. The installation work would be done by renowned sculptors Ram V. Sutar Art Creation,” said Dadel. The 180-year-old jail, where freedom fighter Birsa Munda was hanged, was renovated and converted into a museum at an estimated cost of Rs 31 crore and inaugurated in 2020. The project was funded by the Union ministry of tribal affairs and executed by the Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company Limited. A total of 15 other proposals were sanctioned during the state cabinet meeting, prominent among which was the approval of the Jharkhand State Road Tax Amendment, 2021. “Under this amendment, toll tax would be levied on vehicles using roads in the mining area. The government has fixed rates for various vehicles and there will be no special barriers for these vehicles. The state aims at collecting an estimated revenue of nearly Rs 700 crore from such tax,” said Dadel. “Giridih was selected as the first district for the Solar City project of the Union energy ministry under which beneficiaries having an annual income of less than Rs 3 lakh will get 40 per cent of the amount from the Centre and 60 per cent from the state for installing rooftop solar power system. Those beneficiaries having annual income of more than Rs 3 lakh will get 40 per cent of the finance from the central government and 30 per cent from state, while the remaining 30 per cent would have to be borne by the beneficiary,” said Dadel. The cabinet also approved the operation of the Juvenile Justice Fund and a savings account was opened in the Ranchi branch of State Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
15-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel adopts carbon capture technology    ||Tata Steel on Tuesday became India’s first steel company to adopt carbon capture technology that extracts carbon dioxide directly from the blast furnace gas. The more than a century-old steel company commissioned a 5 tonnes per day (TPD) carbon capture plant at its Jamshedpur work and the will reuse the captured CO2 on-site to promote the circular carbon economy. “This Carbon Capture and Utilisation (CCU) facility uses amine-based technology and makes the captured carbon available for onsite reuse. The depleted CO2 gas is sent back to the gas network with increased calorific value. This project has been executed with the technological support from Carbon Clean, a global leader in low-cost CO2 capture technology,” said a company spokesperson. The CCU plant was inaugurated by CEO and MD Tata Steel T.V. Narendran in presence of company officials and other dignitaries. “In alignment with the Tata group’s pioneering values, we have taken this strategic step in our journey towards de-carbonisation. We will continue our quest to remain an industry leader in sustainability by setting new benchmarks for a better tomorrow. For the sustainability of the steel industry globally and particularly in a growing country like India, it is essential that we find economical solutions for capturing and use of CO2 at scale. Leadership in mitigating emissions, accessing low-cost clean energy, and providing circular economy solutions will define our sector’s journey going forward,” said Narendran after commissioning the CCU plant. “The operational experience gathered from this plant will give us the required data and confidence to establish larger carbon capture plants in future. As the next step, we aim to establish scaled up facilities of CO2 capture integrated with utilisation avenues,” Narendran added. Tata Steel continues to pursue its goal to be the industry leader in sustainability by reducing its CO2 emission intensity and specific freshwater consumption, developing a sustainable supply chain and contributing towards the future circular economy. The company has undertaken a two-pronged approach of Carbon Direct Avoidance (CDA) and CO2 capture and use in pursuit of the decarbonisation goal. “We are delighted to be working with Tata Steel on this breakthrough project. We are currently capturing 5 tonnes of CO2 per day, but following our successful demonstration, we plan to rapidly accelerate the number of carbon capture projects. Capturing CO2 from blast furnace gas will not only decarbonise the steel plants but will also open avenues for a hydrogen economy,” said CEO Carbon Clean Aniruddha Sharma. Over the past few years, Tata Steel has invested in multiple initiatives in harnessing clean and renewable energy, generation and use of Green Hydrogen and adopting waste heat recovery technologies. Tata Steel is a member of ResponsibleSteelTM, the industry’s first global multi-stakeholder standard and certification initiative, to further its sustainability goals. In September 2020, Tata Steel had joined hands with the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) to work in the field of Carbon Capture, Utilisation & Storage (CCUS), to build a strong ecosystem in the country for meeting the decarbonisation commitments under the Paris Agreement. “Tata Steel has also made progress in its steel recycling business initiative, which is a definitive step towards sustainable steel production. The company has set up its first steel recycling plant at Rohtak in Haryana which will enable lower carbon emissions, resource consumption and energy utilisation,” said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
