16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Water inundates low-lying areas in and around steel city||Several low-lying areas in and around the steel city were inundated on Thursday due to opening of four sluice gates of Bankabal dam in Mayurbhanj district of neighbouring Odisha and seven radial gates of Chandil dam. The opening of sluice gates of Bankabal dam resulted in a sudden rise in water level of Kharkai River while opening of sluice gates of Chandil dam led to rise in water level of River Subernarekha. Both the rivers were already in spate due to heavy rain in Jharkhand and two neighbouring states- Odisha and West Bengal, caused by a depression originating from the Bay of Bengal. Though the rains stopped in most places on Thursday as the impact of the depression waned as it moved towards Madhya Pradesh but opening of radial gates of both the dams resulted in flash- flood like situation. In the morning people residing in low-lying areas started shifting to safer places with their belongings. The East Singhbhum district administration issued an alert last night and started shifting people to safer places. "We are keeping a close watch on the situation and if required NDRF would be called," said a district administrative official monitoring the flood situation.  The affected areas were Naya Buster at Bagbera, Sankosai and Daiguttu in Mango, Shastrinagar in Kadma and Garib Nawaz Colony in Jugsalai. Water from overflowing drains also entered several houses at Birsanagar, a slum. The low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression which resulted in heavy and widespread rain in Jharkhand since Sunday. On Thursday, the state’s deficit stood at four per cent. Jharkhand as a whole has so far experienced 923.3mm of rain against a normal of 959.1 mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said, "The monsoon trough is active and is expected to result in more rain over Jharkhand later this month.” IMD had earlier forecast normal rain in September, the last monsoon month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad street food now available on Zomato and Swiggy||Dhanbad residents can now order their favourite spicy jhalmuri from the streets of Jharia and mouth-watering Kulcha treats of Saraidhela through online food delivery platforms like Zomato and Swiggy. Over 50 street vendors dealing in different food items on Thursday expressed keen interest in joining hands with Zomato during the concluding day of the training of first batch of 50 vendors being organised by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation as part of fortnight long training, under the Support to Urban Street Vendors (SUSV) component of Deendayal Antyodaya Yojna National Urban Livelihood Mission (DAY NULM). The Zomato representatives were allowed to explain the process of registration to food street vendors during the second day of training in an effort to provide a digital and online platform for better marketing of products as earlier 25 street vendors had already registered themselves with Swiggy at the initiative of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. The training aimed at orienting street vendors about their rights and responsibilities, specific policies and laws related to them, food safety, maintenance of hygiene and waste was organized with the support of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), a statutory body of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The trainees were apprised about the ways of maintaining better hygiene while cooking, storing and packaging food, besides keeping the shops and surrounding clean, using hand gloves and hair band, use of sanitizers amidst increased safety concerns among people. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Chandra Shekhar, City Manager (NULM) of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) said, “The training being organised by all the Urban Local bodies of the state simultaneously on the instruction of state Directorate of Municipal Administration  which is also aimed at ensuring inclusive growth with increased contribution of Urban street vendors to national economy is being imparted by five experts of Food Safety Awareness and Training Organization (FSATO) on behalf of FSSAI.” Altogether 12 hours training of six hours each of two day is being provided to each batch of 50 street vendors on the day of one of which they have also apprised about various laws pertaining to them, ways of preventing food spoilage, food poisoning and illness caused due to sell of spoiled foods; hand washing techniques, cleaning practices, purchase and storage of raw material. On the concluding day of the training during which the vendors were also provided certificates they were also provided guidance about reducing purchasing cost and wastage; besides improving customer service, ways of improving business using digital platforms, ways of availing and various government schemes for financial support to them like PM Swanidihi Yojna. Nisha Devi a street food vendor of Purana Bazar selling chowmin, eggroll etc said, “The training was very useful as we came to know about hygiene as well registration procedures for selling our products Online through Zomato and Swigy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Sindri train services restored after over a year||East Central railway has restored two ferries of Dhanbad-Sindri train from Thursday after the restoration of the first ferry after a gap of 17 months on August 1 this year. A section of Sindri residents, particularly those travelling to Delhi through Purushottam Express however expressed dissatisfaction as the railways abruptly announced short termination of the pre announced journey of NSCB Gomoh Sindri town passenger train from Gomoh to Dhanbad. According to the earlier communication of Railways which was made public through the official twitter handle of Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway the Railway was to relaunch 03601 Sindri town special train from September 16 which was scheduled to leave Dhanbad at 11.40am to reach Sindri at 1pm. The bogey of the same train was to begin its journey at Sindri Town Gomoh Passenger Train (03327) leaving Sindri at 1.40pm to reach Gomoh at 4pm. From Gomoh, the train was again to leave at 4.35pm as Gomoh Sindri town passenger (03328) to reach Sindri at 6.55pm. The same train was to leave Sindri at 7.50pm to reach Dhanbad at 9.10pm. The Railway however citing unavoidable circumstances made changes in earlier schedule and as per the changes the train Sindri town Gomoh passenger train leaving from Sindri at 1.40 pm has been short terminated upto Dhanbad where it reaches at 3.07 pm. The Gomoh Sindri Passenger (03328) instead of earlier scheduled departure from Gomoh will not leave from Dhanbad 5.26 pm to reach Sindri at 6.55 pm. Notably, the services of Sindri Gomoh Passenger train were withdrawn more than 9 years ago on account of revenue loss due to ticketless travelling etc and Sindri residents were happy over the announcement of restoration of trains withdrawn since June 11, 2012. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Deepak Kumar Dipu, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce who also wrote to the railway authorities for the restoration of other ferries of train ever since the restoration of first ferry on August 1 this year said, “We are happy that at least the train ferries have been restored though we are slightly sad over the abrupt change in earlier announcement by railway and short termination train upto Dhanbad only.” D.N. Singh, 78, a retired officer of FCI Sindri who is also the Vice President of All India FCI VSS Employees Association said, “The Gomoh trip would have been much beneficial for those travelling to Delhi from Sindri as large through Gomoh many trains of South Eastern Railway pass heading towards Delhi pass every day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||HEC bans staff from using smart phones within company premises||Ranchi headquartered Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC), one of the earliest PSUs to be set up in the country, has announced a ban on smart phones within the company premises from September 30 for all employees, the decision being greeted with scepticism by staff and  the workers' union. HEC’s manager of personnel and administration Prashant Kumar has issued a circular. “In order to ensure safety and security of the employees and the documents/processes and to avoid distraction in the production activities, it has been decided by the company management to prohibit use of smart phones inside HEC premises with effect from September 30, 2021 till further orders," it said. Employees, however, will be able to carry  basic, non-camera phones for work. The circular applies to category of workers, from regular employees to those on contract and trainees. “As such, use of smart phone/camera at workplace will be treated as an act of misconduct with effect from the date of enforcement of the rule,” the circular said, adding that the board of directors, chief vigilance officer, general managers, in-charges of shops, departments and divisions were however exempt from the rule. HEC has around 4,000 employees. A section of the staff felt the no-smart phone order was linked to the September 13  visit to Ranchi of secretary of the Union ministry of heavy industries Arun Goel. Sources said the secretary was visibly upset to see staff members  using smart phones in key workshop areas and other departments of the company. But a senior official denied it had anything to do with Goel's visit. “The decision to ban smart phones was taken much before but it’s just that the order has been issued now," he claimed. HEC Hatia Project Workers' Union secretary Rana Sangram Singh dubbed the smart phone ban as "mindless". "Phones without cameras are almost out of market today. We will appeal to the management to reconsider the decision,” he said. HEC is reeling under serious fiscal stress. It has work orders to the tune of about Rs 2000 crore from the defence ministry and ISRO, among others. However, salaries of a  majority of employees have been delayed for over five months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand 5th in number of Covid deaths due to lapses: NCRB ||Jharkhand reported at least 10 deaths due to medical negligence, the fifth highest among states and Union territories in 2020, when the first wave of Covid-19 wreaked havoc on the entire country, latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has revealed. While there was no official confirmation from the state government on the causes of these deaths, NCRB findings indicate that patients may have died either due to shortage of beds in hospitals, leading to delayed treatment or unavailability of important drugs, sources from hospitals in the state said. As per NCRB records, Uttar Pradesh reported the highest number of deaths due to medical negligence in 2020, followed by Rajasthan, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh. At least 29 people died due to medical negligence in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, while 23 died in Rajasthan, 16 in Telangana and 11 in Madhya Pradesh during this period. While NCRB has not categorically defined medical negligence in context of its annual report, most legal websites define medical negligence as misconduct by a medical practitioner or doctor by not providing enough care resulting in breach of their duties. As per records with the state health department, about 1000 Jharkhand residents died of Covid-19 in the year 2020. The toll was at least three times higher during the second wave of the pandemic in the year 2021. Jharkhand, however, reported zero deaths due to negligence of civic bodies in the year 2020. At least 13 deaths occurred in Jharkhand due to negligence relating to rail accidents, while as many as 2930 state residents died due to negligence related to road accidents that year, the NCRB report highlighted. A total of 135 deaths due to medical negligence were reported in India in 2020, while 53 people died due to negligence of civic bodies and 52 due to negligence relating to rail accidents, NCRB data revealed. At least 1,33,715 people died due to negligence relating to road accidents in India during this period, NCRB data further highlighted. Even during the Covid crisis, superstition continued to cause deaths in rural Jharkhand. As per NCRB data, at least 15 women were killed in Jharkhand on charges of practicing witchcraft in year 2020, the third highest among states in India. At least one person in Jharkhand also fell prey to the superstitious practice of human sacrifice, NCRB report stated. Jharkhand had topped in witch-hunting cases for five consecutive years from 2011 to 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||Chinnamastika Temple prasad to be delivered by India Post ||The postmen will now deliver prasad from the Maa Chinnamastika Temple In Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district at the doorstep of interested devotees. The service known as Maa Chinnamastika Prasadam Seva was launched, following a tie-up between the postal authorities and the Maa Chinnamastika Nyas Samiti, on Wednesday in Ranchi in the presence of S. Mervin Alexander, member (personnel) of Indian postal board. The interested devotees can get the prasad by sending money order to the sub-postmaster of Gola in Ramgarh district, the postal officials informed, adding the same would be available in two types of packets. A 200-gram packet containing a photo of the deity, peda, chura and other items like bel patra would be available for Rs 251 while a 500-gram packet would cost Rs 501. This is, however, not the first prasad delivery service for India Post that had already introduced identical service for prasadam from 57 other well-known shrines of the country, including the Sabarimala Temple in Kerala for which the Kerala postal circle tied up with the Kerala Devaswom Board for introducing it. Any interested devotee living in any corner of the country can get a packet of prasadam from Sabarimala by booking it at a post office for Rs 450. “Even in Jharkhand, the same service had been introduced at Baba Baidyanathdham Temple in Deoghar in June this year,” informed one of the postal officials. India Post started delivering other items during the lockdown last year. When the farmers in Karnataka were wondering how to sell their mangoes during the lockdown last year, India Post came to their rescue. It teamed up with the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation and started delivering mangoes to willing buyers every Tuesday and Friday in April last year. This was followed by a similar service in Surat for delivering Alfonso mangoes and also Shahi Lichi and Zardalu mangoes in Bihar the next month. As the number of letters dwindled, the postal department tried to reinvent itself by diversifying its activities across the country. Its Jharkhand circle had also opened a few shops in cities like Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Deoghar that started selling, besides pure and unadulterated gangajal packaged in Gangotri and Rishikesh, various items like khadi and ayurveda products and greetings cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
16-09-2021||Jharkhand||States's idol height curbs irk Jharkhand puja organisers  ||Durga puja organisers in Jharkhand find the state government’s directive of restricting idol height at 5 feet as impractical and illogical. Puja samitis in the capital Ranchi and Jamshedpur are planning to submit a memorandum for relaxation in the guidelines on Durga Puja issued on Tuesday late evening by the government after a meeting of the state disaster management authority chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren. “The directive should have come earlier. With only 24 days left for Durga Puja most of the artisans with whom we had placed orders have already finished the idols and only finishing touches to Goddess Idols are being given. It is next to impossible to alter the size of the idol at this juncture. We will hold a meeting on Wednesday and seek an early appointment with the chief minister and apprise him about our predicament. It is illogical to issue such a directive at this time,” said convenor of Ranchi zilla (district) Durga Puja Samity, Munchun Rai. Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samity (JKDPS), which hosts nearly 350 Durga Puja pandals — largest in Jharkhand, has refused to adhere to several provisions of the guidelines. “We will be submitting our memorandum addressed to the chief minister through East Singhbhum deputy commissioner about ‘impractical’ restrictions imposed on puja by the government,” said general secretary of the JKDPS, Rambabu Singh. The Jamshedpur outfit senior functionary apart from the restriction on idol’s height is also annoyed at government restriction on bhog distribution and not allowing children to the pandals. “Bhog preparation is an integral part of puja ritual, how can we not distribute it to devotees who wait for it anxiously. The restriction on those under-18 from entering pandals is also impractical and an unjustified as large number of minors want to pay obeisance before Maa,” said Singh. The Jharkhand government allowed devotees inside after a meeting on Tuesday. However, priests and clerics of the religious places should have mandatorily taken at least one jab of Covid vaccine. At important religious places earmarked by the district administration (like Baba Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar) a maximum of 100 devotees would be allowed for an hour through e-pass provision to be issued by the district administration while at other religious places 50 per cent of the capacity of the religious place will be allowed to worship with strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour. Devotees, less than 18 years have be strictly prohibited from entering religious places. The government has allowed the construction of Durga Puja pandals but the entry of devotees would be prohibited at pandals and inside pandals, a maximum of 25 persons (or 50 per cent of capacity) would be allowed at one point in time. Fairs, welcome gates, illumination with fancy lights, cultural programs, distribution of bhogs and theme-based pandals have been strictly prohibited. There will be no immersion procession. Dhaks have been permitted for the puja. Idols of Durga would have to be within 5 feet. Schools have been allowed to conduct offline classes for Classes between six and eight. Incidentally, classes nine, 10 and 11 are already having offline classes since August. Sports competitions have been allowed but without spectators. Bars and restaurants have been allowed to operate till 11 pm. The order will be applicable within immediate effect. Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas said that they will discuss before starting offline services of masses in churches while online services would continue as usual. While Eqra Masjid chief imam, Maulana Obaidullah Qasmi said that will follow the government guidelines during namaz at all mosques. Significantly, there have been demands from shrine priests for reopening of religious places for devotees after cases of Covid infection decreased in Jharkhand. Active caseload of Covid in Jharkhand on Tuesday was 111 with a total of 5,133 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
