17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad BJP's 14 - day programme for PM birthday||Dhanbad: The district unit activists of Bharatiya Janata Party as part of the nation-wide 14-day ‘Seva aur Samparpan Abhiyan’ to mark the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modai organised a special programme including an exhibition on his life journey, besides distribution of fruits and essentials among  street dwellers ,inmates of old age homes and inhabitants of Dalit Basti. The inaugural programme began with a photo exhibition at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters which was inaugurated by Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh in the presence of district president of the party, Chandrashekhar Singh, Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha and former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: A 25-year-old woman Santoshi Sardar died by suicide jumping into river Kharkai from the Adityapur toll bridge in Kadma on Friday. According to eye-witnesses the woman, a resident of Ramjanam Nagar, a slum along the Marine Drive in Kadma jumped into the swollen Kharkai River with her two kids- Manisha, the four-year-old daughter and Manish, the one-year-old son. She was carrying both the kids on her lap. Santoshi's husband Govardhan Sardar is a daily wage earner. (Pinaki Majumdar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||IIT (ISM) launches innovation hub for  entrepreneur support||An introductory programme was held on Friday at IIT (ISM) intended at apprising the community at large and local budding entrepreneurs in particular about the  technological guidance, management and marketing strategy support and skill development being offered through its newly established Atal Community Innovation Centre. Deputy Director of IIT (ISM) Professor Shlivahan who presided over the function briefed the gathering about the wide range of activities being conducted by the college to support the industry including the technological support to various small industries. Amit Shukla, Chief Executive Officer of ACIC at IIT (ISM), also explained in details about the activities of the newly developed centre, including providing opportunity for everyone irrespective of their age to innovate, ideate and design impactful solution and also to support community learning by providing enabling infrastructure and linkages. Explaining the deliberation during the programme Shukla said, “Ravi Nishhad, one of the entrepreneur of Bhuli area of Dhanbad engaged in Marigold flower cultivation apprised us about the problem with regard to mulching (removal of weeds) and also lesser profit and thus  based on our experience we suggested them to go for extraction of marigold flower products i.e processing which can be sold at higher rate to chemical or pharmaceutical industry.” “We are considering taking suggestions from the chemistry department for exploring the possibility of extracting phytophenol from marigolds which can be sold at much higher rate than the flower,” said Shukla. “We are simultaneously considering taking the help of the Mechanical Engineering department for developing a low cost equipment for addressing the mulching issue faced by Ravi Nishad and his business venture,” said Shukla. “Another company, LAPLACE Games-Smartifying education engaged in designing innovative physical games for kids incubated by us is facing the problem of high cost wood and bamboo engraving machines which leads to high production cost and thus we are exploring ways of developing low cost equipment or make toys or will offer them machines by procuring them from other manufacturers engaged in production of low cost engraving machines,” said Shukla. Regarding the aim of organising the programme, Shukla said, “We also organised the programme to dispel the myth that IIT (ISM) is only involved in cutting edge technology rather than conducting research for the benefit of common masses and to address the problem affecting their daily life,” said Shukla the centre will also make technology developed at the laboratory available for benefit of common masses. Ravi Nishad of Bhuli who operates the company RPA while sharing his experience during the programme, “The programme was quite useful and we have been asked by the ACIC officials to come to centre on September 23 to discuss and explore the possibility of extracting useful products in the form of chemicals from the Marigold flowers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tejashwi sets sights on Jharkhand, to revive RJD in state||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), a junior partner in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government in Jharkhand,  is aiming to revive the party in the state with an eye on the 2024 parliamentary and assembly elections. RJD leader of Opposition in Bihar Tejashwi Yadav is scheduled to begin a two-day visit to Jharkhand on Saturday, the first of many more monthly visits from now, his party workers said. State RJD president Abhay Singh said on Friday  that a state-level meet is planned in Ranchi at  Dibdih on Sunday where central leader will address  workers and spell out ways to revive the party in Jharkhand. “Tejashwi has now decided to visit Jharkhand at least for two days every month. The idea is to strengthen the party across all the 81 Assembly segments in Jharkhand. By 2024, we hope to emerge as a key player in Jharkhand,” said Singh. RJD currently has only one MLA in Jharkhand _  Satyanand Bhokta, who  represents Chatra constituency,  is a minister in the  Hemant  government handling labour and employment department portfolio. The party contested both Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in 2019 in alliance with JMM and Congress. RJD used to be a potential political force when Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in 2000 with nine MLAs. But later, the  party’s prospects diminished. In 2005, RJD was reduced to seven MLAs, five in 2009 and a decade later, it had oy one Assembly member. Singh said the party was committed to revisit its golden days in Jharkhand for which it has  also  started a mega membership drive with a view to generate 10 lakh new members. “We want to expand to all the 24 districts and strengthen ourselves in our former strongholds of  Palamau, Latehar, Chatra, Godda that  border neighbouring Bihar,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly woman branded 'witch', hacked to death ||An elderly widow was hacked to death on suspicion of being a witch at a village under Seraikela thana area about 43km away from here on Thursday night. The victim, Jalhi Devi, 63, was on her way to a field near her house at Papra village about 9.30pm when a 40-year-old man, Gopal Godsera, attacked her with an axe and continued to strike until she stopped moving. While killing the victim, the assailant was shouting at her to be a witch and fled the spot with the blood-stained axe. As the incident of alleged witch-hunting spread like a wildfire, someone in the village informed the Seraikela thana, about eight kilometres away from the spot, leading a police party to rush to the scene. The OC, Seraikela thana, Manohar Kumar confirmed it to be a witch-hunting case and said that the assailant was arrested from his house on Friday morning. "The assailant, Gopal Godsera had suspicion that the elderly widow was a witch. He had lodged a complaint against the murder victim to be a witch a year ago, claiming two of his children had fallen terribly sick due to the alleged witchcraft practice by the widow. But finally he killed her branding her to be a witch," said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. Kumar said though Gopal would consider Jalhi Devi to be a witch, he had a prolonged dispute of a plot of land with the victim. "We are, therefore, trying to find out whether the elderly widow was murdered due to witch-hunting or because of the landed property dispute. We are interrogating the assailant," said the police officer. Kumar said soon after killing, Gopal had fled his village, but had returned home early in the morning today. As soon as the police knew about his home-coming, the OC himself raised his house in the morning and took him under custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand farm outfits back Bharat Bandh call  ||Two prominent farmers’ organisations, both backed by Left parties, have announced to hit to streets on September 27 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three contentious agricultural laws enacted by the Centre. In Jharkhand, the two major farm outfits — Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha and Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) — said  they have decided to make the upcoming Bharat Bandh a grand success and appealed to the ruling parties, namely JMM, Congress and the RJD for their support. General secretary of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha Surjit Sinha said they have prepared 20,000 posters and two lakh pamphlets bearing slogans in support of the bandh. These would be put up across the state from the next few days. “This apart, similar campaign material is being readied in all districts to sensitise people, primarily farmers, about the bandh,” he said. Criticising the Union government, CITU secretary Prakash Viplab said that despite the deaths of scores of farmers during the agitation against the contentious farm laws, the Centre had not changed its mind. "This shows the insensitivity of the Modi government towards farmers, and their cause. After laying the template for selling agricultural land to private players, the Union government is now getting ready to sell other assets of the country via the national monetization project under which it is gearing up to outsource PSUs, roads, railways, airports, et al. This will impact the lives of common men directly," he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has been leading a nationwide stir in the national capital and in other parts of north India since the last 10 months demanding a roll back of the "anti-farmer" legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia water crisis dampens Vishwakarma Puja celebrations||The ongoing water crisis in Jharia caused due to deliberate perforation of pipelines of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) continued during the fourth day on Friday on Vishwakarma Puja causing inconvenience to more than five lakh Jharia residents in performing puja. Leakage in the 30-inch diameter main water supply pipeline used to supply water from Jamadoba based Water Treatment Plant to Jharia at Pathabangla and Jeetpur is the main reason for the water supply disruption. This apart, two large leakages caused due to decay of the 50-year-old pipeline have also taken place including one in 30-inch diameter pipeline at Patharbangla and other in 18-inch pipeline at Phusbunglow further aggravated the water woes for common people. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Arindam Banerjee, a resident of Poddar Pada locality of Jharia who is the Jharia President of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said,“The loss of source of livelihood during the pandemic and lockdown forced many people to resort to sell of water by illegally rupturing the pipeline at more than ten places in between Patharbangla to Jeetpur causing problem for more than 25,000 legal water connection holders besides other families fetching water from public water connections.” Prem Bachchan Das, a resident of Baniahir in Jharia who is also president of Rickshaw Mazdoor Sangh, said, “The water theft is being carried out by organized groups with the help of some local unemployed youth at many places and one can witness 500 liter water drums parked near the illegal connection sites including at Baniahir which are further loaded into mini trucks having 1000 liter tanks sold at rate of Rs 1000 per tanks.” “The issue requires a comprehensive solution involving people’s representatives to address the problem of unemployment” said Das, a renowned social activist of Dhanbad and added the public connection should also be established by the initiative of MP and MLAs to address the water scarcity for those who can't afford household connection due to lesser income. Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said, “Yes indeed the illegal water trade by organised groups causing leakage in the pipeline is the main cause of the water crisis in Dhanbad but the responsibility lies on people’s representatives and administration to solve the problem.” Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional officer of water supply division of JMADA, said admitted the illegal leakages as one of reasons for the water supply disruption and said “We have repaired one of leakages in 30-inch pipeline while repair work of 18-inch pipeline will be carried only after demolishing a private house under which the leakage has been caused and repair work is likely to completed tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren hopeful after meeting with Niti Aayog team ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren is hopeful that Wednesday’s meeting with the Niti Aayog team would help bridge the gap between the Centre and the state. “They have assured that a meeting will be organised soon for sorting out outstanding issues between the Centre and the state,” Soren told after the meeting with a 8-member Niti Aayog team led by its member V.K. Paul was over that evening. “We are always in favour of strengthening federal structure of the country and that type of initiatives will surely help us all doing so,” he sounded optimistic while speaking to the media and added the state was assured that some of its grievances would be addressed. Reminding that the Centre had already deducted about Rs 2,800 crore from the state’s consolidated fund and was to deduct Rs 1,100 crore more soon for payment to Damodar Valley Corporation towards electricity charges though Jharkhand had contested the amount claimed and also expressed willingness to exist from the existing tripartite agreement. “We have requested to keep such deductions on hold until the matter is sorted out,” Soren said, adding the Niti Aayog gave a positive reply as they did in case of GST compensation also. “We will get about Rs 1,800 crore towards GST compensation and expect something would come out in the next meeting to be held in Kanpur soon,” the chief minister said. He also said that Coal India Limited owed the Jharkhand government a huge amount towards royalty for coal mined and compensation for the land used for the purpose. “We have also demanded a survey be conducted in the coal belt for assessing the socio-economic impact of century-old coal mining and also ascertaining if it benefited the people at all,” Soren informed. The chief minister further informed that 20-odd matters were discussed in the meeting with the Niti Aayog team that lasted for about three hours. Among other issues that the state government raised included demanding Rs 300 crore for addressing prevalent malnutrition among children and another Rs 600 crore for cleansing Damodar river that became too polluted. The Jharkhand government also demanded special concessions such as relaxation in taxes for SC/ST entrepreneurs as in force in the Northeast. The state government further demanded that 25 per cent quota in allotment of Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals be curtailed and instead given to the state government as “there are not many private hospitals in the state and the people here are not affluent enough to take the jab by paying so much”. “If more vaccines are given to the state well in advance, we can vaccinate up to 3.5 lakh people daily which is now limited to maximum 1.5 lakh people,” Soren explained the reason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
17-09-2021||Jharkhand||State govt reaches out to industry bodies to address grievances ||The Jharkhand government has reached out to industry bodies in a bid to address their grievances and apprehensions following the launch of the new Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy in Delhi in August. In this regard, industry secretary Pooja Singhal held a meeting with functionaries of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) and Jharkhand Small Industries Association (JSIA) at a private hotel in Ranchi on Thursday evening. “The state government apart from attracting new investments is committed to solving the problems of existing investors. It is the endeavour of the government to ensure that the applications of all investors are executed in time under the single-window system. It is the priority of the department and the government to clear the pending applications for the establishment of industries in the state,” said Singhal. She also announced about the preparation of a rural industry policy. “Following the directive of the chief minister, major changes have been made in the labour and industry policies of the state. The government is also preparing a rural industries policy, so that steps can be taken towards the establishment of agro-based industries in rural areas,” said Singhal. She said a monthly review meeting will be held with the officials of the departments concerned so that entrepreneurs do not face any problem related to setting up of any kind of industries in the state. Entrepreneurs would also be able to participate in the review meeting, she added. Singhal said a directive has been issued to officers of various departments to ensure the execution of pending applications without delay. “The pending applications for forest clearance as well as pollution no-objection certificate would be cleared at the earliest. The new JIIPP enshrines that all such glitches faced by the entrepreneurs would be solved in time. Industrial areas have been notified in Ormanjhi (near Ranchi), Deoghar and Dhanbad and land is also available for the same. The government has already taken steps to ensure that entrepreneurs do not have to make rounds of offices for the establishment of industries,” Singhal said. She also said that as a part of efforts to revive closed or sick industries in the state, a list will be prepared by identifying such units and all possible options will be considered. FJCCI president Praveen Chhabra said that the efforts of the government are commendable. “In the meeting with the officials of various departments, talks were held in a clear and transparent manner, which proves that the department and the present government are sensitive about the establishment of industries in the state,” said Chhabra. The meeting was also attended by senior officials of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board, the factory inspector and officials of the commercial tax department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
