18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to host Senior National Archery Championship||Archers from across the country will assemble in the steel city to participate in the 40th edition of the Senior National Archery Championship, which is scheduled between October 1 and 10. The event will be held in the Indian round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows), compound and recurve division at the archery ground at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. The championship is being organised by Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) with Tata Steel being the local host. The championship will kick-off with the Indian round on October 2 and 3 followed by compound on October 5 and 6. The recurve round will be the final event and it will be held on October 8 and 9. “In keeping with the Covid-19 protocols and trying to avoid overcrowding, all participants will be arriving a day prior to their events and will leave before the next set of events commence," a JAA official informed The venue is in top condition and there is no need for decking it up. "We are looking forward to seeing some exciting action from the men and women archers," he said, requesting anonymity. The Jharkhand Archery Association announced the men and women team for recurve and Indian round after day-long trials on Saturday. The men's side for recurve include Jayanta Talukdar, Alpi Tudu, Mrinal Chouhan,  Somai Murmu  while women members are Komalika Bari, Ankira Bhakat, Laxmi Hembrom and Dipti Kumari. The men archers in the Indian round are Suraj Jamuda, Goldi Mishra, Lutu Soy, Gulshan Kumar while Dipti Bodra, Asrita Biruly, Ritu Kumari and Anku Kumari comprise women members. "The selection trials were conducted smoothly. Around 100 archers tried their luck in both recurve and Indian round categories. We intend to form a strong squad for the upcoming championship," another JAA official said. The trials for the compound round were held at the astro turf ground in Sill on Thursday. Forty eight aspirants attend the proceedings. The eight-member state compound outfit for the upcoming nationals include Pintoo Rana, Mukesh Goswami, Rohit Kumar, Sonu Kumar Mahto, Babita Kumari, Anita Kumari, Jhano Hansda and Pramila Bhumij||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town hospitality sector bounces back after 6 months||After the prolonged lull in the market since March this year, the marriage season scheduled from November 15 to December 15 has brought some relief to traders as customers flow has increased in the market for over a week. The hospitality sector of around 500 hotels, banquets, dharamsala, marriage halls of coal town are fully booked from November 15 to December 15. The majority of marriages scheduled from April 22 to July first week were cancelled due to lockdown and restriction over the number of participants in marriages during the second wave to pandemic. The wedding planners including decorators, florists, caterers, photographers, band operators, who faced worst days since the last two years are also expecting to make at least 50% compensation of their losses as the government has allowed participation of 100 persons in outdoor marriage functions etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of Hotel Skylark the oldest three star hotel of the district said, “We are heavily booked during November December and I hope if everything remains on the expected lines this marriage season will help our sector to sail through the crisis phase  rather recover and revive.” “Room occupancy wise we have already reached a comfortable situation with business guests moving continuously but as banquets are also an important part of our business I hope that marriage season will help to mop up business through banquets also,” said Bagchi. Pradip Singh, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association said, “We are happy as all decorators, florists, caterers, photographers etc are fully booked as majority of marriages which were cancelled earlier this year between April to July are being held although at a smaller level.” Singh added that the lagan season will also revive the market  as everything right from garments, footwear to jewellery, foodgrains, cosmetics are required in marriages. Srikant Agarwal, Secretary of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce said, “A host of factors including the relaxations provided in the lockdown including the permission for opening of restaurants etc upto 10 pm, permission for participation 100 persons in marriages besides the bumper marriage season and Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath scheduled one after other have started showing activity in the market and it may lead to some revival of business. “The signs are good for the recovery of business  and if the third phase of pandemic  doesn’t affect people in  large the life will limp back to normalcy after a prolonged period of dull activity propelled by the marriage and festive season,” said Agarwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Training plan for Ranchi cops to identify undertrials with mentall ailments ||The Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) is set to organise special training sessions for cops to identify mental illnesses in undertrial prisoners and provide necessary support in an initiative that may help prevent suicides under police custody and address chronic mental health disorders among people in jail or police lockup, doctors from the Kanke institute said on Saturday. Dr Dipanjan Bhattacharjee, Associate Professor of Psychiatric Social Work at CIP, said a proposal for this training has already been prepared and doctors from the institute will meet Ranchi Senior Superintendent of Police soon to get his nod to start the training. Doctors at the institute aim to provide this training to officers in-charge of all police stations in Ranchi district in the first phase and gradually move to other policemen and women, said Dr Bhattacharjee, adding that policemen will also be informed about SoPs for involuntary hospitalisation of mentally-ill prisoners during the training sessions. “We are observing September as suicide prevention month, and it is important for us to also prevent suicides or other untoward incidents that occur under the watch of the police due to undiagnosed mental illnesses in undertrial prisoners and other offenders,” said Bhattacharjee. Several incidents of undertrial prisoners commiting suicide, or attempting to comit suicide, in jail have been reported across India this year. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also took suo motu cognizance of some of two such incidents reported in West Bengal and Maharashtra and pulled up the jail administration. “It is for this reason that ceiling fans and hanging hooks are not provided in the prison cells,” the human rights panel observed. “If the police can identify such prisoners who are suffering from mental health disorders, it becomes much easier to keep a watch on them. It also allows doctors to provide proper psychiatric help to such prisoners,” said Bhattacharjee. During the training, cops will be informed about the basic behavioural differences between mentally-stable and mentally-ill people. While diagnosing mental illnesses in undertrial prisoners may not be easy for the police, only getting an idea that someone needs psychiatric help may make it easier for doctors to intervene and provide necessary treatment, doctors from CIP said. According to records with Jharkhand police, there are more than 50 police stations and outposts in Ranchi district. CIP doctors plan to provide training to officers in-charge of all these police stations, all inspectors and sub-inspectors in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Special train between Howrah and Hatia via Tatanagar ahead of festival rush||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run a special train between Howrah and Hatia from September 30 to accommodate the extra rush of passengers during the festival season ahead. The special train which will run for three months till December 31 will go via Tatanagar railway station. According to a notification issued by the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER on Saturday, the Howrah-Hatia Special (08615) will leave Howrah daily at 9.30 pm. The train will reach Hatia at 6.30 am the next day. In the opposite direction, the Hatia-Howrah Special (08616) will leave Hatia daily at 9.40 pm and will arrive at Howrah at 6.30 am the next day, covering a journey of about nine hours. The Up train from Howrah will reach Tatanagar railway station at 1.40am  while the return train from Hatia will reach Tatanagar at around 2.15am. The special train with one first AC, two AC two-tier, four AC  three-tier, eleven sleeper class and two general second class coaches will stop at Mecheda, Kharagpur, Jhargram, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Muri and Ranchi between the two destinations- Howrah and Hatia. The return train Hatia-Howrah Special (08616) will also stop at Santragachi. A spokesperson of South Eastern Railway said the decision for introducing the special train was taken to ease the festive rush. "Various passenger outfits had also demanded a special train between the two destinations via Tatanagar for clearing extra rush of passengers during the festive season. The special train will immensely benefit passengers," said the SER spokesman. The SER headquarters, in a separate circular, appealed to passengers to follow Covid appropriate behaviour during their journey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||No excitement in Jharkhand trade body polls ||The annual election of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, the apex trade body of the state, will miss its usual excitement this time. “After the last date of withdrawal of nominations on Thursday, 35 candidates have been left in the fray,” said Lalit Kedia, the chairman of the election committee that will oversee the election on September 26. About 3,000 trader-members will vote that day for electing 21 members who will form the executive committee, he said, adding that the elected members would then choose seven office bearers from among themselves who would run the show for next one year. The office-bearers consist of a president, two vice-presidents, one general secretary, two joint secretaries and a treasurer. Besides, there are also six regional vice-presidents — one each from North and South Chotanagpur, Kolhan, Palamau, Coal belt and Santhal Pargana regions. “But they all have already been elected unopposed as only one person had filed nomination from each of those regions,” Kedia said. The annual election of the trade body is an important event for the state’s trading community and it experiences a lot excitement when two 21-member teams led by two prominent businessmen contest for as many seats. But the election could not be held last year because of the pandemic and a group of office bearers, nominated by the trading community, is at the helm of affairs at present. Though the election is being organised this year, the charm and excitement would be grossly missing because the number of candidates (35) is insufficient for forming two 21-member groups to take on each other in a direct contest. “It’s true that, unlike the elections we fought earlier, those exciting campaigning would be missed this year but we also rejoice that the election is taking place and things are limping back to near normal state,” Deepak Maroo, one of the past FJCCI presidents, said about the upcoming trade body poll. There will, however, be one 21-member group led by the present vice-president Dheeraj Taneja that will contest the election and, if everything goes right, he is all set to be the next FJCCI president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
