19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad colliery workers support farmers Bharat Bandh||Dhanbad: The colliery workers union, affiliated to the 10 central trade unions who have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh called by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on September 27 against the farm laws, have also chalked the plan of action with regard to the protest. Rashtriya Khan Mazdoor Federation, a colliery workers union affiliated to Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) has planned a review meeting at Ranchi on September 25 during which different issues pertaining to coal workers are likely to be discussed. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The biennial polls of Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), Kolhan's largest trade outfit took an interesting turn when nine office bearers including the one contesting for the post of president were elected unopposed on Sunday. But, a formal announcement in this regard would be made only after the biennial polls slated to take place on September 27. Businessman Vijay Anand Moonka was elected as the new president of the trade outfit unopposed along with eight other office bearers. Moonka had filed his nomination papers along with eight other contestants for various posts on Saturday. The polls will also elect 23 executive committee members. The SCCI has 1,380 registered members who would exercise their franchise through secret ballot. (Pinaki  Majumdar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town anti-encroachment drive to ease traffic jams||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is carrying out anti-encroachment drives across different localities of the district intended at regulating traffic congestion by removing illegal structures on the roads and public facilities like drains. Notices have been given to different allottees of DMC shops near Vivekanand Chowk of Hirapur who have encroached on land beyond their allotted space on the road causing traffic congestion due to lack of availability of space for vehicles to be parked. Several illegal pavements constructed by encroaching public drains of DMC have also been removed by the DMC team. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Anil Kumar, Food Inspector of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation leading the anti-encroachment drive said, “Though, slight projection erected upto two feet by DMC shop allottees  have yet not been issued notices so far but our focus at present is on those who have made blatant violation by carrying out encroachment upto ten feet or more” “Several of these allottees have illegally constructed another shop other than the one allotted to them and realised rent from them,” said Kumar. “We have launched the drive against illegal construction last week and removed around 10 illegally constructed garages and vehicle washing bays lying on the roadside on the road connecting the golf ground to Hirapur Hatia More,” said Kumar. “An inspection of the housing colony locality was conducted on Saturday during which the illegal pavement constructed over the public train by an electronics item shop, Gupta Electronics, have been removed under our supervision while notices have also been given to operators of Dr Kailash Prasad’s Hospital for flowing the drain water on road,” he said. “The move is aimed at preventing encroachment of the public places at a time when all efforts are being taken by the district to improve the traffic situation by regulating the movement of public buses, heavy vehicles as well as auto rickshaw,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tejashwi pep-talk to  RJD workers to revive party in Jharkhand ||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav kicked off his Mission Jharkhand campaign from Ranchi on Sunday to strengthen the party that has seen its support base shrink ever since the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000 with the RJD now reduced to only one MLA . As a part of the campaign, Tejashwi held a state-level meeting with party workers from all 24 districts of Jharkhand at a banquet hall in Dibdih. The meeting began post noon and went on for about four hours. Earlier in the day, Tejashwi also met with chief minister Hemant Soren at his residence and called upon newly-appointed state Congress president Rajesh Thakur. Tejashwi asked all RJD  workers present to revive the party in Jharkhand. “RJD is not just a party for Muslims and Yadavs, as being touted by some. We are a party with secular ideals to cater to all. The country cannot prosper unless old Bihar (Jharkhand) does not progress. And RJD will have a great role in that,” he said, announcing that along with Bihar, his focus would now be on strengthening the party in Jharkhand. “I have decided to come here every month to meet, talk and discuss with you all on our mission,” he said. Tejashwi also advised workers to focus on reviving the party rather than lobby for posts. “Posts will follow if the party is strengthened. Netaon ka parikrama nai, janta ka parikrama pe jor dena hai (Rather than lobby before leaders, we must focus on working among the masses),” he said. Taking a dig at the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said that for the last seven years the nation has been divided on the lines of religion, while the common man has burdened with price hikes. “The promise of achche din is still a dream,” he said. “There was a time when the BJP was in Opposition, and it likened price hike to a dian (witch). Now, after coming to power, it seems that inflation has become BJP’s mebooba (beloved) and bhaujai (sister in law),”  he added. Later, RJD’s state spokesperson Anita Yadav told The TelegraphOnline that Tejashwi's visit had enthused everyone in the party. “Our leader will now visit Jharkhand every month, going to each of the 81 Assembly constituencies to hold similar meets there. We have already begun a membership drive with a target to add 10 lakh new workers," she said. Tejashwi, former Bihar chief minister and RJD patriarch Lalu Prasad's younger son, reached Ranchi on Saturday afternoon and held a road show from the airport to the state guest house,  paying his obeisance to statues of late Karpuri Thakur and tribal icon Bhagwan Birsa Munda on the way. After Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in 2000, RJD had nine MLAs. In 2005, the number of RJD MLAs was reduced to seven. It became five in 2009. Now, RJD has only one MLA, Satyanand Bhokta, who is  a  minister in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad town permits for 667 autos, those left out cry foul||The Dhanbad district transport department on Sunday allotted passes to 667 auto rickshaws to  ply within the town as per  new  regulations that are to come  into effect from Monday, prompting those left out to launch a stir. As per the new regulations,  the Dhanbad administration has restricted the number of autos to be allowed to ply in the town from 8,000 to 1,500. But  only 667 operators were able to submit all the required documents like vehicle fitness certificate, pollution NOC and the driver's licence. Hence, permits for Dhanbad were issued only to 667 autos. But various auto drivers' and operators' associations, representing those who were left out,  carried out demonstrations at the district transport office and termed the administration action as hasty. The members of these associations demanded more time to  update their documents. They also accused the transport authority of being arbitrary in their judgement about the authenticity and validity of documents. Many auto drivers with "genuine" papers were denied Dhanbad permits, they alleged. District transport officer Om Prakash Yadav said, “Though 667 autos have submitted all documents and have been provided passes,  others will also be provided passes as soon as they submit the relevant documents.” Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Chhotan Singh, President of Jharkhand Diesel Auto Chalak Mahasangh, said “We are protesting against the anomalies in scrutiny of papers as several auto rickshaw registered at other districts  have been provided passes while others have not been provided passes.” Sunil Singh, President of Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, said, “The regulations are being imposed without proper homework. The authorities have sought auto papers through unions. But many auto drivers are not affiliated to any union. Hence, they have been deprived of the opportunity to get passes despite having the valid documents.” In all, six routes have been fixed by the administration as per the new regulations for the entire district. Each route has been divided into several parts restricting the entry of long-distance autos into Dhanbad  town. A dress code for auto drivers has also been made mandatory. As  per the new regulation,  drivers will have to wear sky blue shirts and black trousers. Besides, all auto rickshaws will have to paste stickers on  the windscreen and the rear screen mentioning the route they are playing in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation triggers rain across Jharkhand||An active monsoon, aided by a cyclonic circulation over  the Bay of Bengal, triggered rainfall across several places in Jharkhand on Sunday. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said the cyclonic circulation was hovering over north west Bay of Bengal and neighbouring areas of Odisha and West Bengal coasts extending between 1.5 km and 5.8km above the mean sea level. Met statistics revealed that Kurdeg in Simdega and Jamshedpur recorded rainfall of  around 40mm on Sunday. Several other places, including Ranchi, Simdega, Ramgarh, Dumka, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan district, witnessed intermittent rains on Sunday due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. According to Met statistics, around a dozen IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 10mm and 20 mm. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said they have issued a forecast of moderate rain with thunder and lightning for the next 48 hours. Met data  revealed that against a normal of 981.8 mm, the state has so far received 931.1 mm of rain, a deficit of five per cent. Weathermen said most districts would continue to get a good spell of rain later this month. The monsoon trough was on Sunday running from west Rajasthan to northeast Bay of Bengal across eastern Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and Daltonganj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 3.5 lakh appear for JPSC prelims across Jharkhand||More than 3.5 lakh aspirants appeared for the prelims of the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) examinations that were held in two sittings on Sunday for shortlisting candidates for the main exams to vie for as many as 252 civil service job vacancies . The tests for General Studies I and General Studies II were held at 1,102 centres across the 24 districts in Jharkhand and most aspirants found the questions to be easy for anyone who has put in at least “some effort” in preparing for the tests. “The papers were easy. There were no tricky questions, and anyone who has put in some efforts to prepare for the tests would score well,” said Pintu Kumar, an aspirant at Hatma Government School in Ranchi. Most of the aspirants appeared satisfied with their performance after the first sitting of the exam from 10am to 12pm. Prashant Mahto, an  aspirant at Hatma School, said that  chances of scoring high and clearing the exam were higher as there was no negative marking. “The fear of negative marking often keeps us from attempting questions even if we have a little doubt over the answer. The paper was easy and we had the freedom to attempt all the questions,” said Mahto. Both the papers only had objective questions and the candidates had to mark the answers on an OMR sheet. The questions were mostly based on general knowledge and some of them were related to Jharkhand, the aspirants said. The sixth JPSC exam, which is still in dispute, was held in 2016. So, the prelims  held on Sunday were for JPSC seven, eight, nine and 10 with candidates who meet the eligibility criteria from the year 2017 to 2021. The Jharkhand Cabinet in February decided that candidates who were 35-year-old or younger on August 1, 2016 will be eligible to appear for the JPSC exams – a decision that also gave working professionals with over a decade of experience a chance to crack civil services. Earlier, the government had decided to conduct the prelims  for JPSC on May 2, but the exam had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 situation in the state. The exams on Sunday were conducted amid strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol, officials said. All the aspirants had to wear face masks and maintain social distancing inside the exam centres. The aspirants were also advised to carry hand sanitisers to the exam halls and were allowed to enter the centres after thermal screening. JPSC issued admit cards to as many as 3,69,327 candidates for the prelims tests. The ones who clear the prelims will go on to appear for the JPSC Main exam and the ones clearing it will fill up the 252 vacancies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Over 1.45 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand as cases drop ||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated more than 1.45 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped further down to 74 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection by a fair margin, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 93,045 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 52,152 beneficiaries. According to a document shared by the NHM, at least 25,000 residents were inoculated in East Singhbhum, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while close to 14,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Ranchi. Dhanbad, on the other hand, vaccinated at least 7000 residents. At least 23 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Saturday, while only three people were found infected by coronavirus, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. All the three fresh Covid cases surfaced in Ranchi. However, at least 14 Covid recoveries brought the active caseload here down to 45. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 42,580 residents and 0.007 per cent of them were found infected by the coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.48 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. As per government data, at least 13 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not have active cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. Ranchi accounted for more than 60 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 in the state. According to a press communique from the health department, more than 1.23 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and at least 34 lakh of them have also received the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||XISS, Ranchi opens centre to ‘understand psychology’||It’s a Thursday club with a difference, more so because it is supported by a Bschool. If the participants discussed about coping and man¬aging humiliation last Thursday, they will attend a daylong workshop on children’s mental health and psychological support at the Centre for Behavioural and Cognitive Sciences (CBCS) next Thursday. “The CBCS is an interdisciplinary centre meant for providing a space to academics, researchers and students to think, develop and come out with new ideas and thoughts,” said Anant Kumar, an associated professor at the Xavier Institute of Social Service (XISS), Ranchi, about the centre that the Bschool opened recently. Asked why a Bschool needed such a centre, he replied: “Understanding psychology doesn’t have any disciplinary boundary and helps professionals irrespective of their field of activities.” He added that students would become better managers if they understand the psychology of the people they will deal with in the future, for example consumer behaviour in respect of students specialising in marketing. “We plan to take up specific topics for discussion every Thursday,” said Dr Nishant Goyal, associate professor at Ranchi’s Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) who is a member of the advisory board of the CBCS. “It’s a unique effort by the CBCS and CIP for organising sessions on issues related to behavioural science and public mental health,” said XISS director Father Joseph Marianus Kujur, who hailed the idea of holding sessions like the one on humiliation that he described as “destructive”. “We normally don’t discuss about facing humiliation with others but we should do that as it may not be limited to workplace only and we may take it home for our dear ones,” Kumar said, justifying why they took up such a topic. He added that all should know about the consequences of humiliation and behave responsibly. “In most cases, it is found that a person who humiliates others also faced it himself at some stage of his life,” Dr Goyal said, adding that things would be easier if people un¬derstand their rights and responsibilities. “The children may not identify humiliation when they are subjected to it and there may not be any visible scar but the trauma it causes remains with them for a long time,” said Madhumita Bhattacharya, assistant professor of clinical psychology at the CIP, adding that responsible behaviour towards children would be of much help. Asked about their workshop next Thursday, Dr Goyal said they will discuss the impact of pandemic on mental health and psychological wellbeing of children. They will also explore how best they can provide resources to caregivers so that they could engage with children positively and effectively, he further said. “Nothing like if we can help them connect emotionally with children so that they understand their concern and be aware of situations leading to violence and abuse and create a congenial environment,” he summed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Seven girls drown while performing religious rituals in pond in Latehar||Seven girls drowned while performing religious rituals in a pond in Latehar district of Jharkhand on Saturday morning. The girls had gone to the pond for immersion after Karma Puja, a popular harvest festival of tribals in Jharkhand sources said. According to reports, six girls were from the same family and all the deceased were residents of the same hamlet Manandih Tola in Bukru village under Sheregada panchayat of Balumath block in Latehar district, around 120km from Ranchi. “Around 10 girls had gone to immerse the Karma wood in the village pond. One of the girls fell into a deep pit dug during the construction of the Tori-Balumath Shivpur railway line. While trying to rescue her, six other girls drowned as they were holding each other’s hands and fell into the pond. Four girls were found dead when their bodies were taken out while the remaining three were declared brought dead by doctors at the Balumath Primary Health Centre,” said a source in the Balumath police station. A pall of gloom descended on the entire block following the incident. The police have sent the bodies of all seven girls for post-mortem at Latehar Sadar Hospital. The deceased have been identified as Rekha Kumari, 17, Lakshmi Kumari, 8, and Reena Kumari, 11, all three daughters of Akhlu Ganjhu, Meena Kumari, 8, daughter of Laldev Ganjhu, Pinki Kumari, 15, daughter of Jaggan Ganjhu, Sushma Kumari, 7, daughter of Charan Ganjhu, and Sunita Kumari, 20, daughter of late Bifa Ganjhu. Villagers later staged a protest along National Highway 98 connecting Chanda (in Latehar) with Chatra demanding Rs 20 lakh compensation, government job for each of the deceased girl’s family and directing the railways to immediately fill up the trenches dug for laying the tracks. Chief minister Hemant Soren in a tweet on his official Twitter handle expressed shock at the incident. Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran has constituted a high-level team to probe into the incident. “The agitated people have stopped their protest. A high-level team led by Latehar deputy development commissioner Surender Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate Shekhar Kumar, district mining officer Anand Kumar, district social welfare officer Bindeshwari Tattma and child welfare committee chairperson Reena Kumari has been directed to identify the reason for the mishap. We will give compensation to the family members as per the government norms, said Imran. Sources in the district administration said that if the probe team finds the railways was not filling up trenches, it will be asked to give jobs on compassionate grounds to the family members of the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bid to save pythons in Dalma hill||Jamshedpur: Dalma hill, known for wild elephants, is also home to a variety of reptiles, including pythons. The forest department has taken an initiative so that the snakes including pythons which come under the Wildlife Protection Act can be conserved. Going ahead with the initiative, the forest department has not only started creating awareness among the villagers on how to lead a safe life without causing any harm to the snakes but has also started identifying the pythons' habitats in the hill.  Wildlife activist Raja Ghosh who works in tandem with the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary functionary said to have identified at least five habitats of pythons in the Dalma hill. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: The failure of policy makers, including Central as well as various state governments to bring fuel prices under GST as witnessed during the GST Council meeting has irked traders and industrialists as they criticised the policy makers for adopting a short-sighted approach on the issue. The industrialists of the district while criticizing the approach of policy makers towards the fuel prices issue as exposed during the GST council claimed high fuel prices leads to high transport charges affecting the production cost, which in turn leads to price and lesser sale of product causing loss to producers and continuous losses also affect its employees. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
