20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to host New Zealand-India T20 tie in November||Ranchi’s Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) will host one of the three T20 matches between India and New Zealand on November 19, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced on Monday while releasing the fixtures for three T20s and two Test matches. While Jaipur will host the first T20 on November 17, Ranchi will be hosting the second header two days later followed by Kolkata on November 21. Two test matches will be played in Kanpur and Mumbai between Nov. 25-29 and Dec 3-7 respectively. BCCI also announced fixtures for West Indies, Sri Lanka and South Africa’s tour of India next year. Former team India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s home town will be hosting an international T20 tie after a gap of four years. JSCA stadium had last hosted a T20 match between India and Australia on October 7, 2017. India had beaten Australia by nine wickets in that rain-curtailed match in a three-match series. Since its inception in 2013, JSCA stadium, with a seating  capacity of 50,000, has so far conducted 2 Test matches, 5 ODIs and 2 international T20s besides a few IPL matches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||In-person lessons for classes 6 to 8  from September 24 in Jharkhand||The School Education and Literacy Department of Jharkhand has decided to resume in-person classes for students of class 6 to 8 from September 24 after utilising the next couple of days to sanitize or classrooms and make preparations, officials from the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Monday. Students attending in-person classes at schools will, however, have to produce an undertaking from their parents, stating that none of their family members was suffering from any symptoms of Covid-19 and that they were willingly sending their children to school, an official from JEPC said. Even though students will get to attend in-person classes at schools, Midday Meal (MDM), under which students at government schools are provided free cooked meals daily, will remain suspended for the time being. Eligible students will, however, be provided ration during this period. “Since schools have remained closed for several months, we wanted to sanitise the classrooms and ensure complete safety for children before resuming classes,” said Abhinav Kumar, the state coordinator for quality education. “All students will have to produce an undertaking from their parents and follow Covid-appropriate behavior,” he added. JEPC has decided to keep all air conditioners switched off in schools during classes and allow only one student to sit on a desk at a time. Teams from the district administration have also been instructed to conduct regular Covid tests at schools for early identification of any student suffering from the disease, officials said. Students will have the option to continue online classes depending on what their parents decide. Some private schools have also held parent-teacher meetings recently and asked parents to fill up a questionnaire to see if they were willing to send their children to school for in-person classes and exams. While the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) allowed resumption of in-person classes for students of class 6 to 8 at its latest meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on September 14, it did not announce specific dates for classes  to resume. In-person classes for students of class 9 to 12 resumed in August, but a negligible number of students have been regularly attending classes at schools, sources said. Many parents preferred online education over in-person classes for their children for fears of a possible third wave of Covid-19, a teacher from a renowned private school in Ranchi said. Students attending offline classes at schools are made to undergo thermal scanning every day and those suffering from any illness are instructed to stay at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city Durga puja pandal business hit by Covid norms||The Covid-19 restrictions, for the second consecutive year of Durga Puja, has caused tent house owners, pandal decorators, light and sound system providers to turn wary. Following the state government guidelines issued on Thursday, most of the 200 plus tent house owners and decorators are in a dilemma whether to take orders for pandal installation or during the ensuing grand Puja. The restrictions imposed in 2020 in view of Coronavirus had broken their financial backbone and repetition of the similar guidelines this year will ruin the business completely, they said. "Last year when Covid-19 pandemic hit the steel city, leading the state government to issue notification for restricted Puja by setting up small pandals and small idols, we coped up the situation like a testing period. But when we are poised to have a similar situation this year too, providing service for pandal erection and decoration is painful for us," said Arvind Kumar Singh, proprietor of Shubham Tent to The Telegraph Online. Singh said whereas an average Puja pandal used to be of an area measuring 60 ft by 80 ft at a cost of Rs one lakh, most of the pandals were set up on an area measuring 15 ft by 20 ft only. "I used to set up three Puja pandals every year. Last year, I managed to buy new clothes for the pandals as it is necessary for decorating the pandals for Goddess Durga. I had also managed to set up miniature pandals by engaging a minimum number of workers. But this year neither am I in a condition to buy new clothes for the pandals nor able to engage minimum workers. Because the workers for such things remain in groups and none of the groups is ready to work in a fragmented way," explained the tent house owner. Another tent house owner, Anup Sablok also echoed what Arvind Kumar Singh said. "I used to set up and decorate Puja pandals at a cost starting from Rs 70,000 to Rs 10 lakh every year. But the organisers of the big budget Puja had not given any order for the traditional Puja pandals last year due to Covid pandemic. This year also I am going to face the same problem," said Sablok, owner of Bharat Tent while talking to The Telegraph Online. Sablok said like several other tent house owners, he used to earn a good profit by setting up Puja pandals, but having incurred huge loss last year he is no more interested to bear any further loss by indulging in Puja pandal business. In Jamshedpur, over 300 public Puja are organised, most of the organisers would install elegant pandals by spending lakhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Long Products Limited and two others bid for Incab's takeover||The revival hope of ailing Incab Industries Limited got a shot in the arm with three entities expressing interest to take over the company. The three entities - Tata Steel Long Products Limited, Vedanta Limited and One City Infrastructure Private Limited - have submitted their expression of interest in response to a notice issued in this regard by Pankaj Kumar Tibrewal, the resolution professional (RP) of Incab, appointed by Calcutta- bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The last day for submission of the expression of interest was September 16. The expression of interest submitted by the three entities is subjected to scrutiny by the RP. The final list of the prospective applicants, after considering objections if any, would be notified by the resolution professional on September 24. Tata Steel Long Products Limited formerly Tata Sponge Iron Ltd is promoted by Tata Steel. It has its plants in Jharkhand and Odisha while Vedanta Limited is a mining company, with its main operations in iron ore, gold and aluminium mines in Goa, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Odisha. The third applicant- One City Infrastructure Private Limited is a Delhi-based company which is majorly into real estate and renting business for the last 16 years. Various unions of Incab Industries were hopeful of the company's revival over this latest development. "We want the company to be revived and are against any liquidation or winding up moves. With three entities including Tata Steel Long Products submitting their expression of interest things look optimistic," said Aloke Sen, assistant secretary of Incab Employees Association talking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Calcutta. Senior functionary of The Indian Cable Workers' Union Ram Binod Singh said," Tata Steel Long Products Limited submitting an expression of interest with the resolution professional is a positive development. This has given hope to employees. However, everything depends on NCLT's decision." The next hearing of NCLT's Calcutta bench on Incab Industries is slated on November 8. The ailing Incab Industries has around 900 workers on its rolls who are deprived of their salary for over two decades. In the mid-1990s, Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Holdings Berhad took over the company, but it started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red. Ultimately it had to be referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) in 1999. Later, the case was also taken up for hearing at the Appellate Authority for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (AAIFR). However, both the statutory bodies were dissolved on December 1, 2016 paving the way for National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which helps in the revival process of sick industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town private schools resume classes after over a year||Classes for standard VI to VIII resumed after a gap of 18 months in around 60 private schools of the district including Delhi Public School, DAV Group of Schools and De Nobili Schools. Following the state government’s permission, students attended classes and met their friends. Though some of these schools have completely discontinued online classes following the permission to attend classes physically, several others are conducting classes in hybrid mode, both online and offline. Over 500 government schools of the district are yet to open and are likely to open from September 24 after making necessary preparations for observing all laid SOPs. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, I.A. Raza, Vice Principal of Delhi Public School, Dhanbad said, “We have made the arrangement of alternate day classes in an odd, even system and all students having odd roll numbers were allowed to attend classes today for the first day.” “All SOPs right from mandatory use for sanitizers for hand at the main gate besides thermal scanning at the main gate besides have been made and today altogether 202 students i.e 65% students of odd numbers of the VI to VIII attended the classes today on the first day,” said Raza and added that besides the arrangement of sanitizers at the main gate they have sanitizer arrangement at each of the floor. Vikrant Singh, a student of Class VII of Delhi Public School Dhanbad while talking to Telegraph Online said, “I was very excited ever since we received the message from the school last week regarding the launching of the classes and felt quite happy after meeting my friends after a long gap of 18 months.” Indrani, another student of Class VI of the same school said, “Though classes were being held online during the lockdown but offline classes have its own advantage and it inculcates the feeling of competition among students which encourages students to perform better and appreciation by the teachers during the offline classes also creates an altogether different feeling.” Father Sebastian Puthenpura, Principal of De Nobili School, Bhuli said, “The classes opened today for VI to VIII and attendance was around 80% attendance.” “We will decide to implement the odd-even system of alternate day arrangement for holding classes in a day or two after finding attendance patterns as we have spacious classrooms and will take the decision  as per attendance pattern,” said Puthenpura. Indra Bhushan Singh, District Superintendent of Education said “We have provided the SOPs to all the schools on Saturday itself and will ensure strict observance of laid norms,” and added that vaccination of teachers have also been carried out to ensure safety. S.K. Sinha, a parent of a Class VI student of Delhi Public School, “Thought initially we were quite hesitant due to safety concerns but when I went to school today to drop my son I got satisfied with the strict arrangement for observing all rules at the school.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid caseload drops to 27 in Ranchi||At least 20 Covid recoveries against two fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 down to 56 in Jharkhand on Sunday, while the state vaccinated over 1.40 lakh residents against the deadly virus, figures released by the health department highlighted. Ranchi and Lohardaga reported one Covid case each, while Ranchi alone reported 19 of the 20 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 27, data from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. East Singhbhum reported one Covid recovery against zero fresh cases of infection and the active caseload there dropped to two. This is the first time that the active caseload of Covid-19 has dropped below 30 in Ranchi since the second wave hit Jharkhand, health officials said. However, the district still accounted for about 50 per cent of the total active cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Jharkhand. As per government data, at least 12 of 24 districts had zero active cases at the end of Sunday. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of at least 36,895 residents and 0.005 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. So far, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. As per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 94,462 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 46,163 beneficiaries. More than 27,000 residents were administered the vaccine in East Singhbhum, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand on Sunday. Ranchi, on the other hand, vaccinated over 25,000 residents, the second highest among the districts. About 12,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Dhanbad. Records with the health department highlight that the state has so far administered at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 1.24 crore residents and at least 40 lakh of them have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Nameplate gesture to fight skewed sex ratio in Jharkhand||Residents of a Jharkhand village with a skewed sex ratio have decided to install house nameplates carrying the names of their daughters to promote gender equality. Sixty families at Bharatia village in Garhwa district, around 215km from Ranchi, will have the nameplates installed on September 21 in the presence of the local MLA and state drinking water and sanitation minister, Mithilesh Thakur. Efforts will continue to persuade the rest of the families — the 2011 census had counted 113 households in the village — to follow the example, said village mukhiya Bindu Devi. She said the move had been inspired by the deputy collector-cum-district education officer, Sanjay Kumar Pandey. “Pandey regularly interacted with us and inspired us to promote gender equality as our village has one of the worst sex ratios in the state,” Devi said. “Unfortunately, several families in our village still consider it unlucky to have a girl child. The nameplates will be a small step towards encouraging men and women to change their attitudes.” Devi had organised a survey and handed Pandey a list of the names of daughters or other women of the households so that the nameplates could be prepared. Devi said Pandey would be paying for the nameplates, to be inscribed in Hindi, out of his own pocket “Some people had objected to the idea as they felt it would mean passing on the ownership of their houses to their daughters,” Devi said. “But we are trying to educate them about the objective behind this symbolic gesture. We also plan to plant a sapling of a fruit-bearing tree at each house, which will be named after a daughter of the household (complete with a name tag).” Bharatia, 7km from Garhwa town, is a village of the Other Backward Classes and tribal families. “The sex ratio here is 740 females per 1,000 males, which is much lower than the national average of 943 and state average of 948,” Pandey said. “That apart, the child sex ratio in this village is only 658 girls per 1,000 boys. I found it alarming and held several rounds of discussion with progressive-minded villagers with the mukhiya’s support and managed to convince them about this symbolic (nameplate) gesture.” Pandey said the nameplate campaign was “only a beginning”. “The village women will be encouraged to start a series of campaigns aimed at changing the mentality of the men towards the girl child,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand government to set up herbal park in Dumka||The Jharkhand government will soon set up a herbal park in Dumka on a pilot basis. “The state government aims to promote herbal farming that, in turn, will provide livelihood opportunities to the people,” said state’s agriculture director Nisha Oraon, adding the agriculture department was already working on establishing the park and it will come up soon. “The district horticulture officer of Dumka will invite request for proposal (RFP) in respect of the park soon after receiving an allotment order,” Oraon told The Telegraph. She further informed that the RFP would be floated in October. The government will also invite investment in herbal sector for setting up processing units for various types of herbal plants grown in the region. Jharkhand is known for its flora and fauna and it is believed that many valuable herbs and plants are available in the state that are its natural treasures. In the initial stage the authorities would collect and preserve the herbal plants available in the state and will then proceed with, in the next phase, importing exotic and rare species, the agricultural director further informed. The proposed herbal park will have separate gardens for aromatic, spice, ornamental and cosmetic herbs at the same place that is also expected become a tourist attraction, the agriculture department hopes. The department is also hopeful that the park will inspire people to take up herbal cultivation and also encourage investors to use of the herbs for processing to get finished herbal products. The popularity of herbal farming in the region is also expected to enhance the prospects of setting up of processing units for various kinds of herbal products, they think. The processing units that may eventually come up around the proposed herbal park are units for extraction and distillation of herbal oil, processing aonla (amla) juice, aloe vera juice and jelly, ginger and turmeric drying, making herbal shampoo and soap and also those for making organic fertiliser, the departmental officials said. Though earlier proposals for opening a herbal park in Ranchi fell through, the capital city has Nakshatra Van, a garden of important medicinal plants, near the Raj Bhavan that was established at the behest of one of former governors of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases decrease in Jharkhand ||The Covid situation in Jharkhand has remarkably improved during the past week and only three positive cases were found in the state on Saturday. Though the health department continued testing up to 50,000 samples everyday, only up to a maximum 11 of them were found to be infected with Covid-19 during the past week. Out of the 42,580 samples tested on Saturday, only 3 of those turned out to be positive. All those were from Ranchi district while the rest 23 districts did not have a single positive case. The positivity rate in the state stood at 0.007 per cent on Saturday. Jharkhand had an active caseload of 74 Covid-19 patients at 9pm on Saturday and Ranchi alone had 45 that accounted for nearly 61 per cent of the total caseload. While 13 districts had not a single active case that time, Jamtara had 7 cases and Chatra 5 while Khunti, Seraikela, East Singbhum, Deoghar, Lohardaga, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Latehar had less than 5 cases each. Ranchi has the maximum number of positive cases because people from across the state come here on various work and outsiders also use its airport or railway stations to reach the state and some of them are found positive when put to test, experts explain why the state capital had maximum active cases. “Covid is under control but people should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as the second wave is still not over and the country is recording more than 30,000 positive cases everyday,” said Dr Matin Ahmad Khan who recently took voluntary retirement from the post of a medical college professor. “We are now living in a global village where international movement is very common and that is more the reason we have to be on alert because the disease is around,” he added. “But the good thing is that the last survey found presence of antibody in about 68 per cent population, indicating we are perhaps heading towards herd immunity,” the doctor sounded hopeful. He, however, cautioned that the disease, though may not remain a pandemic, will not be eradicated soon and may be present as endemic in certain parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
