21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant to re-launch dhoti/sari scheme for BPL families in Dumka||Chief minister Hemant Soren will re-launch an old government scheme to provide dhotis and saris to BPL families at Rs 10 each in Dumka on Wednesday. Titled "Sona Sobran Dhoti Sari Scheme", all BPL families will be provided benefits under this scheme twice a year from PDS shops across the state. The scheme was launched in 2014 during Hemant Soren’s first stint as chief minister. However, after the BJP government came to power, it was discontinued. After the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government returned to power in 2019, state government announced it would resume it for about 57 lakh BPL families listed under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) to provide subsidised clothing along with ration. Sources in the state food, civil supplies and public distribution department said that  Rs 200 crore had been allocated for the scheme in the current fiscal year.. “Due to covid-19, it failed to kick off before,” said an official. State food and civil supplies department minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the finance minister, said that the state government is set to fulfill yet another poll promise following the launch of this scheme. Oraon will also be present at the launch in Dumka. “It was one of the poll promises which the alliance government made. We are set to make it a reality now,” he said. While Hemant will preside over the programme in Dumka other districts are scheduled to hold similar functions too. In Ranchi, the district administration will hold a function at Palash auditorium in Doranda. On Tuesday, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan inspected the venue to ensure that all Covid norms were adhered to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host flagship e-commerce conclave eVartan on Sept 25||XLRI's Executive Post- Graduate Diploma in Management (ExPGDM) batch of 2021-22 will host e-Vartan, the flagship e-commerce conclave of the B-school on September 25. The theme for the conclave, which will be conducted virtually because of the pandemic is Decoding e-Commerce. The inaugural address of the event will be by Ranaveer Sinha, president of XLRI Alumni Association and member- XLRI Board of Governors. This will be followed by a welcome address by Arpita Srivastava, assistant professor (Marketing), XLRI. After the welcome address, the chief guest Ayyappan Rajagopal, chief business officer, Myntra, will be sharing his insights on e-commerce ecosystem in India. This will be followed by the keynote address of the guest of honour, Prithvi Chandrasekhar, president – Consumer Finance, InCred Financial Services on the topic ‘The Impact of Fintech on Today’s E-commerce Sector’. The conclave will also see a panel discussion to be participated by Anurag Jain, co-founder, Milkbasket, Mohnish Jaiswal, vice-president (Supply Chain & Digital Transformation), Byju’s, Sumit Taneja of Alibaba Group and Veneet Vishal, director (Product Operation and Business Excellence), OLX Autos. The post-lunch session will have a panel discussion on "The Future of Payments - Has Covid Accelerated the Inclination to a Cashless Society." Some of the panelists include Pawan Vats, associate director, Freecharge, Prabhakhar Tiwari, chief growth officer, Angel One (Formerly Angel Broking), Manoj Jindal, head asset procurement - Amazon (UK and Europe) and Parth Sharma, associate general manager, JioMart An exciting panel discussion on customer experience in the post-Amazon world has also been scheduled for the event, which will conclude with a batch profile presentation and vote of thanks by the placement committee of ExPGDM. The day-long virtual event will see an eclectic mix of professionals and students across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dead body of wanted gangster found floating in river||Dead body of a wanted criminal, Kamal Sahu, was found floating in Khudia river of Nirsa block, Dhandbad on Tuesday morning. An alleged clash between the gang members over booty share following a robbery that took place at Maa Kali temple of Bhaljoria area of Nirsa, is being held responsible for the death, by the police. Local residents of Bhaljoria who spotted the floating dead body in the river adjoining the temple this morning informed police, following which a team of Nirsa Police led by Subhash Singh, officer in charge of Nirsa police station reached the site and fished out the dead body. The deceased body bore injury marks suggesting that the he been attacked with a boulder which led to his death. His blood stained clothes have also been recovered from an under construction temple in the adjoining area. According to local residents Sahu and other members of his gang used to consume liqour in the under construction temple on a regular basis. His gang had broken six locks of Goddess Kali temple to loot the gold ornaments adorning the deity. Following which they fled with the gold. A member of the Maa Kali Temple management committee, said “When we reached the temple this morning we found around six locks broken and several articles strewn around.” “The thieves have taken away the earring and other ornaments offered by the devotees during the robbery,” said the temple committee member. Contacted, Subhash Singh said, “The deceased criminal had been jailed four -five times in several cases of robbery and theft. Local residents had informed us that he died due to a clash between the members of gang last night. They were fighting over the booty share for the robbery conducted last night in temple” “We are investigating the case. His dead body has been sent for post mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. The autopsy report may provide some clues regarding his unnatural death,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||District athletics meet in steel city on September 25 and 26||Athletes can look forward to showing their prowess at the two-day East Singhbhum District Athletics Championship to be held at the landmark JRD Tata Sports Complex on September 25 and 26. The event, which is being organised by East Singhbhum District Athletics Association, will be conducted in the under-20,18,16 and 14 (boys and girls) age categories. The pandemic had kept athletes out of action and the district meet is an opportunity for them to slip into competition fold. The association was able to organise a cross-country event earlier this year which saw thin participation. “We will be abe to judge our athletes once again. Two athletics competitions will be held next month and in December. Our athletes have won a number of medals in state and national championships. The district event will give the athletes an opportunity to try and gain slots for competitions ahead,” a district association official said. According to association secretary Rabindra Nath Murmu, the participating athletes have to report at the venue at 9 am and register. "Participants will have to bring their Aadhaar card, attested age-related documents and passport size photo. An athlete can participate in maximum if two individual events," he said. Murmu said participants will have to strictly follow Covid-10 guidelines by wearing masks (when not competing) and maintaining social distancing. Interested athletes can contact Rajkumar Banra (9234000871), Sidhu Kisku (9473530631) and Chetan Majhi (7979755431) for further details. The district meet will be the yardstick for getting selected in the Jharkhand squad for the upcoming state and national inter-district championship. The state (under-14) athletics championship is scheduled in Madhupur next month while the national inter-district event will be conducted in December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Viral fever patients throng Ranchi hospitals||Patients suffering from viral infection have flooded hospitals in Ranchi that has seen heavy rains and temperature fluctuations in the last few days with most people displaying symptoms like fever, cough and cold and body ache, doctors from leading hospitals said on Tuesday. As per records available the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), a majority of patients admitted in the medicine ward were suffering from viral infection. Besides, of the 261 patients admitted at Ranchi Sadar Hospital, over 100 were suffering from viral fever, doctors from the hospital said. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr. Vinod Kumar admitted that hospitals were experiencing a sudden rush of patients suffering from viral fever. He said that the change in weather and a prolonged monsoon were contributing to the rise in such diseases. “There has been a rise in cases of viral fever among children as well as adults. This, however, has no connection with Covid-19 and most patients are suffering from viral infections caused during monsoon,” said Dr. Kumar. No patients suffering from dengue or malaria were undergoing treatment at Sadar Hospital on Tuesday, while four patients admitted for treatment of typhoid were discharged recently, doctors said. The rise in cases of viral fever among children was a growing concern amid the fear of a possible third wave of Covid-19. Dr. Abhishek Ranjan of the paediatric surgery department at RIMS said that the number of children suffering from influenza was much higher this year than earlier. The reason for this rise in cases of fever among children, he said, could be the fact that most children stayed indoors during the Covid-19 pandemic and did not get exposed to the outer world, which may have weakened their immune systems. “Cases of fever among children have certainly increased this year when compared to the number of patients we had during monsoon in the past couple of years,” said Dr. Ranjan, adding that more than 100 children were undergoing treatment at the paediatric ward at RIMS on Tuesday. The Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) and Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs), which are mostly located in rural areas of Ranchi, have also reported a spike in cases of viral fever. A multipurpose worker at Silli PHC said that there were no cases of malaria or dengue at the hospital, but patients of viral fever were visiting the healthcare facility every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.80 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated more than 1.80 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped to 55 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 1,16,831 residents, while the booster dose was administered to at least 64,681 beneficiaries. East Singhbhum inoculated the highest number of beneficiaries among the 24 districts in Jharkhand for the third day in a row. As per NHM data, at least 20,000 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum, where 150 session sites remained in operation. In Ranchi, about 15,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated on the day, while Dhanbad vaccinated more than 16,000 residents. According to a bulletin released by the NHM, at least nine persons were found infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand on Monday, while as many as 10 Covid patients recovered from the infection. Ranchi alone reported five of the nine cases, while East Singhbhum reported three, the NHM bulletin further stated. The active Covid caseload in Ranchi remained 27 as the district also reported five Covid recoveries on Monday. However, the count of active cases rose to four in East SInghbhum as the district reported only one Covid recovery against the three fresh cases. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of at least 40,527 residents and 0.02 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, more than 3.48 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. According to a press communique from the health department, more than 1.25 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and at least 34 lakh of them have also got the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Minor gangraped in village orchestra program||Hazaribagh: A 16-year-old girl who went to see an orchestra program in Gopalo village of Ramdev Kharika panchayat under Daru police station, 22km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter, was gang-raped by six youths. Sources said orchestra was organised on night of September 17 to celebrate Karma festival. Sources said girl was present in the program with other village girls, relatives and local residents. BJP's Anusuchit Jati Morcha's leader Vishal Balmiki said they had brought the girl to town and admitted to hospital after getting information about it. “We will not sit quietly till arrest of the culprits,” he added.  (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Jamshedpur: Steel city teacher Shyam Kumar Sharma has been bestowed with the Best Teacher of the Year 2021 award for his contribution to the sector. Indian Glory Awards honours teachers and professionals working towards a better education system and their contribution to society. Sharma, a geography teacher at Samajik Uchh Vidyalaya in Barigora, received the honour during a virtual programme organised by Indian Glory Award on September 11. Sharma received the award by post on September 18. He gave credit for receiving the award to his parents, family and fellow educators. (Jayesh Thaker) Dhanbad: The Dhanbad police arrested 13 youths of Andhra Pradesh on Monday during an early morning raid conducted at a flat of a multistoried building situated in the heart of town at Bekar Bandh locality for their suspected involvement in cyber crime. The nabbed persons claimed that they used to work at a call center for an insurance consultancy firm being operated from the flat for the last six months. Police is also conducting raids to arrest the operator of the call center, who fled the site before the arrival of team. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad based subsidiary of Coal India Limited, Bharat Coking Coal Limited, signed an agreement with Prabha Engineering private Limited (PEPL) for the maiden project of CIL for Coal Bed Methane/Coal Mine Methane exploration and extraction. The first phase shall comprise of exploration, second phase shall include pilot assessment and market survey for production phase and third phase shall comprise of development and production for maximum 30 years from the submission of FDP or till economic life of the field as per submitted development plan. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal signs pact for coal bed methane exploration||The Bharat Coking Coal Limited, a Coal India Limited subsidiary, signed a memorandum of understanding with Prabha Energy Private Ltd at its Dhanbad headquarters on Monday for exploration of coal bed methane from its underground mines. This is the maiden project of Coal India for exploration of coal bed methane for which the Ranchi-headquartered Coal Mines Planning and Design Institute will be the project implementing agency. The Jharia CBM (coal bed methane)/CMM (coal mine methane) block under the BCCL “has been delineated with an objective of exploring CBM in a total area of 26.5sqkm,” said a BCCL release, adding that the blocks are located in Kapuria, Moonidih and Sigma collieries that have a net coal reserve of 1,961.85MMT (million metric tonnes) and an estimated gas deposit of 25.22BCM (billion cubic metres). The project, aimed at reducing methane emission in coal mines for ensuring safety of the miners, will be implemented in three phases. While exploration work will be done in the first phase, pilot assessment and market survey for the production stage will be taken up in the second phase, BCCL sources said, adding that the third phase comprises development and production work lasting for a maximum duration of 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Non-NDA parties to support SKM's Bharat Bandh on September 27||Supporters of all non-NDA parties will come out on the streets across Jharkhand to enforce the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on September 27 to protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. The farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand had so far seen only Left parties joining hands with the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity (an outfit formed last year to coordinate the agitation against farm laws in the state) for enforcing bandhs and staging protests. “We have decided to come out on the streets to enforce the bandh. The decision was taken at a meeting of all the non-NDA parties, including the JMM, Trinamul Congress, RJD, CPM and the CPI at the Congress state headquarters on Monday. In fact, it had been decided during the meeting of all Opposition parties on August 20 chaired by Sonia Gandhi to join forces against the central government’s oppressive policies,” said state Congress president Rajesh Thakur. “The farmers’ movement will go beyond 2024 if the (Narendra) Modi government does not repeal the new farm laws. The Jharkhand farmers have decided to extend full support to the bandh call given by farmer outfits in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The bandh would be historic. We welcome the decision of other non-NDA parties to come out in support of the bandh, especially the Congress and JMM as they are the ruling parties in the state,” said Sufal Mahato, state coordinator of the Samity. State Congress spokesperson Rakesh Sinha said that it was unanimously decided in the meeting to organise a jan jagran (public awareness) campaign against the central government’s “destruction” of the economy. “All the Opposition (non-NDA) parties will take out a torch rally on September 26 evening as part of a campaign to spread awareness among the masses about the destruction of the country’s economy through wrong policies of the BJP-led central government. This apart we will create awareness against increased attacks on Dalits, Adivasis, minorities and women during the BJP regime. We will also create awareness about the insensitivity of the government towards the farmers’ agitation which has been going on for nine months,” said Sinha. On September 29, non-NDA parties will stage a dharna against the central government’s policies at all the district headquarters. A dharna will also be staged in front of the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||State govt's timely preparations curbs dengue cases||Timely preparations by the Jharkhand government has helped it to battle the menace of vector-borne diseases in a better way at a time when cases of fatal Serotype-2 dengue are pouring in from some neighbouring states. “The Union health ministry has been taking regular updates from us and fortunately there has not been a single death due to dengue in our state. The only death in the state was of a patient who tested positive in Uttar Pradesh and returned to Jamshedpur in a critical condition and succumbed earlier this month. The reason is our advanced preparation in terms of entomological survey beginning from early June across the state in coordination of local urban bodies,” said Dr S.N. Jha, state malaria officer and deputy director of health. The Union health ministry had on Saturday highlighted the “emerging challenge” of Serotype-2 dengue in 11 states — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. There have been deaths reported also in Bihar from dengue. The Centre had asked the states to undertake steps like early detection of cases, operationalisation of fever helplines and adequate stocking of testing kits, larvicides and medicines. “We had started focussing on such preparation as soon as the Covid cases dipped in the state and started the entomological survey in June with larval surveillance for vector-borne diseases. Following the directive from additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh, the door-to-door surveillance work for containing vector-borne diseases started on a war footing from June 15 and this would continue till November 15,” added Dr Jha. This time, the health department had also coordinated well in advance with the state urban development department for taking up measures to control vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya and malaria. “Apart from entomological survey, all the district-level health officials coordinated with local urban bodies following a letter from the additional chief secretary (health) to the secretary, urban development, in May itself. Anti-larval activities, larval density survey and fogging began by mid-June by both the departments and the result is evident with lesser cases reported from even dengue-endemic zones of the state,” said state entomology officer Sagya Singh. Larval surveillance and control is a critical component of any effective integrated mosquito management programme when mosquito larvae are eliminated prior to becoming adults and in the process cannot pose disease problems. Trained field technicians inspected known sources of standing water and newly discovered standing water in the house-to-house survey and used standard dipping techniques to sample the water for immature mosquitoes and undertook physical control (destruction or removal of water accumulation points) and chemical control (through spraying of larvicides). According to data from the ongoing entomological survey, so far 229,224 houses have been covered and out of which dengue larvae was found and destroyed in 14,457 houses and 26,010 containers with dengue larvae were destroyed. There have been zero casualties and a total of 107 dengue cases across Jharkhand so far, the bulk of which (57) were in state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
