22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city records highest rainfall in 24 hours||A low-pressure area over south-east Jharkhand coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation triggered heavy rain in Kolhan in the past 24-hours. Jamshedpur recorded the highest rainfall of 94.5 mm followed by Chaibasa in West Singhbhum which experienced 89.6 mm of rain. Rainfall over 64.5 mm is considered heavy in Met parlance. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district recorded 78.2 mm while Kharsawan recorded 75.2 mm. Chandil near Jamshedpur recorded 70 mm of rain while Arki in Khunti recorded 60 mm of rain. Ghatshila in Kolhan's East Singhbhum district recorded 39.6 mm of rain while Bokaro recorded 30 mm of rain. Capital Ranchi witnessed 26 mm of rain while Lohardaga and Ramgarh recorded over 20 mm of rain. Several other places in Kolhan neighbouring Simdega recorded moderate rain. Jamtara, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Chatra, Hazaribagh, Jamtara, Daltonganj and Dumka also received a good spell of rain during the past 24- hours. Satellite pictures suggested that the low-pressure and the associated cyclonic circulation was extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Wednesday passing through southeast Jharkhand and Balasore in neighbouring Odisha. Weathermen hinted at formation of another cyclonic circulation and a low pressure area over east central Bay of Bengal around September 24, Friday. The system is expected to result in widespread rainfall activity in Jharkhand and neighbouring Odisha. Meanwhile, the heavy rain in Jamshedpur during the past 24 hours resulted in opening of three radial gates of the Dimna lake dam on Wednesday due to rising water level at the Dimna Lake, an artificial reservoir. The Dimna Lake sources drinking water to the entire steel city. Officials of Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited ( formerly Jusco ), a Tata Steel subsidiary which  looks after the maintenance and upkeep of Dimna lake said  the radial gates of the dam were opened after six years. The shower show during the last 24 hours brought down the rain deficit by two per cent Monsoon rain statistics revealed that so far the state has received 962.1 mm of rain against a normal of 999.3 mm, a deficit of four per cent. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre this afternoon issued the forecast of light to moderate rain accompanied by lightning and thunder over various districts of Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. An alert of heavy rain was also issued in isolated places during the next 24-hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC fan club protests jersey design on social media||The official fan club of Jamshedpur FC, Red Miners, is demanding a change of the team jersey design and members have launched protests on social media for the same. Members have pleaded to change the design of the jersey, especially of the white and blue one for away matches. Jamshedpur made their ISL debut in season 2017-18 but is yet to make it to the play-offs. The club, which finished 6th last year, has been making desperate attempts to try and qualify for the play-offs. Jamshedpur FC has failed to make a new kit, be it home or away, in the last four years. The fans have taken to social media to raise their concerns, and have started using the hashtags #JFCJerseyChangeKaro and #ChangeTheJersey. The fans have started commenting on the hashtag as a form of protest on the social media platform of Jamshedpur FC and Tata Steel. ISL clubs like Kerala Blasters, Bengaluru FC, Mumbai City FC and more, launch new kits every year with a different concept, and approach. There are around 2,000 members on the Red Miners rolls while as many are from Bangalore, Bhubaneswar and Calcutta. Jamshedpur FC will assemble in Goa for the pre-seasons by October 2. The cash-rich ISL begins on November 19. The Tata Steel-owned club since its inception has had the same jersey. The home kit is red with dark blue sleeves and features tribal art and symbols as a tribute to the rich tribal history of Jharkhand, the state to which the club belongs. The away colors have been white with sky blue sleeves, and the same tribal symbols. Sunil Mishra, a member of Red Miners, said a jersey represents the club, the people, the fans and the city. ""Most fans of every club look forward to having a new jersey before every season but JFC have so far done the opposite. We wish our demand is fulfilled," he added. "We have been asking the club for a new jersey since the last two seasons. We started the protest a few days back when we realised our request had no takers," said Sheikh Imran, another member. Utsab Ghosh, a die-hard fan of the club, said they were united when it came to request for a new jersey. ""Digital protest is an apt idea to show our unity. A jersey might change the fortunes of the club and provide a fresh look to it," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ederline: Dedicated helpline for senior citizens in Ranchi soon||Ranchi district administration will soon launch a dedicated helpline number for senior citizens to call and seek help from the government in legal matters, during natural disasters and also submit requests for facilities under government-run welfare schemes, officials said on Wednesday. The toll-free helpline number, named "Elderline", will be run jointly by the district administration, Samarth Life Management Private Limited, an NGO based out of Gurugram,  and a Ranchi-based company, Baba Computers, a press communique from the district administration stated. Senior citizens in need of help will have to dial 14567 and executives of a dedicated call centre will guide them further. District officials and other stakeholders involved in this initiative have already started undergoing training for the programme. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan recently chaired a meeting via video conferencing with other district officials and reviewed the status of the Elderline initiative in Ranchi. “The idea is to provide help to elderly people in distress as they face greater challenges during any crisis situation due to age related ailments,” said Ranjan. An official actively involved in the initiative said that elderly people staying alone were not only more likely to face problems in getting legal aide or help during crisis, but also susceptible to frauds. “There are so many elderly people living in this city who do not have anyone to support them during any crisis. The helpline number will make them feel more confident and give then a sense of self-reliance,” the official said. Even during the first and the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, elderly people staying alone faced a lot of challenges in getting groceries, edibles and even medicines. While the Jharkhand government did come up with home delivery facility for essentials during the pandemic, there was no dedicated helpline for senior citizens. In order to address the problems of elders in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Social Justice started call centres in major states under the Elderline project a year ago. The facility is already operational in five States – Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In Jharkhand, such call centres will come up in all the 24 districts and Ranchi will be the first to launch the helpline number, government sources said. This helpline will also offer emotional support to the callers during and after the pandemic. Senior citizens facing pension related problems may also get help by contacting this number.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||At launch of dhoti/sari scheme, Hemant unveils sops of Rs 36cr for Dumka  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren re-launched an old government scheme to provide dhoti/sari to those living below the poverty line (BPL) in Jharkhand, maintaining that it was a testimony to his government’s commitment towards the poor by providing clothing along with food. During a state-level ceremony organised in Dumka on Wednesday, Hemant also inaugurated two COBAS machines set up in Ranchi and Dumka for high-end Covid-19 testing and rolled out other development schemes for the region worth about Rs 36 crore. Hemant said that improving school education, which suffered a major setback in the last two years due to Covid-19, was one of the priority areas for his government. He revealed that the state  government was working on a plan to start English medium schools in every district. JMM patriarch and the chief minister's father Shibu Soren, state finance and food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, officials of the Dumka administration were present at the ceremony to unveil the dhoti/sari scheme. Other districts too held their own function and were connected virtually to the Dumka programme. Titled "Sona Sobran Dhoti Sari Scheme", all BPL families will be able to get dhotis or saris at Rs 10 each twice a year from PDS outlets. Speaking on the occasion, Hemant lashed out at the previous BJP government for suspending thes scheme,  originally launched by him during his first stint as chief minister in 2014. “Anaj ke saath, garib ko kapda humara sankalp tha jab maine yeh yojna shuru kiya tha pichli baar. (Along with food grains, access to proper clothing to poor was our resolution when I started this scheme last year). We lost power later and BJP government then stopped this. But now, poor in this state don’t have to worry about the two basic requirements—food and clothing,” Hemant said, adding that the government has allocated Rs 500 crore per annum for the  scheme to serve around  58 lakh ration card holders. The chief minister also presented dhotis and saris to a handful of beneficiaries in Dumka. Reiterating his government’s commitment to  provide jobs, he said that although the government had declared 2021 as employment year, the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic had delayed plans. “Despite battling challenges in upgrading the health sector for effective management of the pandemic, we are working round- the-clock to fulfill our promises. As far as employment is concerned, things have started moving in the right direction,” he said, highlighting how the recently launched local employment policy would help. “The past government’s job policy was such that mostly outsiders were given jobs. It (the BJP government) was never serious about creation of jobs. In five years, the BJP government couldn’t conduct state public service commission exams, but just a few days ago, we held exams for all four pending years,” he said. “My government is working with an agenda to develop villages, strengthen farmers at the grassroots. These initiatives will lay a solid foundation for overall development of the state," Hemant said. Finance minister Rameshwara Oraon, in his address, stressed on the frail economic health of the state due to lavish spending by the previous government. “You must know that we are still not in a good position in terms of our fiscal health. But through prudent spending, we are able to fund schemes and polices for the people of Jharkhand," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad doctor faces flak for sharing satirical video on PM   ||A government doctor in Dhanbad is at the centre of a controversy for sharing a satirical video on the Prime Minister on his birthday on a whatsapp group with local BJP leaders criticising his actions and the district administration asking the civil surgeon to look into the matter. The doctor, Rakesh Kumar, who is posted at the district hospital, has gone on two days' leave. He refused to comment on the media's queries on his social media post. Kumar is understood to have shared a video by Rajeev Dhyani, a Lucknow-based satirist and political activist with over  20.7 K followers, on Twitter on September 17, the Prime Minister's birthday, on a whatsapp group of doctors belonging to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College, Dhanbad, where he used to work before. In the video titled "Modiyabind ki Bimari", originally shared on Twitter on September 12, Dhyani plays on the Hindi word, "motiaband (cataract)", to explain blurred vision because of which, he says, many people can't see what's going on around them, but have a clear vision of events unfolding far away places like Afghanistan and Syria. In the event, he adds, such people remain far away from the light of knowledge. Dhanbad civil surgeon Shyamkishore Kant said he had sought an explanation from the doctor for sharing the video. "He has gone on leave. We are now waiting for his response,” he said, adding that the doctor had apologised to the members of the whatsapp group and also the local BJP MLA, Raj Sinha. BJP leaders of Dhanbad district have demanded action against the doctor, saying his post was "objectionable", while several civil society mebers have criticised the leaders for unnecessarily raking up a controversy. Dhanbad MLA Sinha termed the doctor's action "objectionable", alleging that the video he shared contained "abhadra tippani (objectionable comments)" about the Prime Minister. Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh also joined the fray and demanded a probe into the issue. While interacting with the media on Tuesday, Singh blamed the Hemant Soren government too. "When the state government is itself behaving irresponsibily, then what can we expect from its officers. I will also raise the issue during the upcoming District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting,” he said. Bijay Jha, a politician-turned social activist, termed the statements of MLA Sinha and MP Singh as unnecesary. "Will they ask for a similar probe on similar satirical comments made by many others against former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and even Jawaharlal Nehru?" said Jha, also a former chairman of Bokaro Industrial Area Development Authority. Shiv Balak Paswan, secretary of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti, also took a dig at the MLA and MP. “It is an attempt to distract the people’s attention from core issues... Why didn't the MP and MLA come to Jharia when the people were suffering due to an acute drinking water crisis for over a week ahead of Vishwarkarma Puja?" he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid caseload rises again in Jharkhand ||The active caseload witnessed a rise in Jharkhand on Tuesday after the trajectory of active Covid-19 cases saw a downward trend for several days in a row, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The active caseload jumped to 65 as the state reported at least 14 fresh cases of coronavirus infection against only four Covid recoveries on Tuesday, a bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum reported four cases each and the active caseload increased in all the three districts. Bokaro and Latehar, on the other hand, reported one case each. Four Covid cases against two recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 29, while the count of active cases in East Singhbhum rose to seven as the district reported only one Covid recovery against the four fresh cases of infection on the day. West Singhbhum reported zero Covid recoveries and the active caseload there rose to four from zero. Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated nearly 1.80 lakh residents against Covid-19, taking the total count of people who have received at least one dose of the vaccine over 1.28 crore. As per provisional figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 1,14,058 residents, while the booster dose of the vaccine was administered to at least 63,858 beneficiaries. More than 1.25 lakh Jharkhand residents vaccinated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Almost 25,000 beneficiaries were administered vaccine doses in Ranchi on the day, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. More than 20,000 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum, the second highest among the districts, while nearly 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Dhanbad. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of as many as 38,767 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. As per government data, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Caste: PMO asks Hemant to meet Shah instead||Prime minister Narendra Modi has not given an appointment to Hemant Soren to discuss the need for a caste based census in the upcoming national population survey, but has suggested that the chief minister rather meet Union home minister Amit Shah whose ministry is dealing with the issue, the JMM said on Tuesday. Insiders in the JMM, that is heading a coalition government in the state, pointed out how the PM had agreed to meet Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, who is leading an NDA government, and  accused the PM of  "step brotherly treatment  to Jharkhand". The JMM said it was now hoping to get Shah's audience either this week or next week. Addressing the media, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, "On September 8, the  CM had written to the PM asking for his time to lead a nine-member delegation of parties to discuss  the need for a  caste based census in the nationwide population survey. Also, we want to press for implementation of a Sarna code, a seperate religion column for the Adivasis. However, we received an email from the PM's residential office the next day with an advice to meet Home minister as survey comes under the jurisdiction of this ministry. We hope to get an appointment with Amit Shahji either this week or next week. "May be next time he will spare time if he is really concerned about Jharkhand and its needs." Opposition BJP has refused to be a part of a Hemant delegation. State unit  president Deepak Prakash claimed the JMM never extended a formal invite, but that even it did, the BJP would not be a part of it. "The Hemant Soren government is doing cheap politics over caste based census and OBC reservation. We will not be a part of any such trick. BJP will rather tend to meet PM or others at the Centre on its own to raise state's issues as and when needed," he said. Bhattacharjee criticised the BJP for its stand. "We wanted the delegation to be an  all- party one. But with the BJP announcing that it would not  be a part of it, it has exposed itself on the issue," he retorted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||State to fund six tribal students for higher studies in the UK||Six tribal students from Jharkhand have been selected for higher studies in the UK under a overseas scholarship scheme funded by the state government. “This (scheme) is aimed as a step towards bridging inequalities in higher education and will pave the way forward for future tribal students to apply and also seek support to study abroad. The scheme is a tribute to the visionary tribal leader Jaipal Singh Munda,” said Champai Soren, minister for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, minorities and backward classes. Munda was the first tribal student to study overseas, when he joined the BA in PPE (politics, philosophy and economics) course at St John’s College, Oxford University, in 1922. Nearly 100 years later, six students have been chosen to study under a scholarship scheme named after Munda. The selected students will study across five universities. “Jharkhand is the only state to provide scholarship support to students from indigenous/marginal communities for studies in institutions of excellence in higher education. The Union government has an overseas programme for SC/ST students (20 scholarships),” said an aide in the chief minister’s office. Chief minister Hemant Soren and Champai will felicitate the students selected under the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Overseas Scholarship Scheme and their parents at a programme in Ranchi on Thursday. The scholarship awardees are entitled to complete coverage of tuition fees along with living and other miscellaneous expenses. Under this scheme, every year a maximum of 10 students will be selected from the ST category residing in Jharkhand. For the first batch of the scholarship, six students have been selected, who are going to begin their study programmes in five different universities in the UK in September. The overseas scholarship scheme, announced by the chief minister on December 29 last year, has a provision to provide all financial support to 10 tribal students of Jharkhand intending to do a one-year masters or a two-year MPhil in select 15 top universities of the UK across 22 courses. The state government notified the scheme on March 7, 2021. Among the selected students, Hercules Singh Munda is going to pursue an MA at the University of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies, while Ajitesh Murmu is going to study for an MA in architecture at the University College London. Akanksha Mary Balmuchu has been selected for an MSc in climate change science and management at the Loughborough University, while Dinesh Bhagat will pursue an MSc in climate change, development and policy at the University of Sussex. Apart from this, Anjana Pratima Dungdung has been selected for an MSc at the University of Warwick and Priya Murmu will pursue an MA in creative writing and the writing industries at the Loughborough University. “I am glad to be a part of the first cohort of Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Scholarship Scheme. I believe that it is a very important step by the government to help tribal students pursue higher education through this scholarship. This will not only allow tribal students to showcase their talent on the global stage, but also pave the way for progress of others,” said Anjana, a resident of Gumla district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
