23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamtara police arrest 9 in cyber fraud case||Jamtara police, as part of a drive, on Thursday arrested nine cyber criminals  from Narayanpur Police station of the district and recovered 24 mobile phones, 26 sim cards and 10 ATM cards from them. Jamtara SP, Deepak Kumar Sinha while talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday said, “We have arrested nine persons on the basis of a complaint from a Himachal Pradesh based victim during a joint raid conducted by a team of  Karmatand and Narayanpur Police stations.” “We have so far arrested altogether 250 cyber frauds as part of the drive against cyber crime since January this year on the basis of complaints being received from different parts of the country and have also seized significant amounts of cash on the basis,” he said. “We are also returning the money to victims as per the complaints after verifying their complaints,” said Sinha and added that the drive will continue as they are looking into all the complaints coming from different parts of the country. “We have also arrested 11 cyber criminals on September 21 during which we also recovered 27 mobile phones, 37 SIM Cards and one laptop from them,” Sinha further said. Notably, Jamtara has earned the notoriety of being the hub of cyber criminals of the country and earlier several cases of cyber frauds have taken place from Jamtara . On August 30, Delhi Police arrested 14 cyber criminals after raids were conducted in association with Jamatara Police. Earlier, several incidents of cyber frauds have taken place from residents of different parts of the country including Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||UK envoy lauds Jharkhand overseas scholarship scheme for tribals ||British Deputy High Commissioner in Kolkata Nick Low lauded the Jharkhand government’s overseas scholarship programme for tribal students on Thursday, the day chief minister Hemant Soren presided over a programme to felicitate the first batch of six students handpicked by the state for 100 per cent scholarships to pursue higher studies in five universities of the UK. The programme also marked the formal launch of the scholarship scheme that was announced last year and notified in March. Selection of students was completed on September 6. In a letter addressed to Hemant, the envoy appreciated the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Overseas Scholarship Scheme that has been designed to help students from tribal communities to go overseas to pursue higher studies. He also expressed his sadness at not being able to be a part of the felicitation event. “I sincerely congratulate you for steering this visionary initiative to bridge the inequalities of access to higher education faced by marginal communities in India. Your leadership and the efforts of the state government to drive this knowledge partnership between Jharkhand and the United Kingdom deserve the highest praise. The legacy of Jaipal Singh Munda, who started his Oxford BA programme a century ago will, I believe, now be taken forward both through this batch of scholars and subsequent beneficiaries,” Low wrote. In his response, Hemant wrote, “I acknowledge your heartfelt message and my heartiest thank you to you for your kind words. This is a beginning and we look forward to working with you and the British high commission on education, sports, climate change and other allied areas.” At the function, Hemant noted that Jharkhand was the first state in the country to start such a scholarship programme. "While the Union government runs foreign scholarship schemes, children of the common man rarely get a chance. However, with our scheme, children of poor tribals and the marginalised can also dream of flying high and pursuing studies in global universities," he said. Hemant recalled that the idea came to him while chairing a programme on world indigenous day. “I am happy that my officials have walked the extra mile overcoming all technical odds to roll out this scheme. It is just a start,” he said, adding that Rs 10 crore had been allocated to begin with. Jaipal Singh Munda, he noted, was the first tribal to study in Oxford a century ago. "He is not just an icon of this state but for the whole country. He also played a key role in the making of the Constitution of India. He was also a legendary hockey player. Jharkhand has many such legends. By running programmes in their names, we intend to keep their legacies alive.” Under the scheme, the state government will send 10 tribal students every year to 15 notified universities in the UK to pursue doctoral or masters programmes across 22 disciplines. The first students to be selected for the scheme include Hercules Singh Munda (MA in linguistics, School of Oriental & African Studies, University of London), Ajitesh Murmu (MArch-bio-integrated design in University College London —The Barlett School of Architecture), Akanksha Mary Balmuchu (MSc in climate change science and management, Loughborough University), Anjana Pratima Dungdung (MSc in international relations, University of Warwick), Dinesh Bhagat (MSc in climate change, development and policy, University of Sussex), Priya Murmu (MA in creative writing and writing industries, Loughborough University). An official of the state tribal welfare department said there were 22 applicants for the scheme, of which six were selected by a panel of five professors. The remaining four students would also get selected soon, he said. “We only selected students whose admission was confirmed,” he said, adding that the government would bear all the costs including air fare, tuition fees, local expenses etc. The students are scheduled to fly out later this month. Hercules Singh Munda, who is from Ranchi said, “I am a second generation learner from my family. After completing engineering in IT from BIT-Mesra in 2015, I worked at the Outlook Group in Delhi. I also worked as a research intern in IIIT-Hyderabad in 2019. Later, I started a company named TriLingo, a digital learning platform that enables tribal students to learn in their mother tongue. I will now pursue a masters degree in linguistics so that after I return I can contribute to my state and community.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi accuses Hemant of weakening democracy in state||Former chief minister Babulal Marandi on Thursday charged the Hemant Soren led government of the state of deliberately trying to weaken democracy by withholding local body elections and trying to concentrate power in its hand. He expressed his views while talking to the media at circuit house of Dhanbad and also claimed that the government is not willing to hold elections on party basis to favour those having money and muscle power to win elections. “Several of the urban bodies like Dhanbad and Ranchi are spread over large areas and thus it is not possible for an individual to move around and cover the vast area on his own and thus holding the election on a political party basis could have solved the problem,” said Marandi. “We not only wanted to hold the Municipal Elections on party basis but even favoured holding the Zila Parishad elections having even larger area on party basis but the government is not ready to hold even the municipal elections on party basis preventing good people to contest and win elections and instead favour those having money and muscle power and thereby weakening democracy,” further said Marandi. Over the delay in holding local body elections he said, “I can’t understand the reason for the delay in the elections when other states like Bihar have  already announced holding elections and have started preparations for the same.” “Not only Urban Body elections but the government should also initiate simultaneous efforts to hold Panchayat  in order to strengthen the 3-tier system of democracy as panchayats are spread all across the state ,” said Marandi. Marandi also raised the issue of viral audio clipping of Latehar Deputy Commissioner Abu Imran advising Congress leader Bandhu Tirkey of not visiting his area as he himself looks after the well being of a section of his 'own people' and said, “The excerpts of the audio clearly hints that the officer works for a particular section of the people and for the particular political party and thus giving posting to such an officer in the district shows the intentions of the government.” Asked about the Dhoti Sari distribution scheme titled Sona Sarban Yojna launched by the government, he said, “It is to be seen how many people get the benefit of the scheme and who remains deprived of the benefits of the scheme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge run over by auto intentionally, CBI tells HC   ||The Dhanbad judge, who was run over by an autorickshaw on July 28, was hit intentionally, the CBI told Jharkhand High Court on Thursday. During a hearing before a two-member high court bench comprising chief justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Naryan Prasad, sources said, that CBI Joint Director Sharad Agarwal said that the death Uttam Anand was intentional and not accidental. The CBI which submitted four forensic reports to the high court _ it is monitoring progress in the investigations into the death of Anand _ said its probe was heading towards a conclusion. It said the act of running over Anand by an autorickshaw on July 28 was intentional. The agency, however, said it was still investigating the motive. The CBI, sources said, also told the court that one of the two persons arrested in connection with the case, was a habitual offender who kept changing his statements. The agency also said that it was looking at the brain mapping test of the two arrested persons, namely, auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma. The court, however, expressed its dissatisfaction over the slow progress of the investigation. “It is for the first time that a judge was deliberately killed and if the case is not solved at at the earliest it will be detrimental to the judicial system,” the bench noted. Anand (49) posted as additional district and session judge in Dhanbad, was hit by an auto rickshaw near Randhir Verma Chowk on July 28 around 5.08am while he was on his morning walk. The legal fraternity, expressing outrage at Anand's death, sought the immediate intervention of the high court to ensure the case was probed thoroughly at the earliest and guilty brought to book. Lawyers pointed out that Anand was hearing more than 15 high profile cases in his court, and had even denied bail to certain "criminals with connections". Hence, his untimely death could be linked to these cases, they felt. State police led by ADJ Sanjay Anand Latkar carried out an initial probe into the incident after which the auto driver and his accomplice were arrested. The CBI took over the probe on August 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans to set up mother's milk banks for newborns||Jharkhand is planning to set up milk banks in a bid to provide “lifesaving” breast milk to babies born to women who cannot breastfeed their newborns due to medical conditions or ailments, officials from the health department said on Thursday. As a part of this project, the first such milk bank is likely to come up in Ranchi, officials involved in the planning of the project said. These, they said, would function like blood banks and lactating mothers will be able to donate milk as a voluntary gesture of saving lives of babies. Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Arun Kumar Singh said that a proposal for setting up milk banks in some districts of Jharkhand has been prepared and the health department is working on a plan to execute the idea. “The milk donated by lactating mothers will also help in fighting malnutrition among newborn babies in the state,” said Singh. Doctors say that breastfeeding within the first one hour of birth plays a crucial role in keeping the baby healthy and safe. Many newborns may even die if they are not breastfed within the first hour of birth. In such cases, milk from the milk bank will help save the life of the baby. Women suffering from polycystic ovary syndrome, hypothyroidism or hypoplastic breasts – a condition in which a woman has insufficient glandular tissues – are unlikely to lactate after giving birth to a child, say doctors. Also, women who have undergone breast surgeries or chemotherapy may not be able to lactate. On the other hand, many healthy and lactating mothers often produce more breast milk than their baby’s requirement. The surplus milk, which is usually wasted, can be donated to the milk banks, say doctors. The project is likely to start in Ranchi first to check its feasibility and then expand to other districts, an official from the health department said. While the government is yet to decide on a location, sources said that one such facility may come up either at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) or Sadar Hospital here. The demand for human milk grew across India during the Covid-19 pandemic as several new mothers either fell extremely sick after contracting coronavirus infection and some even succumbed to it. Donated milk, according to doctors, can be stored at a temperature of 18 to 20 degrees Celsius for eight to 12 months or provided immediately to a baby through a special breast pump. Rich in immunoglobulins, breast milk helps enhance a baby’s immunity and is easy to digest, say doctors. Many states, including Kerala and Rajasthan, have set up milk banks during the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants embark migratory journey to Bengal||Elephants of Dalma wildlife sanctuary are ambling towards the migratory corridor of Bengal as part of their annual sojourn. Jumbos, including calves, in a sizable number are presently scattered in forests at the foothill and are slowly and steadily moving towards the migratory route. Some of the elephants have already moved to Bengal. Around a dozen elephants have already migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura districts of Bengal last month. Annually, jumbos from Jharkhand migrate to the neighbouring state between August-September. There are around 150 elephants in the 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur According to trackers (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep watch on movement of elephants and other animals) over 70 jumbos were spotted at the foothills. “The jumbos are scattered in the forests downhill. They are moving towards the migratory route,” one of the trackers said. The jumbos migrate to Bengal via two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka leading to Nutandih and the other from Burudih, passing through Narsingpur, Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Asked if there was threat to villagers living along the foothills, Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said, “The elephants are in the jungles and there is no danger as such. Moreover, villagers usually don’t tease elephants. There is no threat to human life as such,” he added. The vegetation along the migratory corridor have been trimmed for the safe passage of elephants who would amble back to the Dalma sanctuary in February-March next year. Around 25 elephants, who don’t migrate, are positioned uphill. “These elephants stay at the sanctuary throughout the year. Sanctuary would be sans the jumbos in some time. Elephants are the main attraction of this place,” a forester said. Tourists from Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha and Chattisgarh visit the sanctuary to spend quality time in natural surroundings. They enjoy the flora and fauna and also visit the ancient Shiva temple located at the top.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon likely to overstay in Jharkhand||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday hinted at an extended monsoon in Jharkhand this year. The date when the monsoon was expected to retreat from the country is the third week of September. The withdrawal usually starts from Rajasthan in western part of the country. But weathermen said monsoon currents are likely to stay energised till at least the end of this month with two more back-to-back low-pressure systems and associated cyclonic circulations lining up in the Bay of Bengal. “We see no signs of withdrawal of the monsoon from the western parts of the country. Monsoon is active in several states resulting in widespread and heavy rain,” said an IMD official in New Delhi. “Normally, the monsoon lasts in Jharkhand till October first week. However, this year it is likely to have an extended stay due to the influence of subsequent low pressure formations over the Bay of Bengal and Orissa coast,” explained a duty officer at IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. A weather official at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said monsoon is not likely to withdraw by the end of this month due to formation of two cyclonic circulations over the Bay of Bengal and their west-northwestward movement across central and adjoining northwest India. Weather models were pointing to the possibility of yet another system forming in the Bay of Bengal around September 28. Currently, a cyclonic circulation is hovering over South Chhattisgarh extending 5.8km above the mean sea level. The cyclonic circulation would increase cloud coverage. A well-marked low pressure formation also took place over north Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. And both systems would help in rainfall activity in Jharkhand and several other states, said weathermen. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Thursday passing through Jharsuguda and Puri in neighbouring Odisha. Monsoon rain statistics revealed that Jharkhand has so far received 985 mm rain against a normal of 1,007.2 mm, a deficit of two per cent. The widespread and heavy rain caused by a low-pressure zone and a cyclonic circulation helped to narrow the overall monsoon season deficit in Jharkhand to two per cent from five per cent in the last 72-hours. “Any further improvement during the rest of the month will put this year's monsoon in either normal or surplus category,” said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.9 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Wednesday vaccinated more than 1.90 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped to 63 as the state reported at least nine Covid recoveries against seven fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission, as many as 1,27,787 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 in the state, while at least 70,398 beneficiaries got the second jab. At least 21,000 residents were vaccinated in Dhanbad, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, on Wednesday. Ranchi inoculated over 20,000 beneficiaries on Wednesday, while about 19,000 residents got vaccinated in East Singhbhum. According to a press communique from the health department, more than 1.29 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and more than 37 lakh of them have also received the booster dose of the vaccine. Ranchi and Bokaro reported two fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Wednesday, while Jamtara, West Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported one Covid case each, stated a bulletin from NHM. With at least three Covid recoveries reported,  the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 27 in Ranchi. The count  dropped to five in East Singhbhum as the district reported zero cases against two Covid recoveries, while in Dhanbad the active caseload reached two as the district did not report Covid recoveries. As per NHM data, at least 11 of 24 districts in Jharkhand had zero active cases of Covid-19 by Wednesday evening. Ranchi accounted for almost half of the total active cases in the state, while no other district had a double-digit figure of active caseload. The doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 38,388.82 days against the national average of 1094.23 days, highlighted NHM data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||FJCCI plea to state to abolish diesel power generator duty||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, has appealed to the government to abolish the provision of paying duty on the consumption of power generated by diesel generator sets terming it “impractical”. In a letter to the chief secretary and the secretaries of the industries and commercial taxes departments, the FJCCI pointed out that electricity consumers, particularly the owners of industrial units and business establishments, are forced to purchase and use generator sets only because the state-run discom (distribution company) is unable to provide adequate power supply. Hence, the traders who had to invest on DG sets for no fault of their own were burdened with the responsibility of paying electricity duty on energy produced by them. “Charging electricity duty under such circumstances is unfair, particularly when the parent state Bihar (whose rules were adopted in toto at the time of creation of Jharkhand in 2000) abolished it in 2011,” it said. Besides paying the duty, those using DG sets have also to bear the additional responsibility of filing quarterly and annual returns and informing about the assessment of power generation and consumption, it added. “There is no justification of charging this electricity duty when Bihar has abolished it,” FJCCI president Praveen Jain Chabra told The Telegraph, adding that the compulsion of filing returns, etc also hampered the spirit of ease of doing business. Though the provision has been in force since 2011, not many were even aware about their responsibility of paying taxes, he said, apprehending that they would now face the liability of paying penalty. The duty charged is just 5 paise per unit and the tax authorities also accept the assessment of consumption submitted by the users but submitting those returns, etc, regularly is a cumbersome process, he said. “The government should ensure uninterrupted power supply than forcing us to buy DG sets and spend over three times for getting power from alternative sources,” former FJCCI president Deepak Maroo said. He said generating one unit by using DG set costs about Rs 21 if not more due to rising diesel prices instead of around Rs 6.50 per unit charged by the discom. Though the provision of paying electricity duty for power generated by DG sets was there even earlier, the present problem cropped up after the commercial taxes department issued a notice on September 16. The notice asked those using DG sets with a capacity of over 10kVa (kilo volt ampere) to get themselves registered under the provisions of the Jharkhand Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2011, and pay duty latest by September 30, failing which they could face penalty charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||NGT slams Jharkhand govt and JSPCB over report delay||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Jharkhand government and the state pollution control board for not submitting an action-taken report on the assessment of compensation for all constructions raised without environmental clearance even after a year of its order. An NGT eastern zonal bench headed by Justice B. Amit Sthalekhar, in its order on Tuesday, pulled up the government and the Jharkhand State Pollution Control (JSPCB) for their failure to submit action-taken reports within six months of its directive on September 9, 2020. “The state of Jharkhand and JSPCB were required to file their reports on the action taken in terms of the directions given by the Tribunal within six months from the date of the judgement but we are constrained to observe that even after more than one year, no such reports have been filed. Needless to say that the officer (s) concerned shall invite costs on himself for dereliction and disobedience of the direction given,” the order, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, states. “Reports be filed within four weeks after serving e-copy/soft copy of the same upon the learned counsel for the applicant as well as the learned counsel for other respondents at least one week before the next date fixed,” the order tells both the Jharkhand government and JSPCB. The matter has been listed for further hearing on October 21. An NGT bench headed by Justice S. P Wangdi in its verdict on September 9, 2020, on a petition by Delhi-based environmental activist R.K. Singh having roots in Jharkhand, had directed the state government to assess environmental compensation for all structures raised without obtaining environmental clearance and recover the cost from the project proponents within three months and also to immediately stop all ongoing construction without such clearance. The petitioner had alleged that various major constructions, particularly in capital Ranchi, industrial city Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Deoghar were done without obtaining mandatory environmental clearance. The Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, of the Union ministry of environment and forests stipulates that structures having more than 20,000sqm area need to possess environmental clearance. The order had also noted that the status report submitted by the Jharkhand government had revealed that as many as 35 major structures in the state (including the state’s biggest mall P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall and residential complex Vijaya Garden, both in Jamshedpur) had been constructed without obtaining environmental clearance. “The state government through the urban development department shall ensure that Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) is undertaken in respect of all the structures which have been raised in the municipal areas expeditiously in accordance with the procedure laid down in the EIA notification, 2006. Accordingly, environmental management plans be prepared and mitigation measures implemented to address the environmental issues arising on account of such constructions without EC. Similar action shall be taken in structures falling within notified nagar palika areas and gram panchayats (rural areas),” the bench had said in its September 2020 order. The bench had further said: “Environmental compensation shall be assessed for all such structures without EC and shall be recovered from individuals, builders, project proponents (as the case may be) within three months from hence. Compensation in respect of those which have already been assessed shall also be recovered within the same period. All ongoing constructions undertaken without EC shall be stopped forthwith until environmental clearance is obtained.” The bench had last year directed the JSPCB to initiate action under Section 19 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, against those who are responsible for the violations. “Since the violations were being committed under the gaze of the concerned authorities, we direct initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the concerned officers, the municipal commissioners and state pollution control board at the earliest,” the order had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers protest ration ‘fraud’ in Giridih  district of Jharkhand||Residents of a village in Giridih district of Jharkhand have alleged that their local ration dealer has been siphoning off food grains meant for beneficiaries of a central government scheme and selling it in the open market. Nearly 50 women from Dhundu village in Manjori panchayat under Bengabad block of Giridih, around 200km from Ranchi, staged a protest at the block development office on Monday accusing PDS (public distribution system) dealer G. Dev of distributing fewer food grains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana but forcing them to sign showing that they received the full quantity in the ration card register. “Most of the time it is our women who go to fetch rations carrying the ration cards. Though each member whose name is mentioned in the ration card is entitled to get 5kg of food grains every month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, we are given either 3kg or 2kg and are made to sign on the register showing that we received the full quantity on some pretext or the other. When we protest, the ration dealer threatens us,” said Manoj Goswami, a resident of Dhundu. Manoj claimed that he had received less than 10kg of food grains despite having names of three family members in the ration card which entitles him to 15kg according to the central government scheme. The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana was announced by the Narendra Modi government in March 2020 to ameliorate the distress caused by Covid-19. It was again started in May 2021 after the second wave of Covid and is being continued till November. In Jharkhand, each member of a family whose name figures in the ration card (except green card holders) are entitled to receive 3kg of rice and 2kg of wheat every month under the scheme. Another villager Ashok Sahu said that every month they have been receiving less than the stipulated quantity of food grains. “When we complain, the ration dealer threatens us and says that she has influence in the district headquarters and nobody can harm her. She forces villagers to sign on the ration register showing the proper amount but the food grains we receive is less than that entered in the register. This has been going on for nearly three months,” said Sahu. Manjori panchayat mukhiya Gauri Shankar also said that he had received complaints against the ration dealer. “I have received complaints from the villagers against the ration dealer. But the ration dealer has refused to change her ways,” said Shankar. Bengabad block development officer Qayyum Ansari also said that he had also received complaints from the villagers. “They staged a demonstration to protest against the ration dealer on Monday. I have asked the marketing officer-in-charge of the block to conduct a probe and submit a report so that action can be taken against the ration dealer,” said Ansari. Giridih district supply officer Gautam Kumar Bhagat assured of a probe. “It is a serious issue and I will personally look into the matter during the investigation,” said Bhagat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Jugsalai railway overbridge to be completed in December 2022 ||Jamshedpur: The much-waited Jugsalai Railway overbridge will not be completed before December 2022. Executive engineer, Rides Jamshedpur division, Ram Villash Sahu who is looking after the work of the Jugsalai ROB's approach road said they needed time upto December 2022 for completion of the work as the revised design of the approach road is yet to be approved by the departmental headquarters in Ranchi. "The revised design of the approach road will be approved in maximum a week time. As soon as the new design is approved we will started construction work and complete the work by December 31,2022," said Sahu to The Telegraph Online. Aimed at easing vehicular traffic movement between densely-populated Jugsalai-Bagbera localities and Bistupur, the Jugsalai ROB was planned as a better alternative than the existing level-crossing at Jugsalai. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: A B.Tech Mining Machinery student of IIT(ISM), Siddhanth Sharma, earned laurels for the institute, and country by winning 'Innovate 2030-Digital natives for a sustainable future-Challenge' a pan european innovation competition as part of a two-member team along with Sairaju Ponnoju, an M.Sc. Sustainable Production Development Student of KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sharma said,“Two teams qualified for the final held on September 8 this year during which our team, title Team Mission BSH finally emerged winner.” “We offered a solution for a problem given to our company about retrieving used articles by the company and we created a digital interface where customers as well as company can interact and return back of used and waste products can be ensured to producer,” said Sharma added that in developed countries you just can’t throw away the used articles and their are strict rules for retrieving the waste products. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
