24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: First direct train from Godda to Ranchi on September 29||Ranchi: Godda district in Jharkhand’s Santhal Parganas will get its first direct rail link on September 29 as the South Eastern Railways has announced a new special tri-weekly train to Ranchi from next week. SER officials on Friday dubbed the development as a Durga puja gift to residents of Godda for whom a direct rail connectivity to Ranchi remained a long pending dream. As per the notification from SER, train number 08604 (Ranchi – Godda) special train will commence from Ranchi on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. From Godda, it will run on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays, informed a statement issued from Ranchi railway division. From Ranchi, the train will depart at 3pm and arrive at Godda at 7:20am on the next day. From Godda it will start at 12:40pm and reach Ranchi at 5:45am the next day. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Altogether 1101 athletes of different age groups, from different parts of district took part in a host of events including 100 meter run, 300 meter run, 600 meter run, 1500 meter run, shot put, long jump and high jump during the inaugural day of the three-day 35 Dhanbad District Athletic Championship being held at IIT (ISM) lower ground. The event being held after a gap of around 2 years was organised by the Dhanbad District Athletic Association in accordance with the Covid norms in association with IIT (ISM) and BCCL Dhanbad. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: The anti-corruption wing of Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday filed a chargesheet against former Chairman and Managing director of BCCL, T.K. Lahiry and 16 other persons including  several other former officers of BCCL including  Ex Director Technical (project and planning) D.C. Jha in connection with an old purchase scam of two road header machines purchased between 2009 to 2016. The chargesheet submitted in the court of Special CBI judge, Rajnikant Pathak also named Indian representatives of a Chinese company, Jiamunshi Coal Mining Machinary Company Limited while exempted four others including, V.K. Sinha, A.K. Dutta, S.K. Sinha and Amitabh Saha who were earlier named in CBI FIR registered in 2017 in the same case. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: An unidentified woman has allegedly escaped with gold ornaments worth Rs 1.8 lakh from a cancer patient by impersonifying as a nurse at the Meherbai Tata Memorial Hospital in Bistupur. The police have on Friday registered a case of cheating and theft on the basis of an FIR lodged by Ajpal Singh, husband of the patient. Though the incident took place on Thursday afternoon, it came to the limelight after Singh who is a resident of DP Mukherjee Lane in Aasansol lodged the FIR on Friday morning. (Kumud Jenamani) Jamshedpur: The junior resident doctor, Amit Singh, who was critically injured after shooting himself at his house in Adityapur on Thursday morning, succumbed to his injury at the critical care unit (CCU) of the Tata Main Hospital. Posted at the MGM medical college hospital's medicine department, Amit, 30, had shot himself with the licensed pistol of his businessman brother Sandeep Singh at their house in S-Type residential colony of Adityapur in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district,about three kilometre away from the steel city. OC, Adityapur thana, Rajendra Kumar Mahto confirmed about the death of Amit Singh, but could not say anything about the reason behind such drastic step. "Amit Singh who was admitted at the CCU of the Tata Main Hospital on Thursday, died at the hospital this morning. We have shifted the body to the MGM medical college's mortuary for postmortem, " said Mahto while talking to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Trains to be disrupted on Sunday for work at Midnapore station||The installation of girders for the second foot overbridge at Midnapore station of South Eastern Railway's Kharagpur division will continue to affect train services on Sunday. A circular issued by Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway notified short termination of Gomoh-Kharagpur Special (08024) leaving Gomoh on September 26 will be short terminated at Salboni railway station. The Kharagpur-Gomoh Special (08023) will originate from Salboni railway station instead of Kharagpur. The Ranchi-Howrah Special (08628) leaving Ranchi on September 26 will run on a diverted route via Tatanagar instead of Adra. The Howrah-Ranchi Special (08627) leaving Howrah on September 26 will also run on a diverted route via Tatanagar instead of Adra. A spokesperson of South Eastern Railway said that the installation work of girders which will take over five hours would also affect running of several passenger trains between Howrah and Ranchi on Sunday. SER gets new AGM Atulya Sinha  took over the charge of  additional general manager (AGM) of South  Eastern  Railway on Thursday evening. Prior to taking over the charge of AGM of South Eastern Railway, Sinha was chief workshop engineer at Eastern Railway. Sinha, an Indian Railway Service of Mechanical Engineers (IRSME) of 1986 batch joined Indian Railways in the capacity of assistant mechanical engineer, South Central Railway in the year 1988. He is a fellow of Institution of Engineers (India) as well as Institution of Mechanical Engineers (UK). He has worked in various important capacities and has visited several countries - USA, Canada, Vietnam, France, China, Czech Republic and Italy on government assignments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Deoghar sets sights on GI tag for its famed 'peda'||As for the peda, the most favoured sweet offering for the gods, Mathura has stolen a march over other holy sites by getting its own GI tagged. Now, Deoghar, home to the Baba Baidyanath Dham, is eyeing a similar recognition which, the local administration hopes, will not just give its pedas global recognition but will also lead to a boom in the businesses of peda making. On Friday, Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said that he had asked all peda makers of the district to register themselves with the industries department by September 30. After that he would move a formal application with the appropriate authority for GI tagging the Deoghar peda. GI tag defines the region of origin of a particular food, agricultural or industrial product. It  is given under the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999. And it is provided by the Geographical Indications Registry headquartered in Chennai. Bhajantri said that he had held a couple of meetings with peda makers of the district to apprise them of the benefits of a GI tag. “We are also conducting awareness campaigns so that more and more traders get themselves registered,” he said, adding that after GI tag, Deoghar pedas can get a national and international clientele. Sellers, he said, can sell them round-the-year using online modes and  food aggregators. Mukhyamantri Laghu Evam Kutir Udyam Vikas Board, an arm of the state industries department which has been created exclusively to work for the upliftment and betterment of small and cottage industries, is also holding awareness sessions with peda makers to motivate them to register themselves with the district industries department. District coordinator Niraj Kumar said that so far, 10 peda makers had registered themselves. He was sure more would follow soon. “Deoghar and Ghumara in Deoghar district are the two places that are considered as the hub of peda makers. There are about 200 traders who have been in the  business for generations. We are trying to motivate maximum traders before moving a formal application to the GI certification agency,” he said. Kumar's said that once the registration window for local traders was closed, they would form a society. “Only those who are part of that society will be able to use the GI logo after the approval,” he said. The entire process of getting GI registration takes about two-three months after submission of an application. In Jharkhand, the traditional Sohrai-Khovar art form of  Hazaribagh was the first to receive a GI tag in May last year. This particular art form showcases the use of earth colours, mainly by adivasi women,  to decorate their homes. Over the years, it has also been used as wall paintings comprising lines, dots, animals and plants. Khovar depicts a nuptial chamber decorated to bless a newly married couple. In tribal culture, Sohrai is celebrated as a  festivals (cattle festival) which coincides with Diwali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Law college clerk held for lewd message to kin of JMM founder||Dhanbad police today arrested Manoj Singh a clerk of Dhanbad Law college  in connection with sending vulgar messages to Vinita Singh granddaughter in law of JMM founder and renowned social activist and educationist, Late Binod Bihari Mahto. The arrest was made this morning on the complaint of Vinita Singh, who also charged Kumar of threatening her with dire consequences. The incident took place merely a day after the death of Harsh Mahto, the nephew of Late Rajnish Mahto alias Bablu Mahto husband of  Vinita Singh who sustained injuries during the course of an accident in Tetulia area of Nirsa about a  week ago. Incidentally, the birth anniversary of  Late Binod Bihari Mahto was also celebrated yesterday. Vinita Singh who recently announced to donate 11 acres of land to district administration at Baliapur for development of Cricket Stadium in  Dhanbad   while talking to media this morning said that Manoj sent a vulgar message last night at around 9.30 pm  on her mobile phone after which they called on his mobile phone several times but he blocked their mobile phone and arrived this morning at their home to threaten her and her son of dire consequences. She further said when they took tough stand against him and threatened to lodge a complaint with the police he accepted that somebody else has sent the message from his mobile phone. Singh further said “Manoj has also been named in sending vulgar message to a girl student of Law college about four five months ago and he managed the case by offering Rs 5 lakh to vicitm.” “We are deeply hurt with the death of our family member Harsh Kumar Mahto and but the incident took place at the same time causing a lot of mental agony to our family members,” said Singh. “Some of our own family members including, Rajesh Mahto and Rahul Mahto, younger brothers of my husband, Lat Rajnish Mahto who are unnerved over my announcement to join politics and contest election for post of mayor are instigating people like Manoj to disturb us”  said Singh. Accused Manoj Singh meanwhile talking to media said, “Though the message has been sent last night from my mobile phone but it was not me who sent message instead somebody else demanded the message last night during the night when we were in the crematorium for the cremation  of Harsh who sought the mobile phone to be used as torch” He also denied threatening Vinita Singh and her son and said “ how anybody will threaten somebody coming alone at their house” said Manoj Singh. Effort to contact, Vinay Kumar Officer in charge of Dhanbad Sadar Police station failed as he didn't pick up the phone (9431706386)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city Durga Puja count 350, two new entrants ||Steel city of Jamshedpur will witness two new community pujas this year taking the total count to 350. Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS), the apex body which monitors pujas in steel city has granted permission for two new community pujas . "This year’s community puja count for Jamshedpur is 350. Two new pujas - one at Sonari and the other close to NH-33 near Vasundhara Estate at Mango have been added," said Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of JDPKS. According to Singh, the two new puja organisers have been asked to strictly follow the government guidelines Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti will hold a meeting next week for reviewing the puja preparations. The five-day Puja will be organised beginning Maha Sasthi on October 11. Those who follow Navratri will begin the rituals with 'kalash sthapna' on October 7. The government guidelines issued earlier this month has allowed the construction of Durga Puja pandals but the entry of devotees would be prohibited at pandals and inside pandals, a maximum of 25 persons (or 50 per cent of capacity) would be allowed at one point of time. Fairs, welcome gates, illumination with fancy lights, cultural programs, distribution of bhog and theme-based pandals have been strictly prohibited. There will be no immersion procession on October 15 (Maha Dashami). Dhakis have been permitted but restrictions have been imposed on idols of Durga which should not be beyond 5 feet. There will be no food stalls around the Durga Puja pandals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Two weather systems brewing, expect the east to be swamped next week ||Eastern India, primarily Bengal, Odisha and the Bihar-Jharkhand belt, is expected to experience a vigourous monsoon in the next couple of days with the Met office pointing to two back-to-back low pressure systems brewing in the Bay of Bengal. Weather officials said on Friday that the monsoon was likely to remain active till early October. Of the two systems, one will start impacting Bhubaneswar and other places in Odisha from Sunday (September 26), while the other is expected to follow two-three days later and trigger rainfall across cities and towns of Jharkhand and Bengal like Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Calcutta. This system is also likely to impact the weather of Bihar as it moves northwards. "Today's (Friday's) air-chart analysis and other weather models suggest that under the influence of a cyclonic circulation, a low-pressure area has formed over east central Bay of Bengal which is likely to move north-west  towards the Odisha coast during the next 48 hours. This will impact the weather of Odisha, Bengal and Jharkhand," said anIMD official in New Delhi. Officials at IMD's Ranchi Met Centre said the back-to-back weather systems would prolong monsoon's stay in the eastern region states of Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha and Bihar. Weather officials at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said the normal date for the monsson to start retreating (from west Rajasthan) was September 17 with the season ending on September 30. "But the prevailing situation suggests that this year’s monsoon withdrawal is likely to be delayed by more than two weeks," said an official at the Calcutta Met Centre. He went on to add that the two back-to-back systems were expected to bring more rain to the central and eastern regions, delaying the retreat of the monsoon. Met statistics revealed that if the two low-pressure circulations hit the mainland as forecast, September would have had five such systems, the highest for any monsoon month this year. July saw four low-pressure systems bringing rain from the Bay of Bengal, while June and August experienced two such systems each. Satellite pictures suggested that the monsoon trough at mean sea level was passing through Daltonganj, Jamshedpur (Jharkhand) and Digha (Bengal) on Friday and was extending till East Central Bay of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren re-launches Sona Sobran Dhoti Saree Lungi Scheme||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday re-launched an old government scheme named after his grandfather Sona Sobran to provide dhotis, saris and lungis at Rs 10 to poor families in the state. The scheme was launched in 2014 when Soren was the chief minister for a brief tenure but was discontinued by the Raghubar Das-led BJP government in 2015. “The scheme has been named Sona Sobran Dhoti Saree Lungi Scheme and will cover nearly 58 lakh below poverty line ration card holder beneficiaries across Jharkhand. The government has sanctioned Rs 500 crore for this scheme. Beneficiaries will receive dhoti, saris and lungis twice a year for Rs 10 from ration shops along with food grains,” Soren told the gathering at the function in Dumka after laying foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 230 crore and inaugurated 18 projects worth over Rs 37.92 crore. Soren stressed that after managing to curb Covid cases, the government is now going full throttle on initiating development schemes. “For over a year the entire world has been battling the Covid pandemic and a state like Jharkhand with limited resources has managed to cope with the crisis through better management and cooperation of masses. However, we need to be cautious as we continue the unlock process and march towards normalising life. The government will go all out to initiate development schemes and create job opportunities and fulfil the promises made to the masses. We have made our intention clear by conducting the Jharkhand Public Service Commission exams recently, which was held after a span of more than five years, and will open gates of employment. We would also like youths to seek employment in other sectors too like animal husbandry, pisciculture and poultry,” he said. He announced that the government will soon open English-medium schools of excellence in all the districts which will be functional from next academic session along with Hindi schools and also promote sports infrastructure at the block level to nurture and promote sporting talent. Soren also encouraged tribal and Scheduled Caste entrepreneurs to set up industries. “We have launched the new industrial policy with a slew of incentives for tribal and Scheduled Caste industrialists and would like them to avail benefits,” said Soren. The chief minister also advised officials to arrange an awareness campaign about government welfare schemes at the village level so that people can avail their benefits. Earlier, finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who also holds the portfolio of public food supplies, said that the financial condition was not good due to the central government’s step-motherly treatment by deducting pending dues of the Damodar Valley Corporation from Jharkhand’s account but not making any efforts to clear the pending amount owed by public sector units to the state government. “Despite such constraints, we are committed to fulfil our poll promises and the initiation of this scheme is a part of this effort,” said Oraon. The function was also attended by JMM supremo and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
24-09-2021||Jharkhand||Envoy Nick Low praises Ranchi UK grant for tribal students||British deputy high commissioner Nick Low on Thursday praised the initiative of the Jharkhand government to provide scholarship to tribal students for higher studies in the UK. In a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren, Low congratulated him for successfully rolling out the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Overseas Scholarship Scheme and helping students from tribal communities go abroad to pursue higher studies and expressed sadness for not being able to attend the felicitation. “I have the honour to write this letter with both joy and sadness in my heart. Joy because I am truly delighted to convey my heartiest thanks and congratulations to the government of Jharkhand for launching the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Overseas Scholarship Scheme for students belonging to tribal communities to pursue higher education in the United Kingdom. Sadness because I am unable to rearrange my programme to join you for this afternoon’s event,” the letter states. Praising the state government’s visionary initiative for supporting marginal communities, Low said: “In the direction of bridging the inequalities of access in higher studies, I sincerely congratulate you for steering this visionary initiative to bridge the inequalities of access to higher education faced by marginal communities in India. “Your leadership and the efforts of the state government of Jharkhand to drive this knowledge partnership between Jharkhand and the United Kingdom deserve the highest praise. The legacy of Jaipal Singh Munda, who started his Oxford BA programme a century ago will, I believe, now be taken forward both through this batch of scholars and subsequent beneficiaries.” Welcoming the first batch of students to the UK universities, Low said: “It gives me immense pleasure also to welcome the inaugural cohort of six scholars selected to follow masters programmes in prestigious universities across the United Kingdom.” On Thursday, the chief minister and tribal welfare minister Champai Soren felicitated the students selected for the scholarship and their parents at a programme in Ranchi. The scholarship scheme has been rolled out for Scheduled Tribe students to pursue higher studies in universities across the UK. The awardees are entitled to a complete cover of tuition fees along with living and other miscellaneous expenses. Under this scheme, 10 ST students will be selected every year in Jharkhand. Addressing the students, Soren said that a budget provision of Rs 10 crore has been made for higher education abroad. He urged the department to adjust the budgeted amount left in the next financial year so that more and more students can get the opportunity of quality education abroad. He also announced that efforts are on to increase the number of students to be selected for the scholarship in future. The chief minister said since this scheme is giving opportunities to the students of tribal communities for higher education abroad, the government will also consider in the near future about giving a similar chance to children from other communities as well. Among the selected students, Hercules Singh Munda is going to pursue an MA at the University of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies, while Ajitesh Murmu is going to study for an MA in Architecture at the University College of London. Akanksha Mary Balmuchu has been selected for an MSc in climate change science and management at the Loughborough University, while Dinesh Bhagat will pursue an MSc in climate change, development and policy at the University of Sussex. Apart from this, Anjana Pratima Dungdung has been selected for an MSc at the University of Warwick and Priya Murmu will pursue an MA in creative writing and the writing industries at the Loughborough University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
