25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal languages at centre of Jharkhand's new teaching model||The school education and literacy department in Jharkhand has identified 5,600-odd government-run primary schools to introduce a new model of teaching by imparting lessons in local and tribal languages to students of class 1 to class 5 from the next academic session, officials from the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Saturday. Only those schools where a sizable number of students have tribal languages as their first language have been earmarked for the project, which is aimed at strengthening the foundation of such students, JEPC officials said. Abhinav Kumar, the state coordinator for quality education, said that Jharkhand has already introduced textbooks in tribal languages for such students and the new model of education will ensure effective utilization of these books. Once the students understand the basics in the language they are more comfortable in, the medium of education will gradually be changed to Hindi, he added. “We have books in Santhali, Mundari, Ho and Kuduk. The new model of educating a select group of students in tribal languages will help develop the interest of students in studies and make them understand their subjects better,” said Kumar. Class 1 students, an official from JEPC said, would be taught the entire syllabus in the local language so that they understand the subjects. However, in class 2, only 60% of the syllabus would be covered in the local language and remaining 40% in English or Hindi, he added. As per records with the education department, there are about 40,000 government schools with over 5 lakhs students in Jharkhand. While most of these schools impart lessons in Hindi, students in some tribal-dominated parts of the state were found to be more comfortable communicating in tribal languages. As per the 2011 Census, the tribal community formed at least 26.3 per cent of Jharkhand’s total population of 3.29 crore. Under the new model of education, the tribal language most commonly used in a particular area will be used as the medium of education in schools that fall under that area, officials said. For instance, Santhali language is commonly used in the Santhal Pargana region of Jharkhand, while Mundari is commonly spoken in Kolhan, which includes West Singhbhum and East Singhbhum districts. “When a child usually communicates in a tribal language at home, he or she will find it difficult to understand lessons taught in Hindi at school. This new model will not only make the lessons clearer for the students but also keep them interested in studies,” said Kumar. The school dropout rate was also high in some of the tribal dominated areas of the state and the lack of interest in studies due to poor understanding of subjects could be one of the reasons for students dropping out of school after primary education, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia boy comes fourth in UPSC, Dhanbad girl ninth  ||Yash Jaluka (26), a one-time resident of Jharia, came fourth in the  Civil Services examination of UPSC,  results of which were declared on Friday evening. Yash, son of  Manoj Jaluka who has an iron and steel business in Odisha, studied at  De Nobili School, Digwadih in Jharia till Class VIII. After that he went to Odisha and completed his Class X from Xavier’s School. He then did his BCom from Kirodimal College in Delhi and started preparing for the civil services examination which he cleared this year with flying colours. Ankur Jaluka, Jharia based elder cousin of Yash Jaluka who lived together at a house at Poddar Para locality, said, “My brother was  interested in  the civil services examination since his school days and he used to take a lot of interest in general studies.” Ankur, who owns a grocery shop at Lakshminia More of Jharia, added that everyone in the family was naturally thrilled. "Our family and the  entire town of Jharia is happy about the  achievement of my cousin,” he said. Dr Apala Mishra, another student of Dhanbad based parents Colonel (retd) Amitabh Mishra father and Alpana Mishra, secured 9th all-India rank in the civil services examinations. Lal Mohan Mishra, Apala's grandmother, said,  “My granddaughter completed high school from Ann Mary School in Dehradun after which she cleared Class XII from DPS- Rohini in Delhi and then completed BDS  from Army College of Dental Sciences, Hyderabad."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals from nine states seek Sarna code in 2021 census||Tribal representatives from nine states are gearing up for a mass agitation to press for a separate Sarna religious code in the 2021 census if the Centre does not accept their demand. The representatives will meet at the Gandhi Peace Foundation in New Delhi on October 3 and seek an appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah and the registrar general of India. “The tribal representatives from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bengal and Assam will meet at Gandhi Peace Foundation and draft a memorandum to press for a separate religious code for the tribals in the 2021 census. We will seek an appointment to place our demands with the Union home minister, registrar general of India and heads of various political parties. If the government stand is not favourable, we will have no option but to start an agitation,” said Prem Sahi Munda, national general secretary of the All India Bharatiya Adivasi Dharma Parishad. Another set of tribal leaders under the banner of the Rashtriya Adivasi Samaj Sarna Dharma Raksha Abhiyan have threatened an economic blockade in tribal-dominated states on the same issue. “In terms of population, followers of Sarna are next to Hindus and Muslims but still now we do not have a separate religious code,” said Karma Oraon, former head of the social science department in Ranchi University. The Jharkhand Assembly had in November last year unanimously passed a resolution for a Sarna Adivasi religious code in the 2021 census in a special one-day session and sent it to the Union government. The tribal groups of Jharkhand had earlier this year threatened to boycott the 2021 census if Sarna code was not included in it. They said that with the Centre dropping the “others” option from the religion column for 2021 census, Sarna adherents would be forced to either skip the column or declare themselves members of one of the six specified religions — Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh — which would damage their separate identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Cyber security aid for MSMEs by US consulate general and NGO||The US consulate general and Consumer Unity and Trust Society (CUTS) International, an NGO, have partnered to help micro, medium and small businesses combat cyber threats in Jharkhand and other parts of eastern India. In this regard, the US consulate and CUTS International in collaboration with the MSME Development Institute, Ranchi, and the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Patna, organised a daylong workshop in Ranchi on Thursday for micro, medium and small enterprises to equip them with knowledge and hands-on training on how to identify and combat cyber security threats and become more cyber-resilient. Arnab Ganguly, policy analyst, CUTS International, told the participants that the adoption of digital technologies has accelerated due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and many MSMEs went online without the required understanding and safeguards to combat cyber attacks, rendering them vulnerable. “Given that MSMEs contribute roughly 30 per cent of India’s GDP, it is imperative to equip them with the knowledge and tools to become resilient to cyber security breaches and grow their businesses sustainably. We are happy to facilitate the MSME units in Jharkhand in combating cyber threats through experts from C-DAC. Any entrepreneur from Jharkhand can approach us at www.cuts-crs.org and we would facilitate interaction with experts from C-DAC,” said Ganguly. He further said that they would be downloading documents on cyber security for the benefit of MSME units of Jharkhand and other areas on their website for the entrepreneurs. According to the US consulate spokesperson, with growing digitalisation globally, more and more businesses are gradually shifting to digital platforms for doing business. There has been a concomitant rise in cyber crimes. Cyber attacks through malware, phishing, ransomware, etc, have become commonplace. According to a survey by Internet security firm Kaspersky (released in 2020), about 48 per cent of MSMEs faced data breaches owing to a lack of understanding of threats and the importance of cyber security. Adrian Pratt, the new director of the American Center, Calcutta, in a media statement said: “The US Consulate, Calcutta, is happy to partner with CUTS International think tank on this key project titled ‘Cyber Safe East India’ to organise a series of workshops on cyber safety for e-businesses. This project will help the region to cope with the growing threat of cyber-crimes for e-businesses since many companies have moved online during the pandemic.” Union MSME ministry director S.K. Sahoo said that while the Covid-19 pandemic has created considerable challenges for MSMEs, it has also created an opportunity for the MSMEs to expand their business via online platforms. “However, cyber security remains an area of serious concern for the MSMEs. The vulnerabilities of MSMEs stems from several factors, such as lack of understanding of cyber security risks, less prioritisation for cyber safety, limited capital allocation to cyber security, etc. It is important to bridge these gaps by imparting the required skills and knowledge on how to react when faced with cyber security breaches,” said Sahoo. Aditya Sinha, director and centre head, C-DAC Patna, said that there has been a drastic increase in cyber crimes due to limited awareness and cyber hygiene. “The risk of SMEs increases manifold seeing their cyberspace vulnerability. C-DAC Patna aims to operate as a national resource centre to address pressing cyber security issues, accelerate the creation, deployment and use of secure, standard-based technologies and solutions,” said Sinha. He said that C-DAC, Patna, has established a Cyber Security and Forensics Resource Centre to address the issues pertaining to cyber threats. Around 40 representatives from various MSME units in Ranchi participated in the workshop. As the next step, similar capacity building workshops will be organised in Guwahati during October. After the workshops, a compendium of cyber security best practices will be released to help MSMEs safely navigate cyberspace and mitigate cyber risks. A similar workshop was held in Patna (Bihar) last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||IRCTC  to run pilgrim special tourist train from Ranchi to Vaishnodevi||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will run a pilgrim special tourist train from Ranchi to Vaishnodevi and other pilgrimages in north India next month. “This will help reduce the negativity that has gripped people during the pandemic,” said Zubraj Minz, IRCTC area manager in Ranchi. However, it seems more like an attempt to revive railway tourism in the state as the IRCTC announced this special train immediately after it had to cancel a south-bound Bharat Yatra train from the region that was scheduled to leave this month. “We got very good response for that train but it was withdrawn in August in view of the sudden increase in Covid infections in some parts in the south,” senior supervisor Jyoti Kumari said. The special train will leave Ranchi on the morning of December 12 and will return on the evening of December 20, after completing a nine-day, eight-night journey, the officials said. The passengers will be able to visit Mathura, Vrindavan, Ram Janmabhoomi Temple and Hardwar, besides Vaishnodevi, during the trip. Unlike Bharat Yatra trains that have only non-AC coaches, this pilgrim special train will have five each AC and non-AC compartments, they said. The fare per person, including charges for food, for AC and non-AC coaches would be Rs 14,175 and Rs 8,505 respectively. Those buying non-AC tickets will have to travel in sleeper coaches, stay at Dharamshala and avail non-AC buses during sightseeing, while the AC ticket holders will avail AC3 coaches, hotel accommodation and air-conditioned buses, the officials said. Besides the official website of IRCTC, passengers can book tickets or board the train at Ranchi, Bokaro Steel City, Dhanbad, Asansol, Chittaranjan, Jamtara, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul, Mokama, Bakhtiyarpur, Patna, Ara, Buxer and Mughalsarai stations. The IRCTC advised passengers to carry Covid-19 vaccination certificates that would be a must for visiting temples. It also assured that the coaches, pantry cars, dormitories and rooms would be sanitised and doors, seats and berths disinfected at regular intervals, besides providing sanitiser, masks, gloves and face shields to all passengers. Any passenger who may have to cancel journey due to Covid-19 infection would get full refunds, the IRCTC further assured, adding that they would also keep two coaches aside where tourists, if infected during their journey, would be quarantined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
