26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Olympic Association president re-elected||Syed Matloob Hashmi has been re-elected as president while Ranjeet Keshri was re-elected as General Secretary for a period of four years of Dhanbad District Olympic Association after the elections and Annual General Meeting held on Sunday. The event was held at The Reet of Dhanbad during which three new district sports associations including, hockey association, Table Tennis and Fencing Associations were also granted affiliation. Hashmi who is also the former general secretary of Jharkhand Olympic Association secured 36 votes out of 52 polled on Sunday defeated B.C. Thakur who secured 16 votes while Ranjeet Keshri also secured the same number of 36 votes against his opponent Asit Sahay who was polled 16 votes. Elections were held through ballot on altogether 21 posts including one each of president, general secretary and treasurer; six posts of vice president; four posts of joint secretary; three posts each of senior Vice President and executive member and two posts of additional secretary. Talking to Telegraph Online, Hashmi who is also the acting president of Jharkhand Olympic Association said, “Our priority during the next tenure is to reach to the remotest corner of the district to  bring out sporting talents with the help of our over 30 affiliated associations, including three which were granted affiliation today.” “We will be also concentrating on organizing the district Olympic Games regularly in order to provide a platform to talented players to showcase their talents and also to create a sporting environment in the district,” said Hashmi. “We organised a series of events during the first 2 ½ years of last tenure of DDOA but due to Covid constraints there was some break in series of events which will again resume under the new committee very soon,” said Ranjit Keshri. “In order to reach remote rural areas of the district we will try to hold the sports events in these areas,” said Keshri and added that the elections were held peacefully under the observation of Bipin Kumar Singh of Jharkhand Olympic Association. Meanwhile on three post of Vice President, Md Zubair Alam, Pramod Kumar Kapoor and Reza Ishtiyaz were elected while on six spots of Vice president, Madan Kumar Roy, Anupam Mahata, Santosh Kumar Singh, Kiran Rani Nayak, Kallol Samanta and Sunil Kumar Pattnaik were elected. Pawan Kumar Burnwal was elected as Treasure of DDOA while Suraj Prakash Lal and Manoj Kumar Sharma were elected as two additional secretaries. On the three posts of executive members Kusum Mahto, Ranjeet Kumar Yadav and Shiv Kumar Mahto were elected while on the four posts of joint secretaries Pratush Kumar Rao, Pappu Kumar, Syed Wasim Hashmi and Pankaj Kumar were elected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Gulab to bring rain to Jharkhand||The India Meteorological Department on Sunday afternoon issued an alert of rain in several parts of Jharkhand due to the impact of cyclonic storm Gulab which originated from the Bay of Bengal and is expected to make a landfall between Odisha and Andhra Pradesh coasts around midnight. The cyclonic storm which lay centred about 160km east of Kalingapatnam (Andhra Pradesh) and 125km southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) this afternoon will begin its landfall process late in the evening, said India Meteorological Department in its latest bulletin. An alert of heavy rain has been sounded in both neighbouring Odisha and Andhra Pradesh due to the cyclone's landfall while moderate rain forecasts have been issued for Jharkhand and Bengal. Several districts in southern and central Jharkhand were expected to experience moderate rain during the next 24 hours, said weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of thunder and lightning accompanied by rain during the next 24 hours. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was passing through Jharsuguda in Odisha and was stretched till West Central Bay of Bengal. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said an alert of heavy rain was also issued in Jharkhand on September 29 and 30 due to formation of another low pressure system over the Bay of Bengal. "A cyclonic circulation is building up over east central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence a low pressure area is going to form over the Bay of Bengal and reach coastal areas of West Bengal around September 29. This will result in heavy showers in Jharkhand and Bengal around mid-week," said Anand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Charging states for deployment of central forces illogical, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren has raised objections to the Centre charging states for deployment of central forces for anti-Naxalite operations, noting that the problem of left wing extremism could not be considered to be only a state problem. Speaking at a meeting on left wing extremism and issues of security convened by Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Sunday, the Jharkhand chief minister demanded that all such bills be halted with immediate effect. “I am told that the Union home ministry has so far sent bills to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore to Jharkhand for deploying central security forces to fight extremists. It doesn’t seem pragmatic and logical because the problem of left wing extremism is as much a challenge for the Centre as it is for any state. In such a situation, the need of the hour is to uphold the principle of cooperative federalism. It is my humble request that these bills be written off, and not sent to states in future," he said. Hemant also expressed concern over reduction in special central assistance (SCA) funds to LWE districts of Jharkhand. “The government of India has recently cut down SCA funds to the state by reclassifying only 8 districts as most LWE affected against the earlier count of 16. Such sudden discontinuation of schemes may be an opportunity for LWE organizations to resurge,” he said. He called for extension of such assistance for at least another five years. Outlining the current scenario in Jharkhand, Hemant said that because of the joint effort of the state and central governments, hardcore extremists were only limited to four regions, namely, Parasnath Pahar, Budha Pahar, tri-junction of Seraikela-Khunti-Chaibasa in Kolhan and a few areas along the Bihar border. He appealed to his counterpart from Chhattisgarh, seeking his cooperation in holding joint operations to flush out Naxalites from border areas. “Large parts of Burha Pahar are in Chhattisgarh. So far, no major operation has been conducted against Naxalites in this region. This can be possible only with the help and support of Chhattisgarh," he said. Hemant said incidents of Naxalite violence and casualties had come down. “In 2016, 196 naxal incidents were reported. But in 2020, the number was only 126. Similarly, against 61 civilian casualties in 2016, there qwere only 28 in 2020. A total of 85 police weapons, 13,432 rounds of bullets, 515 IEDs and 1,052 kg explosives were recovered from the beginning of 2020 till August 2021. This apart, we arrested 715 militants, including the most wanted ones , and killed 18 extremists,” he said. “From 2020 till August 2021, 27 dreaded extremists have surrendered,” he noted. Hemant said the Jharkhand government was planning to start the SAHAY scheme (Sports Action Toward Harnessing Aspiration of Youth) soon for LWE affected districts. “Under this scheme, youth and other people residing in these areas will be connected through various sporting activities to ensure  holistic development.” He also put forth a set of other demands, like a speedy approval for road project  proposals for 1843km in LWE areas to improve connectivity under various schemes. “This apart, 782 mobile towers were constructed in the state by the Government of India. The proposal to upgrade these towers from 2G to 4G and to install mobile towers at 1,052 new places is still pending approval,” he said. He also asked for hikes in MGNREGA wages and various pensions under social security schemes to improve the standard of living iof those living in LWE affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Trains cancelled, diverted for cyclone Gulab ||The Visakhapatnam-Tatanagar Special (08572) leaving Visakhapatnam on Sunday evening will remain cancelled as a precautionary measure in view of cyclonic storm Gulab, which is expected to make landfall in the Odisha coast around midnight. The Rourkela-Gunupur Special (08127) train was also cancelled on Sunday. The Gunupur-Rourkela Special (08128) will also remain cancelled on Monday. Several trains were diverted and rescheduled. Several trains will run on a diverted route via Kharagpur-Tatanagar-Jharsuguda and Bilaspur. The trains include Agartala-Bengaluru Cantt Special which left Agartala on Saturday night, and the Howrah-Secunderabad Special which left Howrah on Sunday morning. The Tatanagar-Ernakulam Special (08189) which left Tatanagar this morning will run on a diverted route via Jharsuguda-Bilaspur and Balharshah. Several trains including Howrah-Yesvantpur Special have been rescheduled to leave Howrah tomorrow instead of Sunday night. A South Eastern Railway spokesperson said that they might notify more changes in train services depending on the situation. "We have asked station authorities in our jurisdiction in Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha to be alert in view of the cyclone," said the spokesperson. Met department inputs suggest that the landfall process of cyclone Gulab will begin on Sunday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant leads all-party team to Shah, seeks caste census ||Chief minister Hemant Soren, leading an 11-member delegation of all parties including the Opposition, met Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday and handed over  a memorandum seeking caste based census in the upcoming nationwide population census. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Hemant said the Centre must take into consideration the growing demands from many quarters on this subject. “Caste based census is the need of the hour to be able to get a proper picture of the population index in the country so that one can frame plans and policies accordingly for overall development of the country,” he said. The Centre has, however, clarified it's opposition to the move in the form of an affidavit in Supreme Court. It said  it would not  include a headcount of other backward caste (OBCs) in the upcoming census. Among those present in the delegation were  BJP’s Prakash, state Congress president Rajesh Thakur and Congress legislature party leader Alamgir Alam, Ajsu-P chief Sudesh Mahto, RJD leader Satyanand Bhokta, CPI (ML) leader Vinod Singh, CPI leader  Bhuvneshwar Prasad Mehata, CPM leader Suresh Munda, Marxxist Community Centre leader  Arup Chatterjee and NCP's  Kamlesh Singh (NCP). In the three- page memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hemant noted that the last census on caste lines was done in 1931 on the basis of which reservation to backward class was recommended by the Mandal Commission. But no caste census was conducted after Independence which has led to several anomalies while implementing  developmental schemes and policies for the socially and economic backward class. “In such a scenario, if we don’t conduct caste based census this time, then we will not be able to get the real picture of people of these  communities,” he said. Hemant also cited Article 340 of the Indian Constitution which allows for the formation of a commission exclusively for surveying  economically and socially weaker sections of society. “By conducting caste based census, we will be able to ensure compliance of this provision enshrined in the Constitution,” read the memorandum signed by all the visiting members. Later, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon issued a statement saying the state government must now plan to conduct  its own OBC census in case the Centre continued to shy away from its responsibilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Hazaribagh business man murders wife, dumps body in Bihar’s Aurangabad||Hazaribagh: Sanjeev Singh, a well-known businessman from the city, mercilessly murdered his wife Puja Singh and dumped her dead body in a forest in Bihar’s Aurangabad district. Sanjeev's parents were not convinced with the sudden disappearance of their daughter-in-law Puja, and were seen enquiring about her. Finally, on Sunday morning, Sanjeev admitted having murdered his wife Puja with whom his relationship had soured in the recent months. According to him, he killed his wife two days back in Aurangabad. Following his confession, the businessman’s parents informed the superintendent of police Manoj Ratan Chouthe and made him surrender. A team of police officers then travelled to the spot in Aurangabad with Sanjeev, from where the body was recovered. An FIR lodged against him. Vishvendu Jaipuria Jamshedpur: A 28-year-old youth was killed on the spot as the bike he was riding was hit from behind by an unknown vehicle near Baug-e-Jamsheed school on Straight Mile Road on Sunday morning. The victim, later identified as Akaash Jwala was coming from the Northern Town end towards Sakchi at about 9 am when the mishap took place. The victim sustained grievous skull injuries as his head hit the road. A police party had, however, rescued the victim and rushed him to Tata Main Hospital, where the doctors on emergency duty declared him as brought dead. A resident of Devnagar in Sidhgora locality of the city, the victim was returning home somewhere from Bistupur when the mishap took place. He was without a helmet. OC, Bistupur thana, Vishnu Raut said, “We haven’t been able to ascertain the exact details of the accident. We are trying to collect CCTV footage so that the unknown vehicle responsible for the fatal mishap can be traced.” The OC further stated that as the Sonari-Sakchi road which passes through Jubilee Park continues to be closed in view of Covid-19 pandemic, all the vehicle-riders have to pass through the Straight Mile Road, thereby making the road both congested and mishap-prone. “As several vehicle-riders have to detour through the Straight Mile Road, the road through the Jubilee Park being closed, they tend to ride faster and recklessly, thus causing the mishaps,” said the OC. Significantly, a huge amount of blood had drained out from the victim's head during about 15 minutes that he lay on the road before being rescued by the police. Kumud Jenamani||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Three of a family hacked to death in Gumla on witchcraft allegations, 2 relatives held||Three members of a family were hacked to death in Loto village under Sadar police station in Gumla district, around 100 km from capital Ranchi late on Saturday night on suspicion of witchcraft. They were farmers by profession. Confirming the incident, Gumla police on Sunday said that two relatives of the deceased family have been held and further investigation into the case is underway. The deceased were identified as Bandhan Oraon, who was in his late 50s, his wife Samri Devi, and their daughter-in-law Basmati Devi. Basmati’s husband works as a labourer in Chennai while her two minor kids, who were sleeping during the incident are safe, said police. The incident occurred around 9 pm, said police adding that two persons—Bipta Oraon and Julu Oraon—nephews of the elderly couple—were held within hours. Gumla SDPO Manish Chandra Lal said that they have also recovered the murder weapon from their possession. “Prima facie, the incident seems to be related with witchcraft but we are also probing from all angles. The elderly couple after returning from the market were about to have their dinner when few people came to their house and launched an attack on them. First the elderly couple was hacked to death with a sharp edged tangi (traditional weapon) after which Basmati was killed fearing she would identify the culprits,” he said, adding that the names of Bipta and Julu surfaced during the initial probe after which police promptly nabbed them. Local sources claimed that Samri used to practice traditional healing (jhad-phuk) and many villagers often visited her for curing of the ailments. “Bipta and Julu were opposed to it. They also had a tiff with the family recently,” said a village man. Murders related to black magic or witchcraft continue to remain one of the biggest social ills in Jharkhand, mainly in tribal-dominated districts. In Gumla alone, at least over a dozen people were killed due to this in the last year. In February this year, five members of a family were killed in the Kamdara block in Gumla by an angry mob over suspicion of the deceased practicing black magic. Again in August, a 60-year-old Asur woman belong to a primitive tribes group was murdered in Bijapath village under the Chainpur police station area. In December last year, a woman was killed on the same charges in Koenara village under Sadar police station of this district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Fare hike protest disrupts service on Howrah-Mumbai line ||An agitation by local residents at Gidhni railway station, about 90 km away from Tatanagar, against recent fare hike in the daily Jhargram-Dhanbad Passenger train disrupted train services on the Howrah- Mumbai main line for over three hours on Saturday. The agitators also demanded introduction of more trains between the two destinations - Jhargram and Dhanbad and improvement in passenger amenities at Gidhni station. Over 100 people gathered at the Gidhni railway station and started the agitation at 7am by squatting on the tracks. According to railway sources, the protesters started gathering at Gidhni  station early morning to participate in the agitation. Several trains had to be detained. The Tatanagar- Howrah Steel Superfast Express was detained at Chakulia railway station while the Howrah- Titlagarh Ispat Superfast Express and Barbil- bound Jan Shatabdi Express were detained for over one hour at Kharagpur and Jhargram railway stations. The Steel Superfast Express had left Tatanagar railway station at its scheduled time at 6.10 am but got stuck-up at Chakulia for over two hours. Several Mumbai bound trains from Howrah were also detained mid-way due to the agitation. Railway police including Railway Protection Force  (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) were deployed at the spot of agitation to prevent any untoward incident. The agitation was lifted at around 10.30 am following assurance by railway authorities of Kharagpur division of South Eastern Railway , who had come to the spot. Tatanagar railway station director H K Balmuchu confirmed the withdrawal of the agitation at around 10.30 am. "The agitation was withdrawn at around 10.30 am following which train traffic on the  Howrah- Mumbai main line via Tatanagar became normal, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata foundation completes twin treks in Leh||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation has successfully completed two mountaineering and trekking expeditions organised recently for outdoor enthusiasts in the Leh region. The participants had the opportunity to step out of their comfort zone, test the limits, collaborate, reach the challenging summits and explore the pristine nature in Leh region while testing their stamina and endurance during the Twin Peak Challenge (maximum altitude 20,571 ft) and the Sham Valley Trek (12,713 ft), which was led by legendary climber Bachendri Pal. The team faced bad weather, strong winds, challenges of high altitude, snow conditions on the way to Twin Peak Challenge, said a TSAF official. The premier adventure outfit had kept limited slots and small batch size to ensure all safety protocols were followed and minimise Covid risk. The goal of the Twin Peak Challenge Expedition was to climb two peaks -- Kang Yatze II (20,571 ft) and Dzo Jongo (20,472 ft) in Leh region. This expedition was open for all and consisted of Tata Steel employees and individuals from the community. The team travelled to Leh and then proceeded by road to Chilling which was the starting point of the trek. The team was led by experienced and certified TSAF instructors Asmita Dorjee, Dharmendra Singh, Rathu Mahato and Everester Sushanto Mahato. The expedition lasted for 15 days, a total of 8 participants along with 4 TSAF instructors made it a team of 12 out of which 7 participants  were able to summit the first peak (Kang Yatze II) and 10 of them were able to summit the second peak (Dzo Jongo). Arun Pratap Singh, Anurag Maloo, Vishal Kullu, Pankaj Kumar Sharma, Rahul Raj Singh climbed the Kang Yatze II peak. Arun Pratap Singh, Anurag Maloo, Vishal Kullu, Alok Kumar, Niti Gupta, Pallavi Mariyam climbed Dzo Jongo. All TSAF instructors and 3 members climbed both the summit in a twin peak expedition. This was the first of a kind expedition organized by TSAF. Sham Valley trek was organised for the beginners. The 13-member team was led by Bachendri Pal along with TSAF instructors N S Panwar, Mohan Rawat, Poonam Rana (Everester), and Randeb. Maximum altitude reached during the trek was 12,850 ft. Team had great experiences, especially the inspirational stories from Pal and other TSAF team members. TSAF will continue to organise similar mountaineering expeditions for beginners, medium and advanced category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases rise for 2nd day in a row in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Saturday reported a spike in active cases of Covid-19 as fresh instances  of SARS-CoV-2 infection outnumbered recoveries for the second day in a row, taking the active caseload to above 80, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 15 fresh Covid cases against only five recoveries took the active caseload to 82 in Jharkhand on Saturday, while Ranchi also witnessed a spike in the active caseload as it reported at least nine fresh cases against three Covid recoveries. Jamtara reported three fresh Covid cases, while Khunti, Hazaribagh and East Singhbhum reported one case each, the NHM bulletin stated. As per NHM data, at least 11 of 24 districts did not have active cases of Covid-19, while Ranchi accounted for half of the active cases in Jharkhand. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 49,041 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per government data, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated close to 1.30 lakh residents against Covid-19. As many as 78,291 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on Saturday, while at least 50,927 beneficiaries received the booster dose of vaccine. Ranchi vaccinated close to 20,000 residents on Saturday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. On the other hand, East Singhbhum administered vaccines to at least 18,000 beneficiaries and about 10,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Dhanbad. According to the health department, the state has so far vaccinated 99 per cent of healthcare workers and frontline workers, while 50 per cent of residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years have received at least one dose of the vaccine. At least 57 per cent of eligible beneficiaries in the age bracket of 45 years to 59 years have been at least partially-vaccinated, while 58 per cent of senior citizens in the state have received at least one jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi OBC outfit to campaign against BJP in Uttarakhand, UP ||A Jharkhand-based outfit espousing the cause of Other Backward Classes (OBC) will campaign against the BJP in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh in the run-up to the Assembly polls in both states in 2022 over the Union government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court ruling out a caste census. The OBC Arakshan Manch leaders of Jharkhand have decided to send teams to important constituencies having a sizeable population of OBCs in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh by the end of 2021 and make people understand the “real intention” of the BJP-led central government. “We read about the central government’s affidavit (filed by the ministry of social justice and empowerment) in the Supreme Court on Thursday in which it has ruled out ‘caste census in 2021’ with a plea that a caste census of the backward classes is administratively difficult and cumbersome. This shows the real intention of the BJP leaders towards the OBCs. Now we would do our best to expose this before OBC people in both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh prior to the Assembly polls scheduled in early 2022,” said Kailash Yadav, central president of the Manch based in Ranchi. Yadav said that nearly 70 per cent of the BJP legislators in both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh are OBCs. “Surprisingly, they (legislators) too are silent on the issue. It seems they have sacrificed the interest of their communities for their personal benefit. We have over 200 members in our Manch and all have been entrusted to speak to like-minded organisations, social outfits and even individual leaders who can raise voices for the OBC cause in their respective constituencies. We will be informing them about the anti-OBC nature of BJP leaders at the Centre and ensure that this has an impact in the upcoming Assembly polls,” said Yadav. The Centre has told the Supreme Court that a caste census “would not be feasible” and that “exclusion of information regarding any other caste”, apart from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, “from the purview of the census is a conscious policy decision”. The Manch leaders, however, welcomed Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren’s efforts for inclusion of OBCs in the 2021 census. “The Bihar chief minister did his part in apprising through an all-party delegation to none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the caste census. We are happy that despite not being allowed to meet the Prime Minister, the Jharkhand chief minister will be leading an all-party delegation to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday about the caste census. We would like the Jharkhand chief minister to now pass a resolution in the Assembly and conduct a caste census in the state on its own and ensure reservation for OBCs in jobs,” Yadav said. Soren will meet Shah in Delhi on Sunday at 4pm, along with state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, state Congress president Rajesh Thakur, cabinet minister Alamgir Alam, Ajsu MLA Sudesh Mahato, cabinet minister Satyanand Bhokta (RJD), Vinod Singh (CPI-ML), Bhuvneshwar Mahato (CPI), Suresh Munda (CPM), Arup Chatterjee (Marxist Coordination Centre) and Kamlesh Singh (NCP) on the caste census and the inclusion of a separate Sarna religion code in the 2021 census. Soren, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and director-general of police Niraj Sinha will also attend a meeting with Shah earlier on Sunday on Left-wing extremism scenario along with other rebel-hit states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
