27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Political banners and posters banned at Dhanbad vaccination centres||Dhanbad district administration has banned the use of political banners, posters, symbols at Covid vaccination centres across the district. A letter in this regard has been issued by Kumar Tarachand, ADM (law & Order) to Shyamkishore Kant, Dhanbad Civil Surgeon instructing him to strictly monitor vaccination centres to ensure that political banners and posters are not used. The political parties however expressed mixed reaction over the decision. Congress welcomed the development but BJP claimed that it would put up banners and posters 50 metres away from vaccination centres. Confirming the development, Vikas Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO) of Dhanbad said, “We have received the letter and will ensure strict adherence to the instruction as we also face difficulty due to the putting up of posters and banners and sometimes even help desks inside the vaccination centres.” “As we have completed the vaccination of over 12 lakh people, we plan to gradually restrict the number of vaccination centres and organize vaccination at only such centres which are well equipped with all the facilities including proper drinking water supply, seating arrangement etc and with the gradual opening of private schools we are not facing paucity of such well-equipped centres,” said Rana. When Brajendra Prasad Singh, District President of Congress party, was contacted, he said “We welcome the district administration move in this regard as we feel that government premises can’t be used for political purposes.” He accused BJP of misusing the vaccination drive for political gain. “Instead of putting up giant size posters of the party and Prime Minister, the Central Government should ensure sufficient stock of vaccines to states as the majority of vaccination centres go dry by the second half of the day,” said Singh. He added, “If at all BJP is concerned about the welfare of the common people it’s party workers should visit door to door to make people aware about the vaccination and to help them to reach the vaccination centres.” Chandrashekhar Singh, district president of BJP said, “We are ready to abide by the instruction if it is bars usage of posters inside the vaccination centre. However, we will flout the rule and are ready to go to jail if it prohibits the use of banners and posters 50 meters away from the vaccination centres.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Farmers' bandh partial across Jharkhand||The daylong Bharat Bandh called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday, coinciding with the first anniversary of the Centre's enactment of three contentious farm laws, evoked partial response across Jharkhand even though the ruling coalition partners JMM-Congress-RJD and other non-NDA parties offered support. While commercial and passenger vehicles on state and national highways were fewer than normal, public transport in the cities and towns were by and large unaffected. Long-distance travel was, however, impacted as very few inter-state buses plied the roads. In state capital Ranchi, markets along Main Road were closed till noon as Albert Ekka Chowk saw a series of protests by various political parties since morning. CPM and CPI held protest marches from Kutchery Chowk to Albert Ekka Chowk, while the JMM, Congress and RJD held agitations for over an hour from 11am, paralysing the traffic for more than two hours. Holding banners and posters critical of the farm laws and the Union government, protestors demanded the rollback of the legislations, calling them anti-farmer, anti-poor and pro capitalist. CPI state secretary Bhuwaneshwar Prasad Mehta dubbed the bandh as historic. “The nationwide bandh has got voluntary support from different sections of the society as everyone concedes that the farmers’ woes will impact everyone along the food chain. The farmers’ agitation is only growing from strength to strength,"he said. The JMM also called the bandh successful,  warning the Modi government to mend its ways. Addressing a press conference in the evening, party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee called it a grand success. He claimed that vehicular movement on  all state and national highways in Jharkhand was suspended. Taking a dig at the Prime Minister, he said, “Since the last seven years, the PM has been holding Man ki Baat. But, he and his government have turned a deaf ear to Kisan ki Baat. Over 1,000 farmers have died so far due to the ongoing agitation but ironically the Centre has turned numb to their woes. It proves that more than annadata (farmers), this government is for its corporate friends like Adanis and Ambanis.” The Opposition BJP, however, claimed that the bandh was a flop. “The bndh in Jharkhand remained a super flop even though the ruling p[arties supported it. Similar was the situation across the country except in handful of states like Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. This proves that people at large in the county believe in Modiji’s leadership and vision,” said state BJP president Deepak Prakash. In  Dhanbad and neighbouring districts of Bokaro and Giridih,  the response to  the bandh was lukewarm. Life was largely unaffected but there were road blocks put up in rural  and suburban areas. Long distance travellers faced difficulty as 80 per cent buses could not ply on highways. Though bandh supporters tried to disrupt train services in Giridih, they were disperesed by RPF personnel. Coal transport of BCCL through tippers remained normal and colliery operations remained unaffected. The attendance in government offices and banks located in urban centres was also normal. In Ranchi, Jharkhand Bus Owners Association secretary Kishore Mantri said that about 30 per cent of about 2000 buses that go from Ranchi remained off the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jubilee Park gates opened to traffic after 18 months ||The gates of steel city landmark Jubilee Park were re-opened on Sunday evening after 18 months, opening up traffic from the Bistupur and Sakchi ends to save commuters from taking a detour. State health minister Banna Gupta, the MLA representing Jamshedpur West Assembly constituency, and his supporters reached the park on Sunday evening and asked security guards to re-open the gates. Special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar and Dhalbhum SDO Sandeep Kumar Meena were also present. "Keeping in view the demand of local residents who have been calling for the re-opening the gates for the last couple of months, I decided to take the lead on the issue. The closure of both the gates of the park (one from the Bistupur end and the other from Sakchi ) were resulting in inconvenience to commuters who had to take a detour using the Straight Mile Road, which, of late, had become accident prone," Gupta told The Telegraph Online. The Jubilee Park Road that passes along the scenic Jayanti Sarovar was closed in March 2020 following Covid-19 induced lockdown. Though the state government, while relaxing the lockdown restrictions in July, had allowed re-opening of parks, vistors were allowed in Jubilee Park only in the morning and evening. As soon as the gates were opened, movement of vehicles were allowed through Jubilee Park. The minister also went around the park. Several political and social outfits had also started agitations demanding re-opening of the gates that are operated by Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL), a Tata Steel subsidiary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Santhal Pargana  gets four new trains||Residents of different districts of Santhal Pargana heaved a sigh of relief as the railway department announced four new trains that will connect the region with Goa and Pune. Also, one train each that connects the region with Ahmedabad and Ranchi has been restored. The region that covers Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Sahibaganj and Pakur, had been suffering due to poor railway connectivity. Asansol Ahmedabad express (09436) began operation from Madhupur since yesterday after its service being suspended for over 17 months, while Jasidih Pune Express (01428) started its inaugural journey from Jasidih today at around 1.15 am will be reaching Pune tomorrow at around 11 pm. Meanwhile, the inaugural journey of Godda Ranchi Special (08604) Express is scheduled to begin from Godda at around 1.15 am to reach Ranchi at around 5.45 am. The fourth train, Jasidih Vasco- Da-Gama express (06398) will embark on its journey from Jasidih at around 1.15 am tomorrow, it will reach Vasco-Da-Gama at around 2.20 pm. The train will be passing through Dhanbad’s Katrasgarh station. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, President of Godda Chamber of Commerce, Pritam Gadia, said, “Though, we are happy with new trains being launched and restoration of some old trains but we are particularly happy with the extension of Ranchi Bhagalpur Express upto Godda. This will make it easier for the traders of Godda to travel to Ranchi directly.” “The credit for the launching of the services of the train goes to continuous effort taken by Godda MP, Nishikant Dubey” he further added. Alok Mallik, Regional Vice President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce said, “The Ahmedabad train will help a large number of traders Gujarat to visit industrialists of Santhal Pargana and vice-versa for business purpose.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant to inaugurate Chorkari power project on Wednesday||The ambitious Chorkari power project looks all set to be inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren on September 29. Once functional, it will make the state-owned power distribution company Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited(JBVNL) self-sufficient for three districts. Thereby, ending its dependency on Damodar Valley Corporation(DVC). The newly constructed 220/132KV power grid substation and transmission line is situated in Chorkari village of temple town Itkhori. Significantly, the foundation for this power substation was laid by former chief minister Arjun Munda about ten years back. Surprisingly in October, 2019 former chief minister Raghubar Das had inaugurated this project in a hurry despite the fact that transmission line work was lying incomplete. Chorkari grid cost Rs.200 crore whereas transmission line came up for another Rs.100 crore. According to a power official, seven districts of the state including Chatra, Koderma, Ramgarh, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih and Hazaribagh fall in the command area of DVC. It supplies power to these seven districts through its own supply network. Frequent shutting down of DVC’s power supply due to payment issues often sparks anger among the residents. Officials said due to this, a project like Chorkari was given green signal to make JBVNL strong in terms of supply networks. The official said, “With Chorkari power station being ready, JBVNL can take up the supply for Chatra, Hazaribag and Koderma.” According to officials the Chorkari grid is equipped with a high power system having two 150 MVA power transformers and two of 50 MVA. Efforts are on to charge all four transformers. Even 109km long transmission lines have been erected to connect Chorkari from the Latehar grid. A JBVNL officer said that they are free to purchase electricity from any of the power producers and to supply it to these districts through Chorkari. “At present trials are on to make this power grid substation ready before the inauguration date,” he added. Officials said, “Chatra is getting power from Barhi substation of neighbouring Hazaribagh district. Chatra’s requirement is only 70 MW power daily. Chorkari has the capacity of 250MW. It means the surplus power will go to districts like Koderma and Hazaribagh which are fully dependent on DVC for power.” DGM of power grid, Shiv Shankar said, “Chatra will be unable to consume even half of the power capacity of Chorkari, so each and every corner of the district will get enough supply from here.” Labour minister and Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta confirmed to The Telegraph Online that Chorkari grid inauguration will bring to an end the long wait of Chatra residents. He said, “Once inaugurated, Chatra will get sufficient and uninterrupted power supply.” Getting a nod from Hemant, district officials including deputy commissioner Anjali Yadav and superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan are monitoring the preparation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to act against tobacco use by minors ||At least 5.1 per cent children between 13 and 15 consume tobacco in some form or the other in Jharkhand, health minister Banna Gupta said on Monday, claiming that the government was focusing on checking the use of tobacco by minors and running several campaigns to stop this practice. In a bid to completely eradicate the use of tobacco products by minors, a bill has also been introduced in the Jharkhand Assembly to increase the minimum age for tobacco consumption or any involvement of a person in tobacco related trade to 21 years from 18 years, the minister said. “Such laws will prove to be a deterrent for minors and keep them away from the deadly addiction of tobacco in Jharkhand,” said Gupta, adding that the Centre must also follow similar steps in a bid to control the use of tobacco. Releasing Jharkhand’s data in the Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS) 2021 in Ranchi, Gupta claimed that many tobacco companies were gradually also trying to attract minor girls towards tobacco use, and the government was committed to prevent any rise in the number of minor girls addicted to tobacco. “Our government is taking all possible steps to discourage the consumption of tobacco and also come up with stricter laws for the same,” said Gupta. In a bid to check the use of tobacco, the Jharkhand government has prohibited the sale of tobacco products within a 100-meter radius of schools, government offices, hospitals and courts. Besides, any person found selling tobacco products to minors will face imprisonment of up to seven years and pay Rs 1 lakh fine. The percentage of children between   13 and 15 years addicted to tobacco in India was 8.5 per cent, higher than that in Jharkhand. However, as per data shared by the minister, the total percentage of the population addicted to tobacco in Jharkhand was higher than the national average. “The percentage of tobacco users in Jharkhand has dropped from 50.1 per cent to 38.9 per cent, but it was still higher than the national average of 28.6 per cent,” said Gupta. In a bid to discourage the use of tobacco products, the Jharkhand government has also decided to take an undertaking from newly-recruited government employees, stating that they do not consume tobacco products. Besides, the government is planning to make tobacco-use related rules for private institutions and offices too, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.20 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated about 1.20 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped to 80 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 73,700 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19, while at least 46,961 residents got the second dose. More than 23,000 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum on Sunday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while over 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Ranchi. About 10,000 residents got inoculated in Dhanbad. . The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped in Jharkhand as the state reported five fresh cases of coronavirus infection against seven Covid recoveries, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. At least four Covid recoveries against three cases of infection brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 45, while in at least 21 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases. Sahebganj and Jamtara reported one fresh case of SARS-CoV-2 infection each. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of at least 41,116 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.48 lakh Jharkhand residents have tested positive for Covid-19 and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. As per government data, at least 11 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not have active cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. However, Ranchi alone accounted for about 60 per cent of the active Covid cases in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town flyover repair to ease traffic congestion||The Dhanbad district administration as part of its comprehensive effort to improve the traffic situation of the district has now concentrated towards beefing up infrastructure after regulating auto rickshaw and buses movement. Repair of the 49-year-old Bank More flyover of 833 meter which serves as the lifeline of the district connecting Dhanbad town with suburban areas will be conducted from October 1 to October 3 for which a 79-hour mega block has been imposed on flyover from 12am of September 30 to 7am of October 4. Meanwhile, to ensure the management of traffic congestion and law and order situation in general during the ban of movement of flyover and diversion of traffic, the district administration has made 20 posts on which altogether 18 magistrates, 52 officers and 104 traffic policemen will be deputed. Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar said, “All the vehicles will have to follow the diverted route during the ban on entry on flyover for its repair.” Constructed at a cost of Rs 32.34 lakh, the flyover, which was inaugurated by then Public Works Minister of unified Bihar on August 20, 1972 has developed large number of potholes and cracks at several places. This apart, the railings of bridge had also broken at several places, while the pillars had also started developing cracks. During the entry ban of the vehicles over the flyover, the vehicles coming from Jharia and Sindri and heading towards Rangatand, combined  building will be diverted from Dhansar Chowk to Howrah Motors- Barmasia Hirapur- and Similarly the vehicles running between towards Dhanbad Dhanbad from Kendua, Putki Katras will be diverted from Matkuria Chowk to Dhansar chowk-Howrah Motors- Barmasia- Hirapur. As per police records more than 2000 vehicles pass through the flyover every ten minutes and due to a large number of potholes, the traffic situation worsens every time. The load testing of the flyover was conducted earlier this year in help with the help of agency Samriddhi. The strengthening of the flyover was earlier carried out in March 2015 as part of a Rs 11crore projection of the National Highway as per which the dead mass of bituminous material of 9 inch thickness deposited on the deck slab of flyover were removed and fresh thin bituminous layer were laid to repair of potholes etc. Mastic Asphalt, material was used on both the ends of flyover including Birsa Munda Chowk and near the Railway underpass called Gaya Bridge to cope with the problem of repeated damage due to water logging as mastic asphalt has water proof properties. After remaining in good condition for four years, potholes again developed on the flyover.        After regulating auto rickshaw and buses movement, Dhanbad district administration as part of its comprehensive effort to improve the traffic situation of the district has now concentrated towards infrastructure beefing up. Repair of 49 year old Bank More flyover of 833 meter which serves as the lifeline of the district connecting Dhanbad town with suburban areas will be conducted from October 1 to October 3 for which a 79 hour mega block has been imposed on flyover from 12 AM  of September 30 to 7 AM of October 4. Meanwhile, to ensure the management of traffic and law and order situation in general during the ban of movement of flyover and diversion of traffic, the district administration  has made 20 posts on which altogether 18 magistrates, 52 officers and 104 traffic policemen will be deputed. Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar, “All the vehicles will have to follow the diverted route during the ban on entry on flyover for its repair: Constructed at a cost of Rs 32.34 lakh, the flyover which was inaugurated by then Public  Works Minister of unified Bihar on August 20,1972 has developed large number of potholes and cracks at several places. This apart, the railings of bridge had also broken at several places, while  the pillars had also started developing cracks. During the entry ban of the vehicles over the flyover the vehicles coming from Jharia and Sindri and heading towards Rangatand, combined  building will be diverted from Dhansar Chowk to Howrah Motors- Barmasia Hirapur- and Similarly the vehicles running between towards Dhanbad Dhanbad from Kendua, Putki Katras will be diverted from Matkuria Chowk to Dhansar chowk-Howrah Motors- Barmasia- Hirapur. As per police records more than 2000 vehicles pass through the flyover in every ten minutes and due to large number of potholes lying over it the traffic situation is always caused. The load testing of the flyover was conducted earlier this year in help with  the help of agency Samriddhi. The strengthening of the flyover was earlier carried out in March 2015 as part of a Rs 11 crore projection of the National Highway as per which the dead mass of bituminous material of 9 inch thickness deposited on the deck slab of flyover were removed and fresh thin bituminous layer were laid to repair of potholes etc. Mastic Asphalt, material was used on both the ends of flyover including Birsa Munda Chowk  and near the Railway underpass called Gaya bridge to cope with the problem of repeated damage due to water logging as mastic asphalt has water proof properties. After remaining in good condition for four years, potholes again developed on the flyover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Innovations by researchers of Jharkhand to aid coal, steel sectors||Two recent scientific innovations by the researchers of Jharkhand are expected to boost activities of two prominent core sectors — coal and steel. While Ranchi-based Central Mines Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI) of Coal India Limited developed a software that will help improve exploration of coal reserves, those working at Research and Development Centre for Iron and Steel (RDCIS) of Steel Authority of India Limited developed a special-grade galvanised steel sheet that will be used for making robust and durable silos for storing food grains. “Exploration of prospective coal reserves is now done by two-dimensional seismic survey, using seismograph but this technique often misses out underground coal seams if those are too thin,” said CMPDI general manager Sanjay Kumar Dubey. He said the new software would help overcome the limitations. Asked about the utility of the new software, Dubey said: “Spectral Enhancement, as the newly developed software has been named, when fitted to a seismograph, will help identify thin coal seams, those with thickness of even about 3 or 4 feet, that was not possible earlier.” The new software will enhance resolution of seismic signals leading to delineation of the thinnest seam in the vicinity, he explained, adding that they had collaborated with the Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute on the project. “This will save both time and cost of exploration,” Dubey further said, adding that the CMPDI would soon apply for copyright protection of the software developed by them. A team of RDCIS, on the other hand, worked with another team of the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSP) to develop a special-grade galvanised sheet that can be used for making large, strong and durable silos for storing food grains. “This special sheet is actually an import substitute as those who make such silos on our country at present have to import that from other countries,” said N. Mandal, head of the RDCIS team at the Bokaro Steel Plant, adding that these special grade galvanised steel sheets help arrest wastage of grains by precluding weathering effects. A unique chemical composition is used for making these sheets that have both higher strength and higher zinc coating than normal sheets, he said, explaining the speciality of the newly developed steel sheets. “The BSP has already produced the sheets and prospective buyers have also started visiting Bokaro to have a look at those,” Mandal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Funds crisis for 'essential expenditure' hits middle schools||Teachers of middle schools (Classes VI to VIII) in Jharkhand are finding it difficult to run in-person classes because of a dearth of funds for “essential expenditure”. “It’s due to a crisis of funds for meeting essential expenditure and not our reluctance to resume classes after such a long closure of schools,” said Nasim Ahmad, spokesperson of the Akhil Jharkhand Prathamik Sikshak Sangh that has many members teaching in middle schools after their primary schools were merged with or upgraded to middle schools. Following improvement in the Covid situation, the state government allowed physical classes for students of VI to VIII in government-run schools from September 24. There are over 32,000 such schools in the state where more than 70,000 teachers are engaged for teaching students up to Class VIII, Ahmad further said, adding that most of those institutions also faced shortage of teachers. “We have no funds available with us though we have to spend money for making these schools run,” Ahmad said, adding that they had to clean and sanitise the school premises and disinfect doors, tables and benches before starting classes. Besides, the teachers also have to submit many reports and returns for which they need to get photocopies of many documents in the market, he further said. They also have to photocopy question papers for conducting offline examinations for students studying in Classes III to VIII, he added. “All these things require money but we don’t have anything at the moment,” Ahmed said, adding that they had to manage by spending from their own pockets. “We are entitled to get an annual allotment of funds for those expenditure,” he replied when asked how they managed earlier. He said the funds allotted for the current financial year (2021-22) had to be returned after the Jharkhand Education Project Council that controls these schools directed them to do so. The state government had earlier allowed offline classes for high school students in a staggered manner, beginning with Classes IX and XI. The education department now allowed offline classes for those studying in Classes VI to VIII. Depending on the number of students attached to these institutions, the schools are entitled to get an annual grant of Rs 25,000 or above for meeting such expenditures, Ahmed said, adding that the funds surrendered should now be re-allocated to the schools. “Our problem is a bit different and we have to face funds crunch even when the grant is released,” said Naveen Kumar, a teacher at Visti Para Madhya Vidyalaya at Hirapur in Dhanbad, which is now attached to an adjacent high school. “Our middle school had an electricity connection when it ran independently before the merger,” Kumar said, adding that they now faced problem for paying the electricity bill for that connection or even getting a fan repaired “because the funds given by the government is controlled by the high school that often deprives us”. “This should be properly channelled so that they don’t face any problem such as disconnection of power supply,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
