28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Jaguar officer killed in encounter||Deputy commandant of Jharkhand Jaguar (JJ) Rajesh Kumar succumbed to bullet injuries he suffered during an encounter with an extremist group in Nawagarh forests of Latehar district on Tuesday afternoon. He was 41. One of the rebels, affiliated to a CPI(Maoist) splinter group, Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP), may have also died, police sources said. Many rebels were injured, he added. JJ is an assault force of the state police. According to sources, the encounter occurred around 3.30pm. Kumar, who was grievously hurt, was airlifted to Ranchi’s Medica hospital for treatment in the evening. He succumbed to injuries later. ADG operations of the state police Sanjay Anand Lathkar confirmed the news about the encounter. Deputy commandant Kumar was from Munger in Bihar and belonged to the BSF's 84 battalion. He was on deployment in Jharkhand Jaguar, also known as special task force (STF), since 2018. “Latehar police were tipped off about a large number of JJMP rebels assembling in Nawagarh jungles and that they were planning something big. Based on the information, an operation was launched jointly by JJ, district police and CRPF. The rebels open fired, thereby forcing security forces to launch a counter offensive in which a deputy commandant was injured (he succumbed to injuries later in hospital). But our boys also managed to kill one naxal,” said an official of JJ, who was waiting for the chopper carrying Kumar at the mega sports complex in Hotwar. He added that the security forces recovered several arms and ammunition including an AK-47. The incident occurred two days after Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting of all naxal-affected states to take stock of the situation. At the meeting, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren mentioned that extremism was on the wane, limited to certain pockets of the state. He also demanded more funds from the central government for left wing extremist areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 4 killed in 2 separate accidents in Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur: Four persons, including a woman, were killed in two separate road accidents in Jamshedpur, the police said on Tuesday morning. Two people were killed in one of the accidents that took place at Bhadohi village along Bodam-Tata road, while the othe two lost their lives in another mishap that took place near Haludbani CRPF Camp along the Patamda-Tata road. Those killed in the two mishaps have been identified as Lagan Majhi (60), Minti Murmu (40), Niranjan Singh (20) and Satyendra Singh (24). While talking to The Telegraph Online, Shankar Lakra, OC, Bodam police station said, “About 14 labourers, including six women were in the van which was on its way to Jamshedpur. The driver lost control of the speeding vehicle, which made it overturn. Two labourers, including a woman, were killed on the spot, while eight others were injured.” According to him the injured were rushed to the MGM medical college hospital where all the eight persons, including three women have been admitted. The Bodam OC said, “First accident took place at 10:30 am, while the second took place at about 11.30 am, in which a 20-year-old youth, Niranjan Singh, was killed on the spot. The pillion-rider identified as Satyendra Singh was seriously injured.” Kumud Jenamani Hazaribagh: Lightening claimed lives of two children in Gajedih village which falls under Satgawan block in Koderma on Tuesday evening. Incident took place at around 4PM when the downpour began. Fourteen-year-old Dolly Kumari, her brother Satyajeet Kumar (8) and their cousin Ajeet Kumar (14) were on their terrace enjoying the rain, when a thunderbolt struck them. Villagers rushed the trio to Satgawan community health centre, where Dolly and Ajeet were declared brought dead. Satyajeet, who was critical, has been referred to Koderma sadar hospital by the doctors. Vishvendu Jaipuria Dhanbad: Passes for auto rickshaw operation in six different routes earmarked by the district administration were distributed to around 500 drivers today at the District Transport office. The beneficiaries were also allotted unique codes for their respective routes in order to help them get identified easily by the passengers as well as the law enforcement agencies. The pass distribution however, is likely to continue for the next two or three days to complete the allotment to all 1500 auto rickshaw drivers. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Om Prakash Yadav said, “We will complete the distribution of passes as well as codes to 1500 auto rickshaws selected for plying on six routes within two-three days after which the regulations will be strictly followed although the entry of auto rickshaw not selected for the six identified routes has been banned since September 20 itself when the new regulations into the force” “We are at the same time in process of allotment of stoppages for auto rickshaw and putting up signage, distance charts and speed limit boards are also being carried out by respective departments,” said Yadav. To improve the infrastructure a massive load testing cum repair work of the Bank More Flyover, which serves as the lifeline of the district connecting Dhanbad town suburban areas will also be carried out from October 1 to October 3 for which ban on movement of vehicles on flyover will be imposed from 12 am to September 30 to 7 am to October 4. Some residents of the district however expressed concern over parking of a large number of trucks near the FCI godown of Barmasia on Barmasia road. Yadav, however maintained that the diversion would be done for only three days to carry out repair of the flyover for which all efforts would be taken to regulate traffic in proper manner. Praduman Choubey Chatra: Chief Minister Hemant Soren will be inaugurating Chorkari power sub grid on October 1 instead of September 29, as it was earlier announced. According to sources, Hemant will first inaugurate the power grid and transmission line and will then address the people there. Deputy commissioner Anjali Yadav and superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan have been asked to take care of the preparations. The officials not only visited the venue but also inspected the temporary helipad. They have passed instructions to have the road from the helipad to the venue to be repaired in order to ensure a smooth passage for the CM’s cavalcade. They have also taken care of the dais and sitting arrangements for VIPs as well as other guests, including the general public. Separate entrance and exit gates for VIPs and public have been asked to be made. Yadav has asked the officials to ensure drinking water facility at the venue and maintenance of Covid protocol as well. Labour minister and Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta will also remain present in this inaugural function, along with Chatra MP Sunil Kumar Singh and Simaria MLA among other invitees. Vishvendu Jaipuria||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Kantatoli flyover plan reworked to make it longer ||The Hemant Soren government scrapped Ranchi’s Kantatoli flyover project initiated by the former BJP government led by Raghubar Das on Tuesday, only to agree on a new plan to build a much longer, and therefore more expensive, flyover. This decision was taken at meeting of the state cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren. The meting also cleared a number of proposals concerning mining, industries, transport and  urban development. Cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said, “The Kantatoli flyover project has been terminated. Now, after amendments in its structural design, a longer flyover has been proposed via Kantatoli between Bahu Bazar and Kokar. The cabinet has agreed to spend Rs 224.94 crore for this project, setting a two-year timeframe for its completion.” The foundation stone for the Rs 192 crore Kantatoli flyover, measuring about 1250 meters, was originally laid by President Ram Nath Kovind in November 2017 and was to be completed by 2020. However, the project suffered myriad hurdles right from  start because issues with land acquisition and  faulty design. The incumbent government, after coming to power in 2019, found the design of flyover to be inadequate to address traffic issues at the key entry point to the city and began reworking it. “The size of the flyover now will be about 2.4km,” said Dadel. Plans for promotion of mining and industries were also taken up. The cabinet agreed to set up the state’s own mining and exploration corporation, 100 per cent subsidy on electricity duty for captive power plants for a period of five years, appointment of Ernst & Young for the upcoming Dubai International Expo 2020 to showcase the state’s investment potential. Delayed because of the pandemic, the expo is now scheduled to take place from September 30 to October 6. To tackle issues of malnutrition, the cabinet also passed a proposal to set up a programme management unit (PMU) at the state level to roll out distribution of fortified rice on a pilot basis to PDS beneficiaries in a  phased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||After court rap, Jharkhand to launch mobile forensic laboratories ||Jharkhand is set to launch at least 25 mobile forensic laboratories in a bid to ensure speedy investigation of crimes following a high court observation that the Forensic Science Lab (FSL) in Ranchi was in “primitive” stage and forensic facilities in the state were in dire need of an upgrade, sources in the Home, Prison and Disaster Management Department of the state said on Tuesday. The mobile forensic labs, equipped with the latest technology and facilities, will be made operational in all 24 districts and report to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Ranchi, officials said. State Home Secretary Rajeev Arun Ekka admitted that his department was planning to upgrade the infrastructure for forensic science in the state, but refused to divulge details. According to a highly-placed source in the home department, the mobile forensic labs will be set up in SUVs and will have facilities like ballistic kit, blood sample kit and photography kit. These vehicles will go to a crime spot and collect evidence for further study, the source added. Equipping the mobile forensic laboratories with the latest gadgets and technology will not only speed up investigation in crime cases but also increase the efficiency of the results drawn through the various forensic tests conducted in these vans. While hearing a case related to the death of Dhanbad district court judge Uttam Anand, who was hit by an autorickshaw as a part of an alleged conspiracy on July 28, the Jharkhand High Court observed that the Forensic Science Lab in Ranchi did not have equipment to conduct urine and blood tests of the accused. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the case, informed the court that the sample of urine and blood collected from the accused had to be sent to New Delhi for forensic studies. Following this, the court had directed the Home Secretary and FSL director to be present in the next hearing of the case via online medium. “We have considered it very seriously that when the urine and blood testing facility of the accused is not available in the F.S.L., Ranchi, the capital of the State of Jharkhand, then for what purpose this department is functioning. Even after more than twenty years from the date of its creation, the State F.S.L. Ranchi appears to be still in primitive stage,” the court order of August 25 read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||A fresh low-pressure system to trigger heavy rain in Jharkhand, Bengal||After cyclone Gulab, a fresh low-pressure system originating from the Bay of Bengal is expected to result in heavy to very heavy rain over isolated areas in Jharkhand and neighbouring Bengal during the next 24 hours. IMD officials said on Tuesday afternoon that under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over northeast and ast-central Bay of Bengal, a low-pressure area had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and coastal areas of West Bengal. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued a forecast of light to moderate rain or thundershowers at several places over Jharkhand on Tuesday. It also issued an alert of heavy rain at isolated places over southern and north-eastern parts of the state. Heavy to very heavy rain is expected at isolated places over southern and central parts of Jharkhand on Wednesday. This trend is likely to continue on Thursday when central and western parts of the state are expected to experience heavy rain. Officials at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said in Bengal there were possibilities of heavy rain in East and West Midnapore, South 24 Parganas,  Bankura , Calcutta, Jhargram and East Bardhman till 8.30 am on Wednesday. They forecast heavy rain due to the low-pressure area _ it is expected to intensify further on Wednesday _ in West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia, Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas. No alerts have been issued for South Bengal on Thursday. However, some parts of western Bengal are expected to witness heavy showers on Thursday too, weathermen at IMD's Calcutta office warned. The IMD forecast also suggested rainfall in Bihar, Odisha and neighbouring Chhattisgarh for the next 48 hours or so. Notably, the monsoon has gathered pace in September due to a couple of back-to-back cyclonic circulations and low-pressure systems. IMD officials in New Delhi said a cyclonic circulation over northeast Arabian sea was also extending upto 1.5 km above mean sea level. Satellite pictures indicated an east-west trough which on Tuesday was running from north Konkan to a cyclonic circulation over Telangana and adjoining areas of Marathawada and Vidarbha extending up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||At inauguration of Deoghar airport road, blame game||The inauguration of several infrastructure upgrades for the Santhal Pargana region by way of new trains and an approach road for the newly developed Deoghar airport on Tuesday led to political mudslinging between the BJP and the Congress. While inaugurating the Narendra Modi Airport Approach Road, BJP leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi called it a gift from the party to the residents of Santhal Pargana. He claimed the road had come up without any support from the state government. “The state government is not at all concerned about development of Jharkhand. Those who are at the helm of affairs believe in the development of their own family," he said in the presence state BJP chief Deepak Prakash, Godda MP Nishikant Dubey and Deoghar MLA Narayan Das. “The Deoghar Airport, despite being ready since long, is awaiting launch of flight services due to lack of an approach road. It is because of the utter apathy of the state government that it could not acquire land for the road. At the behest of BJP workers led by Dubey, local residents donated funds for completing the road," said Marandi. He also blamed the Congress, saying that despite ruling the country for more than 60 years it didn’t pay any heed to developing roads   due to which majority of the villages remained unconnected. He gave credit to the Centre and local MP Dubey for introducing new trains that would now ensure Santhal Pargana remained connected to the rest of the country. These new trains would connect the region to Pune, Ahmedabad, Goa and Ranchi. Later, Marandi and Prakash boarded the Jasidih Vasco Da-Gama train which was flagged off on Tuesday from Deoghar at 1.15 pm. The train was scheduled to reach Ranchi at 8.55 pm. On Monday, Jamtara Congress MLA Irfan Ansari blamed the Godda MP for apparently insisting that the new Godda-Ranchi train go via Bhagalpur which was a detour. "As Dubey belongs to Bhagalpur, he is favouring Bhagalpur by ignoring Godda residents. We won't allow the train to be flagged off on its inaugural journey on Wednesday," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand girls in national squad for friendlies in UAE and Bahrain||Two women footballers from Jharkhand have found spots in the 23-member Indian squad which will play friendly matches in the UAE and Bahrain. Gumla girls Sumati Kumari and Astam Oraon are part of a preparatory camp for the AFC Women's Asian Cup to be held in India from January 20 to February 6 next year. The training is being held at the Flatlet ground in Jamshedpur. Both Sumati and Ashtami are making steady progress and have impressed chief coach Thomas Dennerby. The duo have come a long way, after registering impressive runs in the India under-17 team which led to them being called up to the senior camp. The hail from poor families. Parents of Sumati and Astam are daily wagers. Seventeen-year-old forward Sumati had the Indian women’s football world at her feet when she put the ball in the net an incredible 17 times in five games during the Junior Girls’ National Football Championship 2019-20. She has earlier worked with Dennerby at the under-17 level. Defender Astam (16) has also shown a lot of promise and makes a strong presence in the backline. The national team will travel to the UAE for two friendly matches against the United Arab Emirates on October 2 and the Tunisia national team two days later. The squad will then head to Bahrain, where they will play two friendlies against the country's national team on October 10 and the Chinese Taipei national team on October 13. "Friendly matches will help us to gauge how far the girls have progressed during the training camp. The squad will be pitted against some tough opponents," Dennerby said. The team will travel to New Delhi on September 29, from where they will travel to the UAE. Squad: Aditi Chauhan, Maibam Linthoingambi Devi, Shreya Hooda (Goalkeepers), Dalima Chhibber, Sweety Devi, Ritu Rani, Ashalata Devi, Ranjana Chanu, Michel Castanha, Manisa Panna, Astam Oraon (defenders), Sangita Basfore, Indumathi Kathiresan, Sanju, Martina Thokchom (midfielders), Dangmei Grace, Anju Tamang, Sandhiya Ranganathan, Soumya Guguloth, Manisha Kalyan, Sumati Kumari and Pyari Xaxa, Renu (forwards).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Three workers dead in accident at ESL Steel Plant in Bokaro||Three labourers died in a major accident that took place on Monday evening in Vedanta, ESL Steel Limited (ESL) located in Chandankyari block of the district. Confirming the incident, DC Bokaro Kuldeep Choudhary said, "On Tuesday, a team of disaster management would go inside the Vedanta ESL steel plant to investigate the incident." According to Chandankyari MLA, Amar Bauri, the incident took place in Blast Furnace 2 of ESL Steel Plant. Three workers were doing elevator maintenance work when the mishap took place. "As told by the workers, this incident happened due to safety lapses. We demand a high-level inquiry from the district administration on this." said the MLA. It is being said that the names of the labourers who died in the incident are Mohammad Osama, Mohammad Akram and Mohammad Sultan. These people are residents of Ranchi. Shilpi Shukla, Head of Corporate Communication, ESL Steel Limited said, "3 employees of Thaisenkrup Elevator (Lift) Company had come to work in our plant. They died this evening in a tragic accident that happened while they were working on a lift. We extend our deepest sympathies to the families of the deceased workers. We will cooperate with the family members of the workers in every way possible and this matter is being investigated with complete impartiality. Till the truth is not fully revealed, we request everyone to cooperate with us and pray for the peace of the departed souls". It is mentioned that ESL is a 1.5 MTPA capacity steel plant of Vedanta Group situated in Siyaljori village of Chandankyari. ESL was acquired by the Vedanta Group through the bankruptcy resolution process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active cases down, 1.80 lakh get jabs in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand vaccinated nearly 1.80 lakh residents against Covid-19 on Monday, while the active caseload  dropped to 79 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,14,058 residents, taking the total count of such residents who have received at least one dose of the vaccine to above 1.34 crore, which is more than 50 per cent of the total vaccine beneficiaries in the state. The second jab was administered to at least 63,858 beneficiaries. More than 23,000 residents were vaccinated in Ranchi, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while almost 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in East Singhbhum. Dhanbad administered vaccines against Covid-19 to 18,000-odd beneficiaries. At least five Covid recoveries against four fresh cases of coronavirus infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 down in the state, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi reported two of the four Covid cases, while Bokaro and Khunti reported one case each. The remaining 20 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection on Monday. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of as many as 41,796 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per NHM data, the state has so far reported 5,133 Covid casualties but no fresh fatalities were reported in the past fortnight, indicating that the virus was gradually losing its strength in Jharkhand, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand tribes council to memo President on Sarna code ||Chief minister Hemant Soren chaired the second meeting of the Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) on Monday and resolved to send a formal proposal to President Ramnath Kovind for inclusion of a Sarna code column in the forthcoming national population census. During the meeting, which lasted for around five hours, the council decided to set up a five-member sub-committee to probe dubious land deals of tribals and the alleged land grab of Adivasi land. The idea is to take corrective steps, grant recognition to all such places where Adivasis have been worshipping since ages. Sharing details about the meeting at a news meet on Monday night, council vice chairman Champai Soren said, “The first and foremost important resolve of TAC is to send a proposal to the President through the governor to include Sarna code in the upcoming census. If required, TAC members will also visit Delhi in person to press for the demand.” Last year, the state government had sent a similar proposal to the Union home ministry after passing a resolution on it in the state assembly. “GOI must include a separate column for Sarna followers in the census. Followers are Sarnas have distinct religious practices and need distinct identity of their own,” said Soren. On other decisions he said, “To probe  issues of land grab of tribals, a committee has been formed. The members include MLAs  Stephen Marandi, Chamra Linda, Dipak Birua, Bandhu Tirkey and Bhushan Tirkey. This apart, tribals often face issues in obtaining caste certificates.  It was decided that the tate personnel department will come up with a notification that once a caste certificate is made it should be valid for life.” He added, “We also agreed to work towards giving jobs to dependents of those who fought for the creation of Jharkhand.This apart, TAC has agreed to work out ways to ensure industrial development helps in the overall upliftment of tribals.” Opposition BJP boycotted the meet for the second time to register its protest against new TAC Rules-2021 enacted in May this year. The new rules empower the chief minister to nominate members to the council against the earlier system of the Governor doing so. BJP has  dubbed the amendments " unconstitutional".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host national junior women’s hockey championship||Jharkhand will host national junior women’s hockey championship next month. “The 11th edition of national junior women’s hockey championship will be held at Astroturf Stadium in Simdega during October 20-30,” Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh said, adding preparations for the same were going on. “I along with our vice-president Dharmendra Singh met chief minister Hemant Soren last week to request him to inaugurate the national event and he gave his consent for the same,” Singh further informed. Hockey India officials will also be present during the event, he added. The event will witness participation of 31 teams representing different states and Union territories of the country, he said, adding the national junior women’s team would also be selected during the Simdega event. “Hockey India selectors will be present during the national meet for judging the performances of the players and select the national team from among them,” Singh said. “Preparations are going on in full swing for the event and we all are trying our best not only for making the stay comfortable for the guests and the players but also to provide an opportunity to the hockey-loving people of the area to view the matches smoothly,” Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said when asked about the preparations. “Yes, the chief minister is also expected to lay the foundation stone of another astroturf stadium here that was proposed earlier,” he said when told that Hockey Jharkhand president Singh had already announced it. “Simdega, as you know, is the nursery of hockey in the state and another astroturf stadium would help promote local talents,” Konbegi argued in favour of the proposed stadium. If so, many players from the villages of Simdega can represent the state and eventually the country at international events, including the world cup and Olympics, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
