29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Nandankanan vets give tips to help Dalma’s captive jumbo to deal with arthriti||Champa, one of the two captive elephants lodged at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, is suffering from seline arthritis and is unable to sleep by folding its legs. After the 52-year-old pachyderm's condition deteriorated, the Dalma wildlife sanctuary authorities engaged a team of vets to treat her. From Wednesday, Champa is getting infrared rays in her affected legs so that the arthritic syndrome can be subsided and she can get a fresh lease of life. One of the vets, Rajesh Kumar Singh, who attends to Champa regularly, said they started giving infrared rays to the elephant after video-conferencing with the vets of Bhubaneswar-based zoological park "Nandan Kanan." "Having taken tips from the vets in Nandan Kanan, we have started not only giving Champa the infrared ray, but also indigenous oil massage besides certain vitamins. We hope the elderly elephant will recover soon from the sickness," said Singh to The Telegraph Online. Champa is lodged along with an adult elephant Rajni at Makulakocha village in the foothills of Dalma about eight kilometres away from the heart of the steel city. Divisional forest officer, Dalma wildlife sanctuary, Abhishek Kumar said that the remarkable difference between Champa and Rajni is that while Rajni can sleep by folding its four legs in the night, Champa keeps on standing. "Champa has not slept with folded legs since the past one year. She has to sleep by standing only as she cannot fold her legs due to arthritis. As a result of it, Champa has become very weak," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The DFO said an average life span of an elephant is 60 years. He pointed out as Champa is now 52 years only, they are trying their best to make the captive elephant complete its lifespan. Elderly people are more susceptible to disease, syndrome, injuries and sickness than the adults. The same phase happens to come to the animals, including jumbos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP, Cong engage in war of words as Godda -Ranchi train embarks on debut journey||Congress and BJP engaged in a bitter war of words over new infrastructure upgrades in Santhal Pargana during the launch of Godda Ranchi Express, which was flagged off today from Godda Railway station by local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey in the presence of Amit Mandal, BJP MLA Arun Arora, general manager of Eastern Railway and Yatendra Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager of Malda. The train which began its journey at around 1.15 pm will pass through Bhagalpur, Kiul, Jamui, Jhajha, Jasidih, Dhanbad, and Bokaro Steel City before reaching Ranchi at 5.45 am after completing a journey of around 16 ½ hours. Jamtara MLA of Congress, Irfan Ansari besides other residents have questioned the logic behind the longer route of the train via Bhagalpur. Ansari while talking to the media in Jamtara on Monday went to extent of saying that the Godda MP, Nishikant Dubey has impressed upon the Central Government to fix the longer route for the train (via Bhagalpur) as he (Dubey) is favouring Bhagalpur at cost of Godda. Ansari continued his attack on Dubey over other development projects and alleged that in various projects like the airport development at Deoghar as well as in AIIMS, employment is being provided only to Bhagalpur residents. He said, “We will not tolerate this favouritism. I have summoned AIIMS directors and will seek an explanation in this regard.” In a related development district administration of Deoghar claimed that the approach road for Deoghar Airport road is being carried out by ‘certain people’ in Deoghar has not been carried out as per laid standards. The communiqués further stated that the development of roads would be carried out by the government as per the laid standards and norms after completing land acquisition. Godda MP, Dubey however, ridiculed the communiqué and said that the approach road has been developed as per the standards and norms of Airport Authority of India. Meanwhile, Dubey while addressing the gathering at Godda railway station said, “All kinds of accusations are being made over the long route of train but the detractors are ignoring the fact that that the common residents would be able to make cheaper journey (Rs 160) to Ranchi instead of Rs 500 or Rs 700 which they earlier had to dish out for visiting Ranchi in Buses or Rajdhani trains.” He then left no opportunity to target Congress. He said, “Despite providing almost 40 % revenue to the railway in terms of mineral transport the Congress had ignored the Railway Network Development for Jharkhand. The Railway line development for Santhal Pargana was taken up by the Central Government only at the initiative of the state government led by Arjun Munda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Water levels of Maithon and Panchet dam rise following heavy rain||Congress and BJP engaged in a bitter war of words over new infrastructure upgrades in Santhal Pargana during the launch of Godda Ranchi Express, which was flagged off today from Godda Railway station by local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey in the presence of Amit Mandal, BJP MLA Arun Arora, general manager of Eastern Railway and Yatendra Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager of Malda. The train which began its journey at around 1.15 pm will pass through Bhagalpur, Kiul, Jamui, Jhajha, Jasidih, Dhanbad, and Bokaro Steel City before reaching Ranchi at 5.45 am after completing a journey of around 16 ½ hours. Jamtara MLA of Congress, Irfan Ansari besides other residents have questioned the logic behind the longer route of the train via Bhagalpur. Ansari while talking to the media in Jamtara on Monday went to extent of saying that the Godda MP, Nishikant Dubey has impressed upon the Central Government to fix the longer route for the train (via Bhagalpur) as he (Dubey) is favouring Bhagalpur at cost of Godda. Ansari continued his attack on Dubey over other development projects and alleged that in various projects like the airport development at Deoghar as well as in AIIMS, employment is being provided only to Bhagalpur residents. He said, “We will not tolerate this favouritism. I have summoned AIIMS directors and will seek an explanation in this regard.” In a related development district administration of Deoghar claimed that the approach road for Deoghar Airport road is being carried out by ‘certain people’ in Deoghar has not been carried out as per laid standards. The communiqués further stated that the development of roads would be carried out by the government as per the laid standards and norms after completing land acquisition. Godda MP, Dubey however, ridiculed the communiqué and said that the approach road has been developed as per the standards and norms of Airport Authority of India. Meanwhile, Dubey while addressing the gathering at Godda railway station said, “All kinds of accusations are being made over the long route of train but the detractors are ignoring the fact that that the common residents would be able to make cheaper journey (Rs 160) to Ranchi instead of Rs 500 or Rs 700 which they earlier had to dish out for visiting Ranchi in Buses or Rajdhani trains.” He then left no opportunity to target Congress. He said, “Despite providing almost 40 % revenue to railway in terms of mineral transport the Congress had ignored the Railway Network Development for Jharkhand. The Railway line development for Santhal Pargana was taken up by the Central Government only at the initiative of then state government led by Arjun Munda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain alert for northern Jharkhand ||The low-pressure area originating from the Bay of Bengal resulted in rain at many places across Jharkhand and neighbouring Bengal since last evening. Districts close to Bengal, like Sahebganj, Jamtara, Ramgarh, Giridih and Ghatshila in East Singhbhum, witnessed a good spell of rain. Rajmahal in Sahibganj recorded over 50 mm rain while Giridih and Ghatshila experienced around 45 mm rain. Jamtara, Ramgarh, Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan recorded around 30 mm of rain. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Jamtara, Godda and several other districts recorded moderate rain. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued a forecast of moderate thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning, along with gusty wind (30-40 kmph gusting to 50 kmph), at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. A forecast of heavy rain was also issued for isolated places over western and northern parts of Jharkhand on Thursday, September 30. Wednesday's satellite pictures indicated the well-narked low-pressure area over western parts of Gangetic West Bengal and the associated cyclonic circulation extending upto mid-tropospheric level. The east-west trough was on Wednesday running from the cyclonic circulation associated with the well-marked low- pressure area over south Gujarat region and Gulf of Khambhat to the cyclonic circulation associated with the low-pressure area over western parts of Gangetic West Bengal and across Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand and extending upto 5.8 km above mean sea level. The India Meteorological Department on Wednesday also predicted heavy rainfall in neighbouring Bihar between Thursday and Sunday. Weathermen said the current rain spell will help in reducing the deficit rain of Jharkhand which on Wednesday stood at four per cent. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said formation of another tropical cyclone in Arabian Sea would prolong monsoon's stay in Jharkhand and its neighbouring states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||IIM-Ranchi to move to permanent campus after Dussehra||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) in Ranchi will move to its permanent campus in Dhurwa by mid-October after functioning from a temporary facility at Suchna Bhawan for more than a decade, officials from the premiere B-school said on Wednesday. While the administrative office of the institute will be fully-operational in the permanent campus, only about half of the 1,000-odd students will be able to attend classes in the new campus and the remaining students will continue to attend classes at Suchna Bhawan, IIM-R Director Shailendra Singh told The Telegraph Online. “The hostels that have been constructed so far in the main campus can accommodate about 400 students. The students who stay in these hostels will attend classes in the main campus, while the remaining ones will attend classes at Suchna Bhawan,” said Singh. At present, IIM-R is using a government-facility in Khelgaon as a hostel for its students, who travel by bus from Hotwar to Suchna Bhawan on Kanke Road every day to attend classes. Half of the students will continue to stay at the temporary hostels in Khelgaon even after classes begin in the permanent campus. The institute currently runs at least six courses, including PhD and integrated MBA, and has students from places as far as Kerala and Rajasthan. It also offers executive management courses for working professionals, who mostly attend classes online. IIM-R, the ninth IIM in India, was established in December 2009, and has been functioning from a temporary campus since then. Initially, the government’s attempts at finding land for the institute’s permanent campus were marred by protests by land owners. Eventually, the government finalised an over 60 acre plot in Dhurwa for IIM-R’s permanent campus. The IIM-R director admitted that the struggle to find a land for a permanent campus and eventually shift to it has been a long and challenging one. He said that the new campus is now ready with at least 10 classrooms, the director’s chamber, the administrative building, dining hall and faculty quarters. However, the lack of space in hostels continues to be a stumbling block in shifting all operations to the permanent campus. “We even looked for places around the new campus which could accommodate about 600 students, but we failed to find any such property. So, the students staying at Khelgaon will have to attend classes at Suchna Bhawan for now,” said Singh. “We will positively start operating out of the main campus soon after Dussehra,” he added. In December 2020, then Rajya Sabha MP Parimal Nathwani inaugurated the institute’s first building in the permanent campus, a fully air-conditioned auditorium spread over 40,000 square feet of area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Two die of Covid, fist casualties in Jharkhand since September 4||Two Covid patients died in Jharkhand on Tuesday after zero Covid casualties in Jharkhand during the past three weeks, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported one Covid death each, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 5,135. The last Covid casualty in Jharkhand was reported on September 4. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 76 as the state reported at least 12 Covid recoveries against 11 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection. However, the count of active cases jumped to 46 in Ranchi as the district reported six Covid cases against three recoveries. At least four fresh cases of Coronavirus infection against one recovery took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to six. Deoghar reported one Covid case, while 21 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases. Jharkhand on Tuesday tested swab samples of 56,217 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-COV-2. So far, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated more than 1.05 lakh residents against Covid-19, according to the state health department. As per provisional figures released by the NHM, the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 65,482 residents, while the second dose was administered to at least 40,792 beneficiaries. East Singhbhum vaccinated at least 13,000 residents, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while over 11,000 beneficiaries were administered vaccines against Covid-19 in Ranchi. Dhanbad vaccinated about 6,000 beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||First tribal university of Jharkhand to come up near Jamshedpur||The first tribal university of Jharkhand will come up near Jamshedpur, a minister has said. “The state’s first tribal university will be established near Jamshedpur. The land has been finalised and construction work will commence soon. This would be the one of its kind state-owned tribal university in the eastern region,” said Champai Soren, tribal affairs minister and vice-chairperson of the newly constituted Tribal Advisory Council (TAC). The issue of the tribal university was discussed at the second meeting of the newly constituted council chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren late on Monday evening at Ranchi. “The objective is to conserve and develop tribal language and culture and also promote tribal scholars. The government will soon bring out an ordinance and constitute the university through an act,” the minister said. Sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that over 20 acres of land have been identified near Galudih, around 35km from Jamshedpur city, for the university. “It has been the request of Ghatshila MLA Ramdas Soren who had given a proposal to set up the tribal university in a plot of over 20 acres of land between Galudih and Ghatshila. The land is close to NH33 — linking Jharkhand with Bengal and Bihar — and would be ideal for tribal scholars from all the three states,” said an official preferring anonymity. Odisha has a private tribal university but a state-owned varsity is yet to be set up in either Odisha, Bengal, Jharkhand or Chhattisgarh, which have significant tribal population. The nearest state-owned tribal university is in Madhya Pradesh. The nearly four-hour-long meeting on Monday also decided to send a proposal on inclusion of a separate religious code for Sarna followers in the 2021 census to President Ram Nath Kovind through governor Ramesh Bais. The state Assembly had passed a resolution in November 2020 about the inclusion of the Sarna religion code in the 2021 census but it was apparently sent directly to the President without going through the governor. The meeting also constituted a sub-committee under the chairmanship of MLAs Stephen Marandi, Deepak Birua, Bandhu Tirkey, Bhushan Tirkey and Chamra Linda to suggest facilitating the availability of loans, including agricultural, home and education loans, to the tribal people from banks. The meeting also decided including in the school curriculum those who had laid down their lives in the struggle for a separate state. A committee led by chief minister Soren was also constituted to review cases of trafficking and suggesting suitable action against the perpetrators. A committee was also constituted to probe into the alleged illegal transfer of tribal lands across Jharkhand and submit a report to the council at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government launches 60 'Vaccine Express' vehicles ||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday launched 60 “Vaccine Express” vehicles under the joint initiative of Care India and the health department to speed up the Covid-19 vaccination campaign. The 60 vehicles would be distributed among all 24 districts based on their size and vaccination rate and would function under the respective deputy commissioners and civil surgeons. After flagging off the vehicles in Ranchi, chief minister Hemant Soren said: “The objective is to reach out to vulnerable people residing in inaccessible areas and those persons who are still left out of the vaccination campaign. The Vaccine Express would provide vaccine to targeted populations at their homes itself.” Praising the health department’s vaccination campaign, Soren said: “Till now more than 1.70 crore people across the state have received the first dose of vaccine and over 40 lakh have also received the second dose. We have been constantly devising new campaigns to vaccinate a maximum portion of the population as it is the only way to fight against Covid infection.” The chief minister appealed to the people to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour despite a decrease in cases across the state, as the danger of a third wave is still present. Care India state programme manager Abhay Bhagat said each of the 60 “Vaccine Express” vehicles would have two ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwife — a village-level female health worker) and one data entry operator and would be used by respective district administrations to reach out to those areas which have reported low vaccination rates so far. “It (Vaccine Express) is especially for vulnerable groups like migrant workers, vendors who are frequently on the move and do not go to vaccination camps and also for elderly and disabled who are not mobile-savvy to register for slots for vaccines,” said Bhagat. The programme was also attended by health minister Banna Gupta and additional chief secretary-cum-principal secretary, health, Arun Kumar Singh. The state had rolled out a mobile vaccination campaign for urban areas in May this year but it could reach an area only if the targeted location has more than 20 beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
