30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Incessant rain throws life out of gear in Dhanbad and Santhal Pargana||Incessant rains caused due to Cyclone Gulab threw life in out of gear in Dhanbad and several parts of Santhal Pargana, including, Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Jamtara, Pakur and Sahibgang as several incident of house collapse; inundation in different residential colonies of Dhanbad and Deoghar; coal production disruption due to water entering into the mines at Dhanbad took place. One incident of subsidence in Rajput Basti, one of most subsidence prone zones of underground fire affected area around five km from Dhanbad also took place this morning during which a woman narrowly escaped getting buried alive in a crater developed in the incident. Meanwhile in Jharia more than a dozen muddy houses collapsed due to rains at Shamsher Nagar and Upperkulhi locality of Dhanbad and affected persons were rescued by local social workers. A PDS shop of one Baijnath Ram situated at his home also collapsed in Gadiwan Patti locality of Jharia due to which food grain stock was also spoiled. Rain also led to the collapse of several houses in different parts of Nirsa and particularly in Mugma area as the house of one Kalipado Kumbhkar collapsed today in Pithakiyari Panchayat about 35 km from Dhanbad district headquarters. Meanwhile rain water also entered Keshalpur colliery in area IV of BCCL this morning but as entry has been banned in BCCL underground collieries since yesterday no loss of life took of injury to anyone took place in the incident although the rescue team of BCCL reached at site to supervise the intensive dewatering work. Dhanbad recorded more than 280 mm of rains since yesterday out of which 62 mm of rain was recovered from 4 am to September 29 to 6 Pm while 220 mm or rain took place between 6 pm of yesterday to 11.30 am to this morning. Meanwhile rain also caused Maithon and Panchet dam to flow at highest ever level of September as Maithon level reached at 482.68 feet around 8 feet lower than highest level of 490 feet while Panchet level reached to 419.52 feet around 6 feet below the danger level of 425 feet. Rail services were also affected on Dhanbad Gaya Railway line due to a tree falling and damaging the overhead equipment on the Railway line between Herodih and Sharmatand in Koderma district this morning at around 4.45 am due to which several important train including 02302 New Delhi Howrah Special Express, 02314 New Delhi Sealdah Special Express and 02824 New Delhi Bhubaneswar Special Express were also delayed at Koderma and Herodih Railway station for 30 minutes to 2. 40 hours. Normal traffic resumed on the line after the completion of repair work of OHE at around 7.55 am this morning. Meanwhile railway cancelled a pair of trains including 02353 Howrah Lalkuan Express, 02354 Lalkuan Howrah Express passing through Dhanbad division due to inundation at Tikiapara near Howrah Railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: CBI takes both accused in Dhanbad judge case on remand again||Dhanbad: Central Bureau of Investigation probing, Judge Uttam Anand Murder case of Dhanbad today informed Ranch high court that the two arrested persons including, Auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma had been taken on remand for six days again since yesterday for further questioning. Notably the CBI on yesterday sought remand of 10 days through a petition in the court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate of Dhanbad, Abhishek Srivastava but the court instead granted remand of six days after which the duo were taken into remand by CBI team and taken to their camp office at CIMFR guest of Dhanbad or further questioning in the case. The latest remand of six days was fourth time remand of duo as they were for first time taken into remand of six days on August 30 of state police, which carried out initial probe into the incident. The CBI again took them on remand for a second time on August 7 for five days and they were again taken into remand for a third time on August 11 for ten days during which their different medical tests including the Narco test were conducted at Gandhinagar in Gujarat. Notably, the CBI during the last review of the case progress on September 23 informed the high court that Judge Uttam Anand was hit death on July 28 intentionally and not accidentally. The investigating agency further submitted four different forensic reports before the court on the same day (September 23) and claimed that they were arriving at a conclusion in this case. The court, while reviewing the progress of the case, instructed the Jharkhand Public Service Commission and Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission to complete the staff recruitment process for the state Forensic Science Laboratory. Hazaribagh: 26-year-old youth Dileep Yadav died while performing a stunt on a moving bike in Koderma. The incident took place at Koderma-Giridih main road near Devipur Mor. Dileep, a resident of Kushmai village under Bachchedih panchayat. About four youths on three bikes were performing stunts while riding at high speed. The bike on which Dileep was doing the stunt hit a tree, injuring him grievously. Nawalshahi police station’s assistant sub-inspector Ashok Kumar reached the spot with his team after getting information about the mishap. Dileep was sent to a nursing home in Purnadih but he died later. Kumar cautioned youths for rash driving and not performing stunts. Vishvendu Jaipuriar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Three youths commit suicide in Jamshedpur||Three separate incidents of suicide were reported from three different sports occurred in as many places rocked in and around the steel city on Thursday morning. Dead bodies of two teenagers were found hanging in their residence in Jugsalai and Seraikela, the third dead body was that of a 20-year-old woman was found in a hanging position at her in-law’s house in Golmuri locality. Young woman has been identified as Sonam Parveen. A case of dowry murder has been lodged against her in-laws on the basis of her father Nurul Haque’s police complaint. A resident of Kapali near Mango, Nurul has alleged Parveen’s husband Safdar Khan, father-law, mother-in-law, sister-in-law and a brother-in-law to have hanged his daughter after poisoning her to death. “My son-in-law Safdar is away in the Gulf where he works, but his kin have poisoned my daughter to death for not bringing adequate dowry during the marriage which was solemnised in March 2020. Safdar is equally responsible for my daughter's murder,” Nurul has said in an FIR lodged by the bereaved father. The deceased is survived by an eight-month-old baby boy. OC of Golmuri thana, Arvind Kumar said, “Apparently it is a case of suicide, but as the deceased’s father has alleged her husband and in-laws have poisoned the young woman for dowry, we are compelled to register a case accordingly.” Kumar said that they would be arresting the accused only after carrying out an investigation. In another case, a 19-year-old youth, Sandeep Kumar Mahto, the only male member of the family committed suicide at his house in Rudra Prataap Colony in Seraikela. He was suffering from depression after his father and brother died a couple of years ago. In another locality of steel city, a 17-year-old boy, Sohan Kumar Sahu also chose to end his life at his home Kalisthan locality, which falls under Jugsalai thana area||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma foresters play Good Samaritan for daily wagers||Foresters of Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary are playing good Samaritan for daily wagers, who have not been paid their dues for the past six months. With the festive season being round the corner, 40-odd, daily wagers, are agitated since they have lost hopes of an early clearance of their dues. Besides the trackers, daily wagers are engaged in maintaining the accommodations and taking care of the two domesticated elephants as mahauts, while some work as cooks. Seeing their plight forest officials, including rangers, have taken on themselves to provide monetary help to the hapless daily wagers., some of whom are married with children. They are paid Rs 311.26 for their labour. The daily wagers work for about 26 days in a month. “We are living in a state of utter penury but are continuing with our work,” said Shristidhar Mahto, a watchman posted at the main entrance of the sanctuary at Makukakocha. He maintained that the workers can no longer wait for their pending dues to be cleared. “We have no option but to wait. Most of the daily wagers have started borrowing money on interest from lenders of different villages. The lenders are charging them a 10 percent interest rate on the loan. It is the festive season and we have to buy clothes for our family. We are already suffering from financial stress. We are under huge pressure to keep our family afloat,” said Dukhu Bhagat, a tracker. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the daily wagers have not received their dues for the past six months (from April onwards). “We are helping them financially by giving them an advance. We have also requested some grocers to provide them groceries on credit. But this situation should not stretch further,” he added. The government usually allots money for payment of daily wagers every two-three months but now the limit has overstretched. “Daily wagers receive their dues after every two-three months. This system has been in place for a long time. But a six-month wait is way too much for them in this festive season,” a forester said on condition of anonymity. The last payment that the Dalma daily wagers received was in March this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to host Smart City investors' meet on Saturday||The state urban development department is all set to host an investors’ meet in Ranchi this Saturday (October 2) to woo real estate developers and firms from various sectors to join the second edition of e-auction of plots for the proposed smart city project in the capital. According to officials on Thursday, the meet has been planned at BNR Chanakya where over two dozen companies are expected to participate, besides representatives of local trade bodies. Ranchi Smart City project CEO Amit Kumar maintained that they have invited a host of people from across sectors such as hospitality, education, real estate, among others, from within and outside the state for the meet. “The state government is soon going to put about 42 plots covering 218-acre under auction. However, before the meeting there will be an opportunity for potential investors to know about the offerings at this site. Also, it will be an opportunity for us to know their concerns or get any suggestions before we auction,” he said. He added that in the upcoming auction, plots of different nature will be put under the hammer. “The plots will be for education, commercial, public and semi-public utility and mixed use purposes,” he said. The first phase of e-auction was held between January and February when officials claimed that about nine big plots had been sold. Sources, however, said that the department has not received responses from enough bidders because of which the urban development department had planned the investors’ meet before finalizing the date for the next auction. Ranchi is among the 100 cities selected for India’s Smart City mission by the Centre. In 2017, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu had laid the foundation for the project in the state capital but work to set up basic infrastructure began only in 2019. The state urban development department has so far invested around Rs 800 crore for construction of facilities like drainage system, command and control system, convention centre among others. According to officials the smart city project is set up on 657 acres in the HEC area of which about 37 percent has been earmarked for greenery and open spaces as per the master plan. About 278.52 acres of land covering around 51 plots of various dimensions are initially being auctioned in various phases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||District hospitals in Pakur, Ramgarh, Khunti win Kayakalp awards for hygiene||Health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday gave away Centre-funded Kayakalp awards to as many as 67 government-run healthcare facilities in Jharkhand for maintaining hygiene and cleanliness, and lauded the efforts of public hospitals in keeping their premises infection-free even when Covid-19 wreaked havoc upon the state. The District Hospital in Pakur bagged the first position among district hospitals in all the 24 districts in the year 2019-2020, while district hospitals in Ramgarh and Khunti jointly won the first prize for maintaining cleanliness in the year 2020-2021. Giving away the awards, Gupta urged public hospitals to keep striving for better facilities and hygiene in their campus to ensure that patients are not reluctant to be treated there. “Hospitals should be sensitive not only towards the patients but also while handling their attendants. The environment at any public hospital should be welcoming so that patients do not have to think twice before getting admitted,” said Gupta, adding that hospitals have done a commendable job in treating Covid patients in Jharkhand at a time when the nature of the disease did not even allow family members of patients to come close to them. Besides the three district hospitals, at least 32 Public Healthcare Centres (PHCs), 28 Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs), and four Community Health Centres (CHCs) were awarded with the Kayakalp award at the function at National Health Mission (NHM) campus in Ranchi on Thursday. According to details shared by the health department, the winner in the category of district hospitals will be awarded a cash prize of Rs.50 lakh, while the winning CHC will get Rs 15 lakh and the runner up will get Rs 10 lakh. Rs 2 lakh will be awarded to the best performing PHC and Rs 1 lakh to the best performing HWC. The winners were decided on the basis of an assessment by the State Award Nomination Committee, which only nominated hospitals that got more than 70 per cent positive rating from patients, attendants and others. Jharkhand has been giving away the Kayakalp awards to hospitals since 2015. Gumla District Hospital won the award in 2015, followed by Deoghar District Hospital in 2016, East Singhbhum District Hospital in 2017 and Godda District Hospital in 2018. The state gave away awards for 2019 and 2020 on Thursday as most award ceremonies remained suspended due to Covid-19 since March 2020. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare launched the Kayakalp award scheme in June 2015 to encourage hygienic practices at public healthcare facilities as a part of the Centre’s Swachh Bharat Mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Nearly zero deficit rainfall in Jharkhand after four months of monsoon||Four months of the monsoon season ended on Thursday with Jharkhand recording a rain deficit of a meagre 1 per cent, the figure registering a dramatic fall from Wednesday's 4 per cent after incessant showers in the last 24 hours because of a cyclonic circulation originating in the Bay of Bengal. The monsoon is, however, yet to depart from the state, and is expected to stay on for some more time. In fact, the withdrawal of the monsoon, which usually begins in the third week of September from western Rajasthan, was yet to begin this year resulting in an extended monsoon. But, for the purpose of calculation of monsoon rain, the count of four months- June to September- is considered by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thursday's Met statistics showed Jharkhand's actual rainfall to be 1043.4 mm against a normal of 1054.7, a deficit of one per cent which is as good as normal. Last year, (2020), the monsoon had ended with a deficit of 14 per cent. In 2019, the four-month rainy season had ended with an 18 per cent deficit while in 2018 the figure was 28 per cent. In 2017, the monsoon had ended with a 10 per cent deficit in Jharkhand. Meteorologists consider rain deficit up to 19 per cent to be normal. This year, the southwest monsoon had an early arrival. It entered two days in advance on June 13. The monsoon currents were strong, resulting in surplus rain in the first two months of June and July. However, August ended with a four per cent rainfall deficit even there were frequent downpours. The rainfall in the first two weeks of September was not up to the mark, and the deficit had shot up to nine per cent. But towards the end of September, Cylcone Gulab and a back- to -back cyclonic circulation and a low-pressure resulted in widespread, heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jharkhand which helped in reduce the deficit. Head of IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said this year’s monsoon was impressive. “Rainfall during the four monsoon months was widespread. Rainfall in frequent intervals helped irrigation and agricultural activities,” he said. Met statistics revealed that capital Ranchi notched a 13 per cent surplus with rainfall of 1,213 mm against a normal of 1,074.6mm. Jamshedpur in East Singhbhum recorded excess rain of 19 per cent. The data showed Lohardaga topped the gainers’ list with 49 per cent excess rainfall. The district notched rainfall of 1,445.5mm against a normal of 971.9 mm. The other districts with surplus rain are Jamtara, Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Chatra, Dumka, Deoghar, Giridih, Hazaribagh, Ranchi and Ramgarh. Pakur topped the list of districts with rain deficit. Against a normal of 1,267.3mm, Pakur recorded rainfall of 809mm, a deficit of  36 per cent at the end of the four months. The other districts in rain losers list are Chatra, Godda, Gumla, Khunti and Simdega. The Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued an alert of heavy rainfall at a few isolated pockets, especially in northern parts of Jharkhand, in the next 48 hours due to the impact of the low-pressure which apart from Jharkhand resulted in a good spell of rain in neighbouring West Bengal during the last couple of days. The low-pressure, which originated from the Bay of Bengal, was on Thursday hovering over northern Jharkhand and Bihar. An associated cyclonic circulation was extending upto 7.6 Km above mean sea level. Rain data of last 24 hours suggested light to moderate rain at most places across Jharkhand. Extremely heavy to very heavy rain also took place at some places. Life was affected in Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih and several other places which witnessed extremely heavy rain in the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall of 309 mm was recorded at Putki in Dhanbad. Bokaro was next to follow with 290 mm of rain while Jamtara recorded to 244 mm. Papunki and Maithon in Dhanbad recorded over 200 mm of rain. Giridih and Deoghar recorded over 110 mm of rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Daily vaccination count drops below 1 lakh in Jharkhand||The daily vaccination number against Covid-19 in Jharkhand dropped below the 1-lakh-mark for the first time in September on Wednesday as the state managed to administer jabs to about 82,000 residents, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine  to as many as 49,243 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 32,067 beneficiaries. Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum vaccinated 10,000-odd residents, while Dhanbad managed to administer vaccine doses to hardly 5,000 beneficiaries. None of the remaining districts managed to vaccinate more than 5,000 residents. Sources involved in the immunisation drive said that many session sites failed to achieve their target of administering at least 100 vaccine jabs. Some of the session sites closed early after saturating the limited vaccine doses available in stock. At least six fresh cases of coronavirus infection against four Covid recoveries took the active caseload of Covid-19 in the state to 78, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. While Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported two Covid cases each, Giridih and Bokaro reported one fresh case of Covid-19 each. The active caseload rose to 47 in Ranchi and six in East Singhbhum as the two districts reported one Covid recovery each. At least 12 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not have active cases of Covid-19 by the end of Wednesday, and Ranchi alone accounted for more than 60 per cent of the state’s active cases. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of at least 45,447 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. The state has so far reported more than 3.48 lakh Covid cases and 98.50 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Non-BJP parties in the state protest against Centre’s policies||Non-BJP parties staged protests at all 24 district headquarters of Jharkhand on Wednesday against the Centre’s new farm and labour laws, its failure to contain inflation and privatisation of government assets. In a show of unity, senior leaders of the Congress, JMM, RJD and Left parties took part in the demonstrations and submitted memorandums to the governor through respective deputy commissioners demanding repeal of farm laws, reduction in fuel prices, immediate stoppage of privatisation of government and public sector enterprises, compensation for families who have lost earning members due to Covid-19 and immediate release of political prisoners and human rights activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. “We will be chalking out the future course of strategy taking into confidence all non-BJP parties. Memorandums were submitted in each of the 24 districts, while in Ranchi a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovid was submitted to governor Ramesh Bais,” said Congress spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad. The non-BJP parties in Jharkhand had earlier this month decided to come out on the streets to enforce the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella outfit of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, and had called for protests across Jharkhand on Wednesday against the BJP-led central government. “Through the demonstration, we wanted to put up a united face against the wrong policies of the BJP-led central government and also create awareness among the masses about the misdeeds of this government,” added Prasad. “We wanted to show that Opposition parties are not going to be cowed down by the BJP-led central government’s misuse of CBI, income tax and Enforcement Directorate against our leaders and continue to raise voices against the wrong policies. At present the central government is functioning to make selected capitalists happy at the cost of masses,” said JMM central vice-president and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya, who also attended the protest in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Team Dheeraj Taneja sweeps FJCCI annual election||The team led by Dheeraj Taneja has swept the annual election of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, and will run the show for next one year. After the results were declared on Tuesday night, Team Taneja won 18 of the total 21 posts of executive committee members. Those elected will now select from among themselves the office-bearers of the FJCCI. While Taneja will be formally declared as the next FJCCI president, names of the new general secretary, two vice-presidents, two joint secretaries and a treasurer will be announced when the executive committee meets for the first time a few days later. Six regional vice-presidents — one each from North and South Chotanagpur, Palamau, Kolhan, Coal Belt and Santhal Pargana — were already declared elected unopposed as they were the only candidates from their respective regions. These office-bearers will run the affairs of FJCCI for one year till another body takes over after elections next year. “Now that things are limping back to normal, we expect to carry forward the work taken up and advanced by our predecessors,” Taneja replied when asked about his priorities. He said everything had come to a standstill during the lockdown and then slowly started to return to near normal during the various phases of unlocking. Taneja said the chamber was active for ensuring ease of doing business by working in close coordination with the government, besides demanding implementation of the single-window system and helping industrial promotion in the state. The trade body poll had no excitement this time because unlike previous years when two 21-member teams led by two prominent businessmen would take on each other, only one 21-member team led by Taneja was in the fray while 14 others fought individually. But the election saw something unusual when instead of a traditional single-day poll, the polling exercise continued for three consecutive days from Sunday and counting began after the polling was over on Tuesday evening. “The polling was held on three days in a staggered manner as we had to maintain Covid protocol,” said election committee chairman Lalit Kedia. He said that 3,480 member-voters were asked to cast their votes during their allotted time slots spread over three days. At the end of polling, it was found that 1,708 traders comprising 49.08 per cent of the total voters had exercised their voting rights. More voters would have perhaps turned up if the polling was done on Sunday alone as many found it difficult to come for voting on working days, some said, citing that 789 had voted on Sunday while 511 and 408 voted on the next two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
