05-07-2021||Vijay Mohan||Monsoon continues to play truant in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal; little possibility of rain in next 5 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The monsoon over the northern region of the country continues to play truant, with little rain being expected in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Himachal Pradesh over the next few days.“Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during next 4-5 days,” a bulletin issued by IMD today morning said.“Hence, subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over Northwest, Central and Western parts of Peninsular India during next 4-5 days. Isolated/scattered thunderstorm activity accompanied with lightning and rainfall is also likely over these regions during this period,” the bulletin added.Starting with being significantly surplus in the region at the start of the season, the monsoon slipped into the red by the end of June. IMD data shows that from July 1 to July 4, rains have been deficient by 68 per cent in Punjab, 48 per cent in Haryana and 45 per cent in Himachal Pradesh.The Northern Limit of Southwest Monsoon (NLM) continues to lie along the latitude 26 degrees north and the longitude 70 degrees east, passing through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. This is roughly the same as it was about 10 days ago.Over the past 24 hours, thunderstorms were also observed, among other places across the country, at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Jammu and Kashmir, according to IMD.The maximum temperature was above normal by 1.6 to 3 degrees Celsius at most places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and at many places over Himachal Pradesh, On the other hand, the minimum temperature was below normal by 1.6 to 3 degrees Celsius at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and at a few places over Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The weatherman has predicted that maximum temperatures over Northwest India may rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius during the next 2 days and no significant change is likely thereafter. Also, no heatwave conditions are likely over the region during the next 5 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monsoon-continues-to-play-truant-in-punjab-haryana-himachal-little-possibility-of-rain-in-next-5-days-278571
05-07-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Following relaxations by Himachal govt, tourists make a beeline to Manali||Manali, July 5After almost 15 months Manali is again abuzz with tourists thronging Solang, Vashisht and the latest attraction, the Rohtang tunnel.The hoteliers are happy with most properties registering high occupancy.The tourist rush is highest on weekends, though the influx continues through the week with the mercury rising in the plains.Within a fortnight after June 14 when the state government announced Covid relaxations, as many as 23,900 outside vehicles paid the green tax charged by the Tourism Development Council, Kullu.Tourists from Delhi, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, who are flocking to Manali, are indulging in adventure activities like rock climbing, trekking and river rafting in the Beas.Large numbers of tourists are arriving in Manali en route to Leh-Ladakh, which, too, is contributing to reviving the tourism industry. The taxi owners are also relieved.The tourism industry had taken a severe beating after the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic as hotels, guesthouses and home-stays had suffered huge losses.According to hoteliers, over 5,000 outside vehicles are entering the hill town on weekends.Majority of the popular tourist destinations in Himachal - Kasauli, Kullu-Manali, Shimla-Kufri-Narkanda, Dalhousie-Khajjiar - are witnessing huge tourist rush, especially on weekends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/following-relaxations-by-himachal-govt-tourists-make-a-beeline-to-manali-278570
05-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Freedom fighter dies at 106, cremated with state honours||Nurpur, July 4Kashmir Singh (106), a freedom fighter in Jawali subdivision, who died after a brief illness on Friday midnight, was cremated with state honours at his native village Jol yesterday evening. The guard of honor was accorded by the Kangra police, under the aegis of DSP Jawali Sidharth Shrama. Local MLA Arjun Singh and SDM Jawali Krishan Kumar also attended the funeral, laid floral wreaths and paid tributes to the freedom fighter.Kashmir Singh had served as a sepoy in Subhas Chandra Bose’s Indian National Army known as ‘Azad Hind Fauj’ before Independence. He is survived by his wife, two sons and one daughter. His family said barring aging health problems, he was fit till his demise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/freedom-fighter-dies-at-106-cremated-with-state-honours-278244
05-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||McLeodganj packed to capacity, ‘poor’ traffic management adds to woes||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 4Tourists, mostly from Punjab, thronged Dharamsala and its surrounding areas this weekend. Hotels in upper Dharamsala — comprising McLeodganj, Bhagsunag and Dharamkot — were packed to capacity on Friday.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary, Dharamsala hotel association, said many tourists who arrived from Punjab late in the evening, couldn’t find a room in McLeodganj and had to return to lower areas of Dharamsala. He said most of the tourists had come without booking.The sudden influx of tourists this weekend caught the authorities unawares. Long traffic jams were witnessed in upper Dharamsala. Tourists were caught in traffic jams for two-three hours near McLeodganj. Raveen Singh, a tourist from Jalandhar, said it took him about three hours to reach his hotel from Dharamsala Cantonment to McLeodganj at a distance of about 6 km.Hoteliers blamed the lack of proper traffic management for the chaos. Besides, vehicles parked along the roads also slowed down the traffic, they alleged.Though there had been no tourism activity in the Dharamsala area for the past two years since the first lockdown was imposed, the authorities have failed to improve the infrastructure in the area, they said. The road linking McLeodganj to the Indrunag area, which could have eased traffic in the area, has been lying incomplete for over four years, they said. It has not been completed as a dispute over a small piece of land with an individual has not been resolved by the government, they alleged.Though parking areas have been proposed in McLeodganj under the Smart City scheme, the work is yet to start. The hotel association of Dharamsala had proposed to the government that it should be allotted some vacant government land in McLeodganj and Bhagsunag so that they could construct parking areas on their own. No decision has been taken on the proposal yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mcleodganj-packed-to-capacity-poor-traffic-management-adds-to-woes-278245
05-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Traffic jams greet tourists in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 4The tarring and road widening projects undertaken by the NHAI and the PWD led to frequent traffic jams in Shimla and its suburbs, which were packed to capacity with tourists this weekend. The worst hit stretch was the Shimla-Kufri road, commuting on which turned out to be a nightmare for tourists.Tarring work is going on the Dhalli-Chharabra stretch of the road, due to which only one-way traffic is allowed on some stretches. As a result, traffic flow was disrupted for half an hour today but it took over two hours to normalise the situation as loads of vehicles piled up on the stretch and even ministers and senior bureaucrats were caught in the jam. As per a rough estimate of the police, about 8,000 vehicles entered Kufri today.“A traffic jam started around 11.30 am and the situation worsened within an hour. It took us one full day to reach Kufri due to which a holiday was wasted. The administration should do something about the traffic congestion. What is the point of coming to Shimla if you are stuck in traffic for hours?” questioned Anurag, a tourist from Delhi who had come with his wife Anjali.Commuting a nightmareIt took us a day to reach Kufri due to which a holiday was wasted. The administration should do something about the traffic jam. What is the point in coming to Shimla if you are stuck in traffic for hours? —Anurag, Tourist from DelhiAs many as 7,357 vehicles entered Shimla through the Shoghi barrier in the last 30 hours but tourists were greeted by frequent traffic jams and vehicles moved at a snail’s pace at several points, owing to the construction work under the Smart City project at 73 sites.The easing of Covid restrictions has given a big boost to the tourism industry and occupancy in hotels in Shimla and its suburbs is about 95 per cent while roads are choked with vehicles. The occupancy in hotels is between 90 and 100 per cent and the advance bookings for weekends and weekdays are 80 per cent and 50 per cent, respectively, said Sanjay Sood, president of Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association.“Over 100 police personnel have been deployed on the stretch to ensure smooth traffic. We urge the authorities to avoid tarring and construction works during the weekends when the tourist inflow is heavy and complete the work during night hours when the traffic flow is low to avoid inconvenience to people,” said Mohit Chawla, SP, Shimla.“The Shimla police are working hard for a smooth flow of traffic and we request the public to not park their vehicles at unspecified places,” he added.If works continue during the peak tourist season, the situation will become alarming with the start of the apple season as hundreds of trucks ply on these routes, said a retired government employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-jams-greet-tourists-in-shimla-278246
05-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||HPMC wines, juices to be sold at Haryana fuel stations||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 4More than a dozen products like fruit wines, juices and jams produced in the state will now be available for sale at petrol pumps and agro outlets in Haryana for which the Himachal Government has tied up with the neighbouring state.Besides the Haryana Agro, the HPMC has also tied up with Vita, Patanjali and Swiss firm Givaudan for sale of its apple juice concentrate. The Swiss firm, which makes perfumes, has sought 120 metric tonnes of apple juice concentrate to be used as food flavouring agent.The HP Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC) has tied up with the Haryana Agro for sale of its juices, wines, jams, apple juice concentrate, cider and pickles at its 2,000 outlets. The products will also be available at about 2,000 petrol pumps across Haryana.“We have formulated our marketing policy and tied up with various agencies like Vita and Patanjali to sell our products,” revealed Rajeshwar Goel, Managing Director, HPMC. He said the MoU with the Haryana Agro will be signed shortly.With a bumper apple crop being expected this season, beginning on July 15, the HPMC is hoping to procure the fruit in large quantity, which can be processed into various items.The HPMC is also keen to sell its products at about 50 railway stations across the country for which the matter has been taken up with the Railway Ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpmc-wines-juices-to-be-sold-at-haryana-fuel-stations-278247
05-07-2021||A five-day Faculty Development Programme (FDP) in data science (elementary)||IIIT-Una organises event on data science||Edu trust gives ration to needyThe Sunil Upadhyay Education Trust distributed 139 ration kits among the needy in and around Shimla. Trust secretary Surender Sharma said the pandemic had adversely impacted the financial condition of people and the Trust wanted to provide assistance to them. He said the Trust had distributed clothes and food among Covid patients and organised blood donation camps during the pandemic.Yajna performed for students’ safetyActivists of the NSUI and the Youth Congress, who had been on a hunger strike from the past six days, conducted a yajna, saying they were worried about the safety of students as HPU had not postponed exams, and hoped the Chief Minister would address the issue. The NSUI said if the state technical university could postpone exams, why not HPU. The NSUI and Youth Congress also launched #Boycott Himachal BJP campaign on Twitter as the government was 'ignoring their demands'.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iiit-una-organises-event-on-data-science-278248
05-07-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||BJP president to gauge pulse of ticket aspirants||Kullu, July 4The ticket aspirants for the byelections to the Mandi parliamentary seat will try to impress BJP chief JP Nadda during his visit to Kullu tomorrow. He will hold a meeting with BJP office-bearers at Dev Sadan in Dhalpur.The party chief will gauge the pulse of the leaders to finalise the candidates. The list of contenders for Mandi has become long and the aspirants can meet the president separately.The names of chairman-cum-managing director of the HP Ex-servicemen Corporation Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) and state BJP spokesperson Ajay Rana are doing the rounds. Along with this, Maheshwar Singh, who had won the seat thrice earlier, is also a prominent contender. Sources said that Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh, who was also in the fray earlier, was made the BJP in-charge for the Mandi bypoll.Party office-bearers Payal Vaidya and Pankaj Jamwal from Jogindernagar are also among the probable candidates.Apart from visiting the Atal Tunnel, the BJP president will head for Sissu in Lahaul and fly back to the Bhuntar airport in the afternoon.After the meeting at Kullu, he will go to his aunt’s home in Shastri Nagar and will stay there for the night. The next day, the BJP president will leave for Delhi at 10 am from the Bhuntar airport.Earlier, Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap took stock of the preparations for Nadda’s visit. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur arrived in Kullu in a helicopter today and visited Dev Sadan. The Chief Minister also inspected the progress of repair work on the Bhootnath bridge near Sarwari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-president-to-gauge-pulse-of-ticket-aspirants-278249
05-07-2021||---||In Una, stone crusher owners threaten to block roads, stall work||Dharamsala, July 4The owners of stone crushers in Una have threatened to block roads if their demands were not met by the government. Dimple Thakur, president of the stone crusher owners association of Una, said that they would block roads with tractor-trailers if the government did not pay heed to their demands. They also threatened to take their strike statewide and hamper development works.The stone crusher owners had proceeded on a strike on June 30. The strike has already led to increase in prices of sand and gravel in Una district and hit development works.Dimple Thakur alleged that they went on a strike as the government had failed to provide them protection against groups of anti-social elements, who were hampering their legal business in villages. The stone crusher owners are objecting to groups of vigilantes that have come in many areas of the state who are opposing movement to heavy vehicles on rural roads.Their grievancesThe other demand of the stone crusher owners is that they should be allowed mechanical mining in the leased areas allotted to them. They are demanding that the government should allow them to lift sand and gravel with 80 BHP machines as was being done in many other states.The stone crushers owners are alleging that the making mechanical mining illegal even in leased out areas is leading to corruption.Director, Industries Himachal, Rakesh Prajapati said the government policy was clear that it would not allow illegal mining. The pressure tactics of stone crusher owners won’t work and those involved in illegal mining would be dealt with strictly as per the directions of the NGT, he said.The Director Industries, however, said the government was planning to geo fence the areas allotted for mining leases in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-una-stone-crusher-owners-threaten-to-block-roads-stall-work-278250
05-07-2021||KULLU||Trilokinath-Tabo bus service launched||Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda launched the HRTC bus service from Trilokinath to Tabo from Trilokinath in Lahaul and Spiti district today.  The fare of Rs 420 has been fixed for the one-way journey of 189 km. The service has been started on a trial basis for 15 days and will be continued if the response is good. The minister said Rs 1 crore would be spent on construction of parking lot at Triloknath. The PWD would start the tender process. After the opening of Atal Tunnel, the number of tourists to the Lahaul valley was increasing. Therefore, it was necessary to have parking facility there. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/trilokinath-tabo-bus-service-launched-278251
05-07-2021||Shimla||Police issue advisory to public on chopper landing||The police today advised the general public and spectators to maintain appropriate distance from a landing helicopter during the time of any VIP visit and advance towards it only after the rotors have halted.The advisory issued by the DGP office says it has been observed that during VIP visits, people rush towards the landing site while the helicopter is still in air, hovering over the landing site or after it has landed, but the rotors are still in motion. It is extremely dangerous and may lead to freak accidents, it adds.“Political persons and govt officials are also advised not to show unnecessary excitement and rush towards the VIP to welcome them. People should approach the dignitary only after the rotors have halted and the pilot has exited the cockpit, placed the gangway and doors are open for the VIP exit,” the advisory adds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-issue-advisory-to-public-on-chopper-landing-278252
05-07-2021||Solan||Nauni varsity, Shimla firm tie up for vinegar tech||Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, has signed an MoU with a Shimla-based food processing company for the production of apple cider vinegar based on the technology developed by its scientists.This is the second start-up that has signed an agreement with the university for the transfer of technology by paying Rs 40,000 as fee. The company will acknowledge the university’s name on the product label.KD Sharma, Professor and Head, Department of Food Science and Technology, said the technology was an alternative to the traditional methods and ensured utilisation of culled apples. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-varsity-shimla-firm-tie-up-for-vinegar-tech-278253
05-07-2021||Solan||Shoolini varsity ranked No. 1 in HP||Shoolini University, Solan, has secured the 20th position across India and number one in Himachal Pradesh in the latest Education World India Private University Rankings.The rankings were tabulated by Delhi-based Centre for Forecasting and Research (C-fore) with diligent care to classify and segregate autonomous private colleges, government autonomous colleges, and non-autonomous colleges based on the criteria set up by the UGC. “Shoolini University shared the 20th position with Chitkara University, Rajpura, and emerged number 1 in HP, scoring 1,073 points in different categories. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-varsity-ranked-no-1-in-hp-278254
05-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Nadda to discuss plan for 3 bypolls||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 4The strategy for the Mandi Lok Sabha, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly byelections and ‘Mission Repeat 2022’ are expected to be the topics of discussion at a meeting of BJP national president JP Nadda with the top brass of the state BJP at Kullu tomorrow.The names of the candidates and feedback on their public image and winning prospects are likely to be discussed with Nadda, who hails from Bilaspur district of Himachal.Insiders said talks would be held on the ground situation in the constituencies where the bypolls were slated as well as the names of probable candidates.Recent show below parThe party MLAs and defeated candidates have already submitted report cards of their performance during the past three-and-a-half years based on development works, party activities undertaken during the Covid pandemic and future planning. The party is keen that consensus is arrived at the names of the candidates and chances of under-cutting by aggrieved ticket aspirants are minimised. The performance of the BJP was below expectations in the recent elections to four MCs. The party got a clear majority only in the Mandi civic body. Since the elections for the Shimla MC were due in May 2021 and the Assembly elections are expected in November 2021, the results of the bypolls are crucial. The BJP had won the Mandi LS seat with a huge majority in 2019 and secured lead in all 17 Assembly segments.Nadda, who was received by CM Jai Ram Thakur, Cabinet ministers Suresh Bharadwaj and Rajinder Garg, state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap, general secretary Trilok Jamwal and organisation secretary Pawan Rana, was accorded a rousing reception on his arrival at Luhnu Maiden and drove straight to his native place Vijaypur in Bilaspur district. Nadda would visit the Atal Tunnel tomorrow, attend a meeting at Kullu and return to Delhi on July 6 after paying homage to founder of erstwhile Jan Sangh, late Dr Syama Prasad Mukherjee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nadda-to-discuss-plan-for-3-bypolls-278255
05-07-2021||---||87 new cases in Himachal||Shimla, July 4A total of 87 new Covid cases have been reported in the state in the last 24 hours. The state saw one person succumbing to the virus in Kangra in the last 24 hours, taking the total Covid fatalities to 3,467 since the outbreak of the pandemic.There were 22 cases in Shimla, 14 in Bilaspur, 12 in Mandi, 11 in Solan, eight each in Chamba and Hamirpur, three each in Kangra, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti and Una.Meanwhile, as many as 166 patients recovered today. The number of active cases is 1,365 and the total number of positive cases in the state till now is 2,02,642.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/87-new-cases-in-himachal-278256
05-07-2021||Solan||Governor visits CRI, calls for more research||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya visited the Central Research Institute (CRI) at Kasauli yesterday. He expressed satisfaction that the trials of Covid-19 antiserum were in the second stage. He stressed enhancing research as the state government was spending more money on such activities.“The CRI is a premier national institute of more than 116 years history and unique for epidemic and microbiology related research on vaccine. It is one of the most important suppliers of vaccines for the government’s universal immunisation programme. The institute is also involved in the manufacture and supply of various life-saving therapeutics antisera for snakebite, rabies and diphtheria,” he said, adding that research work was very important and it should reach from lab to hand. Dr Ajay Talhan, Director, CRI, briefed the Governor about the activities and achievements of the institute. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-visits-cri-calls-for-more-research-278257
05-07-2021||The tourist arrival in large numbers has brought back the congestion and hours-long traffic jams in the state capital. Even though educational institutions are yet to open in the state capital||Tourist and traffic woes||Feud rekindles political hopesThe family dispute of a ruling party MLA in Dharamsala has its political ramifications. The dispute which went viral on social media has rekindled hope among a few politicians who had earlier concluded that their political career was over. Though both ruling and opposition party leaders chose to keep quiet over the issue the dispute has captured the imagination of all political and bureaucratic circles in private.Cops and slappingIt seems that slapping has become a normal activity for Himachal police. After the ugly incident of SP Kullu slapping ASP CM security on June 23 during Union Minister Nitin Gadkari’s visit in the presence of Chief Minister and PSO kicking the SP in retaliation, another video of a traffic police slapping a tourist from Haryana on July 1 went viral. It is high time that the police realise that their duty is to maintain law and order and investigate cases and not take law in their hands, commented a politician. Seems regular advice by the top police brass is going unheeded.Unity, a far-fetched dreamThe Opposition Congress tried to put up a united show at a recent Jan Aakrosh rally at Solan where leaders of various factions converged. The unity, however, was short-lived as the Pradesh Congress Committee president and a few others did not even bother to stay back for lunch. They preferred to beat a hasty retreat much to the chagrin of the local MLA Dhani Ram Shandil, who is a senior leader besides being a former Congress Working Committee member. With such chasm being evident between various factions, one wonders how the leaders hope to make a comeback as three by-polls and then the state Assembly elections are round the corner.Contributed by Lalit Mohan, Bhanu Lohumi, Ambika Sharma and Pratibha Chauhan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-and-traffic-woes-278262
05-07-2021||While the police on traffic duty could be seen on the main roads in the town||No Traffic police during rush hour||Need for a parking lot in Kasumpti marketAt any given time during the day, it’s impossible to step out of your vehicle for buying even a small thing in Kasumpti market. If a vehicles stops even for a moment, it results in a long traffic jam. A parking lot should be developed somewhere close to the market, so people can shop there. —Surender Thakur, KasumptiWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribuneinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-traffic-police-during-rush-hour-278263
05-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal pvt schools, parents at odds over fee plan||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 4Private school managements are opposing the Himachal Pradesh Private Schools (Regulations of Fee and Other Related Matters) Bill, 2021, while parents of students want that the fee should be decided by consensus in the general house conducted by the school managements.Twenty-seven suggestions were received for the draft of the Bill uploaded on the website of the education department till the June 30 deadline. The suggestions have been sent to the Secretary, Education, said the Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma.The private schools are demanding 6 to 10 per cent increase in annual charges. Some schools are of the opinion that having a large number of stakeholders in the Bill drafting committee would only delay the decision. They want a committee comprising just the Director (Education), Deputy Commissioners, presidents of the parent-teacher associations and representatives of school managements. The parents’ associations argue that when the fee of private institutions for higher education is fixed by the higher education department then why the same pattern cannot be followed for schools. There are 1,570 private schools in the state.“We are willing to pay a 3 per cent increase in annual charges,” the president of the parents’ association in Shimla, Ramesh Thakur, said, adding that the fee should be reduced in view of the pandemic as only online classes have been held.Several parents have maintained that their paying capacity has been badly hit due to reduced earnings. The fee, in fact, should be nominal because of the pandemic, they said, adding that the Bill should be passed in the upcoming monsoon session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pvt-schools-parents-at-odds-over-fee-plan-278279
05-07-2021||Shimla||Tourists throng Himachal as heat wave hits plains, Covid wave slows down||Tourists have been thronging Himachal Pradesh as the heatwave has hit the plains and the second wave of COVID-19 seeing a significant decline in the country.People from the plains are visiting tourist hotspots like Shimla, Kufri, Narkanda, Dalhousie, Manali, Lahaul and other places in the hill state in large numbers to get rid of the scorching heat.The occupancy in the hotels has increased in the past few days but it has yet to reach its peak, said Mohinder Seth, president of Tourism Industry Stakeholder Association.“The occupancy in the hotels remains between 60 and 90 per cent during weekends, while on other days it remains around 40-45 per cent,” Seth told PTI.Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association president Sanjay Sood said the withdrawal of the condition of negative RTPCR report and e-covid pass to enter Himachal Pradesh recently has given a boost to the tourism industry of the state.However, the increase in the number of tourists has posed a challenge to the state government to ensure adhering of Covid protocol by the visitors amid fears of an impending third wave of coronavirus infections.Asserting that the hoteliers have been following Covid protocol in their premises for over a year, Sood hoped that the number of tourists would further increase in the coming days.A tourist, Nikita Kukreja, said the majority of the visitors were seen following Covid protocol. She along with her family members has come from Gurgaon to visit various tourist places in and around Shimla.“Police personnel are also seen at various places on Mall road. As and when they see any tourist not wearing a mask, they warn that tourist to properly follow Covid protocol,” she said.Another tourist from Delhi Sanjana said the oppressive heatwave in the national capital forced her to visit the state.Mohinder Seth said the state government has not provided any relief in the shape of financial aid or waiver of taxes to the tourism industry hit hard by the COVID-10 pandemic.While the Gujarat government has provided a hundred per cent relief to hoteliers by waiving property tax and garbage collection fees, Maharashtra and Odisha governments have given fifty per cent relief, he claimed seeking relief on the same pattern in Himachal Pradesh.In the Kullu district, Atal Tunnel Rohtang (ATR) has become a major attraction for visitors.A record number of 6,400 vehicles had crossed the tunnel last Sunday.“This was the highest single-day and highest till date arrivals,” said Manav Verma, Superintendent of Police Lahaul-Spiti, adding 2,001 vehicles crossed the tunnel on Friday.However, Budhi Prakash Thakur, state convener, Forum of Hotel and Restaurant Association, told PTI, "The occupancy in hotels is dismal and figures hang around less than 25 per cent.” As the tourism industry is yet to pick up the pace, the Manali town is not witnessing the usual summer season traffic jams.In the Chamba district, the tourist inflow to Dalhousie, Khajjiar and Chamba is picking up gradually. The hoteliers are upbeat as there was an acute slump in the tourism business for the last over one year due to the pandemic.Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association Dalhousie chief patron Manoj Chadha believes that since this is the peak tourist season due to summer, the tourist influx would further increase if the conditions continue to be the same.The charming hill station Dalhousie has the potential to attract tourists from home and abroad, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-throng-himachal-as-heat-wave-hits-plains-covid-wave-slows-down-278121
05-07-2021||---||Himachal plans first jab to all by July-end||Shimla, July 1Himachal has set sights on vaccinating its entire eligible population with the first dose by July-end.“The entire 18-plus population is around 55 lakh. Depending on the availability of vaccine, we should be able to administer everyone with the first dose by July-end,” said Secretary, Health, Amitabh Awasthy on National Doctors’ Day.The state has administered the first dose to around 33 lakh people and a little over five lakh have received both shots. Overall, over 38 lakh doses have been administered.Besides, Awasthy hoped that all 28 allotted PSA oxygen plants would be ready before the anticipated third wave in the state. “Eight PSA plants are already functional and we are trying to make the remaining functional before August 15,” he said. The state is unlikely to face oxygen shortage. He said with the active cases hovering around 1,600 now, the pandemic is in control to a large extent.Dr Mallay Sarkar, a member of the state Covid committee, said there was no scope for complacency even if the situation seemed under control. Stressing the need to continue Covid-appropriate behaviour, Dr Sarkar said there was need to conduct a gap analysis for manpower, beds and oxygen and address the shortcomings immediately to stay prepared. “Also, there’s need to create community Covid care centres at gram panchayat level to ensure preparedness in the rural areas,” he said.Docs role laudedOn National Doctors’ Day, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur showered praises on doctors for their role in handling the pandemic. “You will tell this to the coming generations with pride that you were there in PPE kits, fighting the pandemic. Your work will be remembered for generations,” he said. The doctors worked day in and day out to treat the patients, without bothering about their own lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-plans-first-jab-to-all-by-july-end-276802
