06-07-2021||---||After a year's break, Modi calls up Dalai Lama on his birthday||New Delhi, July 6In a departure from last year when New Delhi still entertained expectations of a border rapprochement with China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday on Tuesday. Last year, PM Modi had been conspicuously silent on Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday. Dalai Lama, though, has not failed to wish PM Modi on his birthday each year on September 17, regardless of whether a greeting has come his way on his birthday on July 6. As was the case in 2019 after he returned for a second term, the Prime Minister spoke on the phone with the Dalai Lama on Tuesday to wish him a long and healthy life. Last year around this time, when there seemed some hope of a PLA pull back, PM Modi had refrained from wishing the Dalai Lama on his birthday.Interestingly, Union Minister Kiren Rejiju, who is an MP from Arunachal Pradesh, part of which China claims as its territory, has not wished the Dalai Lama so far. Last year, Rejiju and the Lt Governor of Ladakh UT RK Mathur had wished the Dalai Lama from their official accounts even though the PM hadn’t done so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-a-years-break-modi-calls-up-dalai-lama-on-his-birthday-279069
06-07-2021||---||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh’s condition stable after he suffers heart attack||Shimla, July 6Six-time Himachal chief minister Virbhadra Singh has been shifted to the cardiac care unit (CCU) at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) after he suffered a heart attack on Monday.Dr Janak Raj, Senior Medical Superintendent, IGMC, said Virbhadra suffered a cardiac arrest on Monday morning. His condition is serious but stable, he added.Despite having recovered from Covid twice in the last three months, Virbhadra remains admitted to IGMC here since April 23.The 87-year-old sitting MLA from Arki had tested positive for Covid for the first time on April 13 and was shifted to Max Hospital, Mohali. Virbhadra had to be admitted to the IGMC on April 23 on his return from Mohali as his oxygen saturation level dipped. Ever since he has been in the IGMC and got a second Covid infection on June 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singhs-condition-stable-after-he-suffers-heart-attack-279050
06-07-2021||---||Dalai Lama turns 86||Dharamsala, July 6The Dalai Lama, spiritual head of the Tibetans, turned 86 on Tuesday.On behalf of all my fellow Indians, wishing His Holiness the 14th @DalaiLama on his 86th birthday. We consider ourselves fortunate to be inculcating your values in our Delhi government school students through the medium of Happiness Curriculum. pic.twitter.com/WftjiUzb6CIn a video message released in the morning from his residence in McLeodganj, the Dalai Lama demanded a gift from his friends that they should remain committed to non-violence and compassion.The Dalai Lama said that being a refugee he fully utilised India’s freedom and concept of secularism. “For the rest of my life I shall be committed to serving humanity and working for the protection of environment,” he said.Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life.“Many people love me and many love my smile. Despite my old age my face is quite handsome and that is why many people are friendly to me,” the Dalai Lama said.The Dalai Lama expressed deep appreciation to his friends who showed him love and respect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-turns-86-279035
06-07-2021||Solan||Baddi villagers oppose land rate for railway project||Residents of 10 villages have refused to accept the compensation offered to them at a public hearing convened by SDM, Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal at Baddi today. Their land is being acquired for the Chandigarh-Baddi rail project.Representatives of the farmers said it was shocking that the state government had reduced the circle rates. They contended that the rates offered by the railway officials were not applicable anywhere in the industrial belt of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN).About the projectFormer Doon MLA Ramkumar Chaudhary, who also attended the public hearing, said the government was acquiring their land worth crores for a song. He said, “We are not opposed to development but it should not be at the cost of the common man’s interests. Three years ago, the administration had said the landowners would get a compensation of Rs 90 lakh per bigha and this rate should have gone up now. It has rather come down to Rs 15 lakh. ”Supporting the farmers, BJP district vice-president and Director, Forest Corporation, Balwinder Thakur said the administration should reconsider the rate of compensation and it should be granted as per the circle rate which was their right.President of the Jan Kalyan Samiti, which was spearheading the protest, Charan Dass, president, Beopar Mandal Jaswant Rai and Kisan Sewa Sangathan members Sanjeev Kaushal and Dinesh Kaushal said they would challenge the rates approved by the local administration.The SDM said since the farmers were not satisfied with the rates offered to them, the Deputy Commissioner and the state government would be apprised about their demands. He also negated the claims made by the Congress leader and said these were far from the truth.Rates varying from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 47 lakh had been fixed for various villages, including Kenduwal, Sandholi, Haripur Sandholi, Billanwali Gujran, Kalyanpur, Chak- Jungi, Landewal, Baddi Shitalpur and Sarajmajra Lubana, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-villagers-oppose-land-rate-for-railway-project-278907
06-07-2021||Shimla||Entries open for International Film Festival of Shimla||Filmmakers were today allowed to submit their entries for the 7th edition of the International Film Festival of Shimla (IFFS) in the international, national and state categories, besides feature and documentary films, and short and animation films. The last date for the submission of the entries is August 31. Filmmakers can submit their entries on the festival website or the portal-film freeway, said Festival Director Pushp Raj Thakur. He added that many independent filmmakers had made movies even during the Covid time and they were looking for a platform for their screening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/entries-open-for-international-film-festival-of-shimla-278908
06-07-2021||Solan||Solan: Stay away from Ashwani Khud in Kandaghat subdivision, tourists advised||The district administration today directed tourists to stay away from the Ashwani Khud near Sadhupul village in Kandaghat subdivision of the district, as their activities are polluting the water resource.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, Kritika Kulhari urged the tourists not to use the khud water for washing and other purposes and also desist from throwing plastic and other garbage into it. Their activities are polluting this resource of potable drinking water.Kulhari has already imposed Section 144 of the CrPc in the vicinity of the Ashwani Khud, banning activities such as bathing, washing vehicles and littering in the khud. The decision is aimed at educating tourists about the need to preserve the khud, which is a source of drinking water for a large population in the area.A large number of tourists visit the area, especially at weekends. “As the rainy season has already set in, the threat of flash floods looms large and any misadventure by tourists in the khud can cost them dear. As a precaution, a signage has been erected to caution visitors about the prohibitory orders banning picnics, commercial activities and bathing in the vicinity of the khud,” said Vikas Sood, SDM, Kandaghat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-stay-away-from-ashwani-khud-in-kandaghat-subdivision-tourists-advised-278910
06-07-2021||Shimla||Water shortage in Shimla as tourist footfall increases||The high influx of tourists into Shimla following the lifting of Covid restrictions has led to a slight shortage of water in the city.According to Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited, the company procuring and distributing water in the Shimla municipal limits, there has been a difference of 2-3 MLD between demand and supply for the past few days. “We are getting around 40 MLD, which is around 2-3 MLD less than what we require at the moment,” said SJPNL AGM Harmesh Bhatia. As a result, the company has done some rescheduling in water distribution. “We are applying cuts for 20-30 minutes as and when required,” said Bhatia.While the arrival of tourists has pushed up the demand, the weak monsoon has depleted the water level at the source. “We haven’t had much rain in the last 10-15 days, affecting water availability at the source. The water level in Ashwani Khud, in particular, has gone down considerably, from 4.5MLD to 1.5 MLD,” said AGM (Distribution) Rajesh Kashyap.The company, however, is confident that the gap between demand and supply would be bridged over the next few days. “We are now pumping during the peak hours, which we were avoiding earlier. Also, we are strengthening our monitoring system to ensure that everyone gets equal quantity of water,” said Kashyap.The SJPNL officials say if the public ensure that there is no wastage of water, they have sufficient water to cater to the needs of the city even during the peak occupancy in hotels.Incidentally, due to the inadequate snowfall and rains during the winters, the city was expected to face water shortage during the summers. However, the almost post winter snowfall and rains charged up the water sources and the city got more than adequate water during the summers.Besides, the water company is trying to sort out the billing issues, a constant irritant among consumers. “People have problems regarding billing. People are getting arrears despite making the payment, there are problems related to server and gateway. We will soon take up the matter with DIT and HDFC to ensure people get accurate bills and there are no issues related to payments,” said Bhatia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-shortage-in-shimla-as-tourist-footfall-increases-278911
06-07-2021||Solan||Shamti bypass in Solan misses June 30 deadline||The PWD has again skipped the June 30 deadline for completing the 5.4-km Shamti bypass, which will ease the traffic congestion in Solan town. It will be completed by the year-end now.The project, conceived in 2015, has hit several roadblocks and failed to be completed despite several deadlines having been declared by PWD officials. Its cost was pegged at Rs 26 crore. A sum of Rs 11.98 crore was spent on acquiring a major portion of land initially. More than two years were passed on finalising the land, which sizeably pushed up its cost of acquisition.PWD officials had claimed in a Vidhan Sabha reply earlier this year that the bypass would be completed by June. Of the 5.4 km, work like formation-cutting of double lane for 4 km and cross-drainage had been completed and the remaining work was in progressChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had also announced its completion by June 30 during his visit to Solan in the run-up to the municipal corporation polls held in April this year. A sum of Rs 5 crore had been announced by him in April 2018 during his visit to Solan to ensure its completion.Local MLA Dr DR Shandil said, “The bypass was conceived to check the multifold rise in the vehicular traffic in Solan. It was part of my poll manifesto in 2012 and Rs 26 crore was arranged for the project. But the sluggish approach of the PWD staff has delayed its completion.”“I’m pursuing it and 3.5-km road is ready whose metalling is underway while a key bridge is being constructed now. I’ve directed the officials to ensure its completion by the year-end and speed up the works to benefit the residents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shamti-bypass-in-solan-misses-june-30-deadline-278912
06-07-2021||Solan||26 projects from Nahan and Paonta Sahib cleared, sent to banks for funding||Projects of 26 candidates were selected for funding under the Mukhmantri Swavalamban Yojna from Nahan and Paonta Sahib development blocks in Sirmaur district today.A committee headed by Deputy Commissioner Sirmaur RK Gautam selected these 26 projects worth Rs 3.62 crore. “These business ventures comprised purchase of small goods vehicle, setting up of beauty parlours, fitness gyms, restaurant, poultry, auto workshop, testing lab, etc. Out of the 60 candidates, who had applied, 26 projects have been cleared today and the bankers have also agreed to finance them,” informed Gautam.The state government has enhanced the investment limit to Rs 1 crore from Rs 60 lakh under this scheme where 25 to 35 per cent subsidy is granted by the government.The Deputy Commissioner directed the bankers to clear loans for these projects. A target of Rs 10.50 crore subsidy has been fixed for the current financial year and officials have been directed to achieve this target in a time-bound manner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/26-projects-from-nahan-and-paonta-sahib-cleared-sent-to-banks-for-funding-278914
06-07-2021||Abhinav VashishtKULLU||Tourists throng Solang, Manali, Rohtang tunnel||After almost 15 months, Manali is again abuzz with tourists thronging Solang Nullah, Vashisht and the latest attraction, the Rohtang tunnel. Hoteliers are happy as most properties are registering high occupancy. The beneficiaries of the tourism industry are elated. Generally, the tourist footfall starts receding from July but this year, the tourist destination is still witnessing an increase in the numbers of visitors.Though the influx continues through the week with the mercury rising in the plains, the tourist rush is highest on weekends. The revellers are also rushing to the hill station to seek relief from boredom due to Covid crisis. Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said 65,028 vehicles entered the Lahaul valley through the Rohtang tunnel in June.Within a fortnight, after June 14, when the state government announced Covid relaxations, as many as 23,900 outside vehicles paid the green tax charged by the Tourism Development Council, Kullu. This tax is not applicable to vehicles registered in Himachal.Tourists from Delhi, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, who are flocking to Manali, are indulging in adventure activities like paragliding, rock climbing, trekking and river rafting in the Beas.A large numbers of tourists are arriving in Manali en route to Leh, which, too, is contributing to reviving the tourism industry. The taxi owners are also relieved.Anup Ram Thakur, president, Manali Hoteliers Association, said tourist footfall was increasing and many closed hospitality units were resuming operations. According to hoteliers, over 5,000 tourist vehicles are entering the hill town on weekends. The staff engaged in hospitality units also heaved a sigh of relief upon being recalled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-throng-solang-manali-rohtang-tunnel-278916
06-07-2021||Shimla||In a first, Himachal to hold census of Asiatic black bear, leopard||Considering the increase in attacks on human beings, the wildlife wing of the Forest Department will hold a census of Asiatic black bear and common leopard with the help of the Zoological Survey of India, Kolkata, and formulate a strategy to combat the issue.The wildlife wing of the Forest Department will soon sign a memorandum of understanding with the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Kolkata, for undertaking the population estimation so that there is an idea about the population of black bears and leopards. A major part of this will be as study on human-wildlife conflict, which will primarily focus on these two species.Though a census to ascertain the population of common leopards had been undertaken in 2004, it was not done scientifically and its figures were highly doubtful. The Forest Department has undertaken the census of monkey and langur thrice and of the highly endangered snow leopard once. However, it will, for the first time, collect data on Asiatic black bears which are found in the higher reaches of Chamba, Shimla, Kullu and Sirmaur.“The study will focus on devising strategies to reduce the human-wildlife conflict as we keep getting reports about attacks on people either by leopards or black bears,” said Archana Sharma, Chief Wildlife Warden and Principal Chief Conservator Forest (Wildlife).It was in June 2004 that a survey had been undertaken to assess the leopard population in the state, which turned out to be 785. This included 24 animals in captivity. However, these figures were disputed as the survey was not done scientifically. As per this survey, the snow leopard population estimation stood at 35, which after the conservation project in Spiti has risen above 50.Experts from a renowned NGO, headed by Vidya Athreya, a wildlife biologist, had been assigned the task of mapping the leopard population in 2014.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-a-first-himachal-to-hold-census-of-asiatic-black-bear-leopard-278918
06-07-2021||The Lower Bazaar in Shimla is getting as crowded as ever. Ever since the restrictions have been lifted||Need to check heavy rush in Shimla's Lower Bazaar||The administration should deploy police personnel in the market to ensure discipline among the masses. — Rajeev Ranta, ShimlaInstall public water tapThe government should install a public tap for drinking water in Guwadi village in the Churah area of Chamba district. In the absence of a tap villagers have to fetch water from a natural drinking water source from some distance. The authorities should install the tap soon for our convenience. — Residents, guwadi (Churah)Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-check-heavy-rush-in-shimlas-lower-bazaar-278920
06-07-2021||A book titled "A Saga of Tolerance and a Legacy from Posterity - Catholic Visionaries and Women's Empowerment in North India"||Shimla: St. Bede's College Principal's book on Catholic visionaries out||SFI submits memo to HPU VCThe SFI unit of the Himachal Pradesh University submitted a memorandum to Vice Chancellor Sikander Kumar demanding the opening of a university for students and establishment of a permanent vaccination centre on the HPU premises. Anticipating the third wave of Covid, the SFI also suggested that practical exams be held batch wise, faceshields be installed in the library and the university premises be sanitised from time to time.NSUI, YC highlight students' issuesNSUI and Youth Congress activists apprised the Governor, through the ADC, of students' problems on Monday. They submitted a demand that college exams be cancelled because of the pandemic. Members of the NSUI and the Youth Congress have been on a hunger strike since June 28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-st-bedes-college-principals-book-on-catholic-visionaries-out-278921
06-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal teachers furious over IPH Minister Mahender Singh’s ‘remark’||The Himachal Government College Teachers Association (HGCTA) will observe black day tomorrow and perform examination duties wearing black badges in protest against a remark made by IPH Minister Mahender Singh against teachers.Congress seeks public apology from minister Mahender SinghPresident and general secretary of the HGCTA Dharamvir Singh and RL Sharma, respectively, termed the minister’s statement as irresponsible. They said that it showed the sick mentality of the minister and what was more hurting was that his followers were laughing.Video goes viralA video of minister Mahender Singh has gone viral in which he says, “mastero ne to maja kiya” (teachers enjoyed during Covid) and became frontline workers to get vaccinatedA video of Mahender Singh had gone viral in which he said “Mastero ne to maja kiya” (teachers enjoyed during Covid) and had become frontline workers to get vaccinated. The teachers are demanding a public apology from the minister.The teachers were not sitting at their homes on their own will. They were engaged in online teaching, besides performing other multifarious tasks during the pandemic, they said. The minister was pointing a finger at the decision of the state government declaring the teachers as frontline warriors, they added.The teachers also requested the central leadership of the All-India Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations to take the statement seriously and condemn it. They said it was an insult to the department amid Covid when the teachers were doing their duties honestly and helping students by deploying their own resources.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh State Lecturers Association has also condemned the minister’s remark. President of the association Kesar Singh Thakur said the teachers had done an exemplary work during Covid. Other teacher associations have also condemned the remark.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-teachers-furious-over-iph-minister-mahender-singhs-remark-278923
06-07-2021||Tribune reportersHamirpur/Kullu||Congress seeks public apology from Himachal minister Mahender Singh||“Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh has insulted teachers and he has no right to stay on his post,” said Rajender Zar, president of the District Congress Committee, here today.He said that BJP leaders had lost decency and were misbehaving with people repeatedly. He recalled that during a Cabinet meeting the minister had an altercation with the Chief Secretary.Himachal teachers furious over IPH Minister Mahender Singh’s ‘remark’He said that the minister should resign. The government had failed on the fronts of corruption, price rise, unemployment and development. Hamirpur district was facing an acute water shortage and people were forced to seek water through tankers to meet their requirements.He said Congress leaders and workers had helped people during the pandemic while BJP leaders were only busy making false claims about the services provided by the state government.Kullu: The comments and videos of teachers expressing resentment against the minister’s remark have have been posted on social media. It was stated in the comments that the teachers had done a tremendous job during the pandemic and the minister’s remark was uncalled for and insulting.It was stated in the comments that besides holding online classes and providing ration to students on their doorsteps in some places, the teachers also performed Covid-related duties.Inder Thakur, president, Himachal Pradesh Primary Teachers Federation, Kullu, said that the minister's remark had dented the morale of the teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-seeks-public-apology-from-himachal-minister-mahender-singh-278925
06-07-2021||Our CorrespondentKULLU||Ensure win in Himachal bypolls: JP Nadda to BJP workers||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda was welcomed by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and other dignitaries at the SASE helipad near Manali today.He visited Atal Tunnel and left for Sissu. He lauded the efforts of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for the engineering marvel stressing its strategic significance from the defence point of view. He also enjoyed local dishes at Sissu. Later, he flew to the Dhalpur ground in Kullu. He paid floral tributes at the bust of Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee at Atal Sadan.Nadda attended the meeting of the party office-bearers of Mandi. He urged the party workers to work to ensure the victory of the BJP in the byelections to the two Assembly and one Lok Sabha constituencies.He said that the party workers must effectively highlight the policies, programmes and achievements of the Centre as well as state government.The Chief Minister said that despite the lockdown, the government ensured uninterrupted development. He said schemes like the Jan Manch and the Mukhya Mantri Sewa Sankalp Helpline proved to be a boon to the people. After the meeting, Nadda went to his aunt’s home in Shastri Nagar.Earlier in the morning, Nadda visited the IGMC, Shimla, to enquire after the health of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. Nadda is scheduled to depart for Delhi tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-win-in-himachal-bypolls-jp-nadda-to-bjp-workers-278926
06-07-2021||---||158 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 158 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 202,800. Besides, one person died of the virus in Mandi in the past 24 hours.There were 32 cases in Chamba, 26 in Kangra, 24 in Shimla, 20 in Mandi, 18 in Bilaspur, 13 in Una, 11 in Hamirpur, four each in Solan and Lahaul and Spiti, three in Kullu, two in Kinanur and one in Sirmaur. The number of active cases declined to 1,357 while the number of deaths rose to 3,468.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/158-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-278930
06-07-2021||Chamba||Chamba’s Minjar fair to be symbolic this year||The historic Minjar fair of Chamba, a symbol of traditional and cultural heritage of the district, will be organised only as a ritual in view of coronavirus in the country.A meeting organised under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner DC Rana today decided that the festival would start as a ritual on July 25 and culminate on August 1.It was also decided that every evening from July 25, an event of the traditional song of Kunjadi Malhaar would be organised by the Kala Kendra at Chamba’s Chowgan. It would be broadcast and televised. The DC asked the local municipal council to finalise the opening and closing events of the fair.He directed officials that an exhibition and an online discussion related to the art and culture and glorious history of the district be organised at the local Bhuri Singh Museum. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chambas-minjar-fair-to-be-symbolic-this-year-278931
06-07-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||18,000 stray cattle provided shelter in Himachal: Agriculture Minister||Around 18,000 stray cattle have been provided shelter in the state, said Virender Kanwar, Agriculture Minister, here today. He said Rs 500 each would be provided every month for the upkeep of these animals in cow shelters.He said the process to identify land to develop cow sanctuaries in the state had been started. He added a cow sanctuary would be established at Kheri village in the district. He said the government would also provide free fertilisation facilities for cows in the state.He said the government was developing facilities to produce seeds of various crops in the state. He added tat for the first time, farmers had been giventhe facility to sell their crops at the Minimum Support Price (MSP) in the state and wheat was procured at Rs 1,975 per quintal by the Food Corporation of India.Rakesh Pathania, Forest Minister, who was also present there, said the forest area around Thakur Jagdev Chand Memorial Itihas Shodh Sansthan would be preserved and beautified. He said the department would construct dams for water conservation and a detailed project had been prepared.Earlier, the ministers attended a meeting at Thakur Jagdev Chand Memorial Itihas Shodh Sansthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-000-stray-cattle-provided-shelter-in-himachal-agriculture-minister-278933
06-07-2021||Shimla||Positivity rate drops to 1.14% in Himachal||The positivity rate in the state has declined to 1.14 per cent.According to a government spokesperson, 977 Covid cases with a positivity rate of 1.14 per cent were recorded in the state over the past one week while 10 deaths were witnessed.The positivity rate in five districts of Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Sirmaur, Solan and Una has dropped below one per cent. At present, Mandi (3.19 per cent), Kinnaur (2.34 per cent), Chamba (2.05 per cent) and Lahaul and Spiti (2 per cent) have the highest positivity rate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/positivity-rate-drops-to-1-14-in-himachal-278935
06-07-2021||Nurpur||Kangra's Damtal Beopar Mandal, APMC spar over market fee||The Damtal Beopar Mandal, Kangra, and the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) are at loggerheads over annual licence renewal for wholesale trading and a 1 per cent market committee fee to the latter.In a statement here, mandal president Raj Kumar Gupta said,”After the enactment of the three farm laws and a new GST structure, the collection of market committee fee is not justified. No neighbouring state is charging this fee, but thegovernment is forcing us to deposit it.”Gupta said a delegation had met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in Shimla, who had assured it of not charging any fee from traders.He said although the state government had stopped collecting the fee in June last year after the enactment of the new farm laws, the APMC, Kangra, had again started asking for the fee.Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, secretary of the APMC, Kangra, said the enactment of the farm laws had been put on hold by the government and the SAMB Act-2005 was in force in the state.“As per the provisions of the Act, traders are supposed to renew their trading licences and pay 1 per cent fee to the APMC. The violators will be penalised,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangras-damtal-beopar-mandal-apmc-spar-over-market-fee-278936
06-07-2021||Dinesh KanwarHamirpur||Work on Hamirpur's Dhaula Sidh hydro power project begins after 23 years||Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (SJVNL) has started the construction on the 66 megawatt Dhaula Sidh hydro power project on the Beas near here. The company undertook first blasting for the construction of diversion tunnel on July 2.First in districtIt is learnt that the company has also started site development on the spot. Some of the approach roads had already been constructed. Significantly, the power project on the Beas at Dhaula Sidh was conceived by late Babu Ram Mandyal, the then MLA from Nadaun constituency, in 1998 and the then Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal initiated preparation of the Detailed Project Report of the project.It took almost 23 years for the construction for the project to start. Once completed, it would be the first power house in the district.The efforts of Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs in getting Rs 687 crore for the project would prove a landmark for the construction of this dream project.Apart from generating 66 MW power, the project would generate over 500 jobs and provide irrigation facility to over 200 villages of Nadaun subdivision. Notably, the SJVNL had already spent over Rs 145 crore on various aspects of the project, including land acquisition, construction of approach roads, etc.The construction of dam and installation of hydro mechanical equipment would cost around Rs 530 crore while electro-mechanical equipment would cost addition Rs 80 crore.Sources here revealed that the ground-breaking ceremony for the dam site would be performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The SJVNL authorities were in touch with PMO for this purpose, it was learnt.Rajesh Chandel, Project Head, SJVNL here, said that the work on the construction of diversion tunnel of the Dhaula Sidh Project had started. He said that the first site development would be done and then the construction of dam on the Beas would be started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-hamirpurs-dhaula-sidh-hydro-power-project-begins-after-23-years-278937
06-07-2021||Shimla||Cong activists stage protest march in Shimla against inflation||With petrol price breaching Rs 100 per litre mark in the state and a cylinder costing around Rs 850, the CPM and the Congress have slammed the BJP government for its failure to check inflation and unemployment in the state.“The policies of the government have resulted in uncontrolled inflation and unemployment. Also, the horticulture sector is facing serious problems,” said CPM leader Sanjay Chauhan.“Besides, there has been a sharp increase in property tax, garbage fee, electricity charges and bus fares,” he said. Chauhan said the government had failed in addressing the issue of employment. “All jobs are being given on contract, outsource and part-time basis,” he said.The CPM expressed concern over a 25 to 30 per cent hike in the cost of apple cartons. “The government has stopped providing seeds, fertlisers, pesticides and fungicides through the Horticulture and Agriculture Department, leaving famers entirely dependent on the market,” said Chauhan. He alleged that the government could not handle the second wave of the pandemic.“The state witnessed more than double deaths compared to the first wave. The government must ramp up medical facilities so that a possible third wave could be handled more efficiently,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-activists-stage-protest-march-in-shimla-against-inflation-278939
06-07-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Cabbies encroach upon lawns of shopping complex in Hamirpur||The lawns of the commercial complex in front of the bus stand here have been encroached upon by taxi operators, causing loss of business.Constructed about 10 years ago, the complex was lying vacant. The district administration had initiated plans to beautify it, and allotted over 70 shops to vendors. It took over a year for the administration to rehabilitate the vendors operating temporary kiosks here.In the meantime, taxi operators started parking their vehicles on the lawns developed for public use. The administration had proposed to instal benches for public. The tourism department had to carry out beautification work, but encroachments by taxi operators made it difficult to develop the area.A shopkeeper said when they objected to parking, the taxi operators threaten them. These taxis blocked the entry of customers to the shops, he said.CL Thakur, SDM, said the vehicles would be moved out of the lawns as the area was not a taxi stand. It would be developed soon. Encroachments on tourism land would not be allowed, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cabbies-encroach-upon-lawns-of-shopping-complex-in-hamirpur-278940
06-07-2021||Dalhousie||Two nabbed with charas in Churah||Two persons were arrested with over 2-kg charas (cannabis) near Jassourgarh in Churah of Chamba district today.The police said a team of officials of the State Narcotics Crime Control, Kangra, stopped Narain Singh and Karam Singh of Churah.During search, charas (cannabis) was recovered from their bag. A case under Sections 20 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against them.However, investigation in the case was under way, the police said.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-nabbed-with-charas-in-churah-278941
06-07-2021||Mandi||Lahaul and Spiti, Leh favoured tourist spots||The rush of tourists at the Rohtang Pass is less this summer, as a majority of them are moving towards Lahaul and Spiti, Leh and Ladakh via the Atal Tunnel.Data procured by The Tribune from the Police Department reveals that on June 27, as many as 3,848 vehicles crossed the Atal Tunnel for Lahaul and Spiti from Manali, while 3,428 vehicles returned to Manali from Lahaul and Spiti. The highest number of 1,069 vehicles from Manali to the Rohtang Pass was recorded on June 26. This is far less compared to the number in the previous years.The reason being cited is that the 9.2-km Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, a masterpiece of engineering, is providing tourists an easy access to Lahaul and Spiti and Leh from Manali. As a result, a majority of tourists are preferring to visit the scenic places in Lahaul and Spiti and Leh and Ladakh.Before the opening of the Atal Tunnel, the Rohtang Pass was the favourite tourist destination in Kullu district, witnessing a huge rush of tourist vehicles during the summer.To protect the ecology of the Rohtang Pass, the National Green Tribunal had imposed restrictions and limited the number of vehicles for the pass from Manali to 1,200. Though the tourist influx to Rohtang is less, the pass is covered under a thick blanket of snow these days, and tourists can be seen enjoying snow and the nature at its best.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-and-spiti-leh-favoured-tourist-spots-278942
06-07-2021||Shimla||In a first, trout fish reared in warm waters at Gobind Sagar reservoir and Kol Dam reservoir||The successful rearing of trout fish in warm waters of the Gobind Sagar reservoir and its replication in the Kol Dam reservoir at Kasol in Bilaspur district has ushered in a new era in fish rearing in the state.The trout is usually found in rivers and streams in higher reaches of the state but it has been reared for the first time in warm waters, Fisheries Minister Virender Kanwar said here on Saturday.He said 500 fingerlings of rainbow trout, a coldwater game-fish species, were stocked in the high-density polyethylene floating fish-culture cages in the Gobind Sagar reservoir in 2019 on an experimental basis for diversification of trout culture in warm waters of the state.The results were highly encouraging. This paved the way for culturing the trout fish in warm districts during a span of five to nine months when the water temperature is congenial for its culture, the minister said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-a-first-trout-fish-reared-in-warm-waters-at-gobind-sagar-reservoir-and-kol-dam-reservoir-278943
06-07-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||IFS officer Aishwarya Raj transforms barren land into ‘Swarnim Vatika’ at Shamshi in Kullu||IFS officer Aishwarya Raj, who is Deputy Conservator of forest, Parbati division, Kullu, has transformed a barren land of 2.5 acres, being used as a dumping yard, into a “Swarnim Vatika” near the Forest Colony at Shamshi in Bhuntar subdivision.Once a shabby dumpyard and a breeding ground for anti-social elements, the land now has a landscape garden with a variety of trees, creepers, shrubs and herbs.The officer says that he assumed charge in January and he came to know about the area during general inspection in February. Indiscriminate dumping of waste was posing a threat to the river and was also harming the ecosystem.The state government announced the initiative of ‘’Swarnim Vatika’’, a plantation drive to celebrate the golden jubilee of the state’s formation. He adds that funds were sought under the programme to reform the area.Rai says that waste and weeds in the area were removed and disposed of. “We planted over 400 species of native varieties such as deodar, silver oak, horse-chestnut, rose, thuja, cycas, ribbon plant, gladiola, apple, peach, apricot, plum and pomegranate. Due to good rainfall in February, most of the plants have survived,” he adds.The Deputy Conservator says that a walking trail was made from discarded slates and landscaping was done using river stones to maintain natural aesthetics. He adds that the area had been fenced and CCTV cameras installed there. The park would be thrown open to the public soon.The officer says Himalayan Aquaworld comprising a 30-foot semicircular aquarium and a fountain with a revolving globe had been incorporated in the Nature Park at Mohal. A unique traffic park had been created within the park. Children would be allowed cycling and they would be made aware of road safety rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ifs-officer-aishwarya-raj-transforms-barren-land-into-swarnim-vatika-at-shamshi-in-kullu-278944
06-07-2021||Shimla||HPSEBL stares at huge repayment liability||Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) owes a repayment of whopping Rs 4,370 crore to the Centre over the next 10 years.“If the board is forced to make this payment, it will sink. It won’ be able to pay pension to its 28,000 pensioners and salaries to the existing staff. Even the services to the consumers will be hampered,” said HPSEBL Employee Union secretary HL Verma.“The board has been writing to the state government to take over the liability, but the response has not been encouraging,” he said.Verma alleged that the Rs 4,370 crore liability is actually of the state government, which it has passed it on to the board. In 2015, the Centre had launched an UDAY (Ujjwal Discom. Assurance Yojna) scheme to improve the operational and financial efficiency of power distribution companies by reducing their interest burden as well as cost of power.“As per the terms and conditions of the scheme, 75 per cent of the loans on discoms, as on September 30, 2015, were to be taken over by the concerned state governments and the remaining would be paid by the discoms. The state governments opting for the scheme were compensated by the Centre through Fiscal Reform Budget Management for this additional financial burden,” Verma said.The Himachal government, too, opted for the scheme, and signed a tripartite agreement with the Centre and the HPSEBL in February, 2016. As a result of this agreement, the state government would take over the 75 per cent liability of the board’s total loan worth Rs 3,854 cr at that time, and the latter would repay the remaining 25 per cent.“Surprisingly, a year later in January 2017, the state government entered into a bipartite agreement with HPSEBL and reversed the entire loan repayment to the board, thereby defeating the purpose of UDAY scheme,” Verma alleged.“Even as the state government passed on the entire loan liability to the board, it kept receiving the benefits envisaged in the scheme for sharing the loan liability.”Verma said: “The board has already paid Rs 962 crore as interest in the last five years,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpsebl-stares-at-huge-repayment-liability-278945
06-07-2021||Dharamsala||In Himachal Pradesh, 99.7% clear Class X||Over 99 per cent of students passed the Class X exam, the result of which was declared by the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) today.A press release issued by HPBSE chairman SK Soni said 99.7 per cent of 1,16,784 students — 88,556 from government schools and 28,228 from private schools — passed the exam.This comes after the board cancelled the exams this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and instead used internal assessment to promote students to the next class. Students could appear for only one exam — Hindi — in person before the state government cancelled the rest.“Objective criteria have been adopted for promoting and giving marks to the students,” he said, adding that the results were better this year because the government had decided to promote all students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-pradesh-99-7-clear-class-x-278778
06-07-2021||Dharamsala||HPBSE declares Class X results; 99.7% students pass||Over 99 per cent of students from Class 10 passed the exam, the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) said as it declared results on Monday.  A press release issued by the chairman of the education board said  99.7 per cent of candidates of some 1,16,784 students—88,556 students of government schools and 28,228 from private schools—passed the exam. This comes after the board had cancelled its board exams this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and instead used internal assessment to promote students to the next class. Students could only take one paper—Hindi—in person before the state government announced it was cancelling the rest.  "Objective criteria have been adopted for promoting and giving marks to the students," he said, adding that the results were better this year because the government had decided to promote all students.In comparison, the percentage of students passing in the previous years were lower—60.69 per cent in 2019 and 68.11 per cent in 2020, the chairman said. Some 10,015 students got between 90 to 100 per cent marks this year as opposed to 2,798 in  2019 and 3,298 in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpbse-declares-class-x-results%C2%A099-7-students-pass-278623
