07-07-2021||---||Cap at social gatherings in Himachal raised to 200 indoors, schools to remain closed||Shimla, July 7The state government on Wednesday further enhanced the cap on social gathering as a maximum of 200 persons indoors and 50 per cent of the capacity of outdoor venue would be allowed.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here today. However, the Cabinet decided against opening schools as online study would continue till further orders.The Cabinet decided to promote first year and second year college students to next higher class. New admissions would start in colleges in the last week of July this year and new academic year for under graduate classes would commence from August 16.The council of ministers while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the State decided to raise the limit of gathering in all social, academic, entertainment, cultural, political and other congregations, including marriage celebrations. It was also decided that Covid-appropriate behaviour would be ensured by the respective Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police at prominent tourist places. The Cabinet appreciated the   progress of vaccination status of teaching and non-teaching staff. It was informed that about 90 per cent teaching and non-teaching staff have been vaccinated till June 30. It was also informed that about 25,000 college students were vaccinated on June 28 and 29. It was also informed that about 80 per cent college students of final year stood vaccinated on June 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cap-at-social-gatherings-in-himachal-raised-to-200-indoors-schools-to-remain-closed-279568
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rising Star Brigade launches expedition to Mount Kun near Kargil||To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the victory in the Indo-Pak War of 1971, the Rising Star Brigade is undertaking a mountaineering expedition to Mount Kun in the Kargil region.The team, consisting of two Junior Commissioned officers and 10 other ranks from the brigade, was flagged off by Lt Gen PN Ananthanarayanan, General Officer Commanding, 9 Corps, from Yol cantonment on Wednesday.In addition, 13 Army personnel from the National Institute of Mountaineering, Dirang, are also participating in the event.Mount Kun is the second-highest peak of the Nun Kun massif, located in the upper Suru Valley along the Kargil, Zanskar road.It lies to the north of Nun Peak and is separated from it by a 4 km long snowy plateau.Offering varying degrees of difficulty in climbing, the expedition involves all aspects of serious technical climbing such as infixed roping, using ice axes in front point climb, scaling with ascender-descender gadgets and other techniques.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rising-star-brigade-launches-expedition-to-mount-kun-near-kargil-279515
07-07-2021||The historical Sandu Ground of Bilaspur is stinking due to overflowing of waste from the incomplete sewerage system. The situation is turning worst as the filth is flowing into the Govind Sagar Lake. Unfortunately||Sandu Ground contaminated with sewage||social distancing norm goes for tossTourists are making a beeline to hill stations in the state and social distancing and the Covid protocol are thrown to the wind. One can hardly see anybody abiding by the rules on the Mall Road. Busy market places and spots are flooded with tourists. The residents sitting at home are following the norms, while tourists are violating them. Such an attitude will result in the third wave of Covid in no time. — Sonia, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sandu-ground-contaminated-with-sewage-279450
07-07-2021||The Himachal Pradesh campus unit of the SFI staged a demonstration and a dharna against the Vice-Chancellor (VC) and the alleged illegal recruitment of professors. President of the campus unit||SFI protests ‘illegal’ appointments||Cancel college exams: NSUIThe HPU campus unit of the NSUI has demanded to cancel regular examinations, in the wake of Covid-19 and said the university should hold online tests. In a memorandum to the Governor through ADM, the NSUI also pointed out faults in the vaccination programme and said safety of the students was important. President of the campus unit, Chhatar Singh Thakur said in case a positive response was not given by the university, the NSUI would be forced to launch an agitation. He also condemned the comments of Jal Shakti Minister Mahinder Singh against college teachers and asked the minister to apologise.Plantation drive at Pinegrove SchoolA plantation campaign was organised by 61 students and the staff of Pinegrove School in Solan district. They planted saplings of local species. A team of young volunteers, led by the staff, aimed at rejuvenating a fallow patch in and around the school premises. The students participated in the drive enthusiastically and helped each other in planting about 700 saplings of Thuja, Chinar, Silver Oak, Jacaranda, Bottle Brush and Koelreutaria.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-protests-illegal-appointments-279449
07-07-2021||Una||Approval for NCC naval wing at Bangana college||Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar today said the NCC Naval unit, Bilapur, had given consent for the naval wing at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Government College, Bangana. The NCC activities are conducted at the Gobind Sagar reservoir of the Bhakra Dam, which lies in Una and Bilaspur districts. The minister said the first session would start during 2021-22. He said students of the college would be able to hone their personality, learn the importance of disciple and get an opportunity to join the armed and paramilitary forces. Virender Kanwar said on the basis of the report submitted by an inspection committee of the Himachal Pradesh University, M Com, MA-English and MA-Hindi courses would commence at the college. There would be 30 seats in each of the three courses, he said. The team had inspected the college on June 11.  The minister said funds for laying a sewerage system for the residents of Bangana subdivisional headquarters had been sanctioned, while buildings of the SDM office and the Block Development office at Bangana were under construction at Rs 19 crore and Rs 10 crore, respectively. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/approval-for-ncc-naval-wing-at-bangana-college-279260
07-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Adventure activities banned in Kullu for 2 months in wake of rainy season||Kullu, July 6Adventure activities have been banned in Kullu from July 15 to September 15 in the wake of the rainy season. Kullu District Tourism Development Officer (DTDO) Krishan Chand said river rafting, paragliding, river crossing, zipline, trekking and adventure activities would be suspended in Kullu district for two months, as per the River Rafting Rules 2005, the Aero Sports Rules 2004 and the General Adventure Activities Rules 2017.He appealed to the operators to adhere to the orders. He said the department would keep a strict vigil and legal action would be taken against the violators.Rafting and other adventure activities are usually prohibited in Kullu during the rainy season from July 15 till September 15. There are over 500 rafts operating in Raison, Babeli, Bashing, Pirdi and Bhuntar that provide employment to the local youth.After incurring heavy losses during the pandemic, the tourism industry is getting back on track with great difficulty, but the weather has hit the adventure activities.The Beas remains in spate during the monsoons, increasing the risk of accidents during rafting. Adventure activities are not allowed during this period for the safety of tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adventure-activities-banned-in-kullu-for-2-months-in-wake-of-rainy-season-279261
07-07-2021||Nurpur||Damtal traders protest market fee, block traffic||Members of the Damtal Beopar Mandal held a protest and blocked vehicular traffic on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway at the Kandwal barrier, near here, today. They were demonstrating against the forcible collection of a market committee fee from wholesale traders of the private grain mandi at Damtal in Kangra district.  Led by Raj Kumar Gupta, the agitating traders raised slogans against the government for imposing a market committee fee and the condition of licence renewal by the State Agriculture Produce Marketing Board. Gupta lamented that the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Kangra, was harassing the grain market traders by stopping their loaded vehicles at the Kandwal barrier and charging a 5 per cent market committee fee from them, which was unjustified after the enactment of three farm laws by the Union Government. “The APMC has the right to charge this fee from government-run grain markets or sabzi mandis in the state. The Damtal grain mandi is a private market in Kangra district where the APMC has never provided any basic facility to the traders or buyers,” he said.  Nurpur SDM Surinder Thakur reached the protest site and pacified the agitating Beopar Mandal members. He said that the issue had been brought to the notice of the DC, Kangra, who had invited a delegation of the Beopar Mandal for a meeting at his office on July 12.  Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, secretary, APMC, Kangra, said the market committee had stopped 43 vehicles loaded with foodgrains being imported from other states at the Kandwal barrier on Monday. “Pulses, cereals and spices were loaded in these vehicles without a licence. A market committee fee of Rs 24,500 was recovered from the traders and the vehicles were released with a warning,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/damtal-traders-protest-market-fee-block-traffic-279262
07-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Smart anganwaris come up in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh belt||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 6In a bid to promote pre-school education among small children, the Nalagarh administration has digitalised 20 centres in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh belt.A beginning was made in November last year to spruce up the anganwadi centres, where a large number of children come for pre-school education as it was found that these centres lacked facilities for promoting early childhood health. The Corporate Social Responsibility scheme had helped in arranging funds for this venture, which would make these centres lively and attract more children, said Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Nalagarh, Mahendra Pal.These centres are located at Sheetalpur, Swaraj Majra, Billawali, Kalyanpur, Bhoopnagar, Jharmajri, Bhatoli Kalan, Makhnu Majra 1 and 2, Nichli Sandholi, Nichla Malpur, Gullarwala, Narangpur, Ha Raipur, Kishanpura, Kharuni, Dadi Bhola, Nichla Kheda, Kadwana and Gurumajra villages.“Humana Foundation, which has been working in the field of primary education, pitched in and help was also sought from Johnson and Johnson to provide facilities like LED televisions, where pen drives can be used to make available colourful and easy-to-understand digital content for children,” added Pal.In order to attract small children, the centres have been painted in bright colours. Enrolment has picked up now and 43 children have already enrolled.The maximum children have been enrolled at the Malpur centre, followed by those at Swaraj Majra, Jharmajri, Barotiwala and Thana. “Jitendra Kasana from Humana Foundation has helped immensely in the venture as the NGO already works in the field of primary education and is well aware of the needs of small children. Once functional after the pandemic, they will also help in strengthening the health of the children as they will be served nutritious food,” added the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/smart-anganwaris-come-up-in-baddi-barotiwala-nalagarh-belt-279263
07-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||Tutu-Jubbarhatti stretch a permanent traffic bottleneck||Tribune News Service  Shimla, July 6  With vehicles parked on both sides and construction material scattered on the road, the stretch from Tutu Bazaar to Shivnagar on Tutu-Jubbarhatti road has turned into a permanent traffic bottleneck. The traffic came to a standstill for over 15 minutes this morning as a pickup and another vehicle brushed against each other while crossing on this stretch due to which a large number of vehicles were piled up on both sides of the road.  Parking of vehicles on the congested road and construction material that is piled up in the area lead to frequent traffic jams on the stretch and the office goers are a harassed lot. The situation is worse during the peak office hours (8:30 to 10:30 am) and (5 pm to 7 pm) when a large number of vehicles move on the stretch. As there is no parking provision the residents of Shivnagar park their vehicles on both sides of the single lane road. Whenever two buses cross while moving in the opposite directions there is a problem. Today also vehicles came face to face due to congestion and half an hour was wasted, said a commuter. “We had to inform the traffic police”, he added.  “Traffic congestion is a permanent problem as buses and heavy vehicles are unable to cross on this road. There is very little space due to parking of vehicles on both sides of the road”, said Nisha, a commuter from Sujana village adding that the Shimla Municipal Corporation should construct a multi-storey parking lot here or in the vicinity to resolve the issue.  Earlier a police constable was deployed on the stretch who managed the traffic but lately nobody is stationed on this stretch to man the traffic. Challaning of vehicles parked on the road wrongly and permanent deployment of traffic cops on the stretch could ease the situation, she added. The construction material of the ongoing works undertaken by private people and government further add to the misery of the commuters and the situation will further worsen with opening of schools and plying of school buses on the route. “A traffic jam was witnessed today as two vehicles coming from opposite sides brushed against each other. A policeman would be deployed at the stretch and the vehicles parked resulting in traffic jams would be challaned”, said DSP Traffic Ajay Bhardwaj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tutu-jubbarhatti-stretch-a-permanent-traffic-bottleneck-279264
07-07-2021||---||Shimla: Patients reunited with kin||Shimla, July 6Opening of the state borders after relaxation in Covid-19 restrictions has given a new lease of life to two patients of the Himachal Hospital of Mental Health and Rehabilitation, Shimla, as they have been reunited with their families.Amruta (name changed) was found wandering in Una by the police and sent to the hospital on June 18. She had walked 2,100 km from her native place and reached Una. The woman tried to escape from the mental hospital, but was intercepted by police constable Ajay Kumar posted in the hospital security.He traced the family of Amruta after she revealed the details to him. He informed the police station at Narayanpet in Utkoor, Telangana, following which the family of the patient was traced. The family recognised Amruta on a video call. She was sent back to her husband Dumpha Kishan in Telengana today, said Senior Medical Superintendent Dr Sanjay Pathak.Another patient Deepak of Shekhpura, hailing from Faridpur of Sheikhpura in Bihar, who was working in Delhi and was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state last year in June, recovered due to warm environment, sound sleep, good food and medication. He revealed his identity, following which his family was contacted, and he was sent back along with his elder brother Ramlakhan Paswan.There is a misconception that patients with mental illness or trauma do not recover. Most of the patients did not communicate initially, but they returned to their normal functioning if given care, affection and medication, said Pathak, adding that till now the hospital had reunited over 50 patients with their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-patients-reunited-with-kin-279265
07-07-2021||NURPUR||Two youths drown in Beas||Two youths drowned in the Beas river near Mahal Mand in Bhogrwan gram panchayat of Indora subdivision last evening. The deceased have been identified as Amit Kumar (25) of Doogh and Mukesh (23) of Sahora village in Indora. They had come there to take a bath in the river.  As per police information, a friend of the deceased had brought them on his motorcycle and had left them on the riverside. When he came back to take them, he didn’t find them there. However, their clothes were still lying on the riverbank. He raised an alarm and intimated the local gram panchayat pradhan. A police team, led by SI Ravidner Singh, rushed to the spot and with the assistance of locals, started a search operation. Some locals took out the bodies of the victims before the arrival of the NDRF’s rescue team. The police handed over the bodies to the families after postmortem. A case under Section 174 of the CrPc has been registered. The administration had last week issued a warning to not go near the Beas. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-youths-drown-in-beas-279266
07-07-2021||---||Himachal teachers observe ‘black day’ over IPH Minister Mahender Singh’s remark||Shimla, July 6Government college teachers today observed ‘black day’ across the state to condemn IPH Minister Mahender Singh’s statement and also wore black badges while performing exam duties.They also passed a resolution and sent its copies to the Chief Minister from all colleges expressing their resentment over the humiliating statement and requested him to take stringent action against the minister.“It is regrettable and painful that the seniormost minister in the Cabinet has made such an irresponsible statement on the teaching community publicly. The incident has lowered the morale of teachers, who have worked hard during the pandemic and were engaged in online teaching, besides performing other activities,” the resolution reads.Himachal Government College Teachers Association president Dharamvir Singh and general secretary RL Sharma stated, “We hope that the Chief Minister will respect the feeling of the teachers and will set an example by punishing the minister, who has created trouble for the government.”A video of Mahender Singh had gone viral, in which he is heard saying “masteron ne to maja kiya” (teachers enjoyed during the pandemic) and became frontline workers to get vaccinated.President of the Bhim Army Bharat Ekta Mission Ravi Kumar Dalit also sat on a dharna at The Ridge in protest against the minister and sought his resignation.Meanwhile, the IPH Minister today said that his remark on teachers was made in a lighter vein and if they are feeling hurt, he apologises to them. “I had no intention to hurt anybody’s sentiments, least of all of teachers. The statement made at Banjar in Kullu was in a lighter vein,” the minister said. He added that he takes back his words if it has hurt teachers’ sentiments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-teachers-observe-black-day-over-iph-minister-mahender-singhs-remark-279267
07-07-2021||ibune News Service
||Dalai Lama turns 86, calls for commitment to nonviolence||Dharamsala, July 6 The Dalai Lama, spiritual head of Tibetans, turned 86 today. In a video message released this morning from his residence at McLeodganj, the Dalai Lama demanded a gift from his friends that they should remain committed to nonviolence and compassion for the rest of their lives. He said that being a refugee, he fully utilised India’s freedom and concept of secularism. “For the rest of my life, I shall be committed to serving humanity and working for the protection of the environment,” he added. “Many people love me and many love my smile. Despite my old age, my face is quite handsome and that is why many people are friendly to me,” said the Dalai Lama chuckling. He expressed deep appreciation of his friends, who showed him love and respect.  Dignitaries from across the world, including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, greeted the Dalai Lama on the occasion. “Spoke on phone to His Holiness the Dalai Lama to convey my greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life,” tweeted Modi. The Dalai Lama’s birthday every year used to be a boon to the hotel and tourism industry of Dharamsala. Thousands of his followers from Mongolia and other Buddhist countries used to visit Dharamsala on the eve of his birthday before the Covid outbreak. However, this year, only a few foreigners, who are staying here, paid obeisance to the Dalai Lama at McLoedganj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-turns-86-calls-for-commitment-to-nonviolence-279268
07-07-2021||KULLU||Teachers nation-builders: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur met a delegation of the representatives of various teachers’ associations of the state in Mandi on Tuesday. He said, “Teachers are nation-builders and his government has great regard for them. The teachers have rendered their services in every sector during the testing time of the pandemic”. He said that the teachers did not let the pandemic affect the studies of the students and effectively ran the ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’ programme. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-nation-builders-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-279269
07-07-2021||Shimla||145 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 145 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 202,945. Besides, one person died in Mandi. There were 42 cases in Chamba, 24 in Mandi, 20 in Shimla, 14 in Bilaspur, 11 in Solan, eight in Hamirpur, six each in Una, Kangra and Kullu, four in Kinnaur, three in Lahaul & Spiti and one in Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/145-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-279270
07-07-2021||aramsala||Spiritual leader ‘key to resolving conflict’||The president of the Central Tibetan Administration, Sikyong Penpa Tsering, in a statement issued on the eve of the 86th birthday of the Dalai Lama has called on China to recognise the spiritual leader of Tibetans as the key to resolving the Sino-Tibetan conflict and invite him earnestly to Tibet and China on pilgrimage without any preconditions. “His Holiness the Dalai Lama is one of the foremost guides of our time and is one of the few individuals who can reorient Sino-Tibetan history towards a positive direction. The Chinese government should, therefore, recognise that the Dalai Lama is key to resolving the Sino-Tibetan conflict,” Sikyong said. Sikyong reaffirmed his commitment to the Tibetan charter and pledged to strengthen Tibetan unity by resolving minor differences within the community by engaging in a constructive discussion. “When it comes to our struggle, we must recognise our common opponent and work towards resolving our differences by engaging in a constructive discussion. Our consolidated efforts should be directed towards fulfilling our common goals, a mandatory and historic responsibility of the exile Tibetan people,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spiritual-leader-key-to-resolving-conflict-279271
07-07-2021||Shimla||Rajnath flags off O2  concentrators for Hamirpur||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh today flagged off 900 oxygen concentrators, which would cater to the requirements of 1,400 beds in the Hamirpur Lok Sabha constituency.  “Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, has transformed Hamirpur into an oxygen bank,” he said while flagging off the oxygen concentrators in Delhi. He added, “Anurag Thakur has put in big efforts and I encourage him to continue his social efforts for his constituency and the state. He has taken this endeavour with the intent of ‘seva’ and followed the BJP’s mantra of Seva hi Sangathan,” he said.  Three-time Hamirpur MP Anurag said  that 1,000 oxygen concentrators, three PSA plants and other Covid-related supplies  had equipped Hamirpur to fight against the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rajnath-flags-off-o2-concentrators-for-hamirpur-279272
07-07-2021||---||Pvt schools:  Fee regulation draft Bill arbitrary||Shimla, July 6 Unaided private school managements have  questioned the  legality of the draft Himachal Pradesh Private Schools (Regulation of Fee and other related matters) Bill-2021. They have dubbed its provisions as “arbitrary”, which will  vest the right of the schools to determine the fee in the  government. The managements said the Bill endangered the autonomy of the institutions and expressed concerns over provisions like suo-motu powers given to the executive to inspect schools even if there is no complaint, and that too, without any notice, seeking approval for the fee hike every year, maintaining only one bank account for transparency and empowering the DC to check the accounts of all private schools every year. Capping the fee hike at six per cent, without taking into account the inflation and the needs of growing schools, will affect the functioning of the schools, they said. The principal of a private school said that the schools managements were not even willing for 6 to 10 per cent hike in annual charges.   Further, the Bill makes no clear distinction between the capitation fee and genuine donations and “profiteering and earning profits”, lacks provision for creating reserves and has no provision for action against defaulting parents, the principal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pvt-schools-fee-regulation-draft-bill-arbitrary-279273
07-07-2021||Lalit Mohan
||Congress ticket aspirants from Fatehpur put up show of strength||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, July 6 The political affairs committee (PAC) of the Congress today met in Dharamsala under the chairmanship of party in-charge Rajiv Shukla. The meeting was scheduled to decide candidates for the forthcoming three byelections in the state – two byelections of Fatehpur and Jubbal Kotkhai and parliamentary election of Mandi. While the meeting was being held various Congress leaders, aspirant of party ticket from Fatehpur assembly constituency, gathered at a private hotel where the meeting was being held. Bhawani Pathania, son of former Congress minister Sujjan Singh Pathania on whose demise byelections of Fatehpur were being held, came with his supporters who raised slogans in his favour.  Various other Congress leaders from Fatehpur also came with their supporters and demanded that the party ticket should be given to a common party worker.  While talking to newsmen, Congress workers from Fatehpur said in case a leader was forced on them and ticket was not given to a common worker of Fatehpur, they would oppose the candidate. Sudhir Sharma, former minister and AICC secretary, also presented a show of strength outside the private hotel where the meeting was held. Sudhir Sharma has been targeted by some state leaders after the Congress lost Dharamsala MC elections. Sources here also said that some Congress leaders objected to certain posters of some leaders at the venue of the meeting. They said during the meeting, no consensus could be built on the candidates for byelections. The names of Bhawani Pathania from Fatehpur, Rohit Thakur from Jubbal Kotkhai and Kaul Singh Thakur from Mandi parliamentary were discussed. However, the political affairs committee has decided to wait for the BJP to declare its candidates before Congress candidates were finalised. They said party leaders suggested that price rise, unemployment and preference being given to two assembly constituencies of  Siraj, represented by CM Jai Ram Thakur, and Dharampur, represented by minister for IPH Mahender Thakur, as compared to other areas could be raked up. The sources said differences between various factions of Congress leaders also came to the fore during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-ticket-aspirants-from-fatehpur-put-up-show-of-strength-279274
07-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Two held with drugs near Chamba||Chamba, July 6 The field unit staff of the State Narcotic Crime Control (SNCC), Kangra, seized drugs from two youths at Baloo, near Chamba town, on Monday. In its WhatsApp group, the police disclosed that the SNCC field staff caught two youths at a naka laid at Baloo. On inspection, 6.53 grams of chitta (heroin) and 328 spasmo proxyvon plus capsules, 220 nitrosun tablets and 1,200 ml of cocrex chlorpheniramine maleate codeine phosphate syrup were seized from the possession of the accused, identified as Akshay Kumar and Amrish Puri. The accused were taken into custody and the cases were registered against them under Sections 21, 22, 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Chamba police station. Further investigation was on, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-with-drugs-near-chamba-279275
07-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||BJP has strong workers’ base in villages: Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Kullu, July 6 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur attended meetings with six BJP morchas of the state at the Mukhyamantri Jan Samwad Kaksh in Mandi today. BJP president Suresh Kashyap presided over the meetings. Sessions with the state Mahila Morcha, Scheduled Castes Morcha, Yuva Morcha, Other Backward Classes Morcha, Minority Morcha and the Scheduled Tribes Morcha were held. Senior party leaders interacted with the office-bearers and members of all morchas and took feedback from them. They assured the morcha leaders of appropriate action on their suggestions.   The Chief Minister said, “We all have worked hard to build the party on all fronts and today the BJP has a strong worker base in all villages at every booth level. Suggestions at the grass-roots level are very important for framing new policies for the benefit of all sections of society”.   He said, “The BJP is a party with an ideology, which makes it stronger than any other political party. Our party is the best, our government is the best and our leadership is the best and with this spirit we are all moving towards our goal. We will form a strong government in 2022 and repeat victory once more with a stronger mandate. The myth of no repeat government will be broken”.  Kashyap said, “It is a good initiative of the party and the Chief Minister to build a strong bond between the organisation and the government. Suggestions are always valuable for the growth of the party and this initiative will make the party stronger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-has-strong-workers-base-in-villages-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-279276
07-07-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Submit drug sales record of Kala Amb firm: HP High Court to govt||Shimla, July 6 The HP High Court has directed the state government to place on record the material collected by the investigating officer in the case regarding the seizure of a large number of tramadol tablets from Kala Amb-based Orison Pharma International Group in Sirmaur district about the sale of medicines containing tramadol by the company from the date of its inception till date.  Justice Anoop Chitkara passed the order last week on an anticipatory bail application filed by the Chairman of Orison Pharma, Rakesh Kumar Goyal. During the course of hearing, the court was informed through the status report filed by the investigating officer, which reveals that the police sought information from the state and Central departments if they had conducted an audit of the purchase, manufacture, and sale of Celcidal TM 100 by M/s Orison Pharma International. In reply, it was stated that neither the state or Central department conducted the audit of the company nor the latter itself got the same conducted by any agency.   After perusing the case, the court observed that “if the sale is not strictly under the terms and conditions of the licence, it is likely to find its way to the drug mafia. Any lapse in regulation or inspection will be catastrophic”. The court asked, “What hindrances stopped the Drugs Department of the Central Government from conducting audits or inspections?”   While extending the bail till August 14, 2021, the court directed the office of the Advocate General to send a copy of the order to the Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, Finance Secretary, Secretary Personnel Department, Health Secretary, DGP, and the Director Health, Safety and Regulation for information because the state of Himachal being a hub of pharma companies, there may be a likelihood of similar lapses from other manufacturing units, wherein substances come under the purview of the NDPS Act.   According to the prosecution, it was alleged in the FIR that a team of the Ajnala police in Punjab had confiscated a large number of tramadol capsules manufactured by Orison Pharma and marketed by PP Pharma, Mumbai. It was stated that the Mumbai-based company reportedly existed only on paper. Thereafter, the police registered a case of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and under the NDPS Act against the firm on May 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/submit-drug-sales-record-of-kala-amb-firm-hp-high-court-to-govt-279277
07-07-2021||KULLU||BJP chief JP Nadda pays tribute to Syama Prasad Mukherjee in Kullu||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda paid tributes to Syama Prasad Mukherjee on his birth anniversary by planting a Rudraksh sapling at Pirdi, 3 km from here, today. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was also present with him on this occasion and he also planted a sapling.The BJP chief detailed the biography of Syama Prasad Mukherjee and said that he became the Vice Chancellor of the University of Calcutta at the age of 33, which was historic at that time.He said that Syama Prasad partitioned Bengal and also contributed a lot in bringing back Punjab from Pakistan. He added that Mukherjee had contributed to uniting India. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-pays-tribute-to-syama-prasad-mukherjee-in-kullu-279278
07-07-2021||New Delhi||Crowding at hill stations scary, says ICMR chief||With daily Covid-19 cases falling to 34,703, the government on Tuesday flagged “frightening laxity” on part of the people and said the timing and scale of the third wave would depend on collective behaviour.Reacting to pictures of overcrowded hill stations, shopping areas and other public places, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said the frames were “frightening”. He said there were still 73 districts in 14 states, including Himachal’s Kinnaur, where positivity rate was over 10 per cent.He advised restrictions in these districts, some of which “are still in the middle of the second wave”. The official data showed that 80 per cent new cases concentrated in 90 districts, signalling localised infection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crowding-at-hill-stations-scary-says-icmr-chief-279365
07-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal Ex-CM Virbhadra put on ventilator  after heart attack||Six-time HP CM Virbhadra Singh was shifted to the cardiac care unit (CCU) at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital here after he suffered a heart attack.Dr Janak Raj, Senior Medical Superintendent, said Virbhadra suffered a heart attack yesterday, following which he was put on ventilator. “His condition is serious but stable,” he added.Virbhadra, MLA from Arki constituency, had recovered from Covid twice in the past three months, but remained admitted to the IGMC since April 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-ex-cm-virbhadra-put-on-ventilator-after-heart-attack-279367
07-07-2021||Aditi Tandon||Ahead of Union Cabinet reshuffle, Bandaru Dattatreya appointed Haryana governor, Rajendran Arlekar that of Himachal||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 6Ahead of the much-anticipated Union Cabinet reshuffle, eight states on Tuesday got new governors with President Ram Nath Kovind making new appointments.Social Justice Minister Thawarchand Gehlot has been appointed the governor of Karnataka, with the sector to get a new minister.A communique from the President’s office said.Read also: PM Modi's Cabinet expansion on WednesdayPS Sreedharan Pillai, Governor of Mizoram, has been appointed Governor of Goa while Bandaru Dattatreya, the Governor of Himachal Pradesh, would now be the Governor of Haryana.Satyadev Narayan Arya, Governor of Haryana, has been appointed Governor of Tripura and Ramesh Bais, Governor of Tripura, has been appointed as Governor of Jharkhand.Dr Hari Babu Kambhampati will be the Governor of Mizoram, Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel the Governor of Madhya Pradesh and Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar the Governor of Himachal Pradesh.“The above appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices,” Ajay Kumar Singh, Press Secretary to the President, said.While four new governors have been appointed, four have been transferred to other states.The appointments signal an early cabinet reshuffle, probably as early as this week, with contenders for cabinet berths, including Sushil Modi, Maharashtra leader Narayan Rane, former Assam CM Sarbanand Sonowal, Jyotiraditya Scindia, JDU’s Lallan Singh and BJP Matua MP Shantanu Thakur.Sources said among probables are BJP stalwart Bhupendra Yadav, UP leaders Rita Bahuguna and Zafar Islam; Anil Baluni and Ajay Bhat from Uttarakhand, Pratap Simha from Karnataka; Brijendra Singh from Haryana, Meenakshi Lekhi from Delhi.“These names are doing the rounds,” a source said.A high-level meeting is expected to be held on Tuesday evening to take a final call on Union Cabinet entrants.PM Narendra Modi is expected to chair the meeting.The Union Cabinet has 53 ministers. It can have 81.Hari Babu Kambhampati, the new governor of Mizoram, is a BJP leader from Andhra Pradesh and was a member of the 16th Lok Sabha.Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, appointed Governor of Madhya Pradesh, is a former five-time MLA and ex-minister in Gujarat.Rajendra Arlekar, the Governor of Himachal Pradesh, is a BJP leader from Goa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ahead-of-union-cabinet-reshuffle-bandaru-dattatreya-appointed-haryana-governor-rajendran-arlekar-that-of-himachal-279055
