08-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal BJP chief admitted to hospital following chest pain||Himachal Pradesh BJP president Suresh Kashyap was admitted to Shimla’s Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) hospital after he complained of chest pain on Thursday.He is out of danger and will be discharged after keeping him under supervision for some time, IGMC Senior Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj said, adding that he suffered from a mild problem in the chest.सोशल मीडिया पर कुछ लोगों ने मेरी तबीयत खराब होने की खबर डाली है। कुछ दिनों से असहज महसूस कर रहा था इस कारणवश नियमित जांच (regular checkup) हेतु आई.जी. एम.सी शिमला आया हूं।His preliminary examination report is normal, he added. Meanwhile, Kashyap in a statement said he was feeling uneasy for the past some days and went to the IGMC for a regular checkup. The Shimla MP was admitted to the hospital as he felt uneasiness when he visited former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s family to express grief over the leader’s death, a BJP leader said.The 87-year-old veteran Congress leader breathed his last after prolonged illness at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in the early hours on Thursday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bjp-chief-admitted-to-hospital-following-chest-pain-280105
08-07-2021||---||4 of family killed as car rolls down gorge in Shimla district||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 8Four persons of a family, including two teachers and a woman, were killed while one sustained serious injuries, when the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Majholi on Haripurdhar–Labhan link road, about 40 km from Kupvi in Chopal subdivision of Shimla district Thursday.Rajender (33), Roshan (32), both teachers, and Jeevan Singh (70) died on the spot, while Vidhya Devi (42), wife of Kedar Singh, succumbed to injuries on way to the hospital. Injured Ranbir, brother of deceased Roshan, is under treatment.Sources said the driver of the car lost control over the vehicle which turned fatal. A case has been registered and investigations are under way, police sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-of-family-killed-as-car-rolls-down-gorge-in-shimla-district-280099
08-07-2021||---||Rahul Gandhi to visit Shimla to pay tributes to Virbhadra||Shimla, July 8Former All India Congress Committee president Rahul Gandhi will visit Shimla on July 9 to pay his respects to former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. All India Congress Working Committee member in-charge of state affairs Rajiv Shukla said that Rahul Gandhi will pay his last respects to Virbhadra Singh at 12.30 am tomorrow at State Congress headquarters, Rajiv Bhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-shimla-to-pay-tributes-to-virbhadra-280091
08-07-2021||---||One of the tallest Cong stalwarts: Sonia Gandhi remembers Virbhadra Singh||New Delhi, July 8Congress President Sonia Gandhi today condoled the passing of former Himachal chief minister Virbhadra Singh remembering him as one the tallest party stalwarts.“Sonia Gandhi has expressed deepest condolences on the passing away of veteran Congressman and leader, Shri Virabhadra Singh.She said Singh leaves behind a legacy of service rendered for nearly six decades to the people of Himachal Pradesh and the nation,” a Congress statement said.Gandhi said Singh, a six time CM and former Union Minister, had the opportunity of working with many stalwarts through different generations.“Popular for his affable and grounded nature, he remained close to people brought about far reaching positive changes through his administrative acumen. He was one of the tallest stalwarts of the Congress Party and remained a dedicated Congressperson throughout,” she said adding that his contribution to the party, as indeed to the state and the country will be valued and cherished forever.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-of-the-tallest-cong-stalwarts-sonia-gandhi-remembers-virbhadra-singh-280033
08-07-2021||Ravinder Sood
||Rs133 cr released as land relief for Shimla-Kangra fourlaning||Palampur, July 7 The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has released Rs 133 crore as the cost of the land acquired for phase five of the Shimla -Kangra fourlane project between Kachhiyari and Bhangwar.  The Shimla-Kangra road is one of the busiest in the state which links five districts of lower Himachal Chamba, Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Solan with the state capital. Being narrow it needs immediate widening and upgrade. Land acquisition is a major hurdle in road construction project in Himachal Pradesh because of high cost of land. Information gathered today revealed that money has been transferred to the account of respective Competent Authorities for Land Acquisition (CALAs) for further disbursement to the affected parties. CALAs have already called for the bank details, Aadhaar and PAN numbers from the land owners so that money could be transferred to their bank accounts paving way for the construction of road project. Meanwhile, the state government has directed the HPSEB to shift transmission lines from the 23-km stretch, electricity poles and other standing structures from the acquired land in the next three months. Likewise, the forest department has also been asked to remove standing trees from the land so that the land could be handed over to the construction company for the speedy execution of project. The state government has also started the land acquisition process for the remaining four phases of this project. Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Shipping, reviewed the progress of these project during his visit to the state last month. The construction work for the four-lane project would be allotted in a phased manner to different companies so that the project was completed without any delay. The NHAI allots projects to the construction companies only after the acquisition of 90 per cent land for the project. After the completion of the four-lane project, distance between Kangra and Shimla will be reduced by 20 km. The major towns falling between Kangra and Shimla like Daulatpur, Jwalamukhi, Nadaun, Ghumarwin, Darlaghat and Ghannahatti will be bypassed. Ghumarwin town of Bilaspur district will also be kept out of the four-lane project by constructing a six-km bypass. Likewise, congested temple town of Jwalamukhi will also be bypassed by constructing another six-km bypass between Sapri and Nadaun. It has also been proposed to convert the existing Daulatpur tunnel into a two-way lane.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs133-cr-released-as-land-relief-for-shimla-kangra-fourlaning-279923
08-07-2021||Solan||Parwanoo resident duped of Rs 16 lakh||Raman Puri, a resident of Parwanoo, was duped of Rs 16.50 lakh on pretext of providing okobo extract at a cheap price, by a woman, who posed to be an employee of a pharmaceutical company.DSP Parwanoo Yogesh Rolta said a case had been registered yesterday evening.Raman Puri received a call from a woman, who identified herself as Marcy William. She posed to be an employee of a pharmaceutical company engaged in selling okobo extract, which is reportedly used in manufacturing medicines. The complainant alleged she had promised to provide the herb by one Amit Aggarwal, and he had deposited Rs 16.50 lakh in accounts at Yes Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parwanoo-resident-duped-of-rs-16-lakh-279924
08-07-2021||Hamirpur||Stone crusher owners on strike from today||The Stone Crusher Operators Union has decided to go on a strike from tomorrow and halt the sale and production of grit and sand until the demands of the union are accepted.This was stated by Ashok Thakur, president of the union, here yesterday. He said the pandemic had adversely affected the production and restrictions imposed by the government had added to their woes. The union had requested the government to permit mechanical excavation of crushing material from the riverbeds due to the crisis of labour. It had become difficult for crusher owners to manually collect the material as it could not meet the running capacity of the crushing units.He said there were over 350 crushers in the state and more than 5,000 families were dependent on these. The government should allow front loader machines to be used for mining.Ashok Thakur said the union support the demands raised by the crushers operators of Una district and if the government would not accept the demands, the production could be halted in the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-crusher-owners-on-strike-from-today-279925
08-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Bear attacks woman in Kullu village||Kullu, July 7A bear attacked a woman in Shamrani village of Ghatu panchayat, in Anni subdivision of the district, yesterday. According to the information, Premkali had gone to a forest near her house in morning to get fodder for cattle. A bear suddenly attacked the woman and injured her badly. The victim got an injury on her arm. She tried to escape and cried out for help.Villagers rushed to rescue her, but the bear had fled from the spot. The victim’s relatives took her to the hospital immediately. Ghatu panchayat president Bhoga Ram informed the police, the administration and forest officials about the incident and urged them to provide immediate financial assistance for treatment of the victim.Anni DFO KV Negi said people should be cautious of wild animals in the area. He said a cage would be set up at the spot to catch the bear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bear-attacks-woman-in-kullu-village-279926
08-07-2021||pender Manta
||Narrow Aut-Jalori Pass road a nightmare for tourists||Tribune News Ser2vice Mandi, July 7 Traffic jams are a regular feature  between Aut and the Jalori Pass on the National Highway No. 305 in Kullu district these days due to a rush of tourists visiting Jalori. Banjar, Jibhi and Tirthan valleys are blessed with the bounty of nature. As the state government has lifted curbs, the tourist influx in Kullu, Manali and Banjar has increased. Hem Raj Sharma, a resident of Banjar, says, “For the past few days, the number of tourists visting Jalori has increased  drastically. As a result, commuters on the NH 305 are usually stuck in long traffic jams because the road at many places is narrow.” “There is an urgent need to widen the road for smooth traffic flow. It will help boost tourism in the region,” he said. Subedar MS Rathore (retd), president of the Seraj Tourism Development Association, says that the road connects Banjar and Anni with Aut in Mandi. Similarly, it also links Sainj in Rampur. “We have been urging the government since 2007 to widen the road but to no avail,” he adds. The people of Banjar say MLA Surender Shourie should raise the issue with CM Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narrow-aut-jalori-pass-road-a-nightmare-for-tourists-279927
08-07-2021||KULLU||Heroin seized||The police arrested one person and seized 110 gram heroin, the biggest haul in the district so far, from his possession at Bhuntar today. Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said that a team of special investigation wing got information that a person was coming from Delhi with the contraband. The police team laid a trap and caught the accused with the haul of heroin. The person has identified as Puran Chand (42). — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heroin-seized-279930
08-07-2021||---||Cap on gatherings in functions goes up in Himachal||Shimla, July 7The government today enhanced the cap on social gatherings to 200 persons for indoor events and 50 per cent of the capacity of the outdoor venue.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. However, the Cabinet decided against opening schools as online study would continue. It decided to promote first-year and second-year college students to the next class. New admissions would start in colleges from July-end and new academic year for undergraduate classes would commence from August 16.The Council of Ministers, reviewing the Covid situation, decided to raise the limit of gathering in all social, academic, entertainment, cultural, political and other congregations. It was also decided that Covid-appropriate behaviour would be ensured by Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police at tourist places.The Cabinet appreciated the progress of vaccination among the teaching and non-teaching staff. It was informed that about 90 per cent staff had been vaccinated till June 30. It was also informed that about 25,000 college students were vaccinated on June 28 and 29 and about 80 per cent students of the final year stood vaccinated on June 30.The Cabinet gave its consent to bring children, who have lost their parents due to Covid, under the ambit of the Mukhya Mantri Bal Uddhar Yojna to provide them additional monthly assistance of Rs 1,500 per month.It also gave its consent to increase the additional honorarium being provided to ASHA workers from the existing Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,750 per month. This would benefit about 7,964 workers working in the Health Department.The Cabinet decided that to implement the New Education Policy, question papers for Class III, V and VIII will be set by the HP Board of School Education and their marking and results would be declared at cluster, block and district levels. It granted six-week exemption in school internship in respect of diploma in elementary education for the batch 2018-20.The Cabinet decided to bring orphaned children and senior citizens above 70 years under the fold of HIMCARE health scheme without any premium. This would benefit about 1,500 orphaned children besides 16,304 senior citizens.The Cabinet also decided to recommend the Governor to convene the monsoon session from August 2 to August 13, which means that there will be a fairly long session so that the required 35 sittings of the Assembly in a year can be held.Session from August 2The Cabinet has also decided to recommend the Governor to convene the monsoon session from August 2 to August 13Admissions begin from July-end||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cap-on-gatherings-in-functions-goes-up-in-himachal-279931
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Expedition to Mount Kun in Kargil region flagged off||The Rising Star Brigade is undertaking a mountaineering expedition to Mount Kun in the Kargil region.The team, consisting of two Junior Commissioned Officers and 10 ranks from the brigade, was flagged off by Lt Gen PN Ananthanarayanan, General Officer Commanding, 9 Corps, from Yol cantonment today. In addition, 13 Army personnel from the National Institute of Mountaineering, Dirang, are also participating in the event.Mount Kun is the second highest peak of the Nun Kun massif, located in the upper Suru Valley along the Kargil-Zanskar road.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expedition-to-mount-kun-in-kargil-region-flagged-off-279932
08-07-2021||---||Cabinet berth a reward for pro-active Anurag Thakur||Shimla, July 7The elevation of three-time Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur as a cabinet minister signifies his growing political clout with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, rewarding him for his impressive performance, both in the government and the party.Anurag (46), despite being a Minister of State for Finance, was seen as a pro-active minister who remained at the forefront during any political crisis faced by the party. Even as a deputy to Niramala Sitharaman, he managed not to get overshadowed and came out on his own.Despite hailing from a small politically insignificant state like Himachal, his elevation is being considered a stamp of approval for his performance. More so when senior ministers and political heavyweights like Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar were dropped from the Modi cabinet.His aggressive political posturing, especially in taking on the AAP leadership in Delhi, earned him applaud at the party level. Being son of former Himachal Chief Minister PK Dhumal, who enjoyed a close proximity to Modi, Anurag acted responsibly and managed to win the confidence of both Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah.Considered as a suave young minister, who has won three consecutive Lok Sabha elections, Anurag is known to wear many hats as he started off as a cricketer, finally taking on his father’s political legacy. He remained president of the powerful BCCI and had to step down following court directives.He has been viewed by the party senior leadership as a as a trouble-shooter and performing minister. He has also maintained a good public connect, especially in this stint, and was at the forefront in ensuring that his constituency did not face any problem in getting oxygen and other Covid relief material.He has had three stints as national president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and came into limelight when he led the Rashtriya Ekta Yatra from Kolkata to Srinagar. Born on October 24, 1974, he made his electoral debut in the 2008 Lok Sabha polls and repeated the feat in 2014 and 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cabinet-berth-a-reward-for-pro-active-anurag-thakur-279933
08-07-2021||---||Himachal CM wishes Anurag Thakur on his elevation||Shimla, July 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has congratulated Anurag Thakur for his elevation as Union Cabinet minister.He expressed the hope that the tenure of Thakur as Union Cabinet Minister would be full of achievements and accomplishments. He said the state would benefit immensely in the matter of development due to his elevation as Cabinet Minister.The Chief Minister thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for elevating Anurag Thakur as Cabinet Minister. He said Himachal was fortunate that despite being a small state, BJP national president JP Nadda also belongs to this state.Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar and chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti have hailed the elevation of Lok Sabha MP from Hamirpur segment, Anurag Singh Thakur. As per a press release by Kanwar and Satti, Anurag Singh Thakur has been rewarded for his hard work and resource management for the Union government within and outside the Parliament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-wishes-anurag-thakur-on-his-elevation-279934
08-07-2021||Hamiprur||PK Dhumal: Status of Anurag Thakur will add to responsibilities||“The induction of Anurag Thakur into Cabinet would add to his responsibilities and I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for elevating him,” said PK Dhumal, former Chief Minister and father of Anurag Thakur here today.These were relentless efforts of Anurag and his capacities that were acknowledged by the leadership.Rakesh Thakur, former chairperson of Zila Parishad, said that elevation of Anurag would impart pace to the development in the district and the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pk-dhumal-status-of-anurag-thakur-will-add-to-responsibilities-279935
08-07-2021||Shimla||13 industrial proposals cleared||As many as 13 proposals for setting up new industrial enterprises and expansion of the existing units involving the investment of about Rs 1,297.23 crore were approved at the 17th meeting of the State Single Window Clearance and Monitoring Authority here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The projects will give employment to 1,718 persons. These include proposals of Sri Ram Healthcare Unit-III at Burranwala in Baddi, for liquid ampule, liquid vial, dry injection and ointment, RKV Spirits, Beed Palasi in Nalagarh for extra neutral alcohol, animal feed, carbon dioxide, ethanol and beer, Kinvan Private Limited, Plassara, Nalagarh, for making of APIs/bulk drugs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-industrial-proposals-cleared-279936
08-07-2021||Dharamsala||Wear mask, 5-yr-old appeals to tourists in Bhagsunag||Amit (5), a slum-dweller who lives near the Dalai Lama temple here, has become an internet sensation for his innocent act of pointing out to tourists in Bhagsunag that they should wear their masks.The video of Amit dancing and making the appeal to tourists, while walking along a narrow lane to the Bhagsu waterfall, became viral on Tuesday. Sources here said the video was shot and uploaded by Kailash Doval, an antique dealer in Bhagsu.The district authorities and mediapersons had been looking for him since then. He was found today in the slums near the temple. He was alone at that time as his parents had gone to Pathankot to buy balloons and other material that they sell as street vendors to tourists.When the authorities found him, he was dazed due to the sudden attention. The child, who sells balloons or begs for alms from tourists, looked curiously at officials and people who gathered around him and showered gifts on him. He was given new clothes and shoes by a revenue official. The SHO made him sit on the bonnet on his official Jeep to click his picture. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wear-mask-5-yr-old-appeals-to-tourists-in-bhagsunag-279937
08-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Job loss makes parents shift kids to govt schools in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 7The Education Department, battling to arrest the flight of students from government to private schools, has witnessed the reversal of trend during Covid as 23,608 students shifted from private to government schools.As per the data available with the Higher Education Department for the session 2021-22, a maximum of 8,222 students shifted to government schools in Kangra district, followed by Una (3,799), Hamirpur (3,443), Shimla (2,963), Bilaspur (1,775), Mandi (1,230), Kullu (713), Solan (650), Sirmaur (447), Chamba (322) and Kinnaur (44).The shift in trend is attributed to a number of factors that have forced parents to withdraw their wards from private schools but the main reason is fall in income due to loss of business and jobs during the pandemic.The huge infrastructure and number of indoor and outdoor extra-curricular activities gave an edge to private schools over government ones but during the pandemic, the government schools also imparted online education and charged no tuition fee. It weighed heavily on the minds of the parents and they opted for less expensive education, sources said.The online teaching in government schools was closely monitored to bring improvements and through the “Har Ghar Pathshala” initiative. The regular assessment of students and remedial steps to improve the learning levels of weak students also played a key role in attracting students to government schools, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma. The number could further increase as the admissions are on up to July 31.The initiatives had been a success, which was another reason for shift, he said, adding that emphasis was laid on involving students in yoga, storytelling, drawing, poster-making, dance, singing, playing music instruments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/job-loss-makes-parents-shift-kids-to-govt-schools-in-himachal-279938
08-07-2021||---||Himachal's hill stations overcrowded, locals wary||Shimla, July 7The overcrowding of tourists at most hill stations in the state, with social distancing norms being thrown to the winds, is giving anxious moments to the locals as well as health experts.Most popular towns like Shimla, Kullu-Manali, Kasauli, Dharamsala-McLeodganj and Dalhousie are bursting at the seams as tourists were rushing to hills to escape the sweltering heat of the plains. The callous and irresponsible behaviour of tourists, who are roaming around without masks, littering around and engaged in spat with policemen trying to discipline them has angered even the locals.The ICMR has also cautioned against over-crowding at hills stations in the state, stating that it very scary and could be a potent situation for the third wave.The ICMR has mentioned about the huge crowds in Shimla and Manali. The Cabinet in its meeting today directed the respective DCs and SPs to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour at popular tourist destinations. Thousands of tourist vehicles are entering the state from Parwanoo in Solan, Mehatpur in Una, Swarghat in Bilaspur and Kala Amb in Sirmaur.Videos of tourists, including women taking on police personnel asking them to wear masks, are being circulated on social media. “Just because they are guests doesn’t mean they can violate social distancing norms. Why should we risk our safety for their leisure,” remarked a netizen who had posted a photograph of tourists crowding Malls and eating from roadside vendors. He said tourism at the cost of the health of locals was not acceptable.What has angered the locals even more is tourists engaging in heated arguments including a scuffle with policemen trying to ensure Covid-appropriate behavior from them on the Cart Road and on the Ridge.Even though the Covid situation in Himachal Pradesh has improved considerably, positivity rate is down to one and Covid deaths have been reduced to one or two, such irresponsible behaviour can only be disastrous.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-hill-stations-overcrowded-locals-wary-279939
08-07-2021||---||NSUI threatens to gherao Himachal CM’s house||Dharamsala, July 7 The NSUI students, who had been sitting on a dharna outside the office of the Kangra DC for the past few days, today ended their protest. The Congress co-incharge for Himachal Gurkirat Singh Kotli and former minister GS Bali today went to the dharna site of NSUI activists. They also threatened to intensify their agitation and gherao the CM’s residence if their demands were not met. The activists were protesting against the decision of Himachal Pradesh University to hold annual examinations of undergraduate classes. They were demanding that all students should be promoted as per their previous record and annual examinations should not be held as many students were not able attend online classes regularly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-threatens-to-gherao-himachal-cms-house-279940
08-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Una lad tops NDA exam||Una, July 7 Aditya Singh Rana, who hails from Bathari village of Haroli subdivision in Una district, topped the NDA entrance examination held by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), results of which were announced recently. The tests include written test and an interview conducted by the Services Selection Board. As per Aditya’s grandfather Ved Prakash Rana, who is a veteran of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, Aditya would be the fourth generation in his family to serve in the Indian defence services.  Aditya’s father is a serving Colonel, presently posted in Delhi, while his great grandfather participated in the World War II in Egypt as part of the British Indian Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-lad-tops-nda-exam-279941
08-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Tourists flout norms, leave behind litter||Palampur, July 7Since the HP Government has relaxed Covid-related restrictions like e-pass for the entry of tourists in the state and removal of condition of RT-PCR test, tourists have been thronging the Kangra valley daily.However, many tourists lack Covid-appropriate behaviour. They roam about without any mask. Social distancing is not maintained in hotels or in other public places.No police personnel can be seen asking tourists to follow Covid protocols.In many areas, locals are opposing large-scale entry of tourists in forest and vacant land in villages.In Bir Billing, which is overcrowded with tourists these days, locals have categorically told hotel owners to direct tourists to follow Covid protocols.Meanwhile, NGOs have flayed tourists for being insensitive towards the environment.Local social activists BK Sood and Sanjiv Thappar, while interacting with The Tribune, said most forests and water channels are full of plastic junk and empty liquor bottles these days. They appealed to the administration to ban the entry of tourists and local youths in forests and near water channels.Anish Nag, Deputy Mayor of Palampur Municipal Corporation, said in the past one week, they had collected hundreds of empty liquor bottles from local khuds and forests. He said the Forest Department should fine the defaulters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-flout-norms-leave-behind-litter-279942
08-07-2021||Shimla||172 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal||The number of new Covid cases in the state rose to 172 today. A person from Mandi succumbed to the infection.Meanwhile, 159 patients recovered today. Now, there are 1,338 active Covid cases in the state.As many as 46 new cases were reported in Chamba, 33 in Kangra, 28 in Mandi, 20 in Solan, 15 in Shimla, nine in Bilaspur, six in Kullu, four each in Sirmaur, Hamirpur and Lahaul & Spiti and three in Una. — TNS-------------Deaths – 3470Positive cases – 203117Total persons tested for covid - 2528724Active cases – 1338Recovered – 198282District Deaths Positive casesBilaspur 78 12739Chamba 142 11411Hamirpur 254 14421Kangra 1033 45997Kinnaur 38 3266Kullu 154 8958Lahaul Spiti 17 2731Mandi 393 27307Shimla 599 25319Sirmour 210 15347Solan 311 22271Una 241 13350Total 3470 203117||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/172-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-279943
08-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Pradesh Police force to get training to face tech challenges: DGP Sanjay Kundu||Nurpur, July 7To face new technology-based challenges, the Himachal Pradesh Police will get professional training for their engagement in multi-tasking. This was stated by DGP Sanjay Kundu in a press conference here on Wednesday. Kundu, who was on a two-day visit in the inter-state border areas of Nurpur and Indora subdivisions of Kangra district, said he had directed the DIG (security) and SP, Kangra, to undertake security review of military installations in Kangra, Chamba and Una districts within one month, keeping in view the drone threats and the Army headquarters would also co-ordinate on this issue.Laying emphasis on the use of technology in strengthening police infrastructure, Kundu said manpower could be expanded to a certain extent due to the limited fiscal resources. Focusing on the roadmap for strengthening infrastructure, especially on inter-state borders, the DGP said a proposal was being prepared to install CCTV cameras and intelligent traffic management system on all borders. He said during the past one year, the law and order situation had been under control. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-police-force-to-get-training-to-face-tech-challenges-dgp-sanjay-kundu-279949
08-07-2021||In the latest rankings of SciVal research||Shoolini scientists among top 5||Submit admission forms till July 20The last date to submit forms online for admission to various courses in the Himachal Pradesh Technical University is July 20. Dean, academics, Kulbhushan Chandel said the schedule for the entrance test would be announced soon. He said the admission of students to the courses offered by the university would be done on the basis of admission test.Extend dates for library cards: SFIThe Himachal Pradesh University Campus unit, SFI, demanded extension of dates for making library cards for LLM, MPhil and research scholars, as they could not avail facilities due to closure of hostels. In a memorandum to dean of studies, the SFI demanded immediate opening of the university and the hostel, declaration of results and early conduct of entrance test for fresh admissions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-scientists-among-top-5-279976
08-07-2021||The rules regarding protecting trees from concrete constructions are being flouted with impunity. Trees can be seen trapped within walls||Rules for protection of trees flouted||Akhilesh Sharma, ShimlaStray cattle make driving riskyThe government boasts of providing shelter to stray cattle and constructing ‘gau sadans’ in the state. However, cattle can be seen on busy roads and the Khilani-Vikas Nagar stretch of Shimla bypass. When stray cattle roam around in urban areas of Shimla, what will be situation in rural areas? Commuters are forced to apply breaks frequently while driving on busy roads to save themselves and the stray cattle. Preetam Chand, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rules-for-protection-of-trees-flouted-279977
08-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dalai Lama says personally greatful to Virbhadra for warm friendship; Capt Amarinder remembers him as his elder brother||Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama on Thursday condoled the demise of Congress veteran and six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh, saying he was personally grateful for the warm friendship he showed to him.In a letter to his widow, Pratibha Singh, the Dalai Lama wrote: "Dedicating himself to the service of others, Virbhadra Singh led a long and meaningful life. I admired the way he listened to people's needs with deep affection and compassion."I am personally grateful for the warm friendship he showed me over the many years we knew each other."Historically there have long been close ties between the people of the erstwhile princely state of Bushahr, to which 'Raja Sahib' belonged, and their neighbours in western Tibet."Here in Himachal Pradesh, Shri Virbhadra Singh, our longest serving Chief Minister, will be sorely missed." His Holiness concluded his letter, "With my prayers."Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have expressed their condolences on the demise of veteran Congress leader Virbhadra Singh.Condoling the death of veteran Congress leader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he played a pivotal role in the state and served its people.Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said Virbhadra had a towering personality and he would be remembered by the people of the state for his contribution. He offered his condolences to Virbhadra’s family at his residence. He said it was under the dynamic leadership of Virbhadra that Himachal marched on the path of development.“What was admirable about him was that he did not mince words and was candid in expressing his opinion even it annoyed the Congress high command. His contribution to the development of the state will always be remembered. We will try to take forward the journey of development that he took the state on. Despite being on opposite side of the political spectrum, he enjoyed cordial relations with everyone across party lines," Thakur said.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh remembered him as his "elder brother". Rahul Gandhi said, "Virbhadra Singh ji was a stalwart in the true sense."President Ram Nath Kovind said Virbhadra's political career was marked by his commitment to serving the people.Singh breathed his last after a prolonged illness at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here at 3.40 am on Thursday, IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said.देवभूमि हिमाचल के 6 बार मुख्यमंत्री रहे हिमाचल के वरिष्ठ नेता आदरणीय वीरभद्र सिंह जी के निधन का समाचार हम सबके के लिए बेहद दुःख देने वाला है।हिमाचल के लिए यह एक अपूर्णीय क्षति है,जिसकी भरपाई कभी नहीं होगी।हिमाचल के विकास में उनका योगदान अनुकरणीय है,जिसे कभी भुलाया नहीं जाएगा। pic.twitter.com/MLyNvBSnpx  Shri Virbhadra Singh Ji had a long political career, with rich administrative and legislative experience. He played a pivotal role in Himachal Pradesh and served the people of the state. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.  Deeply saddened to hear of the passing away of former Himachal CM Raja Virbhadra Singh Ji. An able administrator and a gentleman who was loved by the people, he was not just an elder brother but also a mentor to many to us. May God grant his soul eternal peace. pic.twitter.com/MyFknfZZjL  Shocked to hear about demise of Former HP CM, Sh. Virbhadra S ji. One of the tallest leaders of State with career spanning more than 60 years, Himachal has lost one of its greatest statesman. It’s an irreparable loss to @INCIndia & nation. Condolences to @VikramadityaINC & family||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-says-personally-greatful-to-virbhadra-for-warm-friendship-capt-amarinder-remembers-him-as-his-elder-brother-279983
08-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||An era ends in Himachal Congress with Virbhadra Singh (1934-2021)||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 8The passing away of six-time Himachal chief minister Virbhadra Singh marks the end of an era where he dominated the state political scenario for almost six decades. His death has left a big vacuum in the Congress as no other leader enjoys the kind of mass appeal and popularity that he enjoyed across the state. Also read: Former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh dies of post-Covid complications at 87 PM Modi, Jai Ram, Nadda condole Virbhadra's demise; Capt remembers him as his elder brotherIt was his indomitable spirit and endurance that saw the Congress stalwart remain a Union minister and dominate the political spectrum of Himachal for almost six decades. He became an MP at the age of 28 in 1962 and chief minister for the first time in 1983, to repeat the feat on six occasions.Even in his last days, in hospital, the “Raja”, as he was referred to, exhibited the same fighting spirit which remained the hallmark of his entire political career. However, it was after a three-month-long battle, including his successful fight against corona twice, that he finally breathed his last here on Thursday.Amongst the tallest Congress leaders in the country, he was a grassroots leader who won nine Assembly and five Lok Sabha elections, a feat few politicians can boast of. Virbhadra remained state Congress president in 1977, 1979, 1980 and 2012 before becoming chief minister. However, his stint as CM in 1998 lasted for a brief period of 18 days as he failed to win the confidence vote as Independent legislator Ramesh Dhawala chose to support the Dhumal-led BJP regime.Even his most bitter critics across party lines admired the “Raja” for his fighting spirit and resolute trait to bounce back against all adversity. It was his larger-than-life persona which ensured that nobody within the Congress dared challenge his authority despite his often being accused of having a feudalistic and dictatorial style of functioning.Born on June 23, 1934, Virbhadra made his entry into politics after being elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time in 1962. “I joined politics to serve the people as the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru himself chose me for being fielded on the Congress ticket in the 1962 Lok Sabha election,” he would often say about his initiation into politics at the hands of Pt Nehru.Despite his immense popularity and having support of majority MLAs, Virbhadra on many occasions had to fight his way to the CM’s chair, often against the wishes of the high command. In 1993, the tenacious politician in him ensured that he did not lose the fight for the chair to Sukh Ram, his arch rival, who had the full support and blessings of the then Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao. Virbhadra on his part exhibited his strength with the support of majority MLAs, compelling a reluctant high command to assume the CM’s chair.Often welcomed with the slogan “Raja nahin fakir hai, Himachal ki takdir hai,” the six-time CM, unlike most other erstwhile rulers who joined politics, remained most accessible and people-friendly. Known for being extremely compassionate, he would not hesitate to extend financial help to the needy from his personal resources in case the cumbersome government rules became a hindrance. “He might have been from the Congress, but there is no dearth of his admirers in our party too. He was perhaps the tallest leader with many admirable qualities, which evoked respect from even his die-hard critics,” confessed Rakesh Pathania, Forest Minister.Former telecommunications minister Sukh Ram remained his biggest bete noire and the two never saw eye to eye. In fact, it was Sukh Ram who remained instrumental in keeping the Congress out of power after he floated his own political outfit, Himachal Vikas Congress, which won five Assembly seats in the 1998 polls and extended support to the Dhumal-led BJP regime.Barring his last stint from 2012 to 2017 as CM, he was known to read the files very minutely and write comments in his own hand. With age catching up and health issues marring his performance, his last stint saw the Congress veteran leader battling against the CBI, Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax department, who slapped cases against him for alleged disproportionate assets and money laundering. In fact, the CBI raided his house “Holly Lodge” here on the morning of  September 27, 2015, the day of his daughter’s wedding.In his over-half-a-century-long political career, Virbhadra faced electoral defeat only on two occasions. He had to taste defeat at the hands of former CM Ram Lal Thakur when he lost the Assembly election from Jubbal-Kotkhai in 1990 even though Virbhadra made it to the Assembly as he had also contested from Rohru. He also lost one Lok Sabha election from Mandi in 1977 at the hands of Ganga Singh of the Janata Party.His last stint as CM from 2012 to 2017 saw him facing corruption charges with the Income Tax department, CBI and Enforcement Directorate filing cases against him, his wife and son, which are still in various stages of investigation.He has left behind a major vacuum in the Congress with no other leader enjoying the kind of popularity and personal following that he enjoyed in every nook and corner of the state. Despite his frail health and age-related issues, the party was still banking on him as the star campaigner in the 2022 Assembly polls. Now with the passing away of the stalwart, the Congress not only remains a divided house with several claimants to the post of chief minister but is also devoid of any charismatic leader who can pull crowds.It is unlikely that a leader from any political party can have the kind of popularity and personal following that Virbhadra enjoyed. The imprint left behind by the “Raja” would certainly be difficult for anyone to match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/an-era-ends-in-himachal-congress-with-virbhadra-singh-1934-2021-279833
08-07-2021||Dharamsala||Viral video: 5-year-old boy asks tourists to wear masks in Dharamsala||A five-year-old boy, Amit, who lives in a slum near the Dalai Lama temple, had never realised that he has become an internet sensation for his innocent act of pointing out to tourists in Bhagsunag area of Upper Dharamsala that they should wear mask.District authorities of Kangra and media persons had been looking for the child since yesterday when his video urging people passing through a narrow lane in Bhagsunag to wear mask went viral.He was found today in the slum near Dalai Lama temple. He was alone as his parents had gone to Pathankot in Punjab to buy balloons and other material that they sell as street vendors to tourists in Mcleodganj.The child could not tell to which place he belongs as questions were poured on him to identify him to some state, district or subdivision. He could just utter the word Nainital.When the authorities found Amit, he was dazed at the attention he got. The little child who used to sell balloons as a street vendor or beg from the tourists to make a living was looking curiously at the officials and people gathering around him and showering love and gifts to him.He was given new clothes and shoes by revenue official deputed by the district administration. The SHO, Mcleodganj, took him in his lap and did a photoshoot seating Amit on the bonnet on his official jeep. The child sat timidly looking at the cops.The video of Amit dancing and pointing out to tourists walking along a narrow lane to Bhagsu waterfall to wear mask became viral yesterday.The sources here said that the video which went viral was shot and put on internet by Kailash Doval, an antique dealer in Bhagsu.The sources also said that today many NGOs also approached authorities to adopt the child. However, it remains to be seen if this sudden publicity helps in improving the life of the 5-year-old.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/viral-video-5-year-old-boy-asks-tourists-to-wear-masks-in-dharamsala-279469
