09-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM directs authorities to strictly enforce Covid norms in view of increased tourist inflow||Concerned over manifold increase in tourist arrival at key hill stations in Himachal after fall in Covid-19 cases, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday directed the deputy commissioners, district police chiefs and chief medical officers to ensure strict implementation of “appropriate Covid behaviour” norms to check spread of the virus.Presiding over a conference of deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers through video conference to review Covid-19 pandemic situation, Thakur said the state government has allowed free movement of tourists to the state, which has resulted in large number of tourists heading towards the hills.The state being a major tourist destination, key hill stations are attracting large number of tourists but at the same time, the state government was also ensuring that no tourist would be allowed to flout SOPs, he said and asked the officials to keep strict vigil on tourists not following the protocol.He also appealed to the tourists to use face masks and hand sanitizers besides strictly following the SOPs issued by the state government from time to time.Jai Ram Thakur said that since the number of Covid cases were declining at a steady pace, the number of tourists has also increased manifold and the state government was not against this, but the government was ensuring that people must adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.He said that main tourist destinations like Shimla, Manali and Dharamsala are witnessing surge in tourist inflow and as such the hoteliers, travel agents and owners of the home stays must motivate the tourists staying in their units to maintain Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The chief minister asked the police to identify places where the flow of tourists was very high and deploy additional police force to tackle the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-directs-authorities-to-strictly-enforce-covid-norms-in-view-of-increased-tourist-inflow-280595
09-07-2021||Shimla||Virbhadra was like a guide from whom I learnt a lot: JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party’s national president Jagat Prakash Nadda said on Friday that former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s demise was not just a big loss to the state but was a personal one for him as well.Nadda, who flew down from Delhi to pay his last respect to six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who passed away yesterday, said the Congress stalwart was a guide to him from whom he got to learn a lot. “We agreed to disagree but respected each other’s sentiments and feelings,” said Nadda after offering floral tributes to the veteran leader on the Ridge here on Friday. Nadda said he laid a wreath on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the body.Nadda had visited Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) on July 5 to enquire after the Congressman. “I believe it is a big loss to the state but personally also a big loss for me as well as when he was chief minister, I got to learn a lot from him in my capacity as Leader of Opposition,” said Nadda. He added that despite being from different ideology, he had a lot of respect for Virbhadra and learnt a lot from him.“I went to the hospital just five days back to inquire about his well-being. He was recovering well but destiny willed otherwise,” Nadda said, adding that the state had lost a tall leader who contributed immensely towards its development.Nadda came to the Ridge, where former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s body was kept for the public to pay their respects, as soon as he arrived from Delhi. Accompanied by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar, ministers and party leaders, Nadda met Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha Singh and son Vikramaditya Singh on the Ridge itself.Nadda also used the occasion to visit the residence of Narinder Bragta, a former minister and MLA from Jubbal Kotkhai who passed away last month, to offer his condolences. Party sources said it was almost certain that Chetan, Bragta’s son, would be BJP’s candidate for the by-poll.Nadda also called on the outgoing Governor Bandaru Dattatraya at Raj Bhawan. He spent some time discussing organisational matters with CM, ministers, and party leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-was-like-a-guide-from-whom-i-learnt-a-lot-jp-nadda-280548
09-07-2021||Kullu||Police to be stricter on tourists to abide Covid norms in Kullu-Manali||After the remarks of ICMR and Union Health Ministry showing concern over overcrowding in hill stations and people not following Covid appropriate behaviour, the Kullu police has strengthened its campaign to apprise people and the tourists that those not wearing a mask in public places can be arrested without warrant, sent to jail for up to eight days or be fined Rs 5,000.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said there is a provision under Section 111 of the Himachal Pradesh Police Act, 2007 that authorises all police officers of the district, not below the rank of sub-inspector, to arrest a person found not wearing a mask without warrant.He said that violators can be imprisoned up to eight days on conviction or may be fined up to Rs 5,000, or both.He said that the compounding fee was from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 upon repeated offence.The pictures and videos of tourist rush in Manali after the second wave subsided were published in various media platforms.The ICMR DG had reacted to pictures of overcrowded hill stations, shopping areas and other public places as “frightening”.The Union Health Ministry warned that it can re-impose restrictions again if Covid protocols are not complied with.Referring to the massive footfall of people in hill stations, the ministry stated that gross violations of Covid appropriate behaviour can nullify the gains so far.The government on Tuesday flagged “frightening laxity” on part of the people and said the timing and scale of the third wave would depend on collective behaviour.The Rustom volunteers and the police have been carrying out the awareness campaign across the district.They are visiting markets and apprising people to adhere to the Covid protocols. They are also visiting marriages and creating awareness through corona songs. The police had increased patrol and were challaning the violators. The people are being made aware through public announcement vans.However, some beneficiaries of the tourism industry opined that police should fine Rs 100 and provide a mask.They said that a Rs 5,000 fine and 8 days imprisonment will have a bad impact on tourism and deter tourists from visiting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-to-be-stricter-on-tourists-to-abide-covid-norms-in-kullu-manali-280541
09-07-2021||Shimla||Man arrested on charges of raping minor in Shimla||A 59-year-old man was arrested on charges of having allegedly raped an 11-year-old girl in Shimla’s Jathia Devi on Friday, police sources said.The victim was a girl of Nepalese origin, police said, and the incident occurred in their absence.  The suspect was the landlord of their rented room who had threatened to kill her if she told anyone of the alleged rape, police sources said.In her complaint, the child’s mother, to whom the child narrated the incident later, said that her daughter was in pain when she returned home on July 7.Shimla Police said they booked the suspect for rape (section 376) and criminal intimidation (Section 506) as well as sections of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-arrested-on-charges-of-raping-minor-in-shimla-280534
09-07-2021||Shimla||J P Nadda, Rahul Gandhi pay tribute to departed Congress leader Virbhadra Singh in Shimla||BJP President J.P. Nadda, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi and Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, along with other political leaders, paid floral tributes to six-time Himachal CM and Congress stalwart Virbhadra Singh by laying wreath on his mortal remains here on Friday.Virbhadra Singh passed away on Thursday at the age of 87 after prolonged illness at Shimla's Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC).The leaders expressed their heartfelt condolences to Singh's wife, Pratibha Singh, a two-time former MP, and son, Vikramaditya Singh, a legislator from Shimla rural.Hundreds of people, comprising politicians cutting across party lines, started arriving at the historic Ridge early on Friday, where the mortal remains of Singh were kept for people to pay their last respect.Later, the body was taken to the state Congress office—Rajiv Bhawan—on the Cart Road from where it was taken to the Padam Palace, the ancestral house of Singh in Rampur, some 120 km from here.Rahul Gandhi paid his last respects to the departed leader at the Congress office, while Nadda and Thakur paid tributes when the mortal remains were kept at the Ridge, an open space just above the Mall.On Saturday, the body will be kept at Padam Palace for 'antim darshan' from 8 am to 2 pm before the funeral at 3 pm.Singh's body was kept at his private residence—Holly Lodge—here for the entire day on Thursday for 'antim darshan'. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/j-p-nadda-rahul-gandhi-pay-tribute-to-departed-congress-leader-virbhadra-singh-in-shimla-280524
09-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Pictures: Loved by one and all, large crowd gathers at The Ridge to pay tributes to Raja Virbhadra Singh||Locals and politicians started arriving early Friday morning at The Ridge in Shimla to pay their last respect to former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who passed away on Wednesday morning.The body will be kept at Ridge Maidan for the public for ‘antim darshan' from 9 am to 11.30 am. Subsequently, it will be taken to state Congress office Rajiv Bhawan on Cart Road in Shimla where it will be kept from 11.40 am to 1 pm.Thereafter, the body will be taken to Rampur by road at 1 pm and it is scheduled to reach Padam Palace Rampur at 6 pm.On Saturday, the body will be kept at Padam Palace Rampur for ‘antim darshan' from 8 am to 2 pm before the funeral at 3 pm.  Singh's body was kept at Holly Lodge for the entire day on Thursday for ‘antim darshan'.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pictures-loved-by-one-and-all-large-crowd-gathers-at-the-ridge-to-pay-tributes-to-raja-virbhadra-singh-280476
09-07-2021||Shimla||JP Nadda, Rahul Gandhi to arrive today to pay tributes to Virbhadra Singh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jp-nadda-rahul-gandhi-to-arrive-today-to-pay-tributes-to-virbhadra-singh-280417
09-07-2021||Shimla||Six-time Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh had lost twice||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/six-time-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-had-lost-twice-280416
09-07-2021||Tribune Reporters
||Rich tributes paid to Virbhadra Singh in Mandi, Chamba||Mandi/chamba, July 8 Residents of Mandi today paid tributes former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh; he had represented the constituency in the Lok Sabha. A majority of people said that Virbhadra’s death was a huge loss not only to the state but also to the nation. Office-bearers of the district Congress committees in Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti paid floral tributes to the departed soul at the Gandhi Bhawan, Mandi. Former Telecom Minister and arch rival of Virbhadra Singh, Pandit Sukh Ram, Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur, DCC president Mandi Prakash Chaudhari, former minister Satya Prakash Thakur also paid tributes. In Chamba town, the DCC organised a condolence meeting for late Virbhadra Singh . The Congress leaders, office-bearers and workers, besides those from other Congress frontal organisations attended the meeting. A two-minute silence was observed and tributes paid. DCC president Neeraj Nayar prayed to the almighty for peace to the departed soul and expressed condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rich-tributes-paid-to-virbhadra-singh-in-mandi-chamba-280273
09-07-2021||---||Cremation of Virbhadra Singh at Rampur tomorrow||Shimla, July 8  The cremation of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh will take place at his native place Rampur on July 10. His body has been kept at his residence “Holly Lodge” in Jakhu as people from all walks of life made a beeline to pay their last tributes to the departed soul. The body will be kept on The Ridge tomorrow morning for people to pay their last respects. It will be taken to the state Congress office before being taken to Rampur for the final journey.  “The cremation will take place at our ancestral place at Rampur on July 10,” said Vikramaditya Singh,  Virbhadra’s son who is the sitting MLA from Shimla (Rural) constituency. Governor Bandaru Dattartreya, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap, state ministers, Congress MLAs and leaders offered condolences to his wife Pratibha Singh and other family members. National BJP president JP Nadda, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur and former Chief Ministers Prem Kumar Dhumal and Shanta Kumar termed his death as a big loss to the state.  The state government today declared a three-day mourning. The BJP also suspended all its programmes in the state for the next three days. There will be no official entertainment till July 10 and the national flag will fly at half-mast. All government offices, including boards, corporations and autonomous institutions except the offices dealing with essential services, remained closed today as a mark of respect to the veteran leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cremation-of-virbhadra-singh-at-rampur-tomorrow-280276
09-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||PK Dhumal: Former CM Virbhadra Singh was a great fighter||Hamirpur, July 8 Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh was a great fighter and faced every challenge successfully, said former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal here today.  He said the six-time Chief Minister’s death was a big loss to the state. Scores of leaders from all political parties paid tributes to him.  Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, former HPCC president, said Virbhadra’s death had created a void that could not be filled. He was a great administrator whose contribution to the development of the state would be remembered forever.  Ram Lal Thakur, MLA from Shri Naina Devi, said the state had neither seen, nor would see a leader of such brilliance. Rajender Zar, DCC president, said Virbhadra was a statesman, who dedicated his life to the development of Himachal.  Barsar MLA Inder Dutt Lakhanpal  said his death was a personal loss to him. Virbhadra had brought him into politics, he added.  Sujanpur MLA Rajender Rana said his death was shocking and a great loss to the state. Prem Kaushal, HPCC spokesperson, said Virbhadra was a father figure to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pk-dhumal-former-cm-virbhadra-singh-was-a-great-fighter-280279
09-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Stone crusher owners go on strike in Nurpur, Indora||Nurpur, July 8As many as 30 stone crusher owners in Nurpur and Indora subdivisions of Kangra district shut their units on Thursday and proceeded on an indefinite strike in protest against the stringent conditions imposed by the state Pollution Control Board.Karan Singh Maltu, general secretary of the Nurpur Stone crushers’ Association, said here today that despite having all mandatory permissions they were unable to run their units due to the stringent conditions. He added that the crusher owners in the state had repeatedly requested the government to allow mechanical mining in the leased area of the rivulets and relax the stringent conditions enforced by the state Pollution Control Board. “Extracting mining material manually is not possible to meet the demand for grit, sand or other material required for the construction of buildings and roads. In the absence of the permission to use JCB machines or other excavation equipment, the tag of ‘illegal mining’ haunts the crusher owners,” he added.Maltu appealed to the state government to frame a mining policy to allow the use of machinery to extract material from the leased area. He said that the Director, Industry Department, had convened a meeting of the stone crusher owners in Shimla tomorrow. “If our genuine demands are not accepted, all crusher owners of the state will stop operations and go on an indefinite strike,” he added.As per information, stone crushers have been set up at Baari, Tipri, Damtal, Indora, Kandrori, Mand and Kandwal for extracting material from the Chhonch, Beas and Chakki rivers in lower Kangra district. Villagers living in the areas surrounding these rivers are protesting against rampant illegal mining activities, as their underground water resources have depleted drastically, posing a threat to irrigation and drinking water supply schemes. Their fertile lands have also turned barren.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-crusher-owners-go-on-strike-in-nurpur-indora-280282
09-07-2021||Solan||Online exams for Nauni University posts from July 13||The written objective type exams for provisionally admitted candidates for various posts advertised by the Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, will be held from July 13 to September 11. In a press note issued by the university authorities, it was stated that the candidates for the posts of publication assistant, sports assistant, technical assistant, draughtsman, technical assistant, assistant linesman, junior technician, driver, laboratory attendant, matron, caretaker, library assistant, instrumentation technician and store keeper-cum-clerk should download their roll numbers and revised admit cards from the university website, which would be available 10 days prior to the examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/online-exams-for-nauni-university-posts-from-july-13-280285
09-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Virbhadra Singh: Indomitable fighter till the end||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 8The passing away of Virbhadra Singh marks the end of an era. A man of an indomitable spirit and endurance power, he dominated the state politics for almost six decades. He became an MP in 1962 at the age on 28 and Chief Minister for the first time in 1983 and repeated the feat six times.Even during his last days in hospital, the ‘Raja’, as he was popularly referred to, exhibited the same fighting spirit that remained the hallmark of his entire political career. Often welcomed with the slogan “Raja nahin fakir hai, Himachal ki takdir hai,” the six-time Chief Minister, unlike most other erstwhile rulers who joined politics, was most accessible.Virbhadra, a former Union minister, was counted amongst the tallest Congress leaders in the country, but he still remained a grassroots leader. He had won nine Assembly elections and five Lok Sabha elections, a feat only a few politicians can boast of. He remained the state Congress president in 1977, 1979, 1980 and 2012 before becoming CM. However, his stint as CM in 1998 lasted for a brief period of 18 days, as he failed to win the confidence vote.Even his most bitter critics across party lines admired the “Raja” for his fighting spirit and the resolute trait to bounce back against all adversities. It was his larger-than-life persona, which ensured that nobody in the Congress dared to challenge his authority though he was often accused of having a dictatorial style of functioning.Virbhadra entered politics by winning the LS elections for the first time in 1962. “I joined politics to serve people. First Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru chose me as a Congress candidate for the 1962 LS elections,” he would often say about his initiation into politics at the hands of Pandit Nehru.Former Telecommunication Minister Sukh Ram remained his biggest bete noire and the two never saw eye to eye. In fact, Sukh Ram was instrumental in keeping the Congress out of power after he floated his own political outfit, Himachal Vikas Congress, which won five seats in the 1998 elections.Though Virbhadra was immensely popular, on occasions he had to fight his way to the CM’s post, often against the wishes of the top leadership. In 1993, the tenacious politician in him ensured that he did not lose the fight for chief ministership to Sukh Ram, his arch rival, who had the blessings of the then PM PV Narasimha Rao. Virbhadra on his part exhibited his strength with the support of majority MLAs, compelling a reluctant top leadership to let him adorn the mantle.Barring his last tenure as Chief Minister from 2012 to 2017, he was known to be an able administrator. He also faced the CBI, ED and the IT Department during his last tenure as CM, and was slapped with cases of alleged amassing of assets disproportionate to his known income sources and money laundering. In fact, the CBI raided his house “Holly Lodge” in Shimla on the morning of September 27, 2015, the day of his daughter’s wedding.During his long political career spanning over half a century, Virbhadra faced the electoral defeat only twice. He lost to a former Chief Minister, Ram Lal Thakur, from Jubbal-Kotkhai in the 1990 Assembly elections. However, he made it to the Vidhan Sabha as he had also contested the elections from the Rohru seat. He also lost the Lok Sabha election from Mandi in 1977 to Ganga Singh of the Janata Party.Admired across party lines"It is shocking to hear about the death of charismatic leader Virbhadra Singh, who was admired across party lines. Though we differed politically, we held each other in utmost regard." — JP Nadda, National BJP PresidentWill be remembered for his simplicity"Virbhadra Singh made a commendable contribution to the development of Himachal Pradesh and will always be remembered for his simplicity, humane behaviour and development-oriented administration."Rajendra Vishwanth Arlekar, governor (designate)Unprecedented contribution to state"The contribution of Virbhadra Singh towards the development of the state was unprecedented and his demise is a big loss to the state. He devoted his entire life for the uplift of every section of society with special focus on weaker and vulnerable sections. His strong willpower, commitment and determination will always remain a source of inspiration for all of us in public life." — Jai Ram Thakur, CMWas a good administrator"Virbhadra’s death is the end of an era in HP politics. He was a good administrator and was dedicated to the development of the state. I had personal relations with him. I would urge the new age politicians to learn the ethics of politics from Virbhadra Singh’s life." — Shanta Kumar, former Chief MinisterWas a fine human being"I am deeply saddened to learn about the death of Virbhadra Singh, who was a seasoned politician and fine human being with the qualities of head and heart. He not only ensured holistic development of the hill state, but also played a pivotal role for the overall well-being of all sections of society." — Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-singh-indomitable-fighter-till-the-end-280257
09-07-2021||New Delhi||President Kovind, PM Modi, Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh pay tributes to Virbhadra Singh||President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Narendra Modi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress president Sonia Gandhi were among leaders who paid tributes to Virbhadra Singh today.The President said Virbhadra’s long political career was marked by commitment to serve the people of Himachal Pradesh.The PM tweeted, “Shri Virbhadra Singh Ji had a long political career, with rich administrative and legislative experience. He played a pivotal role in Himachal and served the people of the state”.Manmohan Singh, in a letter to Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh, said the passing away of the former Chief Minister has left a huge vacuum in the Congress. “Virbhadra belonged to the royal lineage, but his strength was his easy accessibility to people. In his death, our country has lost a mass leader and an able administrator,” he said.Sonia Gandhi called him one of the tallest party leaders saying he leaves behind a legacy of six-decade service to the people of Himachal and the nation. “Popular for his affable and grounded nature, Virbhadra Singh remained close to people and brought about far-reaching positive changes through his administrative acumen,” she said in her condolence message. She separately wrote to Pratibha Singh expressing grief.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Virbhadra Singh’s commitment to serve people was exemplary. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari, BJP president JP Nadda and Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur also condoled his demise. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, AICC general secretary Priyanka Vadra, and ex-Haryana CM BS Hooda also paid tributes.June 23, 1934 - July 8, 2021His political journeySix stints as Chief minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-kovind-pm-modi-sonia-gandhi-manmohan-singh-pay-tributes-to-virbhadra-singh-280260
09-07-2021||Shimla||Virbhadra Singh was known for punctuality, compassion||Virbhadra Singh was born into the erstwhile royal family of Bushair to Raja Padam Singh. He did his schooling from Bishop Cotton School, Shimla. He graduated from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, before taking a plunge into electoral politics.Virbhadra was always dressed immaculately and wore his trademark green “Bushairi cap”. He was known for his punctuality and compassion. His wife Pratibha Singh had won two Lok Sabha elections from Mandi in 2004 and 2013; she defeated Jai Ram Thakur in 2013. His son Vikramaditya Singh is a first-time MLA from Shimla (Rural) seat that he had represented earlier.He had four daughters from his first wife, Rani Ratna Kumari, who hailed from the Jubbal royal family. One of his daughters, Abhilasha Kumari, had been a Judge of the Gujarat High Court and is at present a member of the Lok Pal. In November 1985, Virbhadra, who had lost his first wife, married Pratibha Singh; they have a son, Vikramaditrya Singh, and a daughter, Aprajita Kumari, who married Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s grandson in 2015.His last stint as the CM from 2012 to 2017 saw him facing corruption charges with the IT Department, CBI and the ED filing cases against him, his wife and son, which are still at various stages of investigation. —TNSLast battle with CovidOctogenarian Virbhadra, who waged many a political battles both within and outside the Congress, successfully fought Covid twice but later died of post-Covid complications. His last days in hospital symbolised his fighting spirit, as despite age and a number of ailments such as diabetes, kidney and heart problems, he recovered from Covid twice. His wife Pratibha Singh and son Vikramaditya, too, were infected with Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-singh-was-known-for-punctuality-compassion-280263
09-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Virbhadra brought major projects to Kangra district||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 8Virbhadra Singh had a love-hate relationship with the Kangra region. While he was often accused of being biased against Kangra or the merged Himachal area, he can be credited with bringing most projects to the region.The biggest one is the Assembly complex where the winter session is held every year. Before the complex was built, Virbhadra Singh as Chief Minister in 2005 started holding the winter session in Government College, Dharamsala.Was widely respected by rivals, peopleVirbhadra Singh had some political rivals in Kangra, but was loved by opponents and people as a leader. ‘Raja nahi fakir hai, Himachal ki takdir hai’ was the slogan that greeted him whenever he visited Kangra district.During his last tenure as Chief Minister from 2012 to 2017, a notification was issued declaring Dharamsala as the second capital of the state. Though the notification remained only on paper, many believe only a leader like Virbhadra Singh could have the courage to take such a politically-sensitive decision.Virbhadra also started a winter sojourn of the Chief Minister to the lower areas in 1990s after BJP leaders accused him of ignoring Kangra. During the winter sojourn, he used to stay in Kashmir House, an HPTDC hotel in Dharamsala that was converted into the Chief Minister’s residence.During his last tenure as Chief Minister, Virbhadra announced government colleges, hospitals, new tehsils and schools in all Assembly constituencies of Kangra district. Interestingly, most these are now functional.Virbhadra is also credited with shifting the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education from Shimla to Dharamsala and bringing Tanda medical college to Kangra district.He had some political rivals in Kangra, but leaders and people loved him as a leader. ‘Raja nahi fakir hai, Himachal ki takdir hai’ was the slogan that greeted him whenever he visited the area.Even his political rivals praised him for his hard work and love for common man. Officials praised him for his administrative acumen. Though he was at times harsh, everyone knew that orders given by him had to be complied with, said an official.Virbhadra would be remembered as a leader who loved the Kangra region, gave the maximum projects to the area and helped the poor and the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-brought-major-projects-to-kangra-district-280271
09-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||End of an era, 6-time Himachal CM Virbhadra passes away||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 8The passing away of former Himachal Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh (87) today has not only marked the end of an era but also left a big vacuum in the Congress, as the party was synonymous with the veteran leader in the hill state.A six-time CM, nine-time legislator and five-term MP, Virbhadra breathed his last at the Indira Gandhi Medical College here at 3.40 am today after almost a three-month-long battle against Covid. Despite having recovered from Covid twice, his condition deteriorated on July 5, when he had to be put on a ventilator. He will be cremated at his native place Rampur on July 10.Edit: HP stalwart passes awayDespite his frail health and age-related issues, the Congress was still banking on him as the star campaigner for the 2022 Assembly elections. Now with the passing away of the stalwart, the Congress not only remains a divided house with several claimants to the post of chief minister but is also devoid of any charismatic leader who can pull crowds.Being the scion of the erstwhile Bushair royal family, “Raja Sahib” (as he was fondly addressed by his supporters) did not get to rule a kingdom but surely he ruled the hearts of the people of Himachal. The fondness and admiration for him reflected in slogans like “Raja nahin fakir hai, Himachal ki takdir hai”. The imprint left behind by him would certainly be difficult for anyone to match.An astute politician, able administrator, a man full of compassion and most accessible, the Congress veteran devoted almost six decades to public life as he started his electoral innings by winning the first Lok Sabha election in 1962. Ironically, on most occasions, he made it to the top post much against the wishes of the high command as he never hesitated to speak his mind.His demise has left the Congress in the state virtually rudderless with no leader even remotely enjoying the kind of following the “Raja” had in every nook and corner of the state. Considering his towering personality and political clout, he could seal anybody’s fate by ensuring their victory or even defeat.Even his most bitter critics across party lines admired the “Raja” for his fighting spirit and the resolute trait to bounce back from adversity. It was his larger-than-life persona which ensured that nobody within the Congress dared challenge his authority despite often being accused of having a feudalistic mentality and dictatorial style of functioning.Virbhadra’s passing away brings to an end an era. The Congress will find it difficult to fill the void and have a popular face to woo the voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/end-of-an-era-6-time-himachal-cm-virbhadra-passes-away-280338
09-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh dies of post-Covid complications at 87||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 8Veteran Congress leader and six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh passed away at 3.40 am today at IGMC after a three-month long battle with Covid illness. He was 87.The state government has declared a three day mourning as a mark of respect to the former chief minister. Virbhadra's body has been kept at his home in Holly Lodge in the lower Jakhu area of Shimla for the public to pay their last respects. The cremation will take place in Rampur on Saturday. His body will be kept in the state Congress office on Friday before being taken to Rampur in the afternoon.Also read: An era ends in Himachal Congress with Virbhadra Singh (1934-2021)PM Modi, Jai Ram, Nadda condole Virbhadra's demise; Capt Amarinder remembers him as his elder brotherVirbhadra, a sitting MLA from Arki in Solan district, had earlier recovered from Covid twice successfully. Senior Medical Superintendent, IGMC Dr Janak Raj confirmed the death of Virbhadra. A decision on his cremation taking place in Shimla or his native place Rampur is likely to be taken by the family, later. He hailed from the erstwhile royal family of Bushair.The passing away of Virbhadra marks the end of an era where he dominated the state political scenario for almost six decades. His death has left a big vacuum in the Congress as no other leader enjoys the kind of mass appeal and popularity that he did.A six-time chief minister, Virbhadra had won nine assembly and five Lok Sabha elections, a feat few politicians can boast of. He also remained State Congress President in 1977, 1979, 1980 and 2012. He made his entry into politics after being elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time in 1962. He remained Union Minister for Steel and also and a Deputy Minister in Indira Gandhi cabinet.   It was on April 12 after testing positive for Covid that Virbhadra was shifted to Max, Mohali. Though he recovered and was discharged but had to be hospitalized again on April 30 after his oxygen saturation levels fell.Eversince he remained admitted to IGMC while being treated for heart and kidney ailments. Even as he showed good signs of recovery, it was on June 11 that he again contracted Covid infection. Notwithstanding his age and comorbidities, he fought the dreaded virus successfully for the second time.However, his condition deteriorated on July 5, as his oxygen saturation level dipped, forcing doctors to put him on a ventilator, leading to his death today morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-dies-of-post-covid-complications-at-87-279722
