11-07-2021||New Delhi||NGT directs HP chief secretary to remove encroachment on govt land in Shimla||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Himachal Pradesh chief secretary to ensure removal of encroachment on government land in Shimla's Narkanda area.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said in view of the long delay which has already taken place, irrespective of the question whether land is forest or non-forest government land, the state authorities must ensure further action."We note that order dated August 3, 2019 for eviction was passed under the H.P. Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery) Act, 1971 but the same is not being given effect to on account of further orders which, in view of the report of chief secretary are not sustainable."Let the matter be monitored by the chief secretary, HP to ensure compliance of rule of law and protection of the government property,” the bench said.The chief secretary told the NGT that land was found to be “Gair Mumkin Sadak” (agricultural land where there are wells and water channels) in revenue papers and thus is non-forest land.“The fact remain that the land is covered by the definition of 'public premises' and encroachment is required to be removed. The report of the chief secretary does not mention the timelines for further action,” the NGT noted.The tribunal's direction came on a plea filed by Shimla resident Sher Singh alleging illegal encroachment on the government land in Himachal Pradesh. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngt-directs-hp-chief-secretary-to-remove-encroachment-on-govt-land-in-shimla-281593
11-07-2021||New Delhi||IMD's faulty monsoon forecast for North India: Wrong signals by models, difficulty in predicting wind patterns||Wrong signals by models, difficulty in predicting the outcomes of the interactions between the easterly and westerly winds were some of the major reasons behind the India Meteorological Department's monsoon forecast for parts of north India going haywire, experts pointed out as any relief from the oppressive heat eludes the region.The Southwest Monsoon has reached almost all parts of the country but has stayed away from parts of north India. It is yet to reach Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh and west Rajasthan. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted that monsoon is expected to cover these parts by June -- a little less than a month back, but its predictions are yet to come true. In its forecast on June 13, the IMD had predicted that the Southwest Monsoon will reach Delhi by June 15. However, a day later it said conditions are not favourable for its further advancement in this region.Then began a long 'break-spell' during which the Southwest Monsoon was weak over several parts of the country.On July 1, the IMD said conditions could be favourable for further advancement of the monsoon by July 7. The moist easterly winds in the lower level from the Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8, it had said. On July 5, the IMD again said the monsoon is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. However, there were no signs of any relief even on July 10. On forecasting the onset of Southwest Monsoon over Kerala, the IMD said it would hit the southern state by May 31. Till May 30, the IMD, in its daily bulletin, said the onset of the monsoon over Kerala was expected to be around May 31. However, by the afternoon of that day, it revised it saying the onset is expected to be by June 3.“We could have told (the delayed onset) in the morning itself. However, we are monitoring all the defined parameters/ criteria for the onset of monsoon over Kerala. At present the criteria are not fully satisfied,” IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra had said on May 30.Mohapatra said the country's forecasting agency did issue a forecast that the monsoon will cover parts of north India including Delhi by June 15 as indicated by the models.“But we changed it the next day (June 14) when we realised that conditions are not favourable for its advancement.”  He said the forecast models did not show consistency in the interactions of the easterlies and the westerlies -- the two dominant wind patterns.Mohapatra added that the accuracy of the models is reasonably good when it comes to forecasts for up to two weeks but not as good for forecasts for four weeks. M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, who has spent over 35 years studying the Southwest Monsoon, said the forecast models gave wrong signals. “The models have picked up very well some of the broader events like a break in the monsoon and its revival a week ago. But when it comes to local forecasts like its advancement over Kerala or rain over parts of north, there is an issue,” Rajeevan said.“With regards to the forecast of advancement of monsoon over parts of north India, including Delhi, it was too early. The IMD should not have issued the forecast. They could have waited for some more time,” he said. The IMD is an institute under the Ministry of Earth Sciences.  Tracking the interactions of the westerlies and the easterlies is the most difficult part of monsoon forecast, Mohapatra's predecessor K J Ramesh said.In a normal scenario, the Southwest Monsoon covers West Bengal and many parts of central India by June 15, just 14 days after it makes an onset over Kerala, making the official commencement of the four-month rainfall season over the country. It, however, takes nearly three weeks to cover parts of north India, Ramesh said. This is also because of the interactions of easterlies and westerlies. Between the westerlies and the easterlies, the former is a “big brother”, he said. The easterlies only gain strength when there is a low-pressure area that can help them advance further. This usually creates a “sea-saw” like situation. This is also one of the reasons when north India sees a break in the monsoon, he explained.“They (the IMD) must have seen some strength of monsoon capable of moving westwards (towards) north India which is why they issued the forecast (of monsoon covering the remaining parts of north India, including Delhi). The anticipation of the see-saw effect, the judgement, did not come true,” Ramesh said. Ajit Tyagi, former IMD Director-General, said the forecasting agency had predicted that in the first surge the Southwest Monsoon could cover the country by June 15-16. But then it weakened and there were clear signs that it would not revive before July 10. That was indicated. If one looks at the Medium Range Forecast of 10-15 days, it was right, Taygi said.“Initial forecasts were not realised but the IMD did make course corrections,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/imds-faulty-monsoon-forecast-for-north-india-wrong-signals-by-models-difficulty-in-predicting-wind-patterns-281585
11-07-2021||Mandi||Shutters down in Mandi town||On the call of the Beopar Mandal, markets in Mandi town remained closed today as a mark of respect to former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shutters-down-in-mandi-town-281477
11-07-2021||---||No mask challans at weekend in Shimla||Shimla, July 10The tourists strolling on the busy Mall Road and The Ridge here will not be penalised for not wearing masks at the weekend. The Sadar police started a two-day pro-tourist initiative to distribute face masks and create awareness on Covid-today, instead of challaning the violators.The Sadar police led by SHO Sandeep Chaudhary are carrying out the campaign. The move comes a day after Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur directed the DCs, SPs and Chief Medical Officers to ensure strict implementation of the Covid-appropriate behaviour to check the spread of the virus.Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association president Sanjay Sood welcomed the move. He said the repeat offenders should be fined heavily as tourists have no right to risk the lives of locals. The hotel occupancy was about 70 to 80 per cent, he added.The CM had asked the hospitality industry to motivate tourists staying in their units to observe the Covid-appropriate behaviour.The police have issued 9,053 challans for not wearing masks since March 2020 and collected Rs 63,51,200.Addl force deployed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-mask-challans-at-weekend-in-shimla-281478
11-07-2021||Abhinav Vashisht
||Kullu cops get strict with those violating protocols||Kullu, July 10 The Kullu police have intensified its campaign to educate people and tourists about the norms that anyone found not wearing a mask at a public place can be arrested without a warrant and sent to jail for up to eight days or fined up to Rs 5,000.  The action comes in the wake of the ICMR and the Union Health Ministry expressing concern over overcrowding in tourist places and people not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour.   Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma says, “A provision under Section 111 of the Himachal Pradesh Police Act, 2007 authorises all police officers of the district, not below the rank of Sub-Inspector, to arrest a person  without a warrant for not wearing a mask. The violators can be imprisoned up to eight days on conviction or may be fined up to Rs 5,000 or both. The compounding fee is between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 for a repeat offence”. The pictures and videos of the tourist rush in Manali after the second wave subsided were published on various media platforms. The Director General, ICMR, had termed the pictures of overcrowded hill stations, shopping areas and other public places as “frightening’’. The Union Health Ministry had warned that it would reimpose restrictions if the Covid protocols were not followed.  The ministry said that gross violations of the Covid appropriate behaviour could nullify the gains achieved so far. The Union Government on Tuesday last flagged “frightening laxity” on the part of people and said the timing and scale of the third wave of Covid would depend on collective behaviour. Rustom volunteers and the police are carrying out the awareness campaign in the district. They are visiting markets and advising people to adhere to Covid protocols. They are also visiting marriages and creating awareness through songs. The police have increased patrolling and are challaning the violators. Public announcements regarding appropriate behaviour are also being made However, some beneficiaries of the tourism industry say that the police should fine only Rs 100 and provide masks to the violators. They add that the fine of up to Rs 5,000 and eight days imprisonment will have a bad impact on tourism and deter tourists from visiting Manali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-cops-get-strict-with-those-violating-protocols-281479
11-07-2021||Legal Correspondent||High Court forms district panels to monitor Covid preparedness||Shimla, July 10The HP High Court has constituted district monitoring committees in the state to monitor the preparedness for Covid-19 related issues in various districts.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, while passing the order, directed the committees to visit towns, cities and villages in their districts to ascertain the situation with regard to Covid-19 and also whether the assistance of the government was adequate to meet the challenges.The court directed that the committees would also ascertain as to what was required to be done to ensure the containment of Covid-19 and prepare for the third wave. The committees would be headed by the Deputy Commissioners and the secretary of the District Legal Services Authority. The president of the Bar Association at the district headquarters would be the member of the district committee.The court passed these orders on a petition taken up suo moto as a public interest litigation and another writ petition highlighting inadequate facilities in the state for the treatment of Covid patients.The court observed, “We are aware of the work done by the state in this regard and we are also conscious of the fact that much more is required to be done. Issues pertaining to every district varies vis-à-vis others. There cannot be the same set of guidelines for the entire state. It is for this purpose we feel that a local monitoring committee will be more useful in such circumstances”.The court also directed that the committees would also visit the Primary Health Care Centres, the areas where the medical facilities were provided and it may seek the assistance of any other person in the performance of their duties.The court directed the committees to submit a weekly report to the registry of this court on or before Tuesday of every week by e-mail.The court would interact with the committees on July 14 at 2 pm through video-conferencing. The committees could meet as many times as was required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-forms-district-panels-to-monitor-covid-preparedness-281481
11-07-2021||---||138 new cases, three deaths in Himachal||Shimla, July 10 As many as 138 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 205,363. Besides, three persons died of the virus in Chamba, Una and Hamirpur districts. The maximum number of 40 cases was reported in Chamba, followed by 26 in Mandi, 16 in Kangra, 12 in Bilaspur, 11 in Shimla, eight in Hamirpur, seven in Solan, five each in Kinnaur and Sirmaur, three each in Una  and Kullu and two in Lahaul  and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/138-new-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-281482
11-07-2021||Shimla||Four of family die in Chopal mishap||Four members of a family were killed while one was seriously injured when the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Majholi on the Haripurdhar–Labhan link road, about 40 km from Kupvi in Chopal subdivision of Shimla district, on Thursday afternoon. Three persons, namely Rajender (33), Roshan (32), both teachers, and Jeevan Singh (70), died on the spot while Vidhya Devi (42), wife of Kedar Singh, died on way to hospital. The injured Ranbir, brother of deceased Roshan, is under treatment. Sources said that the driver lost control over the car, leading to the fatal accident. A case has been registered and investigation is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-of-family-die-in-chopal-mishap-281483
11-07-2021||Kullu||Kingpin in heroin seizure case held||A team of the Kullu police nabbed from Delhi the 23-year-old kingpin in the case of seizure of over 6 kg of heroin from a house in the national capital on February 2. SP Gurdev Sharma said a nine-member team arrested Afamuefule Goodness Nwakaibe of Nigeria. The SP said 55 grams of heroin was seized from two accused in the Parla Bhuntar area of Kullu district on January 30. The team went to Delhi to trace the links and nabbed a 38-year-old citizen of Ivory Coast along with 6.297 kg of heroin and 362 grams of ganja. This was the largest haul of synthetic drugs seized so far by the police. He said it was found that the kingpin had rented a flat to other criminals to carry out the illicit trade and he had been absconding since the day of the raid and was changing hideouts. He was caught from west Delhi after four months of hard work. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kingpin-in-heroin-seizure-case-held-281484
11-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||People spotted near rivers during rains to face action: Kullu DC||Kullu, July 10 Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg has advised the public to refrain from going near rivers and rivulets during the rainy season.  Any person found violating the orders would be liable for imprisonment for a term which may extend up to eight days or a minimum compounding fee of Rs 1,000, which may extend up to Rs 5,000 or both under Section 115 of the HP Police Act. According to the report received by the Deputy Commissioner from the Kullu SP, a large number of tourists are seen taking photos and selfies near rivers at various stretches from Bajaura to the Solang Nullah, Bhuntar to Manikaran and some parts of the Tirthan river of Banjar. Some hotel and restaurant owners have also set up outdoor seating areas and open air cafes on the banks of the rivers, which can be threatening if the water level rises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/people-spotted-near-rivers-during-rains-to-face-action-kullu-dc-281485
11-07-2021||UNA||Vax camp for overseas travellers||The Una Health Department will organise a special Covid vaccination camp on July 13 to administer the second dose of vaccine to people wanting to go overseas.  In a press release issued here, Chief Medical Officer Dr Raman Kumar Sharma said the special camp would be organised at the district hospital. People should bring along relevant documents.   The CMO said the vaccination drive for the people above 45 years had been extended till July 14.   — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vax-camp-for-overseas-travellers-281486
11-07-2021||Shimla||Heavy rain, storm warning for 2 days||The local Met office has issued a yellow and orange warning of thunderstorm, lightning, heavy to very heavy rain in 10 districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti, for two days and predicted a wet weather in the region till July 16. Light to heavy rain lashed parts of the state and Bharari was the wettest with 72 mm of rain followed by Malan 63 mm, Shapaur 59 mm, Kahu 53 mm, Jogindernagar 49 mm, Nahan 42 mm, Sundernagar 41 mm, Gomroor 40 mm, Gohar 32 mm, Jatton barrage 28 mm, Sarkaghat 27 mm, Gaggal 24 mm, Bijahi 23 mm, Dharamsala 20 mm, Mandi 16mm, Baldwara 1 mm, Chamba 14 mm, Sujanpur Tihra 13 mm, Palampur 12 mm, Bhoranj and Guler 10 mm each and Sangrah 9 mm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-storm-warning-for-2-days-281487
11-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh Consigned to flames||Tribune News ServiceRampur, July 10The body of Virbhadra Singh was consigned to flames beside the resting place of his father Raja Padam Singh and his ancestors amid the chanting of mantras at the cremation ground on the banks of the Sutlej.It took more than an hour for the funeral procession to cover about one km distance from Padam Palace to the special cremation site reserved for the members of the Bushahr royal family. The former Chief Minister, who remained an MLA for nine times and an MP five times, was accorded the state funeral with a guard of honour.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, ministers Suresh Bhardwaj and Rakesh Pathania, Congress leaders, MLAs and others were present.Vikramaditya Singh thanked people for being with his family in this hour of grief. He said he would try to take forward the legacy of his father and his vision for the development of the state.Thousands of people took part in the procession with slogans “Jab tak suraj chand rahega, Raja Sahib ka naam rahega”. The body with a yellow-green cloth canopy over it was taken to the cremation site. Vikramaditya lit the pyre as bajantris played on for the last time for their ‘Raja’.People from all over the state converged on the town to pay their last respect to the man who led Himachal on the path of development, to make it a model hill state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-chief-minister-virbhadra-singh-consigned-to-flames-281472
11-07-2021||---||Vikramaditya anointed next head of erstwhile Bushahr princely state||Rampur, July 10It was a somber occasion. The tilak ceremony of Vikramaditya Singh (31), son of Virbhadra Singh, was completed amidst the chanting of mantras by priests, anointing him the 123rd titular head of the erstwhile Bushahr princely state.Brief, private affairThe ceremony took place in a small room adjoining the Darbar hall of Padam Palace around 8 am. The brief ceremony was completely a private affair, away from public gaze and media glare. Barring Vikramaditya and his wife, no other member of the immediate family was allowed to enter the palace. Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha Singh, his daughters and close relatives sat outside in the Darbar hall where the Raja’s body was kept for people to pay their homage. Alongside the body was the silver handcrafted throne, the ‘gaddi’ which was used till the rule of Virbhadra’s father Raja Padam Singh, who was the last ruler of Bushahr; he died in 1947.The ceremony was performed in the family after a span of almost 74 years. People close to Virbhadra’s family said that Vikramaditya was against the ‘raj tilak’ stating that “India is a democracy where such titles do not exist”. However, on the insistence of old-timers, he relented.As per the tradition, the cremation of the Raja cannot take place till his heir, the Yuvraj succeeds him and is made to sit on the ‘Raj gaddi’ after a special puja. As such, Vikramaditya, who was till now addressed as ‘Tikka Sahib’, will now become the head of the state.The ‘raj tilak’ was performed in the presence of ‘bajantris” from the villages of Lalsa, Dansa, Shingla and Shaneri, as has been the century-old tradition. With the brief ceremony over, Vikramaditya took the blessings of his mother and other family elders.Prior to shifting their base to Sarahan, the seat of the Bushahr estate was at Kamroo in the Sangla valley of Kinnaur where the ancient fort of the family still stands. Even now most of the ceremonies of the family are performed at the fort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vikramaditya-anointed-next-head-of-erstwhile-bushahr-princely-state-281473
11-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Pall of gloom descends on Raja’s Bushahr||Tribune News ServiceRampur (Shimla), July 10People from all walks of life bid a tearful adieu to their ‘Raja’ here today. More than a top political leader, Virbhadra was a revered family elder for them, to whom they could turn to in adversity, big or small.A pall of gloom descended on this princely town on July 8 when their revered Raja of Bushahr left for his heavenly abode. A large number of people, especially from Virbhadra’s hometown Rampur, Rohru, which he represented in the Assembly five times, and Kinnaur, where the original seat of the Bushahr princely state was located, turned up to catch the one last glimpse of their leader.As the body lay in the Darbar Hall of Padam Palace, where he had spent his childhood, people wept, with many of them fainting while others consoled and comforted his wife Pratibha Singh, a former MP. An emotional Vikramaditya Singh, whose ‘raj tilak’ ceremony was performed this morning, struggled to hold back his tears, seeing people’s affection for his father and family.Heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed as people bid the final adieu to their ‘Raja’ with the bajantris soulfully playing their traditional musical instruments. People in a large number turned up to get the last glimpse of the ‘Raja’ while on his final journey, donning his trademark green velvet Bushahri cap. The grounds outside Padam Palace were packed to capacity.The people had feared the worst when Virbhadra was hospitalised for the past three months, but when the unfortunate news actually came, the enormity of the loss sank in. Slogans like “Raja nahin fakir hai, Himachal ki takdir hai” and “Dekho-dekho, kaun aya, sher aya-sher aya” rented the air. Holding flowers, garlands and scarves, people, old and young, men, women and children struggled to catch the last glimpse of their beloved leader, who had always stood by them.The despair was writ large on every face, akin to the grief of having lost their most loved family member. All shops and commercial establishments in the market below Padam Palace have remained closed for the past three days. Life has come to a standstill with the feeling of the unbearable loss.“I lost both my parents almost a decade ago but with Raja Sahib around I never felt despair or the absence of elders. Now, upon his death, I have actually been orphaned. Whom will I turn to if I am in trouble,” said a weeping Nirmala from Urni in Kinnaur with tears trickling down her swollen red eyes. Every person present on the premises of the palace had a story to tell about Raja Sahib’s magnanimity and compassion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pall-of-gloom-descends-on-rajas-bushahr-281474
11-07-2021||---||Leaders queue up to pay tributes||Rampur, July 10Political leaders and dignitaries from all walks of life arrived here today to pay their last respects to former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, as his body lay in the Darbar Hall of Padam Palace.Congress Working Committee (CWC) members Anand Sharma and Rajiv Shukla, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister and AICC treasurer Pawan Bansal represented Congress president Sonia Gandhi and laid a wreath on her behalf on the body of the veteran leader, who dominated the state politics for almost six decades.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, accompanied by his ministerial colleagues, also laid a wreath on the body. People from all over the state, besides party legislators and office-bearers arrived here to pay tributes to the departed leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leaders-queue-up-to-pay-tributes-281475
11-07-2021||r Correspondent
||Kullu remembers ex-CM, markets remain closed||Kullu, July 10  Markets in major townships of Kullu district remained completely shut today as a mark of respect to former Himachal Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.   On the call of the Beopar Mandal, the shops in Akhara Bazaar, Ramshila, Sarwari, Lower Dhalpur, Dhalpur, Sultanpur and Gandhi Nagar in Kullu town remained closed throughout the day. Only a few vegetable vendors were seen and shops of essential commodities opened in the evening. The shops in Bhuntar town, Banjar, Nirmand and Anni also remained closed while the shopkeepers of Manali town observed a bandh from 1 pm to 3.30 pm to pay homage to the departed leader.   Meanwhile, sessions of silence were observed at many places in the district to pay homage to the loved leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-remembers-ex-cm-markets-remain-closed-281476
11-07-2021||Rampur||Pictures: Virbhadra Singh cremated with full state honours; son Vikramaditya’s ‘raj tilak’ done||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh was cremated with full state honours at a Rampur crematorium in Shimla district on Saturday afternoon. His son Vikramaditya Singh performed the last rites.  People from all walks of life bid a tearful adieu to their “Raja” who for them was neither a chief minister, MP or MLA but their revered family elder to whom they could turn to in adversity, big or small.A pall of gloom descended this princely town on July 8 when their revered Raja Bushahr left for his heavenly abode. A sea of humanity, especially from Virbhadra’s hometown Rampur and Rohru, which he represented in the assembly on five occasions, Kinnaur where the original seat of the Bushahr princely state was located, turned up to catch one last glimpse of their leader. As his body lay in the Darbar Hall of the Padam Palace, where he spent his childhood, people wept with many fainting and others consoling and comforting his wife Pratibha Singh, a former MP.An emotional Vikramaditya Singh, his son and political successor whose raj tilak ceremony was performed on Saturday morning making him the titular king, struggled to hold back his tears seeing the affection showered on his father and the family. Vikramaditya succeeds as 123rd scion of the Bushahr state It was a somber occasion as the priests chanted mantras while performing the tilak ceremony (coronation) of Vikramaditya Singh (31), son of Virbhadra Singh, who today succeeded his father to become the 123rd scion of the Bushahr princely state. The ceremony took place in a small room adjoining the Darbar hall of Padam Palace at around 8 am. The brief ceremony was completely a private affair, away from public and media glare in a closed door. Barring Vikramaditya and his wife, no other member of the immediate family was allowed to enter. Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha Singh, his daughters and close relatives sat outside in the Darbar hall where the body of the Raja was kept for people to pay their homage. Alongside his body was the silver hand crafted throne, the gaddi, which was used till the time of Raja Padam Singh, Virbhadra's father who was the last ruler of Bushahr. The ceremony was performed in the family after a span of almost 74 years, as Virbhadra himself was crowned in 1947 at the age of 13, after the demise of his father Raja Padam Singh. Close family circle people said Vikramaditya himself was against the raj tilak, while stating that India is a democracy where such titles do not exist. However, on the insistence of old timers, the ceremony was held. Heart wrenching scenes were witnessed as people bid final adieu to their “Raja” as the bajantris (traditional instrument players) played soulfully.A sea of humanity turned out to get a last glimpse of Raja Bushahr as he departs on his final journey, donning his trademark green velvet Bushahri cap, as he lay calm as stream of admirers offered floral tributes. The grounds outside the “Padam Palace” were packed to capacity as the people arrive to bid an emotional final adieu to their beloved leaderBeing hospitalised for the last three months, ashe battled covid twice, they feared for the worst but when the unfortunate news actually came, the enormity of the loss they had suffered finally sank in. Slogans like “Raja nahin fakir hai, Himachal ki takdir hai” and “dekho-dekho, kaun aya, sher aya- sher aya” rent the air. Holding flowers, garlands and scarves, people, old and young, men-women and children struggled to catch a last glimpse of their beloved leader who stood with them through thick and thin. The gloom and despair was writ large on every face, synonymous with the grief of having lost their most loved family member. All shops and commercial establishments in the market, below the imposing “Padam Palace” have remained closed for the last three days. Life has come to a standstill with the feeling of loss of a family member making the pain unbearable.“I lost both my parents almost a decade back but with Raja Sahib around I never felt despair or the absence of elders but with his death I have actually been orphaned. Whom will I turn to if ever I am in trouble,” said quite a weeping Nirmala from Urni in Kinnaur with tears trickling down her swollen red eyes. Every person present in the precincts of the palace, pouring out on the roads had a story to tell about Raja Sahib’s magnanimity and compassion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pictures-virbhadra-singh-cremated-with-full-state-honours-son-vikramadityas-raj-tilak-done-281055
