12-07-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Railways suspends trains services on Kangra valley rail line||The train services between Pathankot and Joginder Nagar narrow gauge railway line were suspended on Monday following heavy rains and landslides causing extensive damage to railway tracks and culverts between Ranital and Baijnath.Reports reaching here said that heavy landslides have damaged the track and culverts at different places resulting in total suspension of train services.At many points, the track has been converted into drains following heavy flow of water.A spokesman of northern railway told media persons that all efforts were being made to restore the train services between Pathankot and Joginder Nagar at the earliest.The Railways has cancelled all trains between Pathankot and Joginder Nagar keeping in view the safety of passengers.He said teams of engineers and field staff had been deputed to take stock of the situation so that restoration works could be started.At present, five trains were running on this section covering 33 railway stations.Earlier the trains services were also suspended in May due to the Covid-19 crisis, which were resumed only last month.KV rail line is considered as a lifeline of the people of lower hills and used by thousands of passengers daily to travel to different parts of Kangra and Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/railways-suspends-trains-services-on-kangra-valley-rail-line-282097
12-07-2021||Ravinder Sood||Cloudburst in Dhauladhar ranges damages Palampur’s Saurabh Van Vihar||Palampur, July 12Following cloudburst in Dhauladhar hills on Sunday night, flood water entered in one part of the famous tourist destination “Saurabh Van Vihar” spread in 100 acres of land, 3 km from Palampur situated on the right bank of Neugal river.Earlier too, it was completely damaged in flash floods in 2018 when flood water damaged buildings, fish emporium, boating area and café. The Van Vihar was reconstructed recently by spending over Rs 6 core and a half a km long protection wall was also raised along Neugal river to save it.Read alsoSaurabh Van Vihar is dream project of former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar set up in the memory of Captain Saurabh Kalia who sacrificed his life in Kargil war.There was heavy rain in higher reaches of Dhauladhar, 5 km from Palampur, since last night. Because of cloud burst the Neugal river was flooded and water crossed one side of the protection wall, partly causing damage to bating lake of Saurabh Van Vihar. However, no loss of human lives has been reported as there were no tourists inside the resort when flood hit the area.It may be recalled that Saurabh Van Vihar is situated on the right bank of Neugal river which is prune to flash floods. The resort had suffered heavy loss twice in past 10 years because of flash flood in Neugal river.Divisional forest Officer Palampur said no major loss has been caused to resort. He said the breaches in the protection wall had been closed with the help of JCB machines and flow of water had also been plugged this afternoon. Adequate protective measures were being taken to save the resort from flash floods.In another incident a building of the private school constructed on the bank of Mol khud at Kalu Di Hatti, 2 km, from Palampur also suffered extensive damage when its protection wall washed away because of heavy rain. However, no loss of life has been reported being schools closed because of Covid crises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cloudburst-in-dhauladhar-ranges-damages-palampurs-saurabh-van-vihar-282081
12-07-2021||New Delhi||Centre, HP govt working together to deal with Himachal floods: Anurag Thakur||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Monday said the Centre and the Himachal Pradesh government are working together to deal with the “fierce” flood calamity in the state where monsoon rains have caused flashfloods affecting daily life.  He urged people not to leave their houses unnecessarily and be careful.Thakur, who recently took charge of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry as well as of the Sports and Youth Affairs Ministry, hails from Himachal Pradesh.“The Central and State Governments are working with better coordination to deal with the fierce form of natural calamity in Devbhoomi Himachal. There is an appeal to all the tourists and the general public to take full care, do not leave the houses unnecessarily and do not go towards the water sources,” he tweeted.देवभूमि हिमाचल में प्राकृतिक आपदा के रौद्र रूप से निपटने के लिए केंद्र व प्रदेश सरकार बेहतर समन्वय के साथ काम कर रही है।सभी पर्यटकों व आमजनों से अपील है की पूरी सावधानी बरतें,अनावश्यक घरों से ना निकलें व जलस्रोतों की ओर ना जाएँ ।  Flashfloods triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots in Himachal Pradesh while bad weather also led to the closure of the airport in Dharamsala.The Dharamsala district administration also instructed tourists to postpone their visit to Dharamsala in view of the heavy rains.A drain near Bhagsunag in Upper Dharamsala adjoining Mecleodganj changed its course owing to heavy rains, sweeping away four cars and several bikes, video clips showed.A government school building at Bhagsunag was also damaged and adjacent hotels there were inundated, it showed. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/centre-hp-govt-working-together-to-deal-with-himachal-floods-anurag-thakur-282080
12-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal floods: Centre deploys NDRF teams; HP CM says 'heavy damage'||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed the Kangra district administration to extend all help to those affected by the flashfloods in Bhagsunag and Dharamsala area.  He also asked deputy commissioners of all the district to provide immediate relief to anyone affected due to incessant rains. Thakur cautioned locals as well as tourists to stay away from rivers and nullahs which were in spate due to persistent rains to avoid any mishap. The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the State Government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas.  Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the situation caused by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh is being closely monitored with central authorities working in coordination with the state government.Read alsoFlash floods triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots in Himachal Pradesh while bad weather also led to the closure of the airport in Dharamshala.Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Himachal Pradesh & Uttarakhand. I appeal to Congress workers in all affected areas to lend a helping hand. Please stay safe.#cloudburstThe flash floods also damaged a bridge on the Mandi-Pathankot highway after which traffic was stopped on both sides, leading to a traffic jam.“The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the State Government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas,” Modi tweeted. हिमाचल प्रदेश में तेज बारिश से आयी प्राकृतिक आपदा के संबंध में मैंने मुख्यमंत्री श्री @jairamthakurbjp जी से बात की है। राहत कार्यों के लिए NDRF की टीमें शीघ्र वहाँ पहुँच रही हैं। गृह मंत्रालय स्थिति को निरंतर मॉनिटर कर रहा है। केंद्र की ओर से हिमाचल को हर संभव मदद दी जाएगी।  Also read: Meanwhile, Home Minister Amit Shah said NDRF teams had been deployed to deal with the flash-flood like situation following heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh.Shah said that he had also addressed Himachal Chief Minister Jairam Thakur.प्रदेश के जिला कांगड़ा सहित विभिन्न क्षेत्रों में भारी बरसात के कारण काफी नुकसान हुआ है, जिसकी हमने रिपोर्ट मंगवाई है।हमने सभी जिलों के उपायुक्तों को राहत कार्यों एवं प्रभावितों को हरसंभव सहायता प्रदान करने के निर्देश दे दिए हैं।  In a tweet, Thakur said, "there has been a lot of damage due to heavy rains in various areas".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-floods-centre-deploys-ndrf-teams-hp-cm-says-heavy-damage-282069
12-07-2021||Dharamsala||In pictures: Flash floods in Dharamsala damage houses, vehicles||Encroachments on natural drains and heavy rains led to flash floods in Bhagsunag area of Upper Dharamsala on Monday morning.Dharamsala, some 250 km from the state capital, recorded the precipitation of 119 mm, the highest ever in this monsoon.Due to flash floods, many cars of tourists parked in the Bhagsunag area were damaged.Himachal floods: NDRF teams deployed, says Amit Shah; HP CM claims 'heavy damage'Consistent encroachments on natural rivulets have narrowed them down which leads to flash floods after heavy rains.Due to heavy rains, most rivers flowing from Dhauladhar hills were in full spate.Flash floods in Manji river damaged three houses and five shops in Bagli area on Dharamsala-Kangra road. The road leading from Sheela to Bagli was also damaged.India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director Manmohan Singh told IANS heavy to extremely heavy rainfall was recorded at many places in Kangra district. The rainfall was widespread in the state.Palampur in Kangra district recorded 155 mm rain, the highest in the state, while it was 48 mm in Dalhousie, 10 mm in the state capital and 55 mm in picturesque tourist resort Manali.The weather bureau has forecast heavy rain at isolated places in the state till Wednesday.The southwest monsoon arrived in Himachal Pradesh on June 13, in its earliest onset in the past 21 years. Its normal arrival in the state is June 26. Since its arrival the hill state largely saw dominant rains.--with IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-pictures-flash-floods-in-dharamsala-damage-houses-vehicles-282032
12-07-2021||Himachal Pradesh Government Dental College||Shimla's Govt Dental College 7th in survey||Academic activities heldDepartment of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics (DBT) of Jaypee University of Information Technology, Waknaghat, Solan, organised several academic events during the pandemic. Apart from the first batch of MSc bio-technology programme, which began last year, a new postgraduate programme, MSc Microbiology, will begin this year. The department, in collaboration with HIMCOSTE, imparted training to two batches of undergraduate science students under the DBT Skill Vigyan Programme. Two patents were also granted in the lockdown and 89 per cent placement of its final year students was achieved. Five students from the department received PhD degrees in the fields of bio-technology and bio-informatics with many students getting selected for Masters and PhD programmes in the US and European universities.ABVP forms new unitThe ABVP created a new unit, Vivekananda Nagar (Summerhill), and has named the elected office-bearers. Dr Sunita Dogra and Gaurav were elected president and secretary of the unit. President of the Himachal Pradesh University campus Vikas Saklani said the new unit was very important in the sense that ABVP was the biggest student organisation in the world. During the pandemic, volunteers of the ABVP had put in best efforts to help the infected people. We will continue with our endeavours to make sure that everyone gets through the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimlas-govt-dental-college-7th-in-survey-281968
12-07-2021||Drinking water pipes are leaking on the roadside at Paho Ghati near Jubbarhatti. The IPH department should immediately repair the leaking pipes as water is being wasted and has made the road risky for two-wheelers. Every year||Water pipes leaking, driving risky||Multi-storey parking causes Traffic snarlsThe multi-storey parking on Cart Road and intersections points has turned into traffic bottlenecks during weekends with a surge in tourist rush. To add to it, traffic from over 50 roads joining the main road aggravates the situation. Despite heavy deployment of police on the main road to maintain traffic, the Shimla administration should come up with a permanent solution to the problem. — Sandeep, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-pipes-leaking-driving-risky-281967
12-07-2021||---||Atal Tunnel to be shut for one hour twice a week||Mandi, July 11 Atal Tunnel will remain closed for the traffic twice a week for maintenance work.  V K Sharma, Chief Engineer of Atal Tunnel, has issued a notification, stating that the tunnel will be closed for maintenance on Monday and Thursday from 7 am to 8 am. “Earlier, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) was closing the tunnel for traffic movement everyday between 11 am and 12 noon for maintenance work,” said a Border Roads Organisation official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/atal-tunnel-to-be-shut-for-one-hour-twice-a-week-281914
12-07-2021||---||Corrugated box makers in lurch as Himachal Govt switches over to plastic trays||Solan, July 11With the state government switching over to plastic trays for packaging of apples on a trial basis, corrugated box manufacturers are facing huge losses.There are 250-odd corrugated box manufacturing units in Himachal. They have barely received 10 per cent orders for apple cartons, informed Surinder Jain, president, HP Corrugated Box Manufacturers Association.About four crore apple boxes of about 20 kg each are used in the state if the production is good. With adverse weather conditions such as hailstones and disease striking the apple belt, the fruit production is slated to be lesser this year.The Himachal Pradesh State Agricultural Marketing Board has approved use of plastic crates for transporting apples in select markets yards in Shimla district. Though the move is aimed at bringing down the input cost, growers were raising issues of sudden price hike of plastic crates.“The state government had introduced the corrugated boxes several years ago. This had prompted investors to open tiny, small scale units for manufacturing these boxes. Now the sudden change at a time when the pandemic was looming, has deprived us of the business,” informed a carton manufacturer.While some units were fully dependent on apple packaging business many others executed 20 to 30 per cent of their business in apple packaging. “I used to earn about Rs 2 lakh annually from apple packaging cartons every year but this year there was barely any demand,” quipped a manufacturer from Baddi.Though plastic is not an environment-friendly option and globally its dependence was being reduced the switching over to plastic trays was not considered a good option. “Large-scale skilled migratory labour from various states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Delhi, Gujarat, etc., who used to come every year for grading and packaging in the apple belt, will lose their livelihood as filling apples in plastic crates requires no skill. Grading of apples through machines will also be hit,” informed Govind, an apple grower from Kotkhai in Shimla district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/corrugated-box-makers-in-lurch-as-himachal-govt-switches-over-to-plastic-trays-281917
12-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Infighting in Kangra Cong, Rajiv Shukla worried||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 11Infighting in the Kangra Congress unit, ahead of the forthcoming Fatehpur Assembly byelection, has left state in-charge of the party Rajiv Shukla worried. Many Congress leaders from Kangra and Fatehpur had put up a show of strength along with their supporters when Shukla was in Dharamsala for the meeting of the political affairs committee of the party recently.The supporters of Congress leaders raised slogans in their favour. The leaders from Fatehpur put up a show of strength to pressurize the party leadership to give ticket to only ground-level leader. Some senior leaders had brought in supporters to showcase their influence in their respective areas.Sources said that Shukla expressed unhappiness over the splinter groups from the Fatehpur Assembly seat putting up a show of strength and even threatening to work against the party candidate if the ticket was not given to a ground-level leader.The sources said that the party was seriously considering Bhawani Singh Pathania, son of former minister Sujjan Singh Pathania, as the candidate for the Fatehpur byelection. To prevent a split of votes, Shukla has formed a committee under former Rajya Sabha member Viplove Thakur to meet the dissident groups and evolve a consensus before the party candidate for Fatehpur was declared officially. The other members of the committee are district Congress president Ajay Mahajan and former MP Chander Kumar.The leaders have been asked to visit and meet disgruntled leaders in the Fatehpur Assembly constituency and persuade them to follow the party line.The sources said that Shukla was also not happy that the Congress had not been able to cobble a collective opposition in politically significant Kangra district. He was displeased that the Congress had not taken up issues such as Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) and the price rise collectively in Kangra district.The sources said that state leaders had pointed fingers at each other even during the political affairs committee meeting. They said that the party had not given the leadership responsibility to any particular leader so that he or she could take others along and present a united face before the people. Some leaders pointed out at the poster and social media war among various Congress factions.Though dinner and lunch diplomacy was on during Shukla’s presence in Kangra, bringing all Congress leaders on one platform is a tough task for the party.Bhawani Singh a hot contenderThe party is seriously considering to field Bhawani Singh Pathania (in pic), son of former minister Sujjan Singh Pathania, for the Fatehpur Assembly byelection. To prevent a split of votes, party affairs in-charge Rajiv Shukla has formed a committee under former Rajya Sabha member Viplove Thakur to meet the dissident groups and evolve a consensus among them before the party candidate for Fatehpur is declared officially. The other members of the committee are district Congress president Ajay Mahajan and former MP Chander Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/infighting-in-kangra-cong-rajiv-shukla-worried-281918
12-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||I loved Rohtang, had fun in snow: Governor Bandaru Dattatreya||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 11Even as his gherao by Congress MLAs outside the Vidhan Sabha had made headlines, Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, who has been shifted to Haryana, said, for him, it was something very normal which he would not even remember as he loved Himachal and did not want to leave it.“Moreover, those who gheraoed me admitted that they had never intended to do so and had a lot of respect for me,” he said when asked how he felt about the incident.‘Sepu vadi’ his favourite dishWhile Mandi cuisine ‘sepu vadi’ is one of my favourite dishes, Rohtang is my favourite spot. “I loved my visit to Rohtang and the fun I had in the snow. I even tried skiing,” he reminisced. “I am not at all happy at the thought of moving to Haryana as the people here have beautiful and pure hearts,” he said.While Mandi cuisine “sepu vadi” is one of his favourite dishes, Rohtang is his favourite spot. “I loved my visit to Rohtang and the fun I had in the snow. I even tried skiing,” he reminisced. “I am not at all happy at the thought of moving to Haryana as the people here have beautiful and pure heart,” he said.He said people were calm and peace-loving. “I shared excellent relations with leaders of all political parties who openly interacted with me and shared their views,” he said.He added that his health had improved considerably ever since he came to Himachal.He said during the Covid pandemic, he spoke to about 6,000 people in Himachal, Telengana and Andhra Pradesh. “I tried to assure people that there is nothing to fear it as long as one ensures social distancing and precautions like mask and hand sanitising,” he said. Meanwhile, during an interaction with mediapersons, Dattatreya said though efforts were being made to strengthen infrastructure and communication along areas bordering China, steps must be taken to instill confidence among the locals.He had assumed office here on September 11, 2019. “I had the opportunity to travel to the areas bordering China. I suggested to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur that confidence-building measures must be taken so that people do not live in any kind of fear,” he said.Dattatreya, who will assume office on Thursday in Chandigarh, said he had also discussed the issue with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and the Chief of the Army Staff.He said though Himachal was emerging as a model hill state, efforts should be made to eradicate the drug menace.He said there was a lot of potential in the tourism sector in Himachal but more steps were needed to promote the “Shaktipeeth” in Kangra and other districts. “People know about Kullu-Manali, Dharamsala and Shimla but not about the Shaktipeeth like Jwalamukhi,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/i-loved-rohtang-had-fun-in-snow-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-281919
12-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||54 Shimla panchayats report frequent kidnapping cases||Tribune News Service Shimla, July 11 Frequent incidents of elopement of minor girls, resulting in the registration of kidnapping and abduction cases, have been reported from 54 panchayats in Shimla district. A majority of the kidnapping cases are in fact those in which the girl and the boy, having a love affair, have run away with mutual consent. About 20 to 25 per cent of kidnapping and abduction cases involving minor girls in the district are attributed to Nepalese migrants. The cases are more in the apple belt where Nepalese migrants are engaged in orchards. Therefore, framing a policy for migrants has become imperative. These 54 panchayats are located in Sainj, Kumarsein, Thanedar, Chopal, Rohru, Nankheri and Rampur, which are predominantly apple-growing areas, besides the urban area of Sanjauli on the outskirts of Shimla city. Shimla district had reported 96, 90 and 66 kidnapping and abduction cases in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. Interestingly, the number of cases dropped by almost 27 per cent in 2020, as schools were closed due to the lockdown An analysis of the kidnapping and abduction cases in the district in the past three years reveals that love affair was the reason behind the boy and the girl running away from their homes.   Attraction and infatuation is common among girls, who are neglected by their families. A lack of dreams and ambition among girls in rural areas and apprehension that they will be married off if they drop out of the school drives them towards such misadventures. Allowing young girls to have dreams and ambitions can alter the scenario, say experts. The proactive involvement of the community is better than a reactive response of the police, as in a majority of kidnapping and abduction cases in the district, it has been seen that the schoolgirls willfully eloped with their partners, but kidnapping or abduction cases were registered under pressure from their families or society, as minors have no say, says Mohit Chawla, SP, Shimla. He adds that the recovery rate in such cases is 100 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/54-shimla-panchayats-report-frequent-kidnapping-cases-281920
12-07-2021||NURPUR||Crusher owners told to deposit rent within week||The SDM, Indora, and Assistant Commissioner, Ram Gopal Temple, Damtal, served notices on 10 stone crusher owners recently for depositing their rent to the temple management committee within one week. They have taken temple land on lease for operating their stone crushers at Damtal and Mazra in Indora but have not paid rent for the several years.  Somil Gautam, temple Assistant Commissioner, said the stone crusher owners owed Rs 53 lakh to the committee. The notices had been served on them earlier too but most of them had ignored these. If they failed to deposit their outstanding rent, the administration would disconnect the power supply to their stone crushers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crusher-owners-told-to-deposit-rent-within-week-281921
12-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Palampur MC gets Rs 6.39 crore for housing scheme||Palampur, July 11Hardeep Puri, Union Minister for Urban Development, has released Rs 6.39 crore to the Palampur Municipal Corporation for the construction of houses for low income group persons under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.Project for low income groupTrilok Kapoor, chairman of the HP State Wool Federation, while addressing mediapersons here, said that the Palampur Municipal Corporation (MC) had submitted a list of 342 low income group persons to the Central Government, seeking funds for the construction of houses for the homeless under its jurisdiction. Poor people had applied for homes under the PM Awas Yojana five to 10 years ago when they were the residents of panchayats that had now been merged with the Municipal Corporation.He said that he made a request to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who recently called on Union Urban Development Minister Hardeep Puri in New Delhi. Puri released Rs 6.39 crore for 340 houses, while the Central Government rejected two applications in the absence of evidence of land ownership.Kapoor said that it was a major achievement of the newly formed Municipal Corporation. The applications were pending with the panchayats for a long period and many poor people had lost the hope of getting houses. As soon as these panchayats were merged with the MC, the Union Urban Development Ministry released the funds.He said that after the completion of the formalities, the funds would be transferred to the bank accounts of all applicants and houses would be constructed under the supervision of the Municipal Commissioner. The Palampur MC was formed in December last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-mc-gets-rs-6-39-crore-for-housing-scheme-281922
12-07-2021||---||Drone to keep vigil on Chandigarh-Manali highway||Mandi, July 11To keep a vigil on the traffic on the Chandigarh-Manali highway, the district police will take the help of a drone.Due to the rising temperature in the plains, a large number of tourists are visiting Kullu-Manali. As a result, the rush of commuters has increased manifold on the Chandigarh-Manali highway.Superintendent of Police, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri said, “In wake of tourist influx towards Kullu-Manali and Mandi, the district police have intensified vigil on the movement of vehicles on the Chandigarh-Manali highway. We have decided to use drone for the purpose.”She said additional police personnel would be deployed at key locations on this highway to regulate the traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drone-to-keep-vigil-on-chandigarh-manali-highway-281923
12-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Expedite Chamba NH work, MP tells officials||Chamba, July 11 Kangra Lok Sabha MP Kishan Kapoor has directed the Superintending Engineer of the National Highways Authority of India to complete the construction works of the road from Baloo to Bagga Dam — which is a part of the Chakki (Pathankot)-Banikhet-Chamba-Bharmour National Highway 154-A — in the district before December. The MP also directed the Superintending Engineer to complete the departmental process for the construction of a bypass in Banikhet at the earliest. While presiding over a meeting of District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee here on Friday, Kapoor said under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), the construction works of 273 roads out of a total of 365 approved roads in the district at a cost of Rs 1,017 crore had so far been completed. Reviewing the works under the PMGSY in the district, Kishan Kapoor asked Public Works Department (PWD) officials to connect nine populated areas with road facilities before November.   PWD Superintending Engineer Diwakar Pathania said the construction work of six roads was in progress in the second phase of the PMGSY. Under this, about 110 km of new roads are being constructed, he said. The MP said under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the construction works of 171 schemes had been started in the district with an outlay of Rs 68 crore. Under this, works of 138 schemes were in progress, he added. Kishan Kapoor also issued instructions to take necessary action against the contractors who delay the work unnecessarily. MLA Bhattiyat Vikram Singh Jaryal was also present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expedite-chamba-nh-work-mp-tells-officials-281924
12-07-2021||Shimla||63 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 63 new Covid cases have been reported in the state in the last 24 hours. Besides, one person died in Hamirpur district.The maximum cases were reported from Chamba (13), followed by Kangra (9), Mandi and Shimla (7 each), Hamirpur, Kullu and Una (6 each), Solan (4), Lahaul and Spiti (3) and Bilaspur (2). No cases were reported from Kinnaur and Sirmaur.The total number of cases in the state has reached 2,03,626 while the number of active cases now is 1,247. — TNSCovid Meter||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/63-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-281926
12-07-2021||lit Mohan||Incomplete roads bane for tourism in upper Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 11Incomplete roads are bane for the tourism industry in upper Dharamsala, which includes McLeodganj, Bhagsunag, Naddi and Dharamkot. These areas are the epicentre of tourism in Dharamsala. However, as the tourism season begins, these witness traffic jams that extend for hours.“Every year, tourists coming to McLeodganj return dejected due to traffic jams but neither the government nor the local authorities have taken any steps to improve the infrastructure in the area,” said Sanjeev Rana, a hotelier from Dharamsala.Projects in limbo for decadesLocals and hoteliers in the hill station have alleged that many road projects have been in limbo for up to 40 years. These include the stretch connecting Bhagsunag with Indrunag, a proposed stretch to connect Dharamkot with Naddi and the one that connects Bhagsunag with the Jogibara road.Locals and hoteliers in McLeodganj allege that many roads have been awaiting completion for the past 40 years. These include the stretch connecting Bhagsunag with Indrunag, a proposed stretch to connect Dharamkot with Naddi and the one that connects Bhagsunag with the Jogibara road.Ashwani Bamba, president, Hotel Association of Upper Dharamsala, said, “Every year, tourists throng Kangra to seek some relief from the scorching heat of their places and to find some moments of relaxation and peace in the hills. Upper Dharamsala witnesses a good influx of summer tourists. Every year, they come, get stranded in traffic jams for hours due to narrow roads and the lack of adequate parking facilities near the points of interests. Many harassed tourists vow never to come back. They still come every year, hoping things would have improved, but to no avail.”In Dharamsala, particularly upper Dharamsala, successive governments could not develop basic infrastructure in the last 40 years, when tourism picked up here due to disturbances in J&K, he said.Bamba said the iconic McLeodganj square, which opens to seven roads, could not even take the load of 10 vehicles coming from various directions. There is only one narrow road leading to the famous Bhagsu temple and spring waters. To make matters worse, there is hardly any parking for even 50 cars at Bhagsunag. During weekends, more than 1,000 cars reach upper Dharamsala, resulting in traffic jams.He said there was a proposal to link the Bhagsunag road via Dushalani to Kamru ‘mod’, thus bypassing McLeodganj altogether. This could have eased the traffic and all tourist vehicles from and to Bhagsu could have used that road. We have been informed by the Dharamsala Mayor that almost all roads are completed, except a patch of 40-50 meters, where there is some encroachment, and demarcation has to be done. Other alternative is the diversion of some forest land for the construction of the road. We have been informed that about Rs 1.87 crore was transferred to the PWD to complete that road but due to the above hinderance, work has not started, he said.“We feel that a permanent solution to tackle traffic in the town is to create a bypass in the mountains that connects Indrunag to Bhagsunag, thus reducing the congestion in the town and at Kotwali Bazar,” Bamba said.Dharamsala Mayor Onkar Nehria, when contacted, said the work on all these road projects would start soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/incomplete-roads-bane-for-tourism-in-upper-dharamsala-281910
12-07-2021||Ambika Sharma
||Covid norms thrown to the winds in Kasauli||Tribune News Service  Solan, July 11 At a time when the Centre has expressed concern over crowding at hill stations, tourists arrived in droves in Kasauli this weekend. The visitors were seen jostling for space on the Mall Road, which is the main activity centre. A large number of visitors were seen not wearing masks. Social distancing was also not observed. Traders in the Heritage Market did a brisk business as a number of people entered shops to purchase items from the cantonment town. People particularly crowded around roadside eateries. Newly weds, elderly as well as children were among those who were seen enjoying the cool climes, unmindful of the Covid fear. Though traders were happy as they had done a good business after a long span, they also expressed fear of Covid spread. “It is heartening to see a huge crowd in the town, but it is worrisome as they cared little to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Vikas, a local trader. DSP, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta said the police had been directed to challan people for not wearing masks as it was necessary to discipline the visitors in view of the third wave. While hotels in and around Kasauli were experiencing 100 per cent occupancy, there was little space on the roads to walk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-norms-thrown-to-the-winds-in-kasauli-281911
12-07-2021||---||Science stream classes sought at govt school||Mandi, July 11 Residents of Tirthan valley in Kullu district have urged the state government to introduce science stream at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Gada Gushaini. Pradhans of all seven panchayats of Tirthan Valley — Sharchi, Shilli, Kandidhar, Mashyar, Nohanda, Pekhdi and Tung — have supported the request so that the children of the valley may develop an interest in the subject. “The school is very old and owing to lack of adequate accommodation, science steam could not be introduced in this school. Only classes of arts stream are held here,” a pradhan said. Introduction of science stream at the school has been a long-pending demand of the residents of Tirthan Valley. “We have submitted a memorandum to Education Minister Govind Thakur regarding this issue,” said Ghanshyam Thakur of Tung Panchayat. “We urge Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to look into the matter and do the needful to start science stream classes at the school as soon as possible,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/science-stream-classes-sought-at-govt-school-281912
12-07-2021||---||Stay away from Himachal's river banks, tourists told||Shimla, July 11The local Met office has issued an advisory to residents and tourists to not venture near river banks as the water level may increase due to heavy rains, which may also lead to landslides and uprooting of trees.Yellow and orange warning of thunderstorm, lightning, heavy to very heavy rains in ten out of twelve districts, barring tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti, has been issued for the next two days. Wet weather will prevail in the region till July 17.Heavy to very heavy rains lashed several parts of the state. Naina Devi was the wettest with 181 mm of rains. Renuka recorded 155 mm of rains followed by Jatton Barrage 149 mm, Nahan 119 mm, Kasauli 116 mm, Bharari 104 mm, Hamirpur 98 mm.While light to moderate rains were witnessed in many places such as Mehre with 38 mm of rain, Kahu with 35 mm, Palampur 31 mm, Baldwara 30 mm, Sujanpur Tira 29 mm, Jhandutta and Berthin 25 mm each, Kufri 23.5 mm, Nalagarh 23 mm, Kasol 21mm, Kothi 19 mm, Bhoranj Jubbarhatti and Manali 18 mm each, Gohar and Baijnath 17 mm each, Bilapsur and Una 13 mm each, Sundernagar 12.5 mm, Jogindernagar and Rampur 9 mm each, Narkanda 5 mm and Shimla 4 mm.Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district was the coldest at night with a low of 12 degrees C. Maximum temperatures dropped by two or three degrees and Una was the hottest in the day, recording a high of 34.7 degrees C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stay-away-from-himachals-river-banks-tourists-told-281913
12-07-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Lok Adalat held||Shima, July 11 A National Lok Adalat for pre-litigation and pending matters was organised on Saturday by the Himachal Pradesh State Legal Services Authority (HPSLSA) in all courts of the state. Prem Pal Ranta, member secretary, HPSLSA, informed that a total of 18,568 cases were taken up during the adalat, of which 7,198 cases were settled. He added that prior to the Lok Adalat, Acting Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan had impressed upon all district judges to identify sufficient number of cases for the Lok Adalat and take pro-active part in the settlement of cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lok-adalat-held-281915
12-07-2021||---||Over 88K challans issued in Himachal since March ’20 for flouting Covid norms||Shimla, July 11An open invitation to tourists by relaxing curbs has created a piquant situation in popular hill stations of Himachal as some tourists are not only defying Covid protocol but are also misbehaving with the police.The police have issued 88,369 challans since March 2020 for not wearing masks during the Covid pandemic and collected a fine of over Rs 5 crore. As many as 43,787 challans had been issued for not wearing mask in 2020 and an amount of Rs 2.26 crore was collected while 44,582 challans had been issued this year and a sum of Rs 2.73 crore was collected as fine.Several incidents of misbehaviour of tourists, quarrelling for being asked to wear face mask and abide by other Covid norms had gone viral on the social media. Such incidences are on the rise and the locals are also upset with the influx of defiant tourists and fear that it could lead to increase in cases.Despite the risk of getting infected with Covid, the police are assisting the tourists and maintaining law and order and performing their other duties. But, incidents of misbehaviour by tourists in these times affects the morale of the force, said Shimla SP Mohit Chawla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-88k-challans-issued-in-himachal-since-march-20-for-flouting-covid-norms-281916
