13-07-2021||---||Amritsar tourist killed in Dharamsala after a fall into gorge||Dharamsala, July 13Manmeet Singh, a tourist from Amritsar in Punjab, died after falling into gorge in the Kareri lake area of Dharamsala.He had come to Kareri area along with his friends. Yesterday, while coming back from Kareri lake, Manmeet reportedly fell into a gorge.Kewal Singh Pathania, HPCC general secretary and Congress leader from Shahpur, said locals were trying to retrieve the body of Manmeet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amritsar-tourist-killed-in-dharamsala-after-a-fall-into-gorge-282590
13-07-2021||Solan||6 of family, cattle marooned on island amidst flooded river rescued in Himachal||A team of home guards, fire staff and policemen rescued 6 people, including a two and a half-year-old baby and more than 25 heads of cattle marooned on an island amidst a flooded Giri river in Paonta Sahib sub-division of Sirmaur district on Tuesday morning around 11:30 am.Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur, who supervised the operations along with SDM and revenue staff, said that at 9:38 pm last evening police received information that four persons of the Gujjar community had been stuck on an island in the Giri river near Puruwala.Information was shared with authorities, fire and rescue teams who reached Dorianwala, near Bangran, on the Left Bank of Giri River to rescue them but operations couldn't be initiated due to a rise in water level on both sides of the island which was about 300 m wide and 1 km long. The island was situated about 200 m upstream of Bangran Giri Bridge.Officials found that the island level was 10-15 feet above the level of the flooded river where the Gujjar family, who reside in temporary sheds at the island, had been stuck. They included Noora, Abdul Gani, Misra and two-year-old baby Samina. They were contacted through phone and found safe.Jatoun Dam authorities, Renukaji were also contacted to close the gates to initiate a rescue operation but they showed their inability to do so, considering heavy rains and large inflow of water from the hilly areas.Rescue teams were stationed on the spot and confidence of the marooned people was restored to stay put at night. The SDRF and NDRF teams were also informed and kept ready to initiate rescue operations, as the rain continued to disrupt rescue operations during the evening.The rescue operation was resumed in the morning and the livestock was rescued. Two other people -Jehargiri and Sewa Das- residents of Phulpur Paonta Saahib, who were staying in a temple inside the Island were also rescued.Despite the authorities warning the residents to stay away from the flooded river, such instances come to light every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-of-family-cattle-marooned-on-island-amidst-flooded-river-rescued-in-himachal-282510
13-07-2021||---||Rain wreaks havoc in Kangra district||Shimla, July 12Heavy to extremely heavy rain wreaked havoc in Kangra district today.As many as 54 roads are blocked in the state following the downpour. As many as 25 roads are blocked in Kullu district, 22 in Chamba district, three in Sirmaur and two each in Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti districts. However, reports on roads blockade in Kangra district, which witnessed the maximum damage, and Mandi district are still awaited.People are on tenterhooks as the local MeT office has issued an orange warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rain in seven districts of Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur, tomorrow and a yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in seven districts on July 14, 15 and 16. It has predicted a wet spell in the region till July 18.Following intermittent heavy rain in Shimla and surrounding areas, the Giri water supply scheme has been affected due to silting at the source. There is high turbidity at the water source and disturbance in water supply to Shimla is apprehended.Dharamsala was the wettest in the region with 331 mm of rain, followed by Palampur 287 mm, Shahpur 264 mm, Kangra 213 mm, Jogindernagar 158 mm, Jawali 99 mm, Dalhousie 98 mm, Bhuntar 83 mm, Mandi 79 mm, Baijnath 78, Manali, Kufri and Sarkaghat 70 mm each, Narkanda 69 mm, Kasauli 68 mm, Rohru 56 mm, Solan 40 mm, Chamba 38 mm, Shimla 37 and Paonta Sahib 30 mm.The Union Government has sent NDRF teams for relief and rescue operations in Dharamsala and adjoining areas. In a Tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated, “The situation in Himachal due to heavy rain is being closely monitored. The authorities are working with the state government and all possible support is being extended.”Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed concern over the losses due to heavy rain and speculated cloudbursts in certain parts. He also urged the local people and tourists to refrain from going near the river banks to avoid any untoward incident.There was no significant change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong was the coldest at night, registering a low of 12.4 degrees C. However, the maximum temperatures dropped by four or five degrees C and Una with 31.7 degrees C was the hottest in the day.Shimla water scheme hitThe Giri water supply scheme in Shimla has been hit due to silting at the source. There is high turbidity at the water source and disturbance in water supply to Shimla is apprehended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-kangra-district-282185
13-07-2021||Ravinder Sood||Rivers in spate, power supply hit in Palampur||PALAMPUR, JULY 12The unprecedented heavy rain in the past 24 hours paralysed normal life in Palampur, Baijnath and Jaisinghpur.A number of roads were closed, dozens of houses and drinking water supply schemes suffered damage and many areas were without electricity. Local rivers were flowing above the danger mark.A report said there was a cloudburst in the upper area of the Dhauladhars this morning, resulting in flash floods in most of the rivers. Villagers had been advised by the authorities not to go near the Neugal, the Binwa and the Baner as these were in full spate. A number of kucha houses in Palampur suffered damage.DSP Amit Sharma said no loss of life had been reported from any part of the region. The police were on a high alert. Police personnel and fire-fighting machinery had been kept on the standby mode for evacuating people in case of any mishap.Palampur and its adjoining areas had been without power since morning as transmission lines were damaged by falling trees on the outskirts of the town. Assistant Engineer, HPSEB, said efforts were on the way to restore the supply.The traffic on Pathankot-Mandi, Palampur-Hamirpur and Palampur-Jaisinghpur highways was disrupted because of uprooting of trees. Likewise roads leading to Chadhiar and Alampur also suffered heavy damage because of soil erosion and landslides. The road between Bir and Billing was closed following landslides at many points. No tourists were allowed to visit Billing. The traffic to Chhota Bhangal was also suspended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rivers-in-spate-power-supply-hit-in-palampur-282187
13-07-2021||Palampur||Railway tracks under water in valley||The train services between Pathankot and Jogindernagar were suspended today following heavy rain and landslides, causing extensive damage to railway track and culverts between Ranital and Baijnath.Reports said heavy landslides had damaged the track and culverts, resulting in the suspension train services. At many points, the track had been converted into drains following heavy flow of water.A spokesman of the Northern Railway told mediapersons that all efforts were being made to restore the services. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/railway-tracks-under-water-in-valley-282189
13-07-2021||Una||Una receives 80 mm rain||The Meteorological Department recorded 80.4 mm of rainfall in Una today. It was the heaviest rainfall during the ongoing monsoon season.A Met official said Monday’s precipitation was equal to the sum total of all rainfall recorded in the past 45 days in Una. While no untoward incident or damage to crops has been reported due to the rainfall, there are reports of water entering the basements of some houses and business establishments.Meanwhile, the rain has brought relief for farmers who were concerned over the delay in the monsoons. They have already sown maize and paddy and the continued dry spell was taking a toll on their crops. The dip in the mercury has also brought a welcome relief for the locals. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-receives-80-mm-rain-282191
13-07-2021||Dipender Manta||Manali road blocked, tourists stranded||Tribune News ServiceMandi, July 12Tourists travelling on the Chandigarh-Manali-Leh highway were today stranded for hours at different locations due to flash floods and landslides in the region. The highway was blocked near Pandoh in Mandi because of a massive landslide. Besides, a landslide near Aut hampered traffic on the highway.The alternative road leading to Kullu from Mandi via Kataula was also blocked because of landslides at Kanoj. The police had stopped the traffic movement in view of public safety.Additional District Magistrate, Mandi, Rajiv Kumar said the machinery and workforce had been deployed to restore the Chandigarh-Manali highway and the alternative Mandi-Kullu road. Heavy rain damaged 47 transformers in the district, a cowshed, two houses in the district but no loss of life was reported. Till filing of the report, the Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked. The SP, Lahaul and Spiti, said no vehicles were stuck on the Manali-Leh highway.Due to a downpour since morning, the streams flowing along the Manali-Leh highway were in spate, hampering traffic. The Telling Nullah, Pagal Nullah and the Bharatpur Nullah were flooded since noon, blocking traffic for hours.The police informed the BRO to mobilise its local units and help the stranded people. The road to Killar in Chamba district from Udaipur was also blocked.The SP, Lahaul and Spiti, said the condition of the roads was not safe for travelling. People were advised to travel only if necessary. Only tourists with bookings in Lahaul were being allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-road-blocked-tourists-stranded-282193
13-07-2021||Dipender Manta||Manali-Hamta Pass road demands repair: Hoteliers||Tribune news ServiceMandi, July 12Hoteliers of Manali have urged the district administration, Kullu, to improve the condition of the Manali-Hamta Pass road. They have said that due to the poor condition of the road, most of the tourists avoid undertaking their journey.Though the Hamta Pass is a scenic spot, a majority of tourists prefer to visit just the Rohtang Pass, the famous tourist destination in Kullu district. To split traffic rush the condition of the Manali-Hamta Pass road must be improved to ensure a comfortable journey for the tourists.Anup Thakur, president of Hoteliers Association Manali said, “The Manali-Hamta Pass road could be repaired using Tourism Development Corporation funds if budget provision is not there with the Public Works Department. This road, if in good condition, will ease the traffic load of the Rohtang Pass while providing the tourists another option to visit a new spot.”“The Hamta Pass is situated at an altitude of 14,039 ft in the Pir Panjal range in the Himalayas, which is blessed with natural beauty. It is located on a small corridor between Lahaul’’s Chandra Valley and the Kullu valley. This pass is frequently used by shepherds of the lower Himalayan region, seeking high-altitude grasslands in the summer, when the dry cold desert of Lahaul is barren,” he said.“The alluring features of the Hamta trek are vertical rock walls, waterfalls, hanging glaciers, pinewoods, rhododendron forests, open meadows, tiny lakes and peaks rising above 6,000 metres. The trek begins in the green Kullu valley. After crossing over through the Hamta Pass the trekker moves into the drier region of Lahaul,” said Thakur.“The trek takes climbers over glaciers, fast-flowing rivers and challenging terrain, and the trek is regarded suitable for beginners who are physically fit,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-hamta-pass-road-demands-repair-hoteliers-282195
13-07-2021||Hamirpur||Water enters houses in Hamirpur||Incessant rain wrecked havoc in the district today as many roads in rural areas were blocked due to landslides and uprooted trees.The Ward No. 8 of Hamipur town was flooded with mud flowing from the adjoining nullah.The mud entered many houses, damaging goods and furniture.According to reports, the situation has worsened due to the dumping of dug-up earth in the nullah by people constructing buildings on its bank.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-enters-houses-in-hamirpur-282197
13-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Avoid trekking, Kullu DC advises tourists||Kullu, July 12Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg today issued an advisory to the public and the tourists to avoid going near the water bodies and landslide-prone areas.He said revellers should avoid trekking and adventure activities during adverse weather conditions. He told various departments to be on the alert and be prepared with necessary equipment to be positioned in hazard-prone areas.He said about 20 roads were blocked due to incessant rainfall since last night and a few of them had already been restored.He added that some electricity transformers reportedly broke down and their maintenance was underway.The Aut-Largi-Sainj road was blocked due to slush flowing from the Pagal Nullah and many vehicles were stuck. Various link roads were also blocked and a few HRTC buses were stuck there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avoid-trekking-kullu-dc-advises-tourists-282199
13-07-2021||---||Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar to be sworn in Himachal Governor today||Shimla, July 12Governor (designate) Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar was given a rousing reception on his arrival at Raj Bhavan here this evening. He will be sworn in as the 28th Governor of Himachal at 10 am tomorrow.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary, Chief Secretary Anil Khachi, DGP Sanjay Kundu, Vice-Chancellors and other senior officers of the state government and prominent persons welcomed him. The Chief Minister honoured him with a Himachali cap and a shawl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rajendra-vishwanath-arlekar-to-be-sworn-in-himachal-governor-today-282200
13-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM, ministers give farewell to Bandaru Dattatreya||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and his Cabinet colleagues Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary and Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, Chief Secretary Anil Khachi, DGP Sanjay Kundu, Vice-Chancellors and other senior officers, besides prominent persons, gave a send-off to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhawan on Monday.Earlier, the staff of Raj Bhawan gave a farewell to Dattatreya. He said he had received immense affection, respect and recognition from the people of the state in two years, which he would always remember. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-ministers-give-farewell-to-bandaru-dattatreya-282201
13-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Deadline over but 30% work on Sectt parking still pending||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 12Around 70 per cent work of the parking project at the Civil Secretariat here has been completed by the June 30 deadline.A multi-storey parking for 123 cars and 60 scooters is being constructed at the rear of the Armsdale building here at a cost of about Rs 40 crore. The total area of the eight-storey building with a basement and an attic is 11,102.75 sq mt but the actual parking space is less than 50 per cent.Rs 21.12 crore already spentThe new parking building with two blocks will be connected with the Armsdale building. A sum of Rs 21.12 crore has been spent on the project up to March 31, 2021, while Rs 18.05 crore is required to complete the work. —Suresh Kapoor, Superintending engineer, PWDThe total height of the structure having eight floors, a basement and an attic is about 24 metres and the average height of every floor is around three metres. The project was slated to be completed by June 30 this year but the work was stopped due to the danger to adjoining buildings and because trees had not been felled.The branches of the State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and State Cooperative Bank and the office of the Tribal Development Department will be located on the seventh floor, while the eighth floor will accommodate officers’ cabins, Disaster Management cell, a dining hall and the pantry. The conference hall, meeting hall and the command and control centre will be located at the attic.“The new parking building with two blocks will be connected with the Armsdale building. A sum of Rs 21.12 crore has been spent on the project up to March 31, 2021, while Rs 18.05 crore is required to complete the work. About 70 per cent of the work has been completed and the remaining will be completed before the deadline of December 31,” says Suresh Kapoor, Superintending Engineer, PWD, Shimla division.The work on the roof of Block-I is complete. The laying of tiles and the internal finishing work are in progress while the flooring work in Block-II has been completed. The shuttering of the attic floor and the plastering work are in progress, he adds.The basement measuring 68.52 sq mt is meant for parking scooters while the first floor measuring 838 sq mt has a parking space for three cars and 30 scooters. The remaining area will house three dispensaries. The second floor measuring 1,085 sq mt will have a facility for parking 24 cars, besides rooms for drivers and chowkidars. The third (24), fourth (36) and fifth (36) floors will have dedicated parking spaces for 96 cars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deadline-over-but-30-work-on-sectt-parking-still-pending-282202
13-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||HPCC demands Virbhadra’s statue in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 12Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kuldeep Rathore said today that a statue of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh should be installed on The Ridge here.Virbhadra’s loyalists have decided to take urns containing Virbhadra’s ashes to all 72 blocks of the state where the Block Congress Committees will immerse it in rivers and their tributaries.So far, no other Congress leader has made any demand as everyone is still waiting for all rituals to complete. The death of Virbhadra, who was the tallest Congress leader, is bound to create a lot of churning and re-alignment within the party, especially with an eye on the Assembly polls due next year.Ashes to be taken to all blocksIt has barely been five days since his death but the question of who will steer the party after the veteran Congress leader is haunting every party man. Virbhadra’s family, including his wife Pratibha Singh, former MP and son Vikramaditya Singh, are in Rampur, performing various rituals, but the party men are trying to keep his memory alive.Though there is no confirmation from the family side, it has been learnt that his ashes will be immersed in the Ganges in Haridwar on July 16, to be followed by ‘shuddhi’ on July 18.Rathore today wrote a letter to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, seeking permission to install a statue of Virbhadra on The Ridge. The statues of Mahatma Gandhi, former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee and former Chief Minister Dr YS Parmar are already installed on The Ridge.“Virbhadra Singh’s contribution to the development of the state can neither be underestimated, nor can be forgotten. It is clear from the crowds gathered at his funeral that Virbhadra was a popular leader of the masses,” he wrote.He added that in a democracy, governments come and go, but only a few leaders leave an indelible mark in the hearts of the people.He said that it was the desire of the HPCC that a memorial should be built for which the government must identify a suitable place. He also urged that the government should name a big government institution after Virbhadra Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpcc-demands-virbhadras-statue-in-shimla-282203
13-07-2021||Shimla||Two BJP Mahila Morcha members suspended||Two office-bearers of the BJP Mahila Morcha were suspended today from the party after an audio clip of heated exchanges among members went viral.Taking note of the 3.23 minute audio in which members of the Mahila Morcha were engaged in a verbal duel, the BJP state president Suresh Kashyap suspended Mahila Morcha general secretary Sheetal Vyas and in-charge, social media and IT, Dr Archna Thakur.Indiscipline would not be tolerated in the party, said Kashyap, adding that the members had been discharged of all responsibilities assigned to them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-bjp-mahila-morcha-members-suspended-282204
13-07-2021||Our Corresopondent||Eco park inaugurated at Bangana||UNA, JULY 12Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania today dedicated to public an eco park, developed at a cost of Rs 70 lakh by the Forest Department at Bangana Sub Divisional headquarters. He also inaugurated buildings of the Bangana Forest Range Office and an inspection hut constructed at a cost of Rs 45 lakh and Rs 23 lakh, respectively. Kutlehar MLA and Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar accompanied Pathania.In his public address, Pathania said the Union Government had launched a scheme to construct rainwater harvesting structures in rural areas to increase ground water aquifer, adding that the first installment of Rs 1.5 crore would be allocated to Kutlehar Assembly segment. He said in order to increase public participation in Van Mahotsavs organised during the monsoon season, each elected panchayat representative would be given 51 saplings.He announced a grant of Rs 25 lakh for the setting up an open air gym at the Bangana eco park and Rs 32 lakh for constructing additional buildings for various developmental works pertaining to the Forest Department in Kutlehar segment. He also announced grants of Rs 15 lakh each for constructing two roads — Kadoh to Talmehra road and a link road to Solasinghi Dhaar.Agriculture Minister Kanwar told the public gathering that the trials for paragliding fromthe mountain peaks located on Solasinghi Dhaar and Gharvasada would be held on July 15 to boost tourism in the region, adding that the rules for paragliding and water sports activities had been notified by the state government.Kanwar said house boats would be introduced in the Gobind Sagar lake of the Sutlej in Una and Bilaspur districts under a Union Government-funded project. He said a sum of Rs 5 crore would be spent on procuring, maintaining and running house boats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eco-park-inaugurated-at-bangana-282205
13-07-2021||---||Take strict action in child abuse cases, officials told||Shimla, July 12Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while presiding over a meeting of the Saksham Gudiya Board, here today, said a strict action against the teachers involved in abuse of students was the need of the hour.Stressing the need for creating awareness among girls about their rights, besides socio-economic empowerment, he said the board was constituted in 2018 to make recommendations on rules, policy and programmes related to safety and security of girls.Meeting of Gudia boardHe said the board aimed at reviewing various programmes being run for upliftment of girls in the state. He said the objective of the state was to provide a fearless environment to the girl child, so they could excel in the desired field.Thakur said 6,400 complaints were received on the ‘Gudiya’ helpline, which was launched to provide immediate assistance to girls at the time of distress. The Chief Minister said the state was committed to strengthening the board. He said a special awareness campaign should be launched to sensitise the masses on safety and security of women.Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary talked about various welfare schemes launched by the department for empowerment of women and girls. Vice-Chairperson, Saksham Gudiya Board, Roopa Sharma presented the vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/take-strict-action-in-child-abuse-cases-officials-told-282206
13-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Market fee draws Solan traders’ ire||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 12Wholesale traders in Solan are up in arms against the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) for re-imposing the market fee on various poultry and agro products such as eggs, milk, sugar, jaggery, pulses, etc, sold outside the APMCs.The government had suspended the Himachal Pradesh Agriculture and Horticulture Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2005, which allows the government to collect the market fee, after the enactment of the three Central farm laws last year.The fee was, however, re-imposed after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Central laws on January 12 and all state governments were directed by the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare to comply with the directions.The Solan Beopar Mandal today met Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj in Shimla along with representatives of the Sirinagar grain mandi and urged him to do away with the market fee on various poultry and agro products sold by the wholesale traders operating outside the APMCs.Mukesh Gupta, president, Solan Beopar Mandal, said, “It is not fair to impose 1 per cent market fee on essential commodities such as milk, lentil, jaggery and sugar, which are neither produced locally, nor sold at the mandis. After the implementation of the GST, it is not fair to charge another state level levy from traders operating outside the APMCs.”He said, “If traders are asked to seek licence for the fee, then they should also be granted a shop in the APMC.” Traders had heaved a sigh of relief when the fee was suspended after the Central farm laws were enacted but its re-imposition entails an undue monetary burden. The issue had also been taken up before the Chief Minister in February but it had failed to yield any result.The APMCs collect the fee on the check posts erected on national highways. Mukesh Gupta said they were hopeful of a positive solution as the minister had assured them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/market-fee-draws-solan-traders-ire-282207
13-07-2021||---||Bike riders on Covid mission||Solan, July 12National cricket hero Yuvraj Singh’s two fans from Kerala reached Shoolini University on a bike to create awareness about his foundation’s mission of facilitating 1,000 beds to fight Covid.The riders — Ashkar and Safeer — kick-started their journey on July 5 and are slated to go to Leh. The duo hail from Kerala and have self-funded the whole tour and the awareness programme.Ashkar works as a promoter of Panasonic in Dubai and is on vacation in India. He decided to utilise his leisure time to thank doctors and volunteers who have been supporting Yuvraj Singh’s YouWECan foundation. They have also registered an organisation “Youweians Kerala”. Travelling across various states, was a lifetime experience, said Safeer.Shoolini University’s YouWeCan volunteers welcomed them at the university for an interaction and also extended their support to their campaign. The two bikers briefed the volunteers about the initiative taken by Yuvraj Singh foundation across the country to fight Covid and other medical emergencies. As of now, 470 beds have been installed across the country and Rohru and Theog in HP will have a share of 10 beds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bike-riders-on-covid-mission-282208
13-07-2021||KULLU||Panel reviews work on water resources||Chairman of the Standing Parliamentary Committee on Water Resources Sanjay Jaiswal has asked officials to send at the earliest written answers to the questions asked by committee members regarding water conservation and distribution, rural development plans and Himalayan glaciers.Presiding over a meeting with the officials of various departments in Manali today, he said the Jal Jeevan Mission was an ambitious scheme of the Centre, which would be implemented effectively to provide tap water to every household. He expressed satisfaction over the progress made in the mission. He emphasised that once water schemes were constructed in villages, their maintenance and operation was more important and a concrete strategy should be prepared.The Chairman stressed the need for the disposal of plastic waste and said people had made rivers and streams a means of disposal of plastic waste, contaminating the water. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-reviews-work-on-water-resources-282211
13-07-2021||Ravinder Sood||Residents protest waste burning by Palampur MC||Palampur, July 12Residents of Dhauladhar Colony Sudhar Sabha on Sunday staged a protest over the burning of garbage by the Palampur Municipal Corporation in the garbage treatment plant situated adjoining residential areas.General secretary of the sabha Happy Mashand and secretary Anup Dhiman threatened to resort to direct action if the waste burning was not stopped. The office-bearers said it had made the lives of people living in and around the area miserable and resulted in pollution.“Despite the fact the Pollution Control Board (PCB) authorities know how bad the situation is, no action has been taken against the Palampur MC so far. The PCB has already imposed fine of Rs 10 lakh on the Baijnath MC for burning of garbage but in the case of Palampur MC, it remains unbothered,” they added.“The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has also ordered a ban on burning of garbage in the country. It has directed all state governments and PCBs to impose a fine of Rs 25,000 on those who are found violating the order,” the members said.Burning of garbage dumps at the Khalet garbage treatment plant of Palampur MC is an almost every day activity. A Palampur MC official assured that in future, they would not burn any garbage in this plant. “The MC has taken action against the caretakers of plant who had set garbage on fire,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/residents-protest-waste-burning-by-palampur-mc-282212
13-07-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Demand for automated toll barriers at Manali||KULLU, JULY 12A long queue of tourist vehicles can be witnessed at the green tax barrier, set up about 3 km before Manali. There is just a single window to collect the tax.Over 1,000 vehicles enter Manali daily during the peak season and the rush increases at the weekends. Beneficiaries of the tourism industry have demanded the Fastag system at the toll plaza. The tourists can also pay green tax through the website (https://rohtangpermits.nic.in) but most visitors are not aware about the facility.The tax paid is valid for seven days. The green tax for a bike is Rs 100, for light motor vehicles Rs 200, for passenger vehicles Rs 300 and for goods vehicles Rs 500. A printout is a must if the tax has been paid online.A green tax barrier is also there on the left bank road as well but this route has less tourist traffic. The maintenance of the green tax barriers is undertaken by the Kullu Tourism Development Council headed by the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/demand-for-automated-toll-barriers-at-manali-282213
13-07-2021||Rudransh Dewan||Student clears entrance test||Coaching assistance to studentsThe Higher Education Department has sought applications from meritorious students, who wish to take coaching for CLAT, NEET, IIT-JEE, AIIMS, AFMC, NDA, UPSC, SSC, Baking and Insurance and Railways examinations. Under the Medha Protsahan Yojana of the state Education Department, financial assistance would be provided to 500 meritorious students. Last date for submitting the application is July 24. Details regarding the scheme are available at www.educationhp.org.HPUTA mourns death of VirbhadraThe Himachal Pradesh University Teachers' Association mourned the demise of six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. The teachers recalled his contribution to spread education in the state. He had taken a keen interest in making the HPU a centre of excellence, they said. The teaching fraternity prayed to the Almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/student-clears-entrance-test-282218
13-07-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Five police chowkis await notification||Nurpur, July 12Five police chowkis in lower Kangra have not been notified even several years after these were set up. As a result, various posts of police personnel could not be sanctioned. The department has also failed to construct buildings.Chowkis were set up at Kandwal, Gangath and Rehan in November 2005, April 1995 and December 1997. Similarly, the Rey police chowki was made functional in December 2016 and the Nagrota Surian chowki was set up in 1993. These were made functional on the verbal orders of higher officers on the recommendation of local politicians but had not been notified till date.Set up on verbal ordersEnquiries made by The Tribune revealed that the district police authorities used to transfer personnel from local police stations or the Police Lines Dharamsala to the chowkis, which are being run either in local gram panchayat bhavans or small rented rooms. Recently, the police department had submitted a proposal to upgrade the Rehan police chowki to a police station. The government approved the proposal on a condition that no new posts would be created.The Kandwal police chowki is functioning in a room that also houses a tourist information centre. The area bordering Punjab is known for drug trafficking, illegal mining and the ingress of suspicious elements in the state. The issue has been raised in several district crime meetings in the past many years but no government had taken it seriously.Vimukt Ranjan, SP, Kangra, said he had written to the higher authorities to notify the chowkis. “There are 25 police chowkis in the district and only 11 of these are notified,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-police-chowkis-await-notification-282220
13-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Villagers of  Fatehpur protest low voltage||NURPUR, JULY 12Residents of Bhadukhar gram panchayat and its surrounding rural areas in Fatehpur subdivision of Kangra district held a protest on Sunday against the authorities of HP State Electricity Board Ltd. (HPSEBL). They alleged that they had been getting an erratic and low-voltage electricity supply in their area for the past few years. They lamented that a public complaint had been submitted on the Chief Minister’s helpline number and a resolution of the gram panchayat was also submitted to the government authorities in August 2019, but in vain.The affected rural areas are in the jurisdiction of two Fatehpur and Indora Assembly segments of Kangra district but people have been struggling for a regular electricity supply in their houses for the past two years. Local residents Paramjeet Guleria, Baaj Singh, Ratan Chand and Reeta Devi lamented that the humid atmosphere and low voltage had made the lives of villagers miserable. “Fans, air coolers, refrigerators and other electrical gadgets in our homes have become show pieces for want of double phase electricity supply in the village. We have made several appeals to the authorities of the HPSEBL in this regard but we get only hollow assurances,” they said. Uttam Chand, Veena Devi and Radha, residents of surrounding villages of Bhadukhar, said they had been spending sleepless nights for the past two weeks as the voltage had been really low.Residents of the Bhadukhar panchayat have threatened to gherao the office of the Electrical Division, Fatehpur, if their problem is not addressed within the next two-three days.KD Sharma, Executive Engineer, Electrical Division, Fatehpur, said a 100-KW transformer had been installed 10 days back but it couldn’t be installed in the affected area as locals hadn’t supported the authorities in providing land for it. “Owing to the non-availability of land nearby in the village it could not be installed in a suitable place where the power load centre has been worked out,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-of-fatehpur-protest-low-voltage-282223
13-07-2021||Mandi||Shrikhand yatra cancelled in wake of Covid||The Shrikhand Mahadev Yatra has been cancelled for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic.Every year, a large number of devotees throng to the Shrikhand Mahadev shrine in Kullu district between July 15 and 25 to seek the blessings of Lord Shiva. During that period, every year, the district administration makes special arrangements on the way to the Shrikhand Mahadev shrine for the safety of devotees in the region. However this year, the administration has decided to cancel the pilgrimage in view of public safety amid threat from Covid-19.Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg urged people to avoid venturing towards the Shrikhand Mahadev shrine because the trek is a tough terrain.He said people had been advised to follow the instructions of the district administration strictly to avoid any untoward incident in the region. Last month, a trekker, who was a native of Delhi, had died while trekking in the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shrikhand-yatra-cancelled-in-wake-of-covid-282232
13-07-2021||---||Sandalwood farming at Dharampur soon||Tribune News ServiceMandi, July 12The state government is planning to introduce sandalwood cultivation in the Dharampur Assembly of Mandi district to strengthen the economy of farmers in the region.According to sources, around 10 hectares have been identified at Longni in the Dharampur Assembly, where nurseries of sandalwood will be developed for organised farming in the region.Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur said the state government was in the process to introduce sandalwood cultivation in Dharampur.“It will be an additional source of income for the farmers of the area. Organised cultivation of sandalwood will play a crucial role to boost the economy of farmers in the region,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sandalwood-farming-at-dharampur-soon-282280
13-07-2021||Solan||Anganwari workers seek insurance cover||The Anganwari Workers and Helpers Union today demanded an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for those assigned Covid duty and Rs 10 lakh for those being infected while performing their duties.A memorandum was given by the Parwanoo circle head Sulochana to the naib tehsildar, which was addressed to the Prime Minister. The workers said they should be granted Rs 10,000 per month as risk allowance as they had been entrusted with primary health surveillance duties in the second Covid wave.The union also rued that in the absence of protective gear, a number of workers were infected and also lost lives.They also demanded an immediate payment of their pending salaries. The union also sought their vaccination and early redressal of their complaints. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anganwari-workers-seek-insurance-cover-282282
13-07-2021||There is an urgent need to repair railings on the bridge connecting Mandi town with the Chandigarh-Manali highway. This is required to ensure proper maintenance of the bridge in the area. The Public Works Department should take note of the situation and do the needful at the earliest. — Rakesh Kumar||Repair railings on bridge||Clear drains in Hamirpur at the earliestAs the monsoons have begun, the water has started flooding the streets of Hamirpur town. This has also resulted in spread of filth and garbage on the roads. The authorities concerned should clear the drains to ensure water does not flow on the pathways. — Ramesh Kumar, HamirpurWHAT OUR READERS DAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/repair-railings-on-bridge-282284
13-07-2021||Dharamsala||Flash flood, landslide in Dharamsala; 1 killed, 10 missing||A flash flood and landslide in the Dharamsala region have left a trail of destruction with one person dead and 10 missing even as the rescue operation is on to search for those trapped under the debris.The first heavy monsoon rain led to a flash flood today in Bhagsunag (near McLeodganj) and lower Dharamsala area and a massive landslide in the Boh valley, about 30 km from here.Lightning toll 41 in Rajasthan, UP, MPAs per reports reaching here, five persons were rescued while 10 went missing in the remote Boh valley, as a massive landslide brought down tonnes of debris, damaging houses. Inmates of five houses are learnt to be trapped under the debris. Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan, who reached the spot, said one body had been recovered.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing concern over the flooding, tweeted: “The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. The authorities are working with the state government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in the affected areas.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah also spoke to HP CM Jai Ram Thakur on phone and assured him of all help from the Centre.Shah also conveyed to Thakur that teams of the NDRF were reaching the affected areas for rescue work.Sources here said though the landslide occurred about 10.30 am, the arrival of the rescue teams was delayed as the road to the area was blocked by the landslide. About six JCB machines were deployed to clear the road.Earlier in the morning, the gushing waters from an overflowing nullah in Bhagsunag damaged tourist vehicles parked on the streets though there was no loss to property. Locals blamed the flooding on the encroachments by some hoteliers. They alleged that the nullah which was more than 20 feet wide had been narrowed to less than 10 feet at certain places by the hoteliers.The Manji river which was in full spate due to the heavy rain throughout the night caused damage to property in Bagli village, about 7 km from here. The river washed away four houses and two shops on its banks.The district administration got the houses and commercial establishments on the banks of the Manji vacated. The slum dwellers residing on the banks of the Bagli river were also shifted to a government school. The road leading from Bagli to Sheela Chowk was also damaged, disrupting traffic.People in the Dharamsala region have been encroaching on riverbeds while the authorities have remained a mute spectator. Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Nipun Jindal said the exact damage could only be gauged after a survey. Ashwani Bamba, president of the local hotel association, meanwhile, said all bookings in the Bhagsunag area had been cancelled.The Deputy Commissioner has issued an advisory, asking tourists not to travel to the region till July 13. He said roads had been damaged due to the flash flood and efforts were being made to repair them soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flash-flood-landslide-in-dharamsala-1-killed-10-missing-282139
13-07-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal: Massive landslide dumps five houses under thousands tons of debris in Boh valley in Kangra district||The first heavy monsoon rain in Dharamsala region has led to a flash flood in Bhagsunag area and lower Dharamsala and a massive landslide in Boh valley located about 30 kms from here.As per the reports, about 12 people were missing in remote Boh valley as a massive landslide dumped thousands of tons of debris over their houses.About five houses and their inmates are expected to be trapped under debris in Boh valley.SP Kangra, Vimukt Ranjan who was heading to the spot said that one body has been recovered as exact number of deceased could only be ascertained after the rescue operations were over.The sources here said though the landslide occurred at about 10.30 am the rescue teams had not reached the spot till the filing of this report.The rescue teams could not reach as the road to the area was blocked due to landslides.About six JCB machines had been deployed to clear the road to the place where the landslide had destroyed five houses.Kewal Singh Pathania, HPCC general secretary, said that about five to six hours delay in arrival of rescue teams could have cost loss of life for many people trapped under debris.Earlier in the morning, water breached the banks of natural drain and gushed on the streets in Bhagsunag.The gushing water from the drain damaged vehicles of some tourists parked in the streets.The locals blamed the encroachment on drain by some hoteliers for the flash flood in the area.They alleged that the natural drain that was more than 20 feet wide had been narrowed to less than 10 feet at places due to encroachments by some hoteliers.The narrowing of drain led to water gushing on to streets and damage to vehicles. There was no loss of property in Bhagsunag area.The Manji river, which was in full spate due to heavy rain throughout the night, caused damage to public and private property in Bagli village about seven kms downhill from Dharamsala.The flooded Manji river washed away four houses and two shops located on its banks in Bagli village.The district administration got vacated houses and commercial establishments located on the banks of river Manji.The slum dwellers residing on the banks of river Bagli were also shifted to a government school in the area.The road leading from Bagli to Sheela Chowk was also washed away due to flash flood in Manji river disrupting traffic in the area.The flash flood in Manji river and Bhagsunag were more manmade than a natural catastrophe.People in Dharamsala region have been encroaching into riverbeds while the authorities turn a blind eye to the developments. The encroachments on river beds were to primary cause of loss to property.Also read: Himachal floods: Centre deploys NDRF teams; HP CM says 'heavy damage' In pictures: Flash floods in Dharamsala damage houses, vehiclesDeputy Commissioner, Kangra, Nipun Jindal when contacted said the exact amount of damage to private and public property due to flash flood can only be gauged after a survey. Those affected have been given compensation as per government norms.Deputy Commissioner Dr Nipun Jindal said, “Instructions have also been given to people to not go to sensitive places prone to landslides. Some people have also been shifted to safer places due to flood conditions in some areas of the district.”     Officials have been directed to complete relief and rehabilitation immediately, he said, adding that control rooms have also been set up and steps have also been taken to make the weather forecast available to people.Jindal said according to the Meteorological Department forecast, heavy rain on July 13 as well as from July 14 to 16 has been predicted.Keeping this in mind, orders have been issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005 to district officers of all the departments in Kangra district to remain alert. The president of hotel association, Ashwani Bamba, said that all bookings in Bhagsunag have been cancelled after news of flash flood in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-massive-landslide-dumps-five-houses-under-thousands-tons-of-debris-in-boh-valley-in-kangra-district-282071
13-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||In photos: Clouds descend over Shimla amid forecast of heavy rain in Himachal||The sky was cloudy in Shimla on Monday amid the weather bureau’s forecast of heavy rain at isolated places in Himachal Pradesh till Wednesday.After the easing of Covid restrictions, scores of tourists have reached various popular spots in Himachal Pradesh.The southwest monsoon arrived in Himachal Pradesh on June 13, its earliest onset in the past 21 years. Its normal arrival in the state is June 26. Since its arrival, the hill state largely saw dominant rains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-photos-clouds-descend-over-shimla-amid-forecast-of-heavy-rain-in-himachal-282063
