15-07-2021||Shimla||Landslide in Kinnaur affects traffic on NH-5||A massive landslide between Chaura and Nugalsari in Kinnaur district left several cars stranded on the national highway late on Thursday, officials said. The landslide occurred late in the evening on NH-5 some 30 km from Rampur. Cars on both sides have been affected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-in-kinnaur-affects-traffic-on-nh-5-283711
15-07-2021||New Delhi||Earthquake measuring 3.6 hits Shimla||A minor earthquake measuring 3.6 on the Richter scale hit Shimla on Thursday, the National Centre if Seismology said in a tweet in the eveningThe quake was at a depth of 10 km and occurred at 7:47 pm, the tweet said. Earthquake of Magnitude:3.6, Occurred on 15-07-2021, 19:47:26 IST, Lat: 31.19 & Long: 77.92, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/O4l0SBIfUc pic.twitter.com/NHduSBv0qR||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/earthquake-measuring-3-6-hits-shimla-283707
15-07-2021||Shimla||MeT department issues warning for heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh||The Meteorological Department on Thursday issued a fresh warning for heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh.The Shimla Meteorological Centre predicted rain in the state till July 21. However, the warning so far had been issued till July 19.The MeT office issued the yellow warning for heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning in the plains, low hills and mid-hills on July 16 and 17.The MeT office also issued an orange warning for very heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning in plains, low hills and mid-hills on July 18 and 19.The Met department issues colour-coded warnings to alert people ahead of severe or hazardous weather which has the potential to cause "damage, widespread disruption and/or danger to life."Yellow is the least dangerous among the weather warnings, whereas orange is for weather conditions that have the capacity to impact significantly.Several parts of Himachal Pradesh received light to moderate rains, the MeT department said.Malan in Kangra district gauged 54 mm of rainfall, followed by 32.5 mm in Baijnath in Kangra district, 32 mm in Kullu district's Seobagh and 30 mm in Kangra district's Palampur, it said.On Thursday, the highest temperature was recorded in Una at 36 degrees Celsius, the MeT department said.Tribal district Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong recorded the lowest temperature at 12.2 degrees Celsius, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-department%C2%A0issues-warning-for-heavy-rains-in-himachal-pradesh-283699
15-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||One more body found in Kangra’s Boh valley, landslide toll 9||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 15One more body was recovered today on Thursday from Boh valley landslide site taking the death toll to nine. One person was still missing.NDRF teams and state authorities were trying to locate the missing person.Those who died in Boh valley landslide include, Mamta, daughter of Bhim Sen; Kartik, son of Bhim Sen, Masto Devi, wife of Bhim Sen, Shiv Prashad son of Subhash Chand, Shakuntala Devi wife of Prakash Chand, Kanchna Devi wife of Meghnath, Bhim Singh, son of Ghaniya Ram, Shabnam daughter of Vijay Kumar and Subhash Chand son of Durga Das.The body of Subhash Chand was recovered today.Vijay Kumar, his wife Kanchana Devi and daughter Vanshika were among the lucky survivors in catastrophe. Vijay Kumar who has suffered fracture in legs and his wife are now admitted in Civil Hospital, Shahpur. He has lost his one-and-half-year-old daughter Shabnam in the landslide.While talking to The Tribune Vijay Kumar said he was outside his house on July 12 at 11 am trying to clean the drain outside his house. “It was raining and water was flowing fast from a nullah on the hill top overlooking his house. The landslide started slowly. Stones and muck started coming down the hill initially in small quantities. Suddenly a huge landslide started and it gave us no time to escape. I ran inside my house shouting at the top of my voice to my wife and daughters to stay inside. By the time I reached the verandah of my house I was trapped in neck deep in the muck brought down by the landslide,” Vijay Kumar said.Vijay Kumar said there was just 1 ft distance between his head which was free from muck and roof of verandah of his house. “I could breathe but feared that I would be killed. What gave me courage was that I could hear the voices of my wife and daughter Vanshika from inside the house,” he said.Vijay said his daughter Vanshika who had access to his mobile phone called up her teacher and other people in their vicinity calling for help. Her teacher came with other people and started the rescue. “They tore open the roof of their house and pulled out Vanshika and my wife. Later I was also rescued,” he said.Vijay’s wife Kanchana Devi, also admitted in civil hospital, was still shocked at the tragedy that had struck them. “We had never expected that an entire hill could have descended on us. The loss of my younger daughter Shabnam in the landslide has left unhealable memories, she said sobbing.Meanwhile, the kin who were catering to Vijay Kumar and his family complained regarding the poor condition of roads in their area. They alleged that rescue teams reached late in their area as the road to their village was totally damaged and one had to walk 4 km to reach there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-more-body-found-in-kangras-boh-valley-landslide-toll-9-283661
15-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala: Landslide toll 8; toddler among three more dead||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 14The landslide toll today rose to eight with the recovery of three more bodies, including that of a toddler, from Rulehar village in the Boh valley, Dharamsala. Two persons are still feared trapped in the debris even as the rescue operation continues. The dead have been identified as Bhim Sen, Kanchana Devi and one-and-a-half-year-old Shabnam. The entire family of Bhim Sen has been wiped out in the landslide. The bodies of his wife, two daughters and a son were recovered yesterday.Editorial: Stop fiddling with hillsKangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said the district administration had made arrangements for the cremation of the deceased. The injured were being provided free medical aid. One of the injured was undergoing treatment in the PGI, Chandigarh.Jindal said a 55-year-old man from Samirpur village near Kangra was washed away in the flash flood on July 12. “He is still missing and efforts are being made to locate him. All tourists trapped in the Kareri area have been rescued,” he added. Meanwhile, sources said there was tension between the slum dwellers and locals housed in the Bagli government school after the flash flood. The locals objected to staying with slum dwellers in the school complex.Body of Punjab singer, who fell into gorge, foundSufi singer Manmeet Singh of Amritsar died after he fell into a gorge near the Kareri lake, 10 km from Dharamsala, on July 12. His body was retrieved on Tuesday night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-landslide-toll-8-toddler-among-three-more-dead-283369
15-07-2021||Shimla||Apple transportation season begins, drones to be used for monitoring traffic||Drones will be used for monitoring traffic during apple transportation season commencing tomorrow. As many as 220 police personnel will be deployed at bottleneck to ensure the smooth transportation of apples.“A traffic plan has been chalked out and arrangements made keeping in view that a bumper apple. Around 2 crore apple boxes will be transported from Shimla district which implies that over 40,000 trucks, besides pickups, will ply on the road till October 15,” said SP Shimla Mohit Chawla.Single point reference number 8894728012 has been issued for the public to report their grievances. Apple-related problems of growers, transporters, traders or others would be addressed, he said. The police force will be reduced and strengthened as per rush. Moreover, awareness camps will also be organised for truck drivers to reduce the chances of accidents.The city traffic will not be disturbed as the trucks would take Dhalli-Shoghi road, the SP said. Vulnerable points have been discussed with other stakeholders. The Fagu – Chharabra road and Mehli road will be the halting points in cases of traffic congestion.Thousands of trucks ply from the apple belt in Shimla – Jubbal Kotkhai, Theog, Chopal, Rohru subdivisions and Kinnaur district during the season. August 15 to September 15 is the peak time for transportation of the crop. A total of 77,563 vehicles crossed the Shoghi border (38,355 Solan to Shimla and 39,208 Shimla to Solan) from July 5 till July 14 morning.The Shimla administration has made adequate preparations for the marketing of apple during the ongoing season. A control room has been set up at Fagu and additional control rooms are set up at Shoghi, Giripul, Narkanda, Fediz Pul, Balag and Kudu.Deputy Commissioner, Shimla Aditya Negi, who reviewed the preparations, said SDMs have already held discussions with truck and pickup owners and the growers would face no problem as regard to availability of trucks.The control rooms would be activated from tomorrow and facility of making I-cards, counting of apple boxes, gathering statistics of the movement of trucks would be available through software. All roads in apple belt have been repaired, Negi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-transportation-season-begins-drones-to-be-used-for-monitoring-traffic-283179
15-07-2021||Solan||Multi-level parking facility inaugurated in Kasauli||A bus stand-cum-multilevel parking, constructed at a cost of Rs 19.5 crore, was virtually inaugurated today at Kasauli by Lt Gen RP Singh, GOC-in-C, Western Command (WC), Chandimandir, in the presence of the Principal Director, WC.With a capacity to accommodate 11 buses in the basement, its three other floors can accommodate about 300 cars. It can be further extended up to 450 in future. A sum of Rs 100 would be charged from a user for the first four hours and a subsequent Rs 20 for every hour thereafter, informed an official.Can accommodate 300 carsCantonment Board president Brig Naveen Mahajan, Chief Executive Officer Jigyasa Raj, former board members Devinder Gupta and Jaspreet Singh were among others present on the occasion.“The completion of this project will facilitate a safe place fro tourists to park their vehicles. It was a major requirement for this town where hundreds of tourists visit, especially during the weekends. It will further boost business prospects of the local traders,” said Devinder Gupta, a former member of the cantonment board.Former Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced Rs 15 crore for the project in September 2017 during her visit to the town.Vehicles were parked along roadsides all over the town earlier, which not only created chaos on the roads during the peak tourist season but also caused inconvenience to the pedestrians.With the town witnessing a huge rush of tourists during the weekends, its inauguration will facilitate tourists, who used to struggle to find parking space in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/multi-level-parking-facility-inaugurated-in-kasauli-283180
15-07-2021||Shimla||Shimla Home Stay and Bed and Breakfast Association seeks waiver of garbage charges||The Shimla Home Stay and Bed and Breakfast (B and B) Association has urged the government to direct the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) to waive garbage collection charges and has accused the SMC of flouting the orders of the High Court and the state government.The Municipal Corporation is charging commercial rates of garbage collection despite the fact that the Himachal High Court had clearly said home stays were not a commercial activity and in case the SMC insisted on slapping commercial charges, the association would be forced to give contempt notice to the corporation, said association president Vijay Puri.The association decided to launch a tree plantation drive in Shimla and motivate its members to display photos and history regarding the rich culture and heritage of Himachal to enlighten the guests.The intention of the government behind starting the home stay scheme was to generate employment and disperse tourism to rural areas and had declared it a non-commercial activity, but the SMC was negating the very purpose of the scheme, he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-home-stay-and-bed-and-breakfast-association-seeks-waiver-of-garbage-charges-283181
15-07-2021||Shimla||128 roads blocked; Met alert in 10 districts of Himachal||The local Met office has issued a yellow and orange warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in 10 districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti for the next four days and predicted a wet spell in the region till July 20.Because of the ongoing heavy rain, landslides have blocked 128 roads in Himachal. A maximum of 55 roads are blocked in Shimla district followed by Sirmaur (20), Mandi (18), Hamirpur (16), Chamba (9), Kullu (6), Lahaul and Spiti (2) and one each in Kangra and Kinnaur districts.As many as 248 water supply schemes have been disrupted, 28 houses fully damaged while 12 houses have been partially damaged.Meanwhile moderate to heavy rain continued to lash parts of Himachal. Palampur was the wettest with 112 mm of rain followed by Dharamsala 40 mm, Paonta Sahib 36 mm, Jogindernagar 28 mm, Kasauli 19 mm, Kufri and Manali 7 mm each and Shimla 6 mm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/128-roads-blocked-met-alert-in-10-districts-of-himachal-283182
15-07-2021||The Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) on Wednesday declared the final result for the recruitment to the posts of Lecturer (School-New)||HPPSC declares result for lecturer posts||Symposium on history of IndiaThe Indian Institute of Advanced Study, in collaboration with Shawnee State University, Ohio, will organise a two-day International Virtual Symposium on the 'History of India: Theory, Methods, Practice' on July 15 and 16. In this symposium, the principles, methods and practical aspects of Indian history will be discussed. It will also highlight the shortcomings of pre-imperialist Indian history, which will focus on early, second millennium, art, anthropological and Indo-Islamic history. It is noteworthy that the foundation of Indian historiography was laid during the colonial period, which continued to dominate the history of India even after Independence. As India is going to celebrate the Independence Day, it is necessary to critically review the Indian history. For this purpose, this symposium is being organised by the Institute.Rename HPU after Virbhadra: NSUIThe Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) unit of the NSUI on Wednesday mourned the death of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh and observed a two-minute silence to pay homage to the departed soul. State organisational secretary of the NSUI, Manoj Chauhan said Virbhadra Singh ensured the development of the entire state and his contribution to education was unmatched. He demanded that the HPU should be renamed after Virbhadra Singh. Members of the NSUI, teachers and non-teaching staff paid floral tributes to the departed soul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hppsc-declares-result-for-lecturer-posts-283183
15-07-2021||Construction material is scattered on roads due to the ongoing works under the Smart City project. Roads are being widened and retaining walls are being built on several stretches on the Cart Road||Construction debris dumped on roads||Thoughtless drivers worsen traffic jamsThese days there is a traffic jam almost every day on the Dhalli-Kufri stretch. Some drivers wrongly overtake and drive past vehicles waiting patiently in the queue, which further worsens the traffic jam. Police personnel should slap heavy fines on such drivers. — Sohan Thakur, TheogIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/construction-debris-dumped-on-roads-283184
15-07-2021||UNA||Mother & child hospital to be completed by March: UNA DC||The Mother and Child hospital, being constructed adjacent to the Una District Hospital at Rs 30 crore is being targeted to be completed by March 31, 2022, said DC Raghav Sharma after reviewing the progress of works at the upcoming facility.The Mother and Child Hospital was sanctioned by the Union Government about five years ago in Una district. It will have dedicated gynecology and pediatric departments, including neo natal intensive care department. He directed PWD officials to complete the estimates and drawings of all pending works in a time-bound manner so that funds could be allocated for civil works.The DC directed the health authorities to spruce up the emergency care ward and put up six additional beds. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mother-child-hospital-to-be-completed-by-march-una-dc-283185
15-07-2021||Dharamsala||Kullu’s Pushpender scores 100%, tops Himachal board's Class XII exams||Pushpender, a science student of Ambition Classes Senior Secondary School, Kullu, topped the Class XII examinations, the results of which were declared by the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) here today. Pushpender is the only student to have scored 100 per cent marks, while 31 students have scored more than 99 per cent marks.Board Chairman SK Soni said that the pass percentage was 92.77. The complete merit list was not declared, as some students had moved the Himachal High Court saying that they want to take the examinations physically and till then the merit list should not be declared.Asked why some students were not declared pass, the Chairman said that the government had decided not to promote all Class XII students. So, the students, who did not get 33 per cent marks, had been declared as fail, he added.Soni said that due to Covid only the English paper could be held. All stakeholders were taken into confidence and an objective criteria was adopted to evaluate all Class XII students.There were 100,799 students enrolled in Class XII, including 76,996 in government schools and 14,352 enrolled in private schools. The pass percentage this year is much higher than the previous years when the examinations were held. In 2019, the pass percentage was 62.1 while in 2020, it was 76.07.Soni said that the students, who are not satisfied with the results, would be given an opportunity in August and September to improve their marks. The merit list would be prepared only after that, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullus-pushpender-scores-100-tops-himachal-boards-class-xii-exams-283186
15-07-2021||Solan||Nahan medical college gets recognition||Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, has been granted recognition by the National Medical Council for its MBBS degree awarded by Himachal Pradesh University to its 100 students admitted during year 2016-17.College principal Dr NK Mahindru said that it was the third government medical college in the state after the IGMC, Shimla, and the RPGMC, Tanda, which had been granted this recognition.The college administration worked hard to ensure the compliance of the National Medical Council’s norms to earn this recognition despite challenges faced due to the pandemic, added the principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nahan-medical-college-gets-recognition-283187
15-07-2021||Legal CorrespondentShimla||Himachal Pradesh High Court restrains councillor Sanjeev Sood from taking part in Shimla MC activities||The HP High Court has restrained nominated councillor Sanjeev Sood from participating in activities or the proceedings of the Shimla Municipal Corporation (MC) till further orders.A division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed this interim order yesterday on a petition filed by Rakesh Kumar. The petitioner alleged that the Director Urban Development had already held the nominated councillor as disqualified on the charge of violation of municipal laws, but he was still regularly attending the House or meetings of the MC.‘Already disqualified’The petitioner alleged that the Director Urban Development had already held the nominated councillor as disqualified on the charge of violation of municipal laws, but he was still regularly attending the House or meetings of the MC.The court issued a notice to the Secretary Urban Development and the Municipal Commissioner and sought their responses to the petition. During the course of hearing, the court also asked the counsel for the MC to produce the entire record detailing the number of meetings the nominated councillor attended after his disqualification since November last year.It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that the Director Urban Development had disqualified Sood on the complaint of the petitioner, who alleged that proceedings for unauthorised constructions were still continuing against him before the MC, therefore such a person could not be permitted to hold the office of a councillor.It was contended that acting on the complaint, the Director Urban Development, who was appointed as inquiry officer on November 3, 2020, held that Sood was disqualified to be nominated as a councillor in the Shimla MC and sent a copy of the order to the Secretary Urban Development for further action. It was alleged that still the Secretary Urban Development and the Municipal Commissioner were allowing Sood to continue as a nominated councillor.It was alleged that the actions of the Secretary Urban Development and the Municipal Commissioner were unlawful, and in violation of the MC Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-high-court-restrains-councillor-sanjeev-sood-from-taking-part-in-shimla-mc-activities-283188
15-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur briefs Guv on flash flood losses||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on Governor Rajendra Vishvanath Arlekar at Raj Bhawan here today and briefed him on recent flash floods in various parts of the state. He said that the district administration in coordination with the NDRF was working on a war-footing to provide relief and rehabilitate the affected families.He said that Rs 4 lakh each would be provided to the families of the deceased and a financial help would also be given to those whose houses had been damaged so that they could construct new houses. The Governor expressed condolences to the bereaved families.Meanwhile, DGP Sanjay Kundu along with senior police officers also called on the Governor. He apprised the Governor that the state police were the first to clear verification reports for the issuance of passports within 24 hours. He said that the women’s proportion in the state police was 12 to 13 per cent, the best in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-briefs-guv-on-flash-flood-losses-283189
15-07-2021||Shimla||SFI opposes  extension to Vice Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh University||The Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) campus unit of the Students Federation of India (SFI) has taken exception to the extension in service given to Vice-Chancellor Sikender Kumar, whose appointment has been challenged in the High Court. It has alleged that the VC was instrumental in “irregular” appointment of teachers in the university.Vivek Raj and Rocky, president and secretary of the HPU campus unit, alleged that the extension in service had been given to hide the alleged illegal appointment of teachers.Addressing mediapersons here today, the SFI leaders alleged that the university was not being opened so that the students do not agitate against illegal appointments. “We have filed a number of RTI applications but the answers of the university are evasive and there is no other way to get authentic information except launching an agitation,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-opposes-extension-to-vice-chancellor-of-himachal-pradesh-university-283190
15-07-2021||Dharamsala||Boh valley flash flood-hit not given quick relief: Cong leader Mukesh Agnihotri||A delegation of Congress leaders led by CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri today visited Boh valley and met the families affected by a massive landslide that killed seven people on July 12.Agnihotri, while talking to newsmen, said that the Chief Minister had announced Rs 4 lakh grant each for the kin of the deceased, but the people affected by flash floods had not got any immediate compensation.“About seven families have lost their members and houses due to a landslide in the Boh valley. We request the government to provide them immediate financial and other relief,” he said.“Six families have lost almost everything in the landslide in the Boh valley. The Congress will ask the government to construct new houses at its own cost and hand them over to the affected families,” Agnihotri said.The Congress delegation also visited Ray village where 18 houses had been damaged. The affected people told the delegation that no immediate relief had been given to them.The CLP leader said that though Union Home Minister Amit Shah had shown immediate concern over the tragedy, no early financial relief had come from the Union Government. He also attended the cremation of seven persons.MLAs Ashish Butail and Pawan Kajal, district party president Ajay Mahajan, former MP Chander Kumar and HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania accompanied Agnihotri.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader GS Bali visited those injured in the Boh Valley landslide and admitted to the Shahpur Civil Hospital. He announced an immediate financial grant of Rs 5,000 to all those injured and also assured to provide them free specialist medical care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/boh-valley-flash-flood-hit-not-given-quick-relief-cong-leader-mukesh-agnihotri-283191
15-07-2021||Shimla||93 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal||As many as 93 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 203,962. Besides, three persons died of the virus. Two deaths were recorded in Kangra and one in Mandi.There were 22 cases each in Mandi and Shimla, 18 in Chamba, 10 in Kangra, four each in Una, Bilaspur and Hamirpur, six in Kullu and three in Solan. The number of active cases declined to 1,191.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/93-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-283192
15-07-2021||NURPUR||Health Minister Rajiv Saizal reviews health services in Fatehpur||Health Minister Rajiv Saizal today visited the civil hospitals at Rehan and Fatehpur and reviewed the services being provided by the Health Department.He said the state government had upgraded these hospitals, which would have 50-bed indoor capacity. The government had initiated steps for the construction of indoor wards in these hospitals. He assured locals that vacant posts in these hospitals would be filled on priority.Saizal said that the government had endeavoured to fill the maximum vacant posts in the civil hospitals. He laid emphasis on strengthening the health infrastructure in the state. He also inspected the site of a primary health centre building at Raja ka Talab in Fatehpur. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had laid its foundation stone through video-conferencing on March 13.He said the tender process for the Rs 41 lakh building had been completed and construction would start shortly.He announced that all 157 Asha workers would be honoured for rendering laudable services during the pandemic in Fatehpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/health-minister-rajiv-saizal-reviews-health-services-in-fatehpur-283193
15-07-2021||Solan||Hybrid seeds damage 50 pc tomato crop in Solan, Sirmaur||The seed inspector has served a notice on Truegenic Seeds LLP, hybrid tomato seed supplier, which reportedly damaged nearly 50 per cent of their crop with misshapen and lopsided fruit.The damaged crop failed to fetch the remunerative price in the market to farmers of Seonthal, Badlyana, Chilla, Waknaghat, Shargaon, Kuthad, Dharampur, Matiana, Nainatikker and Jaunaji villages in Solan and Sirmaur districts. Being the main cash crop, the farmers have incurred huge losses from the rockstar hybrid seed and they are demanding a compensation.Rockstar seed to blameDeputy Director, Agriculture, Solan, Rajesh Kaushik, confirmed that the inspector had issued a notice to the company, which supplied the tomato seeds to farmers. It had been issued under clause of the Seeds (Control) Order to disclose the source of the seeds, name of the breeder and varietal characters of the seeds to assess the cause of the poor fruit.“A company representative has intimated that 58 farmers have been compensated with the seeds of pole bean, which is another type of tomato, as well as other seeds. Scientists have been requested to provide more details regarding this crop,” said Kaushik.The action follows a field investigation undertaken by the scientists of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, on July 7 on the request of the Agriculture Department.A committee comprising principal scientists from soil science and vegetable science departments of the university had visited villages like Chilla, Badhliana,Gamberpul, etc, and concluded that the farmers had faced 50 per cent damage to their crop.The farmers apprised the team about the poor crop. Kamal Kumar, who had grown 20,000 plants in Chilla village, said the problem of misshapen fruits occurred only with rockstar seeds.The scientists identified the problem as catface which was found in all fields surveyed by them where hybrid rockstar had been grown. No insect, pest or disease was found in the tomato plants, which were found healthy. The committee suggested that the company should supply its evaluation trial data to ascertain if the seeds were previously tested in similar agro-climatic conditions of Solan district.The scientists also directed officials of the Agriculture Department to inquire into the origin and mass multiplication of the seeds at the company level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hybrid-seeds-damage-50-pc-tomato-crop-in-solan-sirmaur-283194
15-07-2021||Shimla||27 DSPs  transferred in Himachal||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/27-dsps-transferred-in-himachal-283195
15-07-2021||Mandi||Gramphu-Kaza road blocked, restored||The Gramphu-Kaza road was blocked due to a massive landslide at the Dorni Nullah in Lahaul Spiti last evening. The traffic had come to a standstill and travellers were stranded for hours. The highway was restored to traffic today.This highway provides access to the Spiti valley from Lahaul and Manali. SP Manav Verma said due to a sudden rise in the water level in the nullah, a portion of the road was washed away.“The BRO engaged its workforce and machinery and finally restored the highway,” he added.The district administration has issued an advisory to people to avoid travelling on the road for two days because the condition of the road is poor at many places due to heavy rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gramphu-kaza-road-blocked-restored-283196
15-07-2021||Our CorrespondentKullu||40 deodar slippers seized near Chharodnala on Manikaran-Bhuntar road||As many as 40 slippers of deodar were recovered from a pickup vehicle (HP-66-4649) near Chharodnala on the Manikaran-Bhuntar road of this district late yesterday night.A forest team had set up a naka at Chila Mour. A jeep came from Jari was heading towards Bhuntar around 2 am. The team signalled the driver to stop but he fled from the spot.He was chased and caught. Slippers were found in the jeep and three persons were on board.The police were informed and the vehicle was impounded. A case has been registered and further investigations were underway.Aishwarya Raj, Deputy Conservator, Parbati division, said the forest department had increased patrolling and nakas were being put at various locations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/40-deodar-slippers-seized-near-chharodnala-on-manikaran-bhuntar-road-283197
15-07-2021||Mandi||Intelligent traffic management system for Lahaul||An intelligent traffic management system has been introduced in the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti.CCTV cameras have been installed at key locations on the roadside to keep tabs on the movement of vehicles.SP Manav Verma says that the system would capture the details of all vehicles passing through the district and detect traffic rule violations.He adds that the data collected will also help in effective traffic management along with crime detection and investigation. Lahaul and Spiti is the first tribal district in the state to have such a system.The Himachal Police are planning to set up such systems across the state for effective traffic management.Since the opening of the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, Lahaul and Spiti is witnessing a huge tourist influx. As a result, the police have been struggling to regulate traffic.The district police are hopeful that the system will play a crucial role in monitoring traffic effectively during the peak tourist season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/intelligent-traffic-management-system-for-lahaul-283198
15-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||3 more bodies recovered from debris in Kangra's Boh valley; toll rises to 8||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 14Three more bodies were recovered on Wednesday from debris of massive landslide that hit Boh valley’s Rulehar village in Kangra district. With this toll due to landslide has risen to eight.Two more are still missing and are presumed to be dead.Till the filing of this report the efforts to retrieve the bodies of missing persons were continuing.Those whose bodies were retrieved today include Bhim Sen, Kanchana Devi and a one-and-a-half-year-old girl child. The entire family of Bhim Sen, including his wife, two daughters and a son, was wiped out in the landslide.The deputy commissioner, Kangra, Nipun Jindal said search and rescue operations in Boh valley were still continuing and shall continue till all bodies were recovered. One body was recovered on the first day when landslide occurred, four bodies recovered yesterday and three bodies have been recovered today, he said.He said the district administration conducted the post mortem of the deceased on the spot and also made arrangements for cremation. Those injured were being provided free medical aid. One of the injured was undergoing treatment in PGI, Chandigarh, he said.He further said a 55-year-old male from Samirpur village near Kangra had been washed away in flash flood on July 12. He was still missing and efforts are being made to locate him.All tourists trapped in Kareri area have been rescued. Punjabi Sufi singer Manmeet Singh, a resident of Amritsar, had died after falling into a gorge on July 12. His body was recovered yesterday, he said.Sources here said there was tension among the slum dwellers and locals who have been housed in Bagli government school after flash flood in Manjhi river on July 12. Sources added that locals were objecting to staying with slum dwellers under one roof in government school. The district administration had offered to house locals at an alternative location. Four houses were destroyed in flash flood in Bagli village on July 12. Many slum dwellers and those who lost their houses have been given shelter in government school at Bagli by the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-more-bodies-recovered-from-debris-in-kangras-boh-valley-toll-rises-to-8-283063
15-07-2021||Dharamsala||With 100 per cent marks, Kullu's Pushpender tops Himachal Board Class 12 exams||Science stream student Pushpender of senior secondary school, Kullu, has toped the 12th examination which the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) declared on Wednesday.He is the only candidate to score 100 per cent marks. Besides him, about 31 candidates scored more than 99 per cent marks.SK Soni, the Board Chairman, said that the pass percentage of the results declared on Wednesday remained at 92.77 per cent. The complete merit list has not been declared as a few students had moved the Himachal High Court contesting that "they would like to appear for the examination physically, and till the merit list should not be declared".When questioned about how the students were failed, the Chairman said that the state government had decided to promote all students of 10+2 examinations. So, in case, the students who did not score 33 per cent, as per the laid down criteria, have been declared failed, the Chairman answered.The Chairman added that due to the coronavirus pandemic, only the English examination could be held, and due to the second wave, other examinations could not be held.Because of this, taking all stakeholders into confidence, objective criteria were adopted to evaluate students enrolled under 10+2 class.The total number of students that were enrolled in the 10+2 program were 1000799—these included 76996 enrolled in government schools and 143352 enrolled in private schools.The passing percentage was much higher than the previous academic years. In 2019, the pass percentage was 62.1% while in 2020, it was 76.07 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/with-100-per-cent-marks-kullus-pushpender-tops-himachal-board-class-12-exams-283058
