16-07-2021||Solan||Police undertake intensive checking at Himachal borders to search tourist vehicles for weapons||In a bid to avert incidents of tourists attacking locals with weapons, the police on Friday initiated extensive checking of tourist vehicles in the bordering Parwanoo and Paonta Sahib sub-divisions of Solan and Sirmaur districts.The action follows directions by the Director General of Police to check anti-social elements entering the state after unsavoury incidents have been reported in Mandi and Kullu districts where the locals have been attacked with swords.While the tourists had brandished swords to intimidate the locals at Manali, finger of a local resident had been chopped off with a sword and another had been injured following an altercation with tourists in Mandi district earlier this month.  The two incidents have evoked sharp criticism from the locals as Himachal is a peaceful state and such incidents disturb its peaceful environs.Large number of tourists from Punjab and Haryana daily throng Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district to pay obeisance at the local gurdwara and they also head for tourist destinations like Dehradun in Uttarakhand.“Police teams have been specially deputed to check tourist vehicles at various borders like Yamuna Pul, Haripur Khol, Minas, Khodri Majri, etc., in the sub-division for weapons and intoxicants. The move is aimed at curbing hooliganism by the tourists at the borders itself before they can enter the state. Since such cases have been reported from various places in the state, the police were ensuring that no such law and order problem was created in the area,” informed DSP Paonta Sahib Bir Bahadur.He added that it was also being ensured that Covid appropriate behaviour is enforced on the tourists as Covid cases are once again rising.The campaign will continue for days to come as an increasing surge of tourists was being witnessed in this sub-division.  Policemen were also deputed in strength at Parwanoo barrier as well as at major tourist destinations like Kasauli, Barog and Chail in Solan district to check tourist vehicles.Being the gateway to the state, thousands of vehicles daily enter the state from Parwanoo and head for various tourist destinations in Shimla, Solan and Kinnaur districts.DSP Parwanoo Yogesh Rolta said, “Police teams are checking tourist vehicles at Parwanoo barrier, Dharampur, Kasauli, etc., to ensure no cudgels, swords or other weapons which can disturb the peaceful environs of the hill state are carried by the tourists.”Additional force from the battalions has already been stationed in the key hill stations like Kasauli in view of the surge in the number of tourists visiting these places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-undertake-intensive-checking-at-himachal-borders-to-search-tourist-vehicles-for-weapons-284168
16-07-2021||The SFI||Cancel admissions on 8 PhD seats: SFI||AICTE approves UIT UG courseThe All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has given its approval for undergraduate BTech courses being run by the University Institute of Technology (UIT) for academic session 2021-22. The UIT is currently running BTech courses such as information technology, computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, civil engineering and electronics and communication engineering. This is for the first time that the AICTE has approved the courses without any condition in advance before the start of the academic session. Vice Chancellor Sikander Kumar lauded the efforts of the Director (UIT), faculty and staff members on this achievement.Written exam on July 25A written exam for those candidates, who successfully passed the physical exam for the Army’s general and clerical duty, will be held on July 25 at Girls Senior Secondary School, Portmore, Shimla. The physical test for these posts was held in Una from March 28 to April 3. An Army spokesperson said admit cards had been released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cancel-admissions-on-8-phd-seats-sfi-284062
16-07-2021||During the monsoons||Night driving a risky affair||Overflowing dustbin an eyesoreThe dustbin at Mehli, a few kilometres from Kasumpti, remains packed with litter all the time. The dustbin has been installed along the busy road. The civic body authorities should ensure that it is emptied regularly. — Jatin Sood, New ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/night-driving-a-risky-affair-284063
16-07-2021||---||To help needy pupils, Himachal Pradesh launches phone donation campaign||Shimla, July 15With online learning the new normal now, Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur today launched a phone donation campaign, ‘Digital Saathi — Baccho ka Sahara, Phone Humara” to help needy children who cannot afford smartphones.The procedure* To contribute to a child’s online learning, one can visit the ‘Digital Saathi’ portal at www.hpdigitalsaathi.in or call on 1800-180-8190* The districts with the highest number of donations will receive ‘’Digital Saathi Award’ for contribution to online learning“I urge the public to come forward and donate for the cause. I will also donate 100 smartphones to help needy students. It is the country’s first state-led initiative for students,” said the minister.As per information, at least 10 per cent students of government schools do not have smartphones to attend online classes.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also encouraged people to come forward and donate smartphones. Bollywood actor Yami Gautam, who is the face of the ‘Digital Saathi’ campaign, also joined the event virtually.The state government has been running the ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’ programme to ensure online learning of students since April 2020, and has reached almost 80 per cent of students through great efforts. However, students from Chamba, Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur are still facing difficulty in accessing online content as part of the programme.Project director, Samagra Shiksha, Virender Sharma said,”We will ensure that no student is bereft of online studies in the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-help-needy-pupils-himachal-pradesh-launches-phone-donation-campaign-283809
16-07-2021||---||Demolition on for widening Parwanoo-Solan NH||Solan, July 15 To facilitate speedier completion of the four-laning work of the Parwanoo-Solan NH, the district administration has initiated the demolition of 75 structures, which had been acquired but could not be demolished earlier.  Since the owners had not vacated buildings despite receiving the compensation, they could not be dismantled. Several building owners were also earning rent on these buildings and their possession had not been granted to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The district administration, however, initiated their dismantling last month after receipt of high court orders. Work to dismantle them at Parwanoo, Chambaghat, Datyar, Koti, Gahi, Mangoti, Sanwara, Mando Matkanda, Dharampur Bathol, Dhar-ki-Bher, Sihari Chamara, Kheel Jashli, Himmatpur Dabli, Badhaoni, Khali, Bara, Barog, Anji, Rabaun, Saproon, Kathed and Basal Patti villages was now in an advanced stage, informed an official of the NHAI. Some owners had also undertaken voluntary demolition following court directions.  A majority of the buildings had been completely or partially dismantled and the work would be completed soon.  SDM Solan Ajay Yadav had earlier directed the officials of the Jal Shakti Vibhag and HP State Electricity Board Limited to disconnect their power and water connections in a bid to get them vacated.  Rakesh Thakur, Superintending Engineer, HP State Electricity Board informed that barring one building which had a court stay, power connections of all buildings have been snapped and an action taken report had also been submitted to the SDM, Solan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/demolition-on-for-widening-parwanoo-solan-nh-283810
16-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Supply disrupted, Dharamsala areas face acute water shortage||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 15Many areas of Dharamsala are facing a water crisis since July 12 after 23 of 38 water supply schemes were damaged in the recent flash flood in the Manjhi river.The residents of Ram Nagar in Dharamsala allege that they have not got water supply for the past four days. Inder Mohan, a nonagenarian, says that Ram Nagar residents have to stand in queues for hours to draw drinking water from hand pumps. "I have not taken a bath for the past four days. The local administration is not paying any attention to the problems of people," he adds.The residents say that if the supply schemes were damaged, the authorities should have provided them water through tankers. However, no such arrangements have been made. Sarvan Thakur, Executive Engineer, IPH, Dharamsala, says, "Water supply to Ram Nagar and Sham Nagar areas has been disrupted as the supply scheme was washed away in the flash flood. Water is being diverted from other schemes of Dharamsala to Ram Nagar and Sham Nagar. The daily water requirement of Ram Nagar and Sham Nagar is about 12 lakh litres. Hopefully, we shall be able to provide about 7 lakh to 8 lakh litres of water to these areas by tomorrow". Thakur says that other areas of Dharamsala will also face water shortage, as 23 of 38 schemes were damaged in the flash flood. He adds that the daily requirement of water in Dharamsala city is about 68 lakh litres. "However, for the time being, we are able to supply just 30 lakh liters of water," he says.He says that people have been deputed to repair the damaged pipelines, but it will take about a week to restore regular water supply in the city. The total damage to the water supply schemes and sewerage in Dharamsala due to the flash flood has been pegged at about Rs 8 crore.Dharamsala city is dependent on natural streams for water supply. The supply pipelines of the IPH Department were damaged in the flash flood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/supply-disrupted-dharamsala-areas-face-acute-water-shortage-283811
16-07-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur opens health centre in Mandi||Mandi, July 15Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur dedicated development projects worth Rs 2.28 crore at Balichowki in the Seraj Assembly segment in Mandi district today.The Chief Minister inaugurated the building of a primary health centre constructed at a cost of Rs 1.18 crore and an office building of the Treasury and the Assistant Engineer, PWD, at a cost of Rs 1.10 crore in Balichowki.Thakur said his government had initiated various welfare schemes and special emphasis was being given to the development of infrastructure in the state. The Thalot-Panjai road was being upgraded at a cost of Rs 25.82 crore, whereas a mini-secretariat was being constructed at Balichowki. He said that the construction work of a community health centre building and a sericulture building at Balichowki was going on.Thakur said that Rs 14 crore had been sanctioned for the construction of a bridge over the Beas at Thalot. He inspected the bridge being constructed over Tirthan Khud at Balichowki and directed officers to ensure its timely completion. This bridge would benefit the people of Balichowki in Mandi and Banjar in Kullu district.MLA Surender Shorie, Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary, SP Shalini Agnihotri, and officers of Panchayat Raj Institutions were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-opens-health-centre-in-mandi-283812
16-07-2021||Shimla||Urns containing Virbhadra’s ashes handed over to BCC chiefs||Congress president Kuldeep Rathore today handed over urns containing the ashes of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh to 72 Block Congress Committee (BCC) presidents for immersion in the rivers in the state. Rathore brought the urns from Rampur where Virbhadra was cremated with the state honours on July 10. The ashes will be immersed in various rivers such as the Sutlej, Beas, Ravi and the Chanderbhaga and their tributaries by the block Congress units on July 17.  Tomorrow, Vikramaditya Singh will carry his father’s ashes to Haridwar for immersion in the Ganga the next day. The ashes will be immersed in the Sutlej at Nogli on July 17.  Meanwhile, a prayer meeting was held at Rajiv Bhawan here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/urns-containing-virbhadras-ashes-handed-over-to-bcc-chiefs-283813
16-07-2021||Legal Correspondent||Consider proposals of Himachal Pradesh district Covid panels: HC||Shimla, July 15The HP High Court has asked the state government to consider the suggestions given by the district monitoring committees constituted by it to monitor the preparedness to deal with Covid-related issues.During the course of hearing, all Deputy Commissioners and other members of the committees were present through video-conferencing. They informed the court about the steps taken by the district administrations to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Besides, the Deputy Commissioners informed the court about the steps taken for Covid preparedness.The committees have submitted their reports. They have also placed on record the enhanced bed capacity, enhanced medical facilities that have been provided and in some cases the proposals made to the government for additional facilities to meet Covid-related problems.After having a detailed interaction with the committee members, a division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua directed the government to consider the suggestions given by the committees and listed the matter for further hearing next week.Advocate General Ashok Sharma and Senior Additional Advocate General Ajay Vaidya stated that they would look into all reports and suggestions.The court observed, “We have considered the reports of all committees. Substantial efforts have been made by the state. Some more are required to be done”.The court passed the orders on a petition taken up suo moto as a PIL and another writ petition highlighting inadequate facilities in the state for the treatment of Covid patients.In its earlier order, the court had constituted three-member district monitoring committees under the chairmanship of the Deputy Commissioners concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/consider-proposals-of-himachal-pradesh-district-covid-panels-hc-283814
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Four tourists brandish swords in Manali, held||Kullu, July 15Hooliganism by tourists again came to light in Manali last night. According to information, four tourists from Punjab stopped their vehicle in the middle of the road, causing a traffic jam. When some locals tried to convince them, they took out swords from the vehicle and brandished these to threaten people. A video of the incident had gone viral on social media in which two youths are seen waving swords at people.DGP: Keep a check on anti-social elementsKullu SP Gurdev Chand said Harish Kumar of Mandi got a case registered stating that he was coming from the bus stand to Rangri when a rashly-driven vehicle (PB-11CF-0123) overtook several vehicles in a queue and halted in the middle of the road, near the BBMB rest house, leading to a traffic jam.The people told the tourists to reverse their vehicle but four youths came out and started quarrelling. The complainant stated that they took out swords and started waving them. The complainant alleged that he was injured in the incident.The SP said that Ravinder (21), Dalbir Singh (28), Amandeep Singh (24) and Jasraj (23), all from Sangrur district in Punjab, were arrested for rioting and under the Arms Act. They were allegedly under the influence of alcohol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-tourists-brandish-swords-in-manali-held-283815
16-07-2021||Ravinder Sood||Supply of grains to Bara Bhangal stuck||PALAMPUR, July 15The consignment of foodgrains (buffer stock for winters) dispatched to Bara Bhangal from Baijnath by the district administration has been stuck at Bara Gram because of extensive damage caused to the mule path following heavy rain Monday and Tuesday. Mule path is the only link to the landlocked valley.Bara Bhangal, situated at a height of 14,000 feet, has been cut off after the collapse of bridges on way to the valley. Reports reaching here said now the mule path had also been washed away at many points because of heavy rain and flash floods.To reach Bara Bhangal, one has to cross Thamsar Pass, a peak at a height of 17,000 feet. This peak closes after snowfall in mid-September. Therefore, before this, the supply of foodgrains had to be delivered to the valley.The foodgrains to the valley are sent through 60-km mule path every year between June 15 and August 31. This year only 30 per cent grains has reached the valley.The foodgrains dispatched from Baijnath last month were lying at Bara Gram and other villages as mules could not move further because of heavy landslides and soil erosion between Khanatriu and Plachhak.Mansa Ram, panchayat pardhan, Bara Bhangal, said he had requested the DC Kangra to ensure restoration of the mule path and reconstruction of bridges. He said if timely action was not taken, over 600 persons living in Bara Bhangal would face ration shortage.However, SDM, Baijnath, said he was aware of the situation and had initiated steps to restore the mule path and bridges at earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/supply-of-grains-to-bara-bhangal-stuck-283817
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent  
||Kutlehar in Una to be paragliding spot||UNA, JULY 15 A team of experts from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (ABVIMAS), Manali, today conducted trials of paragliding from the peak of the Solasinghi Dhar in Kutlehar and gave its consent to notify Garvhasada as the take-off spot for paragliders.  The team included ABVIMAS Additional Director Surinder Thakur, Senior Paragliding Instructor Anuja Avasthi, Tourism Development Officer Ravi Dhiman and some other technical experts. Two paragliders took off from a peak in Garvhasada village around 7 am and landed at Andrauli village near the banks of the Gobind Sagar reservoir. The flights lasted about 30 minutes each.       Later, Surinder Thakur termed the trials successful and said the take-off and landing sites would be notified shortly. He said after Bir-Billing, Garvhasada would be the second spot for paragliding in Himachal, adding that paragliders could get a bird’s eyeview of mountains, valleys and the Gobind Sagar lake.  DC Raghav Sharma said professional and adventure paragliding would now be possible in Una district. The take-off and landing sites would be developed. It would give a boost to tourism and adventure sports in the district since it was close to Punjab and Haryana.  Raghav Sharma said there were also plans to start water sports activities in the Gobind Sagar lake at Andrauli for which a society had been formed and boats were being procured. He said the approval for launching houseboats had been received from the Bharka Beas Management Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kutlehar-in-una-to-be-paragliding-spot-283818
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent||A first, monk fruit cultivation begins in Kullu||Palampur , July 15The cultivation of monk fruit (Siraitia grosvenorii) from China has been taken up for the first time in India by the Palampur-based CSIR-IHBT.The monk fruit is known for its properties as non-caloric natural sweetener. Its sweet taste is attributed to cucurbitane-type triterpene glycosides known as mogrosides, which is about 300 times sweeter than sucrose or cane sugar.In spite of its high demand, this crop is only cultivated in China. However, suitable agro climatic conditions are also available in India, particularly in Himachal. Keeping in mind the importance and essentiality of non-nutritive natural sweetener and diverse agro-climatic conditions in India, Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, brought monk fruit seeds for the first time in the country from China through ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi, in March 2018.Dr Probir Kumar Pal, Principal Scientist, along with other team members, developed a technology for the generation of quality planting material, its basic agronomic cultivation practices, fruiting technique and post-harvest management. At present, monk fruit is successfully being cultivated at the CSIR-IHBT with good quality fruits under farm conditions. The plant prefers mountainous area with an annual mean temperature of about 16–20°C and humid conditions, hence, Himachal is a suitable place for its large-scale cultivation.Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIR-IHBT, initiated the monk fruit cultivation programme by planting its seedlings in the field of progressive farmer Manav Khullar at Raisonin Kullu yesterday. Nishant Thakur, member secretary, HIMCOSTE, was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-first-monk-fruit-cultivation-begins-in-kullu-283819
16-07-2021||Chamba||Loss-making PDS shops not to be shut||The HP State Civil Supplies Corporation’s loss-making fair price shops will not be closed and the supply of essential items to consumers will continue.  Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Rajendra Garg said on Wednesday that the depots  would not be closed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/loss-making-pds-shops-not-to-be-shut-283820
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Deities resent govt interference in ‘jagati’||Kullu, July 15Deities have expressed concern over the increasing government interference in the rituals during ‘Dev Sansad (Jagati)’ organised at Naggar village of this district on Wednesday.Symbols and oracles of 113 deities participated in ‘jagati’, which lasted for four hours on the Jagati Patt premises.The deities pronounced the verdict through their ‘gurs’ (oracles) to hold a ‘kahika’ (expiation ceremony) during Dasehra to placate the irate deities, who were not allowed to attend the festivities last year amid the Covid restrictions. The deities expressed displeasure on the restrictions on rituals and age- old practices.Members of the Dev Samaj said while massive gatherings were witnessed in political functions, the temples were closed for the devotees.The deities are angry as there have been “major lapses on the part of the government” recently.During ‘jagati’, it was decided that ‘kahika’ should be organised during Dasehra starting from October 15 to seek apologies from the deities along with the prevention of diseases.During the two-day event, various rituals will be performed to appease the irate deities. A cleansing ceremony known as ‘chhidra’ will also be held. The deities said all gods and goddesses should be invited to Dasehra. ‘Chharibardar’ (chief caretaker) of Lord Raghunath Maheshwar Singh and his son Kardar Danvender Singh were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deities-resent-govt-interference-in-jagati-283821
16-07-2021||NURPUR||Indora: Villagers duped, given fake health insurance cards||As many as 30 residents of Toki gram panchayat at Indora in Kangra have allegedly been cheated by a person from Punjab.The fraudster collected Rs 1,100 from each villager and gave fake Ayushman Bharat health insurance cards to them. A case under Section 420 of the IPC was registered at Damtal today against Amit Kumar of Nangal Bhoor (Pathankot).The accused spread an information with the help of a chowkidar that Ayushman Bharat cards were being prepared in the panchayat ghar. He allegedly collected Rs 1,100 from every villager in April and filled their forms. The villagers called him several times to deliver their cards but to no avail.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/indora-villagers-duped-given-fake-health-insurance-cards-283822
16-07-2021||Chamba||Prepare DPR of shilpgram  site||Ram Subhag Singh, Additional Chief Secretary for Industries, Labour and Employment,  directed officials to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) of the identified land for shilpgram and training centre in the district within a month for which all help would be extended by the Government of India to handloom and handicraft items. He said at a meeting of officers here that members of the Chamba Arts and Crafts Promotion Society would form a trust to ensure the operation of shilpgram centre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prepare-dpr-of-shilpgram-site-283823
16-07-2021||---||GVK-EMRI employees honoured||Mandi, July 15 The GVK-EMRI ambulance staff have been facilitated for providing ''commendable services'' during the difficult times of Covid-19 in Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti districts.In Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, yesterday gave away certificates to the GVK EMRI employees deployed on 108 ambulance service and 102 Janani Express Ambulance Service in the district. He honoured pilot Manoj Kumar, emergency medical technician Savita and Captain Kesang.In Kullu district, Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg honoured pilot Naresh Kumar, emergency medical technician Sunita Kumari and captain Ravinder.In Mandi district, Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhari honoured pilot Tilak, emergency medical technician Hemant and captain Bhup Singh. Neeraj Kumar said that till now the ambulance services had handled 42,071 Covid-19 cases in the state, including 391 in Lahaul and Spiti. “A total of 222,759 samples have been collected in the state, including 4,263 in Lahaul and Spiti district,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gvk-emri-employees-honoured-283825
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent||NPS assn to approach Kangra MLAs||Nurpur, July 15 The Kangra District New Pension Scheme (NPS) Employees Association has launched a drive to approach all 14 MLAs in the district, seeking their support for the implementation of the Centre’s notification issued in 2009. Rajinder Minhas, president of the district unit, said here yesterday that the notification had provided the benefit of pension to an NPS employee on his disability and if an eligible employee dies during service, his family is entitled to pension.   Minhas said that the MLAs would also be given memorandums to urge them to ensure the approval of the notification in the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha starting on August 2. He added that so far, eight states had approved the scheme. “During the pandemic, a number of NPS employees have lost their lives. Had the state government implemented the scheme, the future of their families would have been secured,” he said.   The district unit of the association had launched the drive following the decision taken by the state association at its meeting under the chairmanship of Pradeep Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nps-assn-to-approach-kangra-mlas-283827
16-07-2021||---||Digital system Him SABE to monitor apple transport||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 15Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today launched a digital initiative, Him SABE (Surveillance of Apple Belt Economy), at Fagu, about 20 km from Shimla, to ensure real-time monitoring of apple boxes and vehicular movement.He said, "The initiative is an attempt to go paperless. There are many interstate and intra-state barriers due to which there are always chances of mistakes or discrepancies while making entries on registers. However, the new system is error-proof, time efficient and transparent"."While making data entry, the registration number of the vehicle will be scanned. This will help in curbing frauds. The online system will do away with the issues of delay in collating data from different barriers such as Balag and Fagu. There have been reports of discrepancies in different departments, including the APMC, and the Horticulture Department," he said.The minister said that the new system would be convenient to people and result in smooth vehicular movement. He praised the Shimla district administration as well as the SDM, Theog, for the initiative. Last month, Bhardwaj, at a meeting to review preparedness for the apple season, had asked officials to use technology for making the system more efficient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/digital-system-him-sabe-to-monitor-apple-transport-283830
16-07-2021||Legal Correspondent||Notice to Himachal Pradesh on poor road condition||Shimla, July 15The HP High Court today issued notices to the Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary (PWD) and Deputy Commissioner, Shimla on a petition highlighting poor condition of Ganasidhar-Sungri road, in Rohru, Shimla district.A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed this order on a petition filed by one Arpit Sharma of Bhamnoli village, Rohru tehsil alleging that the state government was not maintaining this road.The court further directed the state authorities to file their reply within a period of four weeks and posted the matter after four weeks.Expressing concern on the issue, the court treated this as Public Interest Litigation. The petitioner has alleged that most of the people in his area are involved in horticulture activities and the Ganasidhar- Sungri road is the lifeline of the horticulturists as this is the only road which connects their area to the nearby market to sell their produce.It has been alleged in the petition that the condition of this road, upon which the livelihood, agricultural and tourism activities of the people is dependent, is very pathetic for many years. The nearby panchayats from time to time have demanded its maintenance but no heed has been paid to their requests.The petitioner has prayed that the authorities concerned may be directed to properly repair and maintain the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/notice-to-himachal-pradesh-on-poor-road-condition-283831
16-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Was swept off verandah: Dharamsala landslide survivor||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 15Survivors of the Boh valley landslide in Dharamsala have detailed the horror of the moment it struck on July 12, leaving nine persons dead and one missing.Vijay Kumar (40) was taken out alive from beneath his crumbled house, four hours after the mudslide tore through its walls. “It was terrifying. People were screaming,” said Vijay, employed with a private power project. He said as it was raining heavily since early morning, he was trying to clear an overflowing drain outside his house at about 11 am.“A ‘nullah’ adjacent to our house got choked and water started flowing down the mountainside. Small stones and muck started sliding down initially. Before I could react, a major landslide brought down whatever came its way,” he said. Admitted to the Civil Hospital in Shahpur with fractured legs, Vijay said he tried to rush inside his house to alert his family, but was swept off his verandah. “There was a deafening noise and all went dark. When I regained consciousness, I found myself stuck neck-deep in muck. I couldn’t even move my hands, but could breathe. There was about 1.5-ft distance between my head and the concrete roof that had collapsed,” said a visibly shaken Vijay.Vijay said what gave him courage was that he could hear his wife Kanchana and elder daughter Vanshika screaming for help from inside the house. The couple’s 18-month-old younger daughter Shabnam, however, was buried alive.“Vanshika had access to a mobile phone and she called up her teacher. Our neighbours soon launched a rescue operation and tore through the roof of our house, pulling us out alive,” he said.His wife, who too is admitted to the hospital, said they had never expected that a hillside could slide down like this. “We couldn’t save Shabnam. The grief is unbearable,” said Kanchana, sobbing incessantly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/was-swept-off-verandah-dharamsala-landslide-survivor-283901
16-07-2021||New Delhi||Enhanced rainfall activity over Punjab, Haryana from July 17: IMD||The IMD on Thursday predicted enhanced rainfall activity over the plains of Northwest, including Punjab and Haryana, between July 17 and 19, with peak activity on July 18. The weather office also said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is “very likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 17 and 18”.According to the IMD, apart from Haryana which is seeing “isolated heavy rainfall” today, the plains of Northwest India can expect isolated to scattered rainfall till July 16.However, “there is a likelihood of enhanced rainfall activity over these areas from July 17 with widespread rains likely over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh, and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19 with peak activity on July 18.“Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over north Rajasthan, Haryana, northwest Madhya Pradesh and west Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19. Isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over Punjab, Delhi, and east Uttar Pradesh during the same period,” it said.The axis of the monsoon trough is passing through the south of normal position along Amreli, Surat, Buldana, Adilabad, Jagdalpur, Vishakhapatnam, and then east­southeastwards to the east-central Bay of Bengal, the IMD said.As per Numerical Weather Prediction Models forecasts, the trough is likely to shift northwards along with a weakening of the east-west convergence zone from July 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/enhanced-rainfall-activity-over-punjab-haryana-from-july-17-imd-283634
16-07-2021||Dipender Manta||Video: Punjab tourists brandish swords during road rage in Manali, 4 arrested||Tribune News ServiceMandi, July 15Four tourists were arrested on Thursday from near Manali in Kullu district for allegedly assaulting some people.According to the police, the accused travelling in a car bearing a Punjab number (PB 11CF 0123) were on their way from Manali bus stand to Rangri area.Also read: Manali road blocked, tourists strandedHeaps of garbage greet tourists visiting ManaliVideos: Avoid travel to Dharamshala, Manali: Administration, tour operators advise touristsThe police said the accused overtook another vehicle near the BBMB rest house and parked their car on the middle of the road, causing a long traffic jam.Manali Viral Video: One More Video Surfaces, See how a man carrying sword running around the People.#HimachalPradesh pic.twitter.com/kz5cYYRXvv  When the car driver was asked to remove the vehicle, the four accused stepped out of the vehicle and allegedly attacked the people on the spot with a sword, injuring one person.Kulu SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said the accused, Ravinder, Dalbir Singh, Amandeep Singh and Jasraj, all natives of Sangrur in Punjab, have been arrested under Section 147, 148, 149, 323 and 506 of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act. He said an investigation was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/video-punjab-tourists-brandish-swords-during-road-rage-in-manali-4-arrested-283622
