18-07-2021||Dharamsala||Dalai Lama writes to German Chancellor, Belgian PM over floods||Moved by the news of flooding in Europe, Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has written to German Chancellor Angela Merkel, and Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo to express his concern."I am saddened to see reports of the unprecedented flooding that has wreaked havoc across Western Europe, particularly affecting Belgium and Germany," he wrote."The loss of life, damage to property, and hardship that thousands of people are facing is most upsetting."I understand that every effort is being made to help those affected. I would like to express my condolences to the bereaved and my deep sympathy for those left devastated by this catastrophe. My thoughts are with everyone affected by this calamity." The death toll from devastating floods has risen to 156 in Germany, police said on Sunday, taking the toll to at least 183 from the calamity in Western Europe. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-writes-to-german-chancellor-belgian-pm-over-floods-285001
18-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Stone crusher owners on  strike, projects in limbo||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 17The stone crusher owners’ strike has hit private and government development projects. Contractors executing the projects allege that they are not getting building material easily or if they do, it is at high prices.Saurav Sharma, who is constructing a house in Una, says that he is unable to arrange sand and gravel. The sand and gravel imported from Punjab is costing 1.5 times more than the material that was available locally. A tipperload of sand that was costing Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 in Una is now costing about Rs 13,000 to Rs 14,000, he adds.Dimple Thakur, president of the Una Stone Crusher Owners Association, says that they went on strike on July 1 in support of their long-pending demand for permission for mechanical mining with 80 Bhp machines. The rule that allows mining with shovels is being used to harass people engaged in the legal business of stone crushing and mining, he alleges.Thakur says that while the stone crusher owners of the state are not being allowed to operate, trucks overloaded with mined material are coming to the state from Punjab. “Yesterday, we impounded trucks loaded with mined material coming from Punjab and handed these over to the police. The trucks bringing in material from Punjab did not have papers such as M Form and GST bills. The state is losing revenue in the form of the GST and royalty on the mined material,” he adds.Deputy Commissioner, Una, Raghav Sharma admits that some government construction projects have been hit due to the non-availability of building material. About the allegations that trucks carrying illegal mined material are entering the state, he says that the police are taking action against trucks coming from other state.Director Industries Rakesh Prajapati says that the government will not give in to the pressure tactics of the stone crusher owners. “It has been decided at a high-level meeting headed by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur that strictest possible action will be taken against those involved in illegal mining,” he adds.He says that the demand of the stone crusher owners to allow mechanical mining is under the consideration of the government. However, no immediate change can be made in the rules. The Environment Impact Assessment of all stone crushers or mining sites is done, as the old rules do not allow mechanical mining. The government has written to the Law Department for its opinion for allowing mechanical mining. Even if the rules are amended, the Environment Impact Assessment of old projects will have to be done again. It may take a few months before the government can take a decision in the matter, he says. Prajapati adds that mining in riverbeds is totally banned till September 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-crusher-owners-on-strike-projects-in-limbo-284722
18-07-2021||Mandi||Remote Lahaul road restored after 5 days||The Tindi-Killar road  in Lahaul and Spiti was restored to traffic today after five days. The road was blocked at Jungle camp towards the Killar side in Chamba district after it was damaged due to heavy rains on July 12. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) had engaged its workforce and machinery to restore the road for normal traffic. It provides access to the remote Pangi region in Chamba district from the Udaipur side in Lahaul and Spiti. A majority of Pangi residents use the road to go to Lahaul and Spiti and Kullu for jobs or business. Besides, tourists also prefer this route to go to Chamba. Residents of the Pangi region heaved a sigh of relief, as they were desperately awaiting the restoration of the road. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/remote-lahaul-road-restored-after-5-days-284723
18-07-2021||---||Met: Expect heavy rain from today||Shimla, July 17Light to moderate rainfall occurred at some places in the state and the sky remained heavily overcast in Shimla and its nearby areas.The MeT office has issued a fresh orange warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in middle and lower hills in 10 districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti, on July 19. Besides, a yellow warning of heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in higher hills on July 18 to 21 has been issued.The MeT office predicted rain and a thunderstorm in middle and lower hills and rain and snow in higher hills from July 18 to 23. Meanwhile, Shahpur was the wettest in the state with 41 mm of rain followed by Nahan and Malan 31 mm and 29 mm, Berthin 21 mm, Guler 12 mm, Mandi and Palampur 10 mm each, Ghamroor 6 mm, Bijahi and Dharamsala 4 mm each and Jogindernagar and Nagrota Surian 2 mm each.Una was the hottest during the day with a high of 38.2°C. The minimum temperatures remained close to normal and Keylong recorded a low of 14.8°C, followed by Kalpa 16°C, Shimla 18°C and Dharamsala 20.8°C.The state received 206.9 mm of average rainfall during the current monsoon season from June 1 to 17 against the normal rainfall of 235.4 mm, a deficit of 12 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-expect-heavy-rain-from-today-284724
18-07-2021||---||Teachers suspend exam evaluation for 2 days||Shimla, July 17State government college teachers will suspend the evaluation of the final year annual examinations for two days on a call given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation in protest against the non-implementation of UGC pay scales by the governments of Himachal and Punjab.A resolution regarding the suspension of the evaluation of the scripts of the final year annual examinations for two days (July 19 and 20) was adopted and sent to the government today.In the resolution, the Himachal Government College Teachers Association (HGCTA) expressed resentment and anxiety over the non-implementation of the UGC pay scales notified by the Union Government in 2018 that had been implemented by all states except Punjab and Himachal.Since Himachal follows Punjab with regard to pay scales and allowances, the government teachers have been left in the lurch due to the lackadaisical approach of the Punjab Government, which has notified the Sixth Pay Commission scales for its employees from July 1, 2021, but not implemented the UGC pay scales for the college and university teachers.The association sought the intervention of the Chief Secretary. It said the evaluation would resume on July 21 though they would wear black badges. However, if the Punjab Government did not implement the UGC pay scales soon, teachers would launch an agitation on the call of the Punjab College Teachers’ Association, said HGCTA president Dharmvir Singh.He urged the Chief Secretary to take up the issue with the Punjab Government for the early notification of the UGC pay scales. HGCTA general secretary RL Sharma urged him to convene a meeting of the Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) for principals as around 80 of 130 colleges were without regular principals.The posts of professor in colleges were not being created and filled, as per the UGC regulation. Extra increments for M.Phil, and PhD withdrawn arbitrarily after October 1, 2014, had not been restored. The services rendered as contractual teachers were not being counted for promotion under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) while the UGC rules have a provision for it, the leaders said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-suspend-exam-evaluation-for-2-days-284725
18-07-2021||Solan||Nauni varsity ties up with UK platform for faculty training||Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with United Kingdom-based ‘Qedex’ for training its faculty to improve the quality of teaching, especially through the online mode.  The pact  was signed under the National Agricultural Higher Education Project of the Institutional Development Plan of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research currently being implemented in the university.  Ravinder Sharma, Director Research, signed the agreement on behalf of the university while Stuart Blacklock, CEO of QASPIR, represented Qedex.    Blacklock said the partnership would help in the implementation of the New Education Policy 2020, which covers continuous professional development  of teachers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-varsity-ties-up-with-uk-platform-for-faculty-training-284726
18-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Ban eased, trekking, skiing allowed in Kullu||Kullu, July 17 Thrill-seekers will be able to enjoy some adventure activities in Kullu following a partial amendment to the order of the ban on adventure activities from July 15 to September 15 in the wake of the rainy season.  Kullu District Tourism Development Officer (DTDO) Krishan Chand said today that river rafting, paragliding and other miscellaneous adventure activities involving river crossing would be prohibited during the rainy season. However, as per the amended orders, trekking, zip-lining, rock climbing, zorbing balls, rolling balls, bungee jumping and skiing would be allowed. Since there are no specific guidelines for various activities under the Miscellaneous Adventure Activities Rules-2017, a few activities will be allowed. Hot air ballooning and activities under Aero Sports Rules 2004 will remain prohibited. Members of the Adventure Tour Operators Association, Manali, had met the DTDO and urged him to amend the orders to allow trekking, zipline and other adventure activities, which had never been suspended earlier during the rainy season. They had said that any activity away from water bodies and out of direct and immediate threat from heavy rain should be permitted. They added that operators would take utmost care and engage the best of teams for trekking expeditions. Generally rafting, paragliding and miscellaneous adventure activities are banned for two months under the River Rafting Rules-2005, Aero Sports Rules-2004 and Miscellaneous Adventure Activities Rules-2017. “Rivers and streams in the district are always in spate during the rainy season. There is fog and winds are uncertain. All these factors make adventure activities in the air or over the rivers unsafe and life threatening,” said Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ban-eased-trekking-skiing-allowed-in-kullu-284727
18-07-2021||Solan||Two held with 3,118 sedative tablets in Paonta||The Paonta Sahib police seized 3,118 sedative tablets and capsules of parivon, spasmo proxyvon plus, lorazepam and alprazolom from two motorcycle-borne youths during a check at Lal Dhank at the Behral barrier last evening.DSP Bir Bahadur said the seized contraband comprised of 400 tablets of parivon spas (tramadol), 1,008 capsules of spasmo proxyvon plus, 510 tablets of lorazepam tablets and 1,200 tablets of alprazolom.Those arrested were Sharafat Ali and Salman, both are residents of Mehmoodpur Nagli of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh. They were coming from Saharanpur when a police their bike.A case has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-with-3-118-sedative-tablets-in-paonta-284728
18-07-2021||Our Corresopondent
||Bangana college first to have all 3 NCC wings||Una, July 17 Government College, Bangana, has become the first college in the state to have all three wings of the National Cadet Corps (NCC), namely Air, Army and Naval wings.  Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar said while the Army wing was already operational in the college, 10 seats had been sanctioned for the Air Wing Senior Division, while the NCC had recently given the nod to include the naval wing in the college due to the close proximity of the Gobind Sagar reservoir where the NCC Unit is located at Bilaspur is already functional.  He said a communique to this regard had been received from NCC Commanding Officer Brig Rajiv Thakur. Kanwar said that a team of paragliding experts yesterday visited the Solasingi Dhaar and Garvasada hills to look into the possibilities of starting paragliding adventure sports activities in the Kutlehar segment.  He added that the team had finalised Piplu village to be the hub of paragliding activities, from where the gliders would take off and the land at an open space in Hathlon village.  Surinder Thakur, Additional Director of the Atal Behari Vajpayee Mountaineering and Allied Sports Organisation Manali, led the team of experts, including paragliding instructors. He said that the take-off and landing sites for paragliders would be notified soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bangana-college-first-to-have-all-3-ncc-wings-284729
18-07-2021||Kullu||Consistency, devotion key to success: Pushpender||Various platforms of social media are flooded with praises for Pushpender Thakur, a resident of Chakurtha village in Banjar subdivision of the district, who has topped the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) Class XII examinations by securing 100 per cent marks.Pushpender was a student of non-medical stream at Ambition Classes Senior Secondary School, Kullu. He has also cleared the JEE-Mains exam with a score of 98.5 per cent and has been shortlisted for computer science at the NIT, Hamirpur, and BITS, Pilani.Pushpender credits his success to his parents, grandparents and teachers. His father, Nek Singh, is a postmaster while his mother, Geeta Devi, is a government TGT science and mathematics teacher. He says that his interest in science developed after reading the books of his elder brother. “My elder brother was also a topper and he inspired me to work hard and top my exams as well,” he says.Pushpender says that he wanted to pursue a career in astrophysics and will again appear for the JEE exams to get into one of the IITs.“I have worked hard to make it to the merit list and am overwhelmed with my result. My strategy to success was to remain attentive in classes and revise my notes regularly. Regular study, devotion and interest in subjects were also the key to success,” he adds. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/consistency-devotion-key-to-success-pushpender-284730
18-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||IITians step in to improve state’s presence on Wikipedia||Tribune News Service  Shimla, July 17  Himachal has over 20,000 villages, numerous rivers, mountains, institutions and industry but still its presence on Wikipedia is negligible (about 0.75 per cent). A study by the founder and former director of the IIT-Mandi, Prof Timothy A Gonsalves, reveals that there were only 13 articles on Himachal villages on Wikipedia in August 2020, and the number was increased to 152 in July 2021 by the IIT-Mandi Wikimedians — a group of faculty, students and alumni of the institute. A comparative study has revealed that all 534 villages of New York (USA) are covered in Wikipedia and so are 100 per cent villages of Kerala, while only 152 of over 20,000 villages of Himachal are covered and 13 of 3,338 villages of Mandi district figure on Wikipedia. However, after the initiative of Wikimedians, new articles on the IIT-Mandi, EWOK, Kamand village, Khanahr (Salgi) village, Losar Khas village and other gram panchayats in Himachal were created for Wikipedia and Wikipedia Commons, besides improving the already existing articles, Gonsalves told The Tribune. Photographs and articles on the Spiti river, Black Kite, Kuthachi village in Mandi, Jagannathi Temple in Kullu, the waterfall at Marhi in Manali, and the Prashar Lake were also uploaded, he said. The IIT uses Wikipedia for technical and non-technical information and once looking for villages, we found nothing and decided to contribute, he added. Wikipedia could have an article on every legally recognised village, every river, mountain and institution of public importance but strangely Himachal has little presence on it, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iitians-step-in-to-improve-states-presence-on-wikipedia-284731
18-07-2021||---||Survey conducted for airport in Mandi||Mandi, July 17 The light detection and ranging (LIDAR) survey for airport construction  was conducted for the proposed airport in Mandi district by Wapcos Company today. Pankaj Kumar Dubey, project manager of Wapcos Limited Himachal Pradesh, said two sorties were conducted by the team to collect the data to ascertain the feasibility of the actual length of the runway.  The project manager said, however, the survey was hampered by bad weather in the afternoon. Now, the survey would be completed tomorrow. He said the collected data of the survey would be compiled in a computer soon to be handed over to the government for the next course of action.  The survey team had used an Eurocopter AS 350B3 type aircraft with the mounted LIDAR equipment.  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is keen to construct an airport in Mandi district for the civil and defence purpose.  Different surveys are being conducted to execute the project in the Balh valley to find out the exact details about the feasibility of the construction of the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/survey-conducted-for-airport-in-mandi-284732
18-07-2021||---||CM calls on PM, urges him to okay drug park||New Delhi, July 17Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him for Central assistance for projects in the state. He also discussed political issues, including the next Assembly elections, with the Prime Minister.Thakur urged Modi to approve the state government’s proposal for a bulk drug and medical devices park. This would help in pushing industrialisation in the state, and help generate jobs, he said.He urged Modi for financial assistance for the proposed airport at Nag Chala in Mandi district. The airport is a proposed greenfield airport to be built on 698 acres at Nag Chala. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) gave clearance to the project in May 2018.Also, Thakur referred to Himachal’s efforts to boost its road network. He also apprised Modi of the state’s initiatives to check Covid spread, strict implementation of the protocols, and the vaccination drive. He said that due to scientific management of vaccines, there was no wastage.Thakur invited the Prime Minister to inaugurate the 111 MW Sawara-Kuddu hydropower project and 210 MW Luhri stage-I project constructed by Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited. He also requested him to lay the foundation stone of 66 MW Dholasidh project in Hamirpur district. He later told reporters that he also discussed political issues with Modi.Sources say that preparations for the next Assembly elections and the forthcoming byelections were also discussed. Earlier, the Chief Minister called on Union Information and Broadcasting, and Sports Minister Anurag Thakur. He said that Anurag’s elevation as a Cabinet minister was a matter of pride for the state. He discussed with the minister strengthening of the sports infrastructure in the state, especially the construction of an indoor stadium to help young sportspersons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-calls-on-pm-urges-him-to-okay-drug-park-284733
18-07-2021||---||Virbhadra’s ashes immersed in rivers||Shimla, July 17   Family members and supporters of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh immersed his ashes in the Ganga in Haridwar today.  His ashes were also immersed in the Sutlej, the Ravi, the Beas and the Chanderbhaga, besides their tributaries, by party legislators and office-bearers in all 12 districts. The urns carrying the ashes were taken to the water bodies while party workers and loyalists raised slogans about Virbhadra’s contribution to the development of the state and the party.  State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore brought the urns to Congress Bhawan here and handed over these to the Block Congress Committee presidents. Virbhadra passed away in Shimla on July 8 after a prolonged illness. The final rites will be performed at Rampur by the family members.  Former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma immersed the ashes of the former Chief Minister in the river along the Chamunda Devi temple in Dharamsala.  He also got his head shaved off before immersing the ashes. A large numbers of Congress workers participated in the event. They remembered Virbhadra Singh as a leader who contributed to the development of  Dharamsala. The Smart City project, the Vidhan Sabha complex and the headquarters of the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education were his gift. In Shahpur, the ashes of Virbhadra were immersed in the Gajj river by HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania. He said that no other leader could match the contributions of Virbhadra Singh to the development of the state. He had opened schools, colleges and hospitals. The ashes of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh were immersed in the Beas in Mandi district by Congress workers. Senior leader Kaul Singh Thakur immersed the ashes in the Beas near Pandoh while Congress leader from Seraj Vijay Pal Singh, chairman of the intellectual cell of the HPCC, immersed the ashes in the Bali Chowki water stream. In the town, BJP MLA from Sadar Anil Sharma, Congress workers Anil Sen, Akash Sharma, Devender Sharma, Gurmukh Singh and other immersed the ashes in the Beas at the Rudra Ghat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadras-ashes-immersed-in-rivers-284734
18-07-2021||Shimla||113 new cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 113 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,04,337. Besides, one person died due to the virus in Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/113-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-284735
18-07-2021||Shimla||Covishield 94 pc effective for 65+||The Covishield vaccine has been found 94 per cent effective against severe disease caused by Delta variants.Stating this here today, a government spokesperson said that in the vaccine efficacy report from Public Health England, two doses of AstraZeneca (Covishield) vaccine were estimated to provide 94 per cent protection against death from Covid in the people aged 65 and above. “People should come forward to get themselves vaccinated against the virus,” he said.He said as per the latest data released by the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium, Delta is the dominant lineage for new cases across India and remains the most rapidly rising lineage globally.“New data point to efficacy of vaccination against severe disease by Delta variants,” said the spokesperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covishield-94-pc-effective-for-65-284736
18-07-2021||UNA||Villages fully jabbed to be rewarded: DC||Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma today said the panchayats registering 100 per cent Covid vaccination for the 18 plus age group would be rewarded at a district-level function.The DC was reviewing the progress of the vaccination at a meeting of officers. He said a campaign to vaccinate persons was launched in Una district, adding that there were 2.1 lakh persons in the age group, of which 97,748 persons had received the first jab.Raghav Sharma said the poplulation of the 45 to 59 age group in Una district was 1.93 lakh of which 86,631 persons had received the first vaccine, while 39,658 received both doses. He said till date, 3.65 lakh doses of the vaccine had been received in the district, of which 3.56 lakh doses had been utilised. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villages-fully-jabbed-to-be-rewarded-dc-284737
18-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||After Dharamsala havoc, MC slaps notices on encroachers||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 17A week after a flash flood swept away vehicles and caused major damage in tourist hub Bhagsunag, the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation has slapped notices on encroachers who have raised structures close to a natural drain.Mayor Onkar Nehria said people had constructed small bridges and parking lots, thus narrowing the seasonal drain. “Had these illegal structures not come up, the water would have gushed through the drain’s original course. It, however, diverted onto nearby lanes, sweeping along cars and whatever came its way. The illegal structures acted as a blockade,” he said.The Mayor said the encroachers had been asked to demolish their illegal structures on their own or else the MC would have to do it.Municipal Commissioner Pradeep Thakur said any construction on natural watershed areas of drains and rivers was illegal. “We will clear all encroachments so that there is minimum loss of life and property in case any such eventuality in future,” he said.The increase in the land cost in Dharamsala has resulted in encroachments on riverbeds and natural drains. The authorities too have been complacent to new buildings and commercial complexes being brought up on protected land. Some people have constructed bridges to connect their hotels and properties across streams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-dharamsala-havoc-mc-slaps-notices-on-encroachers-284869
18-07-2021||Shimla||Heavy rain predicted in coming days in Himachal Pradesh; landslide warning issued||The meteorological department here on Saturday issued a warning for landslides in the state due to heavy rainfall predicted in the next three-four days.Latest weather conditions and interpretations of different global and regional models indicate that rainfall activity is very likely to increase around Saturday for the next three-four days, with moderate to heavy rainfall in lower and middle hills of Himachal Pradesh, the MeT centre in Shimla stated.Expected weather conditions may trigger landslides on national and state highways, inundations in low-lying area, high discharge in stream and nullahs, besides disruption of traffic and other electrical and communication channels, it warned.In view of these, the state government authorities are advised to take adequate safety measures, the weather office added.Rainfall was recorded at isolated places over the state during the day, it said.Shahpur received 35 mm rain, Malan 29 mn, Guler and Barthin 12 mm each, and Pidana, Dalhousie and Tisso 10 mm each, the Met centre said.The highest temperature was recorded in Una at 38.2 degrees Celsius, and the lowest in Lahaul-Spiti's administrative centre, Keylong at 14.8 degrees Celsius. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-predicted-in-coming-days-in-himachal-pradesh-landslide-warning-issued-284642
