19-07-2021||Dipender Manta ||Pictures: Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked due to massive landslide near Pandoh in Mandi; hundreds of people stranded||Tribune News Service Mandi, July 19Chandigarh-Manali highway was on Monday blocked for traffic movement due to a massive landslide near Pandoh in Mandi district.A large number of people have been stranded in the area on both sides of the road, who were either traveling to Mandi from Manali side or going to Manali.Also read: Heavy rain brings respite to people of Chandigarh, Punjab; halts life in Gurugram, 2 dead Since morning, heavy rains lashed the district, which caused landslides in road sides in several parts of the district.The alternate route between Mandi and Kullu-via Kataula is also blocked for traffic movement in the area because of a landslide.Apart from this, Sarkaghat- Dharampur highway has been blocked for traffic movement because of landslide near Parchhu in the area.The police have restricted the traffic movement on Chandigarh-Manali highway from Mandi ahead in view of public safety.The workforce and machinery were engaged in the area to clear the road for traffic but heavy rain is proving major hurdle to speed up the restoration work of highway in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pictures-chandigarh-manali-highway-blocked-due-to-massive-landslide-near-pandoh-in-mandi-hundreds-of-people-stranded-285365
19-07-2021||---||22 challaned for defying Covid norms in Shimla hotels||Shimla, July 18Going tough with tourists and hoteliers violating the Covid norms, the Tourism Department conducted a surprise check in 11 hotels and imposed a fine of Rs 11,000 on 22 persons for not adhering to Covid-appropriate behavior.The surprise check was conducted by District Tourism Officer GD Kalta on the instructions of Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi and irregularities were detected in four hotels. Action is being taken under various sections of the Tourism Act.Surprise checks were also conducted in13 hotels at Fingask area yesterday and action was initiated against eight hotels for not following Covid norms, said Kalta, adding that during inspection of hotels, there was an added focus on adherence to the Covid protocol.The checks would continue and it would be ensured that the hotels strictly follow the protocols and take precautions, he added. Meanwhile, Shimla SP Mohit Chawla also made a surprise check at the Shoghi barrier.54 new casesShimla: A total of 54 new cases were reported in the state, besides two deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases is 1,007 with 146 persons recovering.Two persons succumbed to the virus in Chamba and Mandi, taking the fatality figure to 3,491. The highest number of 27 cases was reported in Chamba. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/22-challaned-for-defying-covid-norms-in-shimla-hotels-285307
19-07-2021||Rajiv Mahajan
||Taps go dry in 3 villages of Nagrota Surian||Nurpur, July 18  Residents of Spail, Katora and Vantungli gram panchayats of the Nagrota Surian development block in Jawali subdivision of Kangra district have been facing an acute water shortage for the past one week. Their taps have gone dry ever since the monsoon rain lashed this area.  The residents of Spail panchayat are the worst sufferers as they are dependent on a village ‘baoli’, a natural water source, for meeting their daily requirements. Following the public outcry, the Jal Shakti Department provided one water tanker to them on Saturday.  Residents said earlier, they were being supplied water  without treatment from Gaj Khud, due to which there was a threat of water-borne diseases. In 2017, the department constructed an overhead tank with a capacity of 25,000 litres in Spail panchayat, but it has not been put to use even after four years.  Local residents Uttam Chand, Sapna, Rama, Neena Devi, Munish, Pooja and Babli Devi alleged that the Jal Shakti Department was providing a small quantity of water in the neighbouring Katora and Vantungli gram panchayats, where also the water supply from Gaj Khud had been stopped but Spail residents were being neglected. They had no choice but to consume the contaminated water from a ‘baoli’.  Anjana Kumari, pradhan, Katora gram panchayat, said the situation in Spail, Katora and Vantungli panchayats had gone from bad to worse during the monsoon season as residents were getting muddy water. “If people are not even getting potable water, then how can a scheme like the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan be successful in rural areas? How will villagers use toilets without water?” she questioned. She said there were over 4,000 people in the three gram panchayats. The department should immediately address their problems by connecting overhead tanks constructed at different locations with these panchayats.  Ram Kumar, Assistant Engineer, Jal Shakti Department, Nagrota Surian Division, said the department had constructed the main overhead water tank with 2.98 lakh litre capacity at Tungli village for storing water from Balora tubewell. “This tubewell-based water supply is ready for catering to the need of the Spail, Katora and Vantungli gram panchayats but could not be started yet for want of electricity connection. The percolation well of the Spail gram panchayat has been damaged due to heavy rains and the department is making temporary arrangement with water tankers in the affected area,” the Assistant Engineer claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/taps-go-dry-in-3-villages-of-nagrota-surian-285309
19-07-2021||---||Amazon to acquire apple, stone fruits, veggies in Himachal||Shimla, July 18Amazon has joined the list of private players involved in the procurement of apple, stone fruits and vegetables in the state. “Amazon opened its first collection centre in Balag two days back. It has come to the state for the first time and its entry will help farmers and growers get good prices,” said Shimla and Kinnaur APMC chairman Naresh Sharma.“Big companies like Amazon, Reliance and Big Basket have their own retail chain. When these companies lift produce from regular market, it helps farmers and growers get good prices. That’s the reason we are promoting private players besides strengthening our own marketing yards,” said Sharma.Stating that the APMC has made all preparations for the smooth marketing of apple this season, Sharma said the mandis across the state would be made online within a month. “The software is ready and the IT Department will give the final go-ahead. Once the facility becomes operational, farmers will know the rates prevailing in different mandis at one click. Also, traders will be able to apply for licence online,” he said.Sharma further said the work on strengthening the network of mandis and building a controlled atmosphere (CA) store and cold chain points was on at a war footing.He said the SIT formed to help the growers recover their money from traders has recovered Rs 18 crore out of Rs 35 crore. “Also, Rs 25 crore has been earmarked to build small roads/paths to help farmers get their produce to the main road,” he said.Sharma also defended the government’s decision to hike the price of apple bought through Market Intervention Scheme by Re 1 per kg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amazon-to-acquire-apple-stone-fruits-veggies-in-himachal-285310
19-07-2021||Shimla||Rain fury: 152 lost lives since June 13||As many as 152 persons have lost their lives in rain-related incidents in the ongoing monsoon season since June 13. Besides, 59 kucha and pakka houses were fully damaged in this period. As per the Department of Revenue and the Disaster Management Cell, the loss to the PWD and the IPH Department is estimated to be around Rs 13,977.89 lakh and Rs 7,539.75, respectively.The local Met office has issued an orange warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall, lightning and thunderstorm in low and middle hills of eight to ten districts barring tribal districts of Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur on July 19 and 20 and yellow warning of heavy rainfall, lightning and thunderstorm in ten districts on July 21 and 22.Meanwhile, light to heavy rains lashed parts of Himachal and Nurpur was the wettest with 95 mm of rain.A wet spell has been predicted in the region till July 24. There was no significant change in the minimum and maximum temperatures and Dalhousie was the coldest at night with a low of 13.2 degrees C while Una was the hottest in the day recording a high of 35.4 degrees C. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-fury-152-lost-lives-since-june-13-285311
19-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Shillai villagers in fear as hill erodes||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 18Residents of Ambon village in Shillai of Sirmaur district are living in fear with a hillock overlooking the village eroding in the rains. As a result, a large quantity of water and muck enters the houses located at the base of the hill.Three families have been evacuated as their houses were inundated amid heavy rain last week. Danger looms as the fragile hillock is eroding with each spell of rain.Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Paonta Sahib, Vivek Mahajan, who took stock of the situation along with a team of officials from the Revenue and Public Works Department yesterday, said, “Three families have been shifted. Since the hill continues to erode, it is posing danger to the remaining 60 families in the village.”The locals said as water flowed down the hill, it flooded their fertile land every time it rained. Despite suffering damage year after year, little has be done to address the problem.“The possibility of rehabilitating the villagers is also being explored. The move is, however, fraught with problems as an NOC has to be sought from a panchayat where these families would be rehabilitated,” said Mahajan.He added that the revenue staff were assessing the damage caused to the residents and a report would be sent to the government for undertaking measures to address the problem. Some steps like channeling the water, which flows down from the hill, were being taken.Locals too are averse to abandoning their houses as they have been residing since decades.A revenue official said a team of scientists from the Geological Survey of India had surveyed the area some years ago. They had suggested to undertake contouring of the fragile hill in view of the sliding strata but no work could begin following the pandemic since last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shillai-villagers-in-fear-as-hill-erodes-285312
19-07-2021||Shimla||Haryana tourist raped in Shimla hotel||A 16-year-old tourist from Panchkula was allegedly sexually assaulted in a hotel at Lakkar Bazaar in Shimla on July 11.In a complaint filed with the Kalka police station, the victim said she, along with her friend, had come to Shimla.Her friend called a person Naveen and his friend to their hotel and Naveen entered her room and forced himself on the victim. On July 13, her friend and Naveen left her at Kalka. A case under the POCSO Act has been registered and the zero FIR has been forwarded to the Shimla police.Two days ago, another minor tourist from Haryana had accused her uncle of sexually assaulting her following which the accused has been arrested.In another complaint, the Theog police have registered a case under Section 376 of IPC and the POCSO Act on a complaint of the father of a minor, who alleged that he, along with his wife, was working in the fields on July 16 and on their return, they found that their 15-year-old daughter was missing.During the search, they found her daughter in the car of Romesh, who allegedly sexually assaulted the minor.A woman working as a tailor in Rampur also alleged that on July 3, Ram Prakash (32) made physical relations with her without her consent and threatened her with dire consequences. The victim is living with her mother in Khaneri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haryana-tourist-raped-in-shimla-hotel-285313
19-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Rs 15 lakh for sports ground in Janghi||Chamba, July 18 The state government has accorded approval to the construction of a sports ground in Janghi gram panchayat in Chamba district with an outlay of Rs 15 lakh. Local BJP MLA Pawan Nayyar announced this during his tour to Janghi gram panchayat today. He assured the people that the construction work of the ground would be started soon, so that the local youth could get access to basic sports facilities. The MLA also inaugurated a road from Kuthwara village to Ukhrailly in the district. The MLA said according to the demand of the locals, the Government Primary School, Janghi, had been upgraded to the middle-school level, so that children would not have to go far to get education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-15-lakh-for-sports-ground-in-janghi-285314
19-07-2021||Dipender Manta||Manali tour operators oppose trekking camps by outsiders||Tribune News ServiceMandi, July 18The Adventure Tour Operators Association, Manali, has opposed the concept of mass trekking by outside tour operators in Kullu and Manali. It says that the practice will have an adverse impact on the environment, besides posing a threat to the lives of tourists.Pintu, a spokesperson for the association, says, “We are against camping on trekking routes being organised by outside tour operators. This compromises the safety of tourists, besides causing damage to the environment. The practice has also affected the livelihood of local youths”.“It will not in any way benefit the local economy. Moreover, with the entry of outside tour operators, employment opportunities for young and professional local entrepreneurs will diminish,” he adds.Pintu has urged the Tourism and Forest Departments in Kullu to allow permission for trekking in small-sized groups with the maximum strength of 15 trekkers and one guide for five persons. Fixed camping should be discouraged and mobile camping should be promoted. For the trekking purpose, the services of local professional guides and crew should be taken, as they are aware of the tough terrains of the Kullu-Manali region.“A monitoring committee comprising the Forest Department and village representatives should be constituted to keep a close vigil on trekking routes and provide rescue services in case of an emergency,” says Pintu.He says they are taking up the issue with the authorities concerned to generate awareness to safeguard the livelihood of local people and protect the environment.He alleges trekking operators based outside Himachal are exploiting their natural resources and damaging the fragile eco-system of the mountains. “We are unhappy with the state, as it has amended the miscellaneous adventure activities Act. It is allowing non-Himachali firms to do small business such as trekking in the state,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-tour-operators-oppose-trekking-camps-by-outsiders-285315
19-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Soon, pay fee to enter Parbati valley||Kullu, July 18A development fee will be levied on vehicles coming from other states in Kullu’s Parbati valley.Presiding over a meeting of the Special Area Development Authority (SADA), Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg said there was a need to create and develop infrastructure in Kasol and Manikaran areas to facilitate tourists. He said to generate funds for the purpose, all members had unanimously decided that the development fee would be levied for the creation of basic facilities in the area from vehicles coming from outside states. The fee would not be collected from the vehicles of Himachal Pradesh.The DC said famous tourist destinations of Kasol and Manikaran in the beautiful Parbati valley witness a heavy tourist influx. Infrastructure at these places would be improved for the convenience of tourists and efforts would be made to protect the environment.It was decided to prepare a comprehensive strategy to deal with the problem of damage to the ecology due to the increasing pressure of vehicles and tourists on the environmentally fragile areas, he said. The amount of fee would be decided soon and a suitable place would be selected for setting up a barrier for fee collection.He said the visitors littered near rivers and streams, posing a threat to the environment. The beauty of the area was getting marred due to accumulation of garbage. It also posed a serious health hazard. There was an urgent need for proper disposal of solid and liquid waste in Kasol and Manikaran for which it was necessary to raise funds.The officer said waste disposal plants would be set up in key areas of the Parbati valley. Basic facilities would be provided to the tourists. The funds would be used for the overall development of Kasol and Manikaran.The Deputy Commissioner said the detailed guidelines regarding the development fee would be issued separately. SADA has powers to levy development fee for the development of a particular area.Kasol, Manikaran see heavy tourist rush||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soon-pay-fee-to-enter-parbati-valley-285316
19-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Airport expansion, Una PGI centre in limbo||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 18The work on some major development projects in the lower Himachal areas, including the expansion of the Gaggal airport and the PGI satellite centre in Una, has been progressing at a snail’s pace.The 15th Finance Commission had recommended Rs 400 crore for the expansion of the airport but the project has remained on the paper. As per information, revenue officials of Kangra had sent a proposal for the acquisition of 40 hectares for the airport expansion last year. However, no communication has been received from the Union Government till now.A senior revenue official says that things regarding the project will move only after the Union Government accepts the proposal.Revenue officials of Kangra have stated in a survey report sent to the state government that about 40 hectares are required for the airport expansion and about Rs 500 crore for land acquisition.After surveying the land, the government has written to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to carry out a survey to evaluate the feasibility of airport expansion. It is only after this survey that the AAI would start the work to prepare the project report.The Gaggal airport is the only a domestic airport that remains operational throughout the year. Air-India and SpiceJet fly five flights a day from the airport on Dharamsala-Delhi and Dharamsala-Chandigarh routes.The expansion of the airstrip can bring in more tourists to Dharamsala, Kullu and Manali. A proposal to set up a satellite centre of the PGI in Una was mooted before the 2019 parliamentary elections. Though the state has allotted land for the project, infrastructure for the centre is yet to be created. Union minister Anurag Thakur, at a meeting held recently, had pulled up officials for the tardy progress.Una DC Raghav Sharma said the consultant for the PGI satellite centre project had been appointed. The architect for designing the building had also been appointed and he was likely to submit designs in the next six to seven months and, after that, the construction could start, he added.He said the PGI had put forth its water requirement of 1 million litres per day for the satellite centre. Borewells had been provided to meet the water requirement, he said.The bottleneck||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/airport-expansion-una-pgi-centre-in-limbo-285317
19-07-2021||---||Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh ideal hubs for research, says VC||Solan, July 18  Education rating agency QS IGAUGE  organised a Himalayan edition conference on “Redefining Institutional Strategy for Excellence”,  jointly hosted by the Shoolini University, Solan, and University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun, yesterday.   In his welcome address, Dr Ashwin Fernandes, CEO, QS IGAUGE, said, “Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are blessed with cultural and spiritual heritage and now stand at the third and fourth positions in in the country. Both  states  should now  lead the road map for world class education.” Prof Atul Khosla, Founder and Vice Chancellor, Shoolini University, elaborated on why there would be a change in the orthodox way of teaching and how disruptions in the current situations have made technology an important part of delivering education.  The Vice Chancellor  added  that since Himalayas are  untouched by the modern world, they  are ideal  for research and innovation studies. Key speaker Perdita Fraser, a member of the Board Edinburg University, Scotland, stressed the need to focus on the tendency for investment.  Dr Ashok Saxena, a former Pro Chancellor, University of Arkansas, USA, dwelt upon how the importance of   rankings and need for  introspection and self-improvement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uttarakhand-himachal-pradesh-ideal-hubs-for-research-says-vc-285318
19-07-2021||---||Staff to protest changes in power Bill||Shimla, July 18The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) employees and engineers will hold a demonstration against the planned tabling of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 during the monsoon session of Parliament on Monday.The protest will be held on the nationwide call of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE).“The main objective of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 is to split power distribution companies further into carriage (distribution network) and contents (electricity supply business) to enable profiteers to enter into supply business in the urban- and revenue-potential areas without any investment or license,” said HL Verma, general secretary, HPSEBL.“Private companies will prefer supplying power to high revenue industrial and commercial consumers, which will drive the state discom into bankruptcy,” he added.Verma said it would abolish cross-subsidisation in tariff, which would result in costlier electricity to agriculture and domestic consumers. A proposal of director benefit transfer (DBT) to consumers by the state governments would also snatch away the rights of access to electricity for farmers and poor domestic consumers, he added.He alleged that the Amendment Bill would result in unbridled privatisation of electricity in the distribution sector. “The Electricity Act, 2003, allowed privatisation of generation through de-licensing, resulting in steep hike in power purchase price. Now, the proposed Bill will pave the path for the privatisation of power distribution through de-licensing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-to-protest-changes-in-power-bill-285319
19-07-2021||---||Mandi forest guard Toyad Kant Saini to get state award||Mandi, July 18A forest guard, Toyad Kant Saini, working in the office of the Divisional Forest Officer, Nachan, in Mandi district, has been selected for the state-level award 2019-20.Saini, along with 19 officials and three organisations, has been selected for the award for his service in protecting the forest wealth of the state. This award is given every year to the staff working for raising and saving forests.The award will presented by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on July 20 during the function being organised to celebrate the 72nd state-level Van Mahotsav at Nirmand in Kullu district.A source said Saini had been selected for the award for his daring acts of catching timber smugglers on several occasions, as well as raising and protecting plants in the Nachan Forest Division.Hailing from Khandla village of Balh in Mandi district, he is the son of late Nanak Chand Saini, a teacher and a social worker. Residents of Khandla and Kummi village congratulated him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-forest-guard-toyad-kant-saini-to-get-state-award-285320
19-07-2021||Shimla||‘Team building’ sessions for cops||As part of its session series, the police organised a session on ‘Building a winning team’ on Saturday. Lt Gen Raj Shukla, Army Commander, ARTRAC, addressed police officers at the Police Headquarters in Shimla and said: “A leader must have his eye on the big picture with equal attention to the minutest of details.” He said wisdom, communication, judgement and compassion were the traits of a good leader. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/team-building-sessions-for-cops-285321
19-07-2021||---||Shoolini varsity, skill corp ink MoU||Solan, July 18The Shoolini University and the International Skill Development Corporation (ISDC) India, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance accounts, taxation and risk management skills of students pursuing B.Com (Honours).Prof Atul Khosla, Vice-Chancellor, Shoolini University, and Shone Babu, head, strategic relations, ISDC, signed the MoU.The ISDC is a skill development company having expertise in professional and vocational education.Special training sessions and workshops would be organised by the ISDC, in collaboration with the Shoolini University, to enrich the experience of BCom and MBA students and make them industry-ready, said the Vice-Chancellor.The ISDC will also provide analytical tools to the MBA students to enhance their competitiveness. “The ISDC will organise the faculty development programmes as well,” Khosla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-varsity-skill-corp-ink-mou-285322
19-07-2021||Mandi||Stir threatened against airport in  Mandi||The Balh Bachao Sangharsh Samiti has threatened to stage a protest against the state over the proposed airport at Balh in Mandi district. Residents have been opposing the move since the beginning. Joginder Walia, president of the samiti, said WAPCOS Limited conducted a survey for the proposed airport on Saturday and despite repeated requests to change the site of the airport, the state government had been adamant to move ahead with the execution of the project without the consent of the locals. “If the airport gets constructed on the proposed site, farmers of the valley will lose their land and residential and commercial properties. That is why they are not in favour of the government’s decision,” Walia said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stir-threatened-against-airport-in-mandi-285323
19-07-2021||The NCC unit of Pinegrove School||Plantation drive at Dharampur's Pinegrove School||‘Open hostels for research scholars’The ABVP said the work of research scholars, particularly those in science stream, had suffered the most during the pandemic. ABVP's Vikrant Chauhan said the research work had been affected because the labs and hostels were closed. Chauhan said the hostels should be immediately opened for the research scholars, so they could resume their work that had been stalled for over one-and-a-half year.Campaign to beautify HPUA plantation campaign was started under the beautification of Himachal Pradesh University campus initiative. Vice-Chancellor Prof Sikendar Kumar planted a sapling near the teachers' colony. Meanwhile, the result of Class XII of Government Senior Secondary school, Summer Hill, was 100 per cent, as announced by the Himachal Board of School Education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plantation-drive-at-dharampurs-pinegrove-school-285341
19-07-2021||Vehicles are parked on both sides of the steep road from the IGMC||Parked vehicles obstruct traffic||— Anuj, ShimlaStray cattle pose a threat to commutersThe stray cattle pose a threat to the commuters while going upwards from Shimla, especially during the rainy season, when the visibility is hampered by dense fog. Drivers are unable to spot the cattle from a distance due to fog. They are forced to apply brakes suddenly when the cattle come in front of the vehicles. This can be highly dangerous. — Surender Thakur, TheogIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parked-vehicles-obstruct-traffic-285346
19-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||47% Himachal government colleges without principals||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 18At least 66 of 138 (over 47 per cent) government colleges in Himachal Pradesh have no regular principals. Reason: The Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) has failed to hold a single meeting in the past few years even as many eligible teachers have superannuated without getting promoted.Besides having a bearing on the quality of education, the vacancies are creating a hurdle in getting accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), which is mandatory for colleges established six or more years ago.The NAAC accreditation is compulsory for colleges for getting grants under the UGC and Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan as adequate infrastructure and staff are required for the purpose. There are only a handful of Grade A government colleges in the state. Most of these institutions have either not applied for the accreditation or do not fulfil the requirement. “While 66 government colleges are without regular principals, 19 have officiating heads. The remaining 53 institutions have regular principals,” said Dr RL Sharma, general secretary, HP Government College Teachers’ Association (HGCTA).As per the data provided by the HGCTA, 12 (out of 28) posts are vacant in Kangra district, 14 (20) in Shimla, nine (18) in Mandi, seven (12) in Solan, nine (14) in Sirmaur, three (seven) in Kullu, five (10) in Chamba, one (four) in Bilaspur, four (10) in Una, one (two) in Lahaul and Spiti and one (one) post is vacant in Kinnaur. All six posts of principal are filled in Hamirpur district.Teachers alleged the government had failed to heed to their demand for promoting the eligible principals and creating new posts of professors as per the UGC norms.When contacted, Amarjeet Sharma, Director, Higher Education, said the posts of principal had not been filled as the matter was sub judice and two cases were pending in the court.Can’t get NAAC accreditation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/47-himachal-government-colleges-without-principals-285184
