20-07-2021||---||Kalka-Shimla rail travel set to improve with RCF designing||Kapurthala, July 20Rail Coach Factory will manufacture 30 narrow gauge Vistadome coaches for Kalka-Shimla Railway. Ministry of Railways has advised RCF to take up manufacture of coaches in the next few months with upgraded state-of-the-art passenger interface areas.Presently, Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, is manufacturing such type of coaches. RCF has been the manufacturer of LHB coaches for premium and mail/express trains, besides manufacturing metre gauge coaches for export.Giving details RCF PRO Rajinder Singh said, “RCF has developed the initial designs for new NG coaches based on LHB technology. This includes a light weight shell design configured to provide different types of coaches to meet various business demands and passenger aspirations including Vistadome designs with panoramic windows. In addition to the new shell, it is planned to upgrade bogies and the brake system helping in to bring a significant improvement in speed potential from existing 25/35 kmph to 40/55 kmph. The coaches will also be equipped with modern safety features viz. CCTV and fire alarm etc.”He added, “The main attraction of coaches will be design incorporating large and wider windows with provision of opening that offer a panoramic view of the passing landscape, see-through glass rooftop for mesmerising views, aesthetically textured interior panels, reclined seats that can rotate up to 180 degrees in the direction of the train’s movement, restaurant-type sitting arrangement with snack table for each seat, automatic body side plug doors etc. The RCF built NG coaches on iconic Kalka-Shimla railway track will embark a new outlook towards the stretch and provide a magical view to witness as the train chugs along the mountains.”He added that the RCF would undertake the manufacturing of executive AC chair car, AC 2nd class chair car, general sitting and SLR coaches. The first prototype rake of these narrow gauge coaches would be ready by December, this year, said the RCF official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kalka-shimla-rail-travel-set-to-improve-with-rcf-designing-285891
20-07-2021||Vibha Sharma||Room of Vajpayee and Advani in Parliament allotted to JP Nadda||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 20Late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s room in Parliament will now be occupied by BJP president JP Nadda, sources say. The room number 4, bearing three name boards for years (of Atal Bihari Vajpayee; Chairman, National Democratic Alliance; and LK Advani), is right next to the BJP parliamentary party office.Though Vajpayee was allotted the room after he stepped down as the Prime Minister when the NDA lost the 2004 General Election, the room was mostly used by Advani after he stepped down as the Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha following the coalition’s defeat in 2009 under his command.   Between 2009 and 2014, the room remained the hub of much political activity while the party was in the Opposition. In the years that followed, Advani used the room till he remained an MP. Though Vajpayee did not sit in it much for visitors to the Parliament building, the room with his and Advani’s name on it became a must-visit.The room has mostly been lying vacant.Today the nameplates of Vajpayee and Advani were removed.Nadda, a former Health Minister, is a member of the Rajya Sabha from Himachal Pradesh. Sources say Nadda, who has so far been sharing a room with former Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, Thaawarchand Gehlot, is likely to shift in the room.Meanwhile, Gehlot’s room has now been allotted to Piyush Goyal, the new Leader of the House in the Rajya SabhaIncidentally, the room was initially with the JD-U, an ally of the BJP. When Vajpayee was no longer the prime minister it was converted as the NDA chairperson’s room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/room-of-vajpayee-and-advani-in-parliament-allotted-to-jp-nadda-285844
20-07-2021||New Delhi||Sonalika invests Rs 200 cr to set up new plant in Himachal to roll out harvesters||Tractor manufacturer Sonalika on Tuesday said it has invested Rs 200 crore to come up with a new manufacturing facility to produce harvesters at Amb in Himachal Pradesh.The company said its new plant at Amb is spread across 29 acres and is designed with a multi-stage CED (Cathode Electric Deposition) paint process often seen at car manufacturing facilities."Farmers are on a constant lookout for technologies in farming that enhance their productivity and efficiency in an affordable way. Our new plant at Amb, HP, has been installed with world class technologies to manufacture harvesters that significantly increase farmer's productivity," Sonalika Group Executive Director Raman Mittal said in a statement.The company has also launched a new harvester 'Samrat' priced at Rs 25.5 lakh."Our latest launch, the Sonalika Samrat combine harvester has been designed to maximise farmer efficiency during harvesting. It is fully equipped with next gen technologies and boasts of modern comfort along with styling for customer's delight," Mittal noted.The harvester comes powered by a diesel engine which generates 101 HP power. It comes with two wheel drive (2WD) and four wheel drive (4WD) options along with various attachments to suit various requirements.Sonalika manufactures heavy duty tractor range in 20-120 HP and 70 plus implements at its Hoshiarpur facility in Punjab that caters to the varied needs of customers across the globe. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sonalika-invests-rs-200-cr-to-set-up-new-plant-in-himachal-to-roll-out-harvesters-285837
20-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal tourist surge: 18,500 daily visitors, Rohtang tunnel 7,500||Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu has said Himachal Pradesh Police have effectively tackled the challenge posed by incoming tourists amid the Covid-19 situation.In a 'Meet The Press' at Press Club of Shimla here on Monday, Kundu said, "On an average, a record number of 18,500 tourists are visiting the state daily whereas 7,500 tourists are visiting the tourist hotspot Atal Tunnel Rohtang (ATR)."       The number of tourists visiting the hill state is much more nowadays as compared to normal, he added.The HP Police is facing two types of violations coming from the tourists -- flouting COVID guidelines and indulging in violence by bringing weapons with them, Kundu said.The entire police force is on ground as additional personnel have been deployed at the inter-state borders and tourist hotspots, including the Atal Tunnel, Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie, Kasauli and Shimla to search vehicles randomly for checking weapons and to check any COVID violations, he added.Stating that HP is a disaster-prone state, the DGP further said the three companies of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) sanctioned for the hill state for prompt and efficient response at the time of calamities would hopefully be set up in the next six months.Each of the three SDRF companies will be set up at Shimla, Kangra and Mandi, he said, adding that the process for procuring the land for setting up SDRF companies is on.Personnel are being identified for SDRF after which they will subsequently be sent to National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for training, he added.Besides, Kundu said seven leopard skins were seized from various parts of the state in the last year.Regarding the 'drug mafia', he said properties of 20 drug smugglers with 15 in Kullu and five in Kangra have been confiscated.As many as 6,500 ongoing drug cases are pending in various courts, whereas trials in 8,500 such cases are yet to begin, he added.Stating that the conviction rate of crimes in the state is almost 20 per cent that is at par with the country's average, Kundu said efforts are underway to undertake more scientific investigation instead of relying only on witnesses that in most cases tend to change their statements in court leading to poor conviction rate.In the entire country, 80 per cent of cyber crimes are in the category of financial frauds and 20 per cent of sexual content, he said, adding that the trend in HP is in reverse.Efforts are being made to set up cyber cells at the range levels in Mandi and Dharamshala also, apart from the existing state-level cyber cell at Shimla, the DGP added.Earlier, Press Club president Anil Bhardwaj Haidlee, its general secretary Devendra Verma and other office-bearers Prakaram, Ujjawal and Bhawani honoured the DGP. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-tourist-surge-18-500-daily-visitors-rohtang-tunnel-7-500-285835
20-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Husbands of elected members dominate ZP meeting in Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 19The first quarterly meeting of the newly elected Zila Parishad members held at Solan today was dominated by husbands of the elected woman members.As per the norms, only elected members and government officials can attend such meetings but husbands, too, made their way to the venue.Husbands of at least four elected women members were present at the meeting and they not only occupied the chairs meant for officials but also forced the latter to sit behind them in utter disregard for norms.Zila Parishad vice-chairperson Kamlesh Panwar raised a question about the poor state of a link road connecting the public health centre at Loharghat, which caters to seven panchayats.Chief Medical Officer Rajan Uppal was replying to the question when Panwar’s husband Babu Ram, who is also a senior BJP leader from Arki, started elaborating upon the poor state of the road.Leading the discussion, he said it was an 800-m stretch where the elderly have to be lifted during a medical exigency.He went on to say that he was also a member of a grievance committee and that particular problem had failed to attract the attention of officials, who should be asked what action they had taken.He was unstoppable when a question pertaining to a retaining wall’s repair in his area was asked. He was seen questioning the PWD officials while his wife failed to make her presence felt.This emboldened the husbands of other elected women members.Additional Deputy Commissioner Zaffar Iqbal, who had recently joined, claimed that a clear message had been sent to the husbands of the elected women members to not attend the Zila Parishad meetings.They were not invited but being the first Zila Parishad meeting of the newly elected body, they came on their own, he said.Though elected women members are capable and they exhibited their leadership skills but this episode has left officials high and dry.Norms defied||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/husbands-of-elected-members-dominate-zp-meeting-in-solan-285701
20-07-2021||---||Man arrested for loan fraud||Solan, July 19 The Baddi police have arrested Gaurav Singh (26), an immigrant, from Katrisarai, Bihar, for cheating. A complainant had lost Rs 3.22 lakh in a loan fraud case and an FIR was registered on December 12, 2020, for cheating and forgery under Section 66 D of the IT Act at Baddi, said SP Rohit Malpani.  A police  team comprising sub-inspector  Sachit Kalia, head constable  Ramesh Kumar, constables Gautam Saini, Ramanjeet Singh and  Amreek singh arrested Gaurav yesterday. The accused used to call people and convince them to send money on the pretext of giving loan to them . Another  accused, involved in developing a fake website  of the PM Mudra Yojana, was earlier arrested from Bangalore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-arrested-for-loan-fraud-285703
20-07-2021||Shimla||3 held for intimidation, trespass at Shoghi near Shimla||The Shimla police have arrested three persons from Delhi and Gurugram in a case registered on July 16 in connection with criminal intimidation, theft and house trespassing.In his complaint, Mayank alleged that Prashant, along with a person, had gone to the Anti-Drug Counselling Rehabilitation Centre at Shoghi near Shimla, holding a gun, had abused and hit him. He broke the glass of a washing machine and decamped with Rs 20,000. Prashant was known to the owner of the centre.A case under Sections 452, 323, 504, 506, 454, 380 of the IPC and Sections 34 and 25 of the Indian Arms Act was registered against the accused and his two companions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-held-for-intimidation-trespass-at-shoghi-near-shimla-285704
20-07-2021||---||Discussed bypoll, next Assembly elections with PM Modi, says Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, July 19Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had detailed discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the four forthcoming byelections, including the one to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat, during his recent visit to Delhi.“Discussions were held with the Prime Minister regarding the byelections to the Jubbal-Kotkhai, Fatehpur and Arki Assembly seats and the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency,” he said in an informal interaction with mediapersons here today. He added that the Prime Minister also enquired about the preparedness for the next Assembly elections. Thakur returned from Delhi yesterday.“I also took up the matter of pending projects concerning Himachal, including the bulk drug and medical devices park, which need to be expedited as all formalities have been completed,” he said. He added that some projects had been pending with the Central Government due to the pandemic.Thakur said that he had also urged Modi to provide liberal funds for the construction of the proposed greenfield airport at Nagchala in Mandi district. “The Lidar survey for the proposed airport has been done. This airport is important from the strategic point of view, and it will also give a boost to tourism in the area,” he added.He said that he had urged the Prime Minister to inaugurate the 111 MW Sawara-Kuddu hydro-electric project and lay the foundation stones of the 210 MW Luhri Stage-1 hydro-electric project worth Rs 1,810 crore and the 66 MW Dholasidh hydro-electric project. He added that these three projects would cost about Rs 4,200 crore.He said 44.16 lakh doses, including10.45 lakh second dose, of the Covid vaccine had been administered in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/discussed-bypoll-next-assembly-elections-with-pm-modi-says-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-285705
20-07-2021||Shimla||Article 370 was a stigma, says BJP leader Avinash Rai Khanna||The Citizens Amendment Act (CAA) was long required for Hindu minority people waiting to settle in India while the abolition of Articles 370 and 35A was a major step towards ‘One India’. Article 370 was a stigma, said Avinash Rai Khanna, in-charge of BJP affairs in Himachal.Khanna, while addressing the Chintan Shivar virtually, said, “National security is of prime importance and to maintain it, we need to have good coordination between society and the government”. “India has become a stronger nation under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our forces conducted the surgical strike to destroy terrorist camps in the POK and the operations were based on intelligence inputs from internal security agencies,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/article-370-was-a-stigma-says-bjp-leader-avinash-rai-khanna-285706
20-07-2021||Hamipur||Pensioners blame power board officers for losses||The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited Pensioners Union has blamed officers for the loss to the board. Dev Raj Verma, president of the union, said here today that the union had collected evidence against some of them. The board was generating high revenue but due to a few corrupt people, it landed in financial crunch.  The union demanded the restoration of the electricity allowance and 20-per cent reservation in jobs for the families of the board employees. He said the LTC should be provided to the pensioners and medical allowance be raised to Rs 1,000. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pensioners-blame-power-board-officers-for-losses-285707
20-07-2021||r Correspondent
||13 houses damaged in Fatehpur||NURPUR, JULY 19 As many as 13 houses were damaged at Nagoh village in Fatehpur of Kangra district as the water of a flooded nullah entered these last night.  The scared villagers raised the alarm but due to torrential rain, nobody turned up to their rescue and they spent the night in their damaged houses.  Three cattle were feared to have been washed away. The flood water also entered fields, damaging the maize and paddy crops.    An electricity pole was also uprooted, plunging the rural area into darkness. Mahinder, Gurial, Rajinder, Subhash, Shanker, Balbir, Prem and Jagat Ram, residents of the village, had suffered the maximum loss. SDM Ankush Sharma, along with the field revenue staff, rushed to the spot this morning and shifted them to a local gurdwara. The administration has released Rs 80,000 to 11 affected families as an interim relief and ration kits to 12 families. He said the staff had been directed to prepare a report so that a compensation could be released to the villagers as per the government relief manual.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-houses-damaged-in-fatehpur-285708
20-07-2021||---||252 Himachal roads closed after landslides||Shimla, July 19As many as 252 roads were blocked due to rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours. A maximum of 148 roads were closed in the Mandi zone, 54 in the Kangra zone and 43 in the Shimla zone.The local Met office has issued an orange warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on July 20 and a yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rain on July 21.Moderate to very heavy rain lashed several parts of the state. Palampur with 245 mm of rain was the wettest followed by Dharamsala 119 mm, Bilaspur 104 mm, Mandi 86 mm, Hamirpur 77 mm, Paonta Sahib 72 mm, Una 71 mm, Dalhousie 69 mm, Nahan 68 mm, Solan 64 mm, Nalagarh 39 mm, Kufri 35.5 mm, Bajura and Naina Devi 35 mm each and Shimla 31 mm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/252-himachal-roads-closed-after-landslides-285710
20-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Chamba: Hit by landslip, car falls into Ravi, one dead||Chamba, July 19A car carrying three persons fell into the Ravi after it was hit by a landslide triggered by heavy rain near Gehra on the Chamba-Bharmour National Highway in the district today.On receiving information, local officials along with the police reached the accident site and started a rescue operation. The body of Subhadra Devi was recovered from the river while two other persons, namely Kalyano and Tej Nath (car driver), were still missing.The efforts to locate the two other persons and the car proved to be unsuccessful due to the strong current of the swollen Ravi. They could not be traced till the filling of the story.Meanwhile, traffic on the road came to a standstill because of heavy stones and debris that fell from the hills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-hit-by-landslip-car-falls-into-ravi-one-dead-285711
20-07-2021||Ravinder Sood||Power, water supply affected in Palampur||PALAMPUR, July 19The unprecedented heavy rain for the past 24 hours has paralysed normal life in Palampur, Baijnath and Jaisinghpur.A number of roads were closed, dozens of houses suffered damage, drinking water supply was disrupted and the adjoining villages were without electricity. The local rivers were flowing above the danger mark.A report reaching here said heavy rain in the upper area of the Dhauladhars resulted in flash floods in the local rivers. The roads to Hamirpur, Jaisinghpur and the Pathankot-Mandi national highway remained closed since morning.The traffic on the Pathankot-Mandi NH was suspended last night after a tree fell on it at 61 miles. The NHAI removed it and restored the traffic. A car parked on the road near Panchrukhi was damaged.The road between Bir and Billing was also closed after heavy landslides. Tourist vehicles were not allowed to move beyond Billing.DC Nipun Jindal appealed to residents not to go to riversbeds as the Beas, the Neugal, the Binwa and the Baner were in spate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-water-supply-affected-in-palampur-285712
20-07-2021||PALAMPUR||Mule path to Bara Bhangal restored||The district administration has restored the mule path leading to Bara Bhangal in Kangra district, which was washed away in the recent flash floods.Six bridges on local rivers had also been washed away, suspending the grain supply to the valley.Official sources said today that all bridges had been reconstructed and the mule path had been cleared. A team of the district administration, with the help of locals, restored the supply route.Bara Bhangal is situated at a height of 14,000 feet above the sea level.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mule-path-to-bara-bhangal-restored-285713
20-07-2021||---||Shimla MC proposes 20% hike in shop rentals||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 19The deadlock between the Municipal Corporation and shopkeepers over rent is likely to be broken soon.The MC, in its Finance and Planning Committee meeting today, proposed to increase the rent of its shops by 20 per cent. The proposal, if passed in the House, will provide a big relief to the shopkeepers as the rent will be much less compared to the amount they would have paid if the per-square-foot method was applied.The MC owns around 1,000 shops in the city. The MC had introduced the per-square-foot system to calculate the rent in 2018, but over 300 shopkeepers in Ganj Bazaar and Sabji Mandi opposed the change and had not been paying rent since 2018.“The proposal should be agreeable to everyone. The rent would have risen significantly had it been calculated with the per-square-foot system. We hope the issue will be resolved soon,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli.He said as per the proposal, the minimum rent of each shop would be Rs 500. “The rent will be raised by 10 per cent after every three years. Also, the MC will take the use and occupation charges if some shopkeepers are using extra space,” he said.The shops were leased out to them long back and their rent was not revised. As a result, many shopkeepers were paying as little as Rs 100 to 300 per month prior to 2018.Besides, the Finance and Planning Committee also cleared budget estimates for several development works, including a parking, a park, ambulance roads and streetlights in various parts of the city.Relief to shopkeepersThe proposal, if passed in the House, will provide a big relief to the shopkeepers as the rent will be much less compared to the amount they would have paid if the per-square-foot method was applied.New conditions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mc-proposes-20-hike-in-shop-rentals-285714
20-07-2021||---||Covid-19: To check crowding, benches removed from Shimla  Ridge||Shimla, July 19The district administration has enforced strict restrictions to ensure social distancing after concerns were raised over overcrowding on The Ridge and The Mall here, especially at weekend.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and even courts had expressed concern over surging crowds in the capital city and other popular hill stations.The district administration has regulated the entry of tourists on The Ridge and The Mall, to manage crowding. Also, most of the benches placed on The Ridge have been removed so that people do not crowd the place and keep moving. Only a few benches have been left on The Ridge for the convenience of senior citizens.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that the district administrations should not discourage tourists from coming to Himachal as the hospitality sector had been hit very badly. But at the same time, visitors must behave responsibly and adhere to norms. “My request to tourists is to stay away from rivers and water bodies to avert a mishap,” he said. Overcrowding must be avoided at all cost, as the threat of the third wave of Covid looms large, he addedThe administration and police officials all over the state are strictly ensuing wearing of masks. The police have been deployed in strength to prevent people from sitting or crowding a place, and they are being prodded to keep moving. Those found not wearing masks are being penalised.The officials are conducting regular inspections at hotels in Shimla to ensure social distancing there. Several hotels have been challaned for not ensuring adherence to the SOPs.The police are also doing random checking of tourist vehicles at the inter-state entry points to ensure that they are not carrying swords, sticks or other weapons. This is being done following the incidents of tourists engaging in arguments and even scuffling with police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-to-check-crowding-benches-removed-from-shimla-ridge-285715
20-07-2021||---||Power staff protest Amendment Bill||shimla, July 19   Power engineers and employees held a protest meeting here today against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021. They pledged to go on a one-day strike on August 10 if the Bill was not withdrawn by the Centre. The Bill has been listed for the monsoon session of Parliament.  Lokesh Thakur, president, Himachal Power Engineers’ Association (HPEA), said the Bill should be referred to the Standing Committee on energy. “Power consumers and employees should be given the opportunity to place their views,” said Thakur.  He said the Bill would pave the way for the privatisation of power distribution through de-licensing. “Private power companies will go for cherry picking in supplying electricity to consumers and will prefer to supply electricity to only high-revenue earning industrial and commercial consumers,” he said. The office-bearers of various organisations will hold a four-day satyagraha at Shram Shakti Bhawan, New Delhi, from August 3 after holding state-level conventions of power employees and engineers in all state capitals on July 29.  Thakur said the consumers and power sector employees and engineers were being ignored in finalising the draft Bill. “The Centre has not made any effort to discuss the issues with the staff,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-staff-protest-amendment-bill-285716
20-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Hamirpur: NIT makes O2 cylinder replacement machine||Hamirpur, July 19Students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) here have developed a semi-automatic oxygen cylinder replacement machine for Covid patients at Dr Radhakrishnan Medical College and Hospital. The machine will be beneficial for Covid patients, who need four litres per minute pressure during hospitalisation.It takes at least four persons and half-an-hour to replace the empty cylinder and restore oxygen supply. This was creating problems for the health staff and resulting in serious problems. Debasweta Banik, Deputy Commissioner, initiated the process to rope in technical help from the NIT, and Lalit Awasthi, Director, NIT, assigned the task to mechanical and electrical wings of the institute.Rajat Anant, a student of electrical engineering, under the guidance of Dr RK Jaryal and Dr Rajesh Kumar developed the automatic machine that can replace the oxygen cylinder within five to seven minutes. Medical oxygen cylinders used in hospitals generally weigh about 40-70 kg.The Deputy Commissionersaid the semi-automatic machine developed by the NIT would be a support for the health staff. She said carrying oxygen cylinders to wards was time consuming and any delay could pose a threat to patients.This machine would help in providing faster services to the patients, in case the third wave of Covid-19 spreads, the Deputy Commissionersaid.The test run of the machine was successful, and if required, more could be prepared, said Lalit Awasthi, Director, NIT.Support to health staff||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-nit-makes-o2-cylinder-replacement-machine-285717
20-07-2021||Dinesh Kanwar
||Students denied jabs in Hamirpur||Hamirpur, July 19 Some students, who had registered themselves for the Covid vaccine, were allegedly denied jabs at a centre at Dhangota village in Barsar subdivision of the district today.  The health authorities organised a vaccination camp at the health centre and some college students came there as early as 5.30 am to get their names registered. Though their names were among the first 50 registered persons on the list, they were denied the vaccine. Anchal, a student, alleged that the health staff refused to vaccinate her without giving any reason. She required vaccination to appear in her university exams. She said that the health staff was following a pick and choose policy for vaccination.  RK Agnihotri, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), said that he would speak to the Block Medical Officer to improve the working of the vaccination centre. Unfortunately,  despite the intervention of the CMO, the mess continued at the Dhangota vaccination centre till the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-denied-jabs-in-hamirpur-285718
20-07-2021||Shimla||Industries Dept, NIFT sign MoU to set up 12th incubation centre||The Industries Department and the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) campus, Chheb, Kangra, have signed an MoU to assist the institution in setting up an incubator to establish an ecosystem for innovation projects and start-ups. The NIFT is a state of the art centre having AI and ARVR lab that will help the young entrepreneurs experiment with their ideas. This is the 12th incubation centre being set up in the state. The MoU was signed between Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, Director, Industries Department, and Aakash Dewangan, director, NIFT, Chheb. A spokesperson for the Industries Department said here today to promote the untapped creativity of individual innovators, the government had formulated a scheme for providing support to start-ups and for entrepreneurial and managerial development of small and medium enterprises through incubators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industries-dept-nift-sign-mou-to-set-up-12th-incubation-centre-285719
20-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Muck disposal damages water mills in Sirmaur||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 19Three traditional water mills, locally called ‘gharats’, have been damaged due to reckless dumping of muck by a private company engaged in the widening of a section of the Paonta Sahib-Hatkoti National Highway at Haivena village in Sirmaur district.These mills support the rural economy in Sirmaur district, where there are only a few means of livelihood are available. Besides, culverts have also been damaged due to the faulty muck disposal at Sataun village by company workers and the natural flow of water has been diverted towards arable fields. An artificial lake has also been created at the village, which has aggravated the problem.The highway widening work began some months ago. Though sites for dumping muck were earmarked, the lack of proper disposal exposed the shoddy working of RG Buildwell Engineers Ltd.At Khajiaar village in Kamrau tehsil, too, a potable water resource has been damaged, causing hardships to people. Locals apprised Paonta Sahib SDM Vivek Mahajan about the problem when he visited the area on Saturday last.Taking a stern view of the matter, Mahajan directed RG Buildwell Engineers Ltd, which is engaged in widening a section of the highway, to lay culverts to make the windmills functional again.Mahajan said, “The company unscientifically dumped muck at Haivena village. The muck flowed to the ‘gharats’ due to heavy rains and damaged them. The company staff has been directed to make them functional again and also extend immediate relief to the affected families”.The company has also been directed to restore water supply and arrange water storage tanks, besides repairing the link roads in the affected villages. Measures like building crate wire structures and retaining walls at the dumping sites has also been suggested.Notably, the 104-km stretch of the highway falling in Himachal is being widened to four lanes at a cost of Rs 1,351.62 crore. It is a Green National Highways Corridor Project that aims at enhancing the effectiveness of the transport network with cost and natural resource efficiency.The World Bank has provided financial assistance for the project. Three companies are engaged in various sections of the highway.Unscientific dumpingThe work to widen the Paonta Sahib-Hatkoti Highway began some months ago. The sites for dumping muck were earmarked, but the lack of proper disposal by RG Buildwell Engineers Ltd exposed its shoddy working.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/muck-disposal-damages-water-mills-in-sirmaur-285720
20-07-2021||Belletristic||Session on Salman Rushdie at Shoolini University||Entries open for National Unity AwardThe Director Higher Education has asked the deputy directors of the department to circulate the letter regarding recommendations for the Sardar Patel National Unity Award 2021 among the educational institutions under their control, so that the eligible candidates could send their entries for the award from July 1 to August 15. The Sardar Patel National Unity Award is the highest civilian award given for contribution to the unity and integrity of India. The Sardar Patel National Unity Award will be announced on October 31 on National Unity Day.Make fee payment easy, says ABVPThe Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad has urged the principal of Government College, Sanjauli, to ensure students did not face any issues regarding payment of fee in the new session. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishadrequested the principal to ensure the there no no problem in the functioning of the fee portal and apps such as Google Pay and Paytm were added to it. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad also demanded that all construction activities on the college premises should be completed at the earliest, and garbage littered on the campus should be cleared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/session-on-salman-rushdie-at-shoolini-university-285740
20-07-2021||At least six sewer manholes on the Dharamsala-Delhi highway||Manhole covers demand repair||Potholed road hinders movement of trucks The road from Chailla to Maipul that connects upper Shimla area to Solan is full of potholes. The road is widely used during the apple season, as most of the trucks from the Parala, Mandi, take this route. The authorities concerned should have repaired the road in time, as the apple season has already begun. —Lalit Sharma, TheogIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manhole-covers-demand-repair-285741
20-07-2021||Mandi||Manali road blocked, tourists stranded||The traffic movement between Mandi and Kullu on the Chandigarh-Manali highway was hampered for almost nine hours today following a massive landslide near Pandoh in the district. Hundreds of tourists, including children, were stranded. However, the highway was restored to traffic around 4.15 pm.The landslide triggered by heavy rain was reported around 7.30 am. As the rain slowed, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the debris from the highway. A vehicle was damaged in the landslide, while people travelling in a car had a narrow escape.Besides, the alternative Mandi-Kullu road via Kataula was also blocked due to a big landslide near Kandi in the district. However, the road was restored to traffic around 2.30 pm.Long queues of vehicles were noticed on the Chandigarh-Manali highway near Pandoh and on the Mandi-Kullu road at Kandi. The Sarkaghat-Dharampur highway was also blocked due to a landslip. Around 48 link roads were blocked in the district, though a few of them were cleared of the debris. Seraj, the home constituency of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, was the worst affected as 24 roads were blocked there due to landslides.Similarly, the Manali-Leh highway was blocked near Sarchu for sometime, but the BRO restored it.According to Additional District Magistrate, Mandi, Rajiv Kumar, no loss of life due to heavy rain was reported in the district. Additional SP Ashish Sharma advised people to avoid journeying on the Chandigarh-Manali highway during night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-road-blocked-tourists-stranded-285637
20-07-2021||Vijay Mohan||Monsoon revives over North India on a strong note, but rain deficient in Punjab, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19While widespread rain that lashed most parts of northern India during the past 24 hours was significantly more that what is normally experienced during this particular period, monsoon for the month of July still remains below par in Punjab and Haryana.In Haryana, rain was above normal by as much as 580 per cent since yesterday, while it was in excess by 244 per cent and 74 percent in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, respectively.According to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Haryana received 31.3 mm rain over the past 24 hours as compared to the normal of 4.6 mm. Himachal experienced 35.8 mm rain against the normal of 10.4 mm while Punjab received 9.2 mm against the normal of 5.3 mm.While the revival of monsoon over north India has been on a strong note rain during the month of July has been below normal by 46 percent in Punjab and 5 percent in Haryana. Himachal has fared a little better with rain being 6 per cent above normal so far during this month.According to the IMD, the present spell of heavy to very heavy rainfall activity is very likely to continue till July 20, with widespread rain and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over western Himalayan region including Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, as well as adjoining northwest India that includes Punjab, Haryana and east Rajasthan. Thereafter decrease in rainfall activity over the same regions is expected.Rain in June had been surplus, with the IMD announcing the arrival on monsoon over north India in mid-June, about 15 days ahead of schedule. In the beginning of this month, monsoon weakened with only isolated showers being experienced in some parts of the region.Though the skies over most parts of the region remained cloudy or partially cloudy with intermittent rain in some parts over the past three to four days, heavy rain were experienced only during the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monsoon-revives-over-north-india-on-a-strong-note-but-rain-deficient-in-punjab-haryana-285416
20-07-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Strict Covid regulations enforced to streamline tourist rush at Shimla’s Ridge||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 19Following concerns over overcrowding on the Ridge and the Mall, especially on weekends, the district administration has enforced strict Covid restrictions to ensure social-distancing.With concerns being raised from various quarters, including the Indian Council of Medical Research and the courts, on the surging crowds in the Queen of Hills and at other popular hill stations, the administration has enforced strict regulations.The administration has regulated the entry of tourists onto the Ridge and the Mall. Also, most of the benches placed on the Ridge have been removed so that people do not crowd there and keep moving. Only a few benches have been left for the convenience of senior citizens.Police officials have been told to ensure strict adherence to wearing of masks. Police have been deployed in larger numbers to prevent people from sitting or crowding. Those found without masks are being challaned.The officials have been undertaking regular checking in hotels to ensure that social-distancing norms are being adhered to. Several hotels have been challaned for not ensuring adherence to Covid Standard Operating Procedures.Police are undertaking random checking of tourist vehicles at the inter-state entry points to ensure that they do not carry weapons. This has been done following tourists indulging in arguments and scuffle with police who check them for not wearing masks.The checking was put in place following tourists brandishing swords after an argument with the locals in Manali.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has urged tourists to behave responsibly and adhere to Covid norms in view of a possible third Covid wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/strict-covid-regulations-enforced-to-streamline-tourist-rush-at-shimlas-ridge-285355
