21-07-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: No death reported in Himachal Pradesh in three days||No Covid-related deaths were reported for the third consecutive day in Himachal Pradesh that reported 67 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, officials said.The new cases took the virus count to 2,04,685, a health official said.The state has so far reported 3,491 deaths due to the virus.The active caseload reached 941 in the hill state after 83 more patients were cured of the infection, the health official said, adding the number of recoveries went up to 2,00,233. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-no-death-reported-in-himachal-pradesh-in-three-days-286335
21-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Road blocked by mudslide, Chamba's 'Baahubali' carries bike on shoulders||Chandigarh, July 21Amid the monsoon tragedies in Himachal, stories of grit and survival too have been emerging.In the latest incident in Chamba, a youth, in a viral video, hailed as "Baahubali" is purportedly seen carrying his motorbike on his shoulders after the link road he was driving on was blocked by a landslide.Determined to move ahead, the youth decides to lift the bike and cross the road, though he can be seen struggling to accomplish the task amid the muddy track.On July 12, a girl whose house had collapsed following a mudslide in Boh valley of Kangra had saved her own life and that of her parents by reaching out to a phone and calling for help from underneath the fallen roof of the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-blocked-by-mudslide-chambas-baahubali-carries-bike-on-shoulders-286266
21-07-2021||The HP University Teachers’ Association (HPUTA) submitted a memorandum through HPU VC to the state government||Implement UGC scales: HPUTA||Applications invited for PhDThe HPU has invited online applications for admission to PhD programme for the session 2021-22 in various subjects. The admission will be direct, with no entrance test. The subject for which the applications have been invited are chemistry (17 seats), mathematics (7), physics (13), botany (16 seats), zoology (13 seats), biotechnology (7 seats), computer science (5 seats), English (12 seats), history(6 seats), Hindi (11 seats), Sanskrit (2 seats), commerce(8 seats), economics (8 seats) and music (2 seats).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/implement-ugc-scales-hputa-286188
21-07-2021||The road from the Cart Road to the Lady Reading Hospital is perpetually choked with traffic. The problem gets aggravated when the tourist season is at its peak||Traffic congestion on road to hospital||Vehicles parked on narrow roadThe vehicles parked on the side of a narrow and steep road, heading to the lower Panthaghati, cause inconvenience to commuters. These vehicles leave little space for other vehicles to pass. For those, who are not comfortable driving on steep roads, this stretch can be dangerous. — Sandeep Sharma, New ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-congestion-on-road-to-hospital-286187
21-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Eight days on, Dharamsala localities battle water crisis||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 20Many areas in Dharamsala have been without water since July 12, the day when a flash flood hit the region.Many areas are getting water supply for just one hour after every two days. In some areas of McLeodganj, people claim that they are collecting rainwater from their roofs to take a bath.Naresh Sharma, a resident of Ram Nagar, alleged that the fear of disease outbreak loomed in the area, as people were not flushing their toilets. He had not seen such an acute water shortage for decades, he said.Vikas, a resident of Naddi, said they had not got water supply for the past eight days. The people were ordering tankers and using bottled water for drinking purpose, which was proving costly.Executive Engineer Sarvan Thakur said most water schemes to Naddi had been repaired. He, however, admitted that there was rationing of water in many areas due to various reasons.He said many water schemes were again damaged after heavy rain yesterday. The muddy water in the streams had choked the filters, resulting in the shortage of the water supply.The Executive Engineer said the worst-affected areas were Ram Nagar and Shyam Nagar where water was being supplied every alternate day.He said the water was supplied to Naddi from the Gajj river. The water heads in the river were damaged due to the flash flood. The river was in spate so technicians had not been able to cross the river and repair the water supply schemes, Thakur said.In Chatru, a transformer was washed away, disrupting the power supply. The power was restored yesterday, he said.The flash flood had damaged 23 of the 38 water schemes in Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eight-days-on-dharamsala-localities-battle-water-crisis-286039
21-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Palampur: JCB machine operator’s body found in rivulet||Palampur, July 20The body of a man identified as Vipan Kumar, a JCB machine operator, was recovered from a local rivulet last evening by the police.The deceased had been missing for the past two days. He had not returned to his home after his duty with a local contractor.Palampur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Mohan Lal said the police received a call from villagers that a body was floating in a local rivulet, near Lahala village, 10 km from Palampur.The police team, headed by local Station House Officer (SHO) Sandeep Sharma, immediately reached the spot and recovered the body.The police said it was believed that while he was on the way to his native village, he might have slipped into the rivulet flooded due to heavy rain. After the post-mortem the police handed over the body to the family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-jcb-machine-operators-body-found-in-rivulet-286040
21-07-2021||Mandi||1 nabbed with leopard hide at Sarkaghat in Mandi||One person was arrested with leopard skin, nails and teeth at Sarkaghat in Mandi. The accused was identified as Ram Singh, a native of Sarkaghat in Mandi district.On a tip-off, the police raided a hotel at Sarkaghat and nabbed the accused along with the animal skin. The police have seized two skins of leopard, 14 nails and 10 teeth.As per the police, the accused was involved in this illicit trade since long and selling the skin of leopard and other body parts to customers. However, the exact details were yet to be found out.Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said a case was registered under Section of 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act at Sarkaghat police station in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-nabbed-with-leopard-hide-at-sarkaghat-in-mandi-286041
21-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Chaos as people scramble for jabs in Himachal's Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 20Chaos prevailed at several centres as the state government resumed vaccination at common centres from today.As per the new arrangement, all age groups can be vaccinated at a common centre. Earlier separate days were earmarked for vaccinating 18 — 44 age group, 45 plus and other priority groups. The staggered arrangement had streamlined the process as only limited people used to turn up at each centre.Since vaccination had been put on hold for the 18- 44 age group earlier this month owing to shortage of vaccines, a significant number of people from this age group turned up at various centres to get jabs today. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at Dharampur and Deothi centres as Covid norms went for a toss.Beneficiaries, who had booked online slots, had to jostle to secure registration. The health staff engaged in administering the jab had a tough time managing the huge rush as people were desperate to get the jabs.Amid reports of a looming third wave, desperation was seen in the crowd. “Several people, who had booked online slots, had to return without getting a jab amid huge rush and chaos at Dharampur vaccination centre,” informed Ravi, who was among those who failed to get the jab.A lone policeman found it difficult to manage the crowd. “More policemen were sent to the vaccination centre at Dharampur in view of the large turnout,” informed sources at Dharampur.The health department has put a cap on the number of jabs which can be administered daily in each district.In Solan district a maximum of 6,800 people can be vaccinated in a day and 30 to 50 centres are selected by the health officials each day on rotation.Chief Medical Officer Dr Rajan Uppal said they were vaccinating 4,000 persons per day earlier. Now, 6,800 jabs were being administered in a day. If more doses are allocated they can enhance this number.A token system was introduced and remaining beneficiaries were directed to turn up the next day, Uppal said.As many as 3,96,246 people were vaccinated till last evening. These comprise 15,176 healthcare workers, 55,514 frontline workers, 1,13,927 people in 18 — 44 years age, 1,40,349 in 45 — 60 years age group and 71,280 above 60. He confirmed that the reports of rush at Dharampur and Deothi centres were received today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chaos-as-people-scramble-for-jabs-in-himachals-solan-286042
21-07-2021||Subhash Rajta
||Public transport to have exigency alert||Tribune News Service Shimla, July 20 Public transport vehicles (buses and taxis) are likely to become safer for passengers, especially for women and children, within next six months.  The Transport Department is working to set up a monitoring cell and integrate it with the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) to provide a quick response to distress alerts emanating from public transport vehicles fitted with a vehicle location tracking device (VLTD) and emergency buttons. “Whenever a passenger presses the emergency button in a public transport vehicle, our monitoring cell will receive the alert and it will be passed on to the ERSS for immediate intervention,” says Hemis Negi, Additional Commissioner, Transport Department. In view of the gruesome Nirbhaya murder case in Delhi in 2012, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had issued instructions for the installation of VLTDs and multiple emergency buttons in all public transport vehicles. Later, the directions were amended and only vehicles registered on and after January 1, 2019, were to be fitted with these devices. “We have around 7,000 vehicles fitted with these devices at present. Depending on how the initiative works in these vehicles, the government can take a decision to install the equipment in the remaining vehicles, too,” says Negi. Of late, the department has shown urgency in making this safety feature fully operational. Besides signing an MoU with the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways for the implementation of the project, a team of the state Transport Department visited Kerala and Delhi some time ago to study the systems set up there. “Monitoring cells have been set up in these states but they have not yet been integrated with the ERSS. HP can be the first state to integrate the monitoring cell with the ERSS and make the facility effective,” he says. “We have hired the Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit System (DIMTS) as consultant to help us to set up and implement the project,” he adds.  The Union Government is providing financial assistance under the Nirbhaya Framework to help the states with the infrastructure and make the project operational. “The estimated cost of the project is Rs 10.40 crore. The Union Government has released 90 per cent of the funds, and the state will bear the remaining 10 per cent,” says Negi.  The VLTD device can be used for several other purposes. “The device will also send out speed violation and route violation alerts. More add-on features can be provided, if required,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/public-transport-to-have-exigency-alert-286043
21-07-2021||---||Act against firms selling spurious seeds: Himachal farmers||Shimla, July 20The Himachal Kisan Sabha has demanded strict action against companies that allegedly sold fake seeds of cauliflower and tomatoes to farmers.The Kisan Sabha also said that these companies should be made to compensate for the losses suffered by the famers because of the fake seeds.While staging a protest in Mashobra today, the Kisan Sabha gave a memorandum to the Chief Minister through the local Block Development Officer. Kisan Sabha president Kuldeep Tanwar said the companies had cheated farmers by selling spurious seeds to them.“Because of these seeds, tomatoes of odd shape and sizes have grown in Solan. In Theog and Mashobra blocks, cauliflower of different colours, shapes and sizes have grown,” Tanwar said, adding that if the companies did not compensate the farmers, these would not be allowed to operate in the state.Meanwhile, Kisan Sabha leader Satyawan Pundir demanded the rollback of the increase in the prices of crates and trays.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/act-against-firms-selling-spurious-seeds-himachal-farmers-286044
21-07-2021||Solan||Paonta Sahib cops to block entry of Kanwariyas||The Paonta Sahib police have decided to block the entry of Kanwariyas at the inter-state barriers to stop them from undertaking the Kanwar yatra to Uttarakhand.In a coordination meeting at Haridwar today, Paonta Sahib police officials were apprised about the steps taken by the Uttarakhand Police to stop Kanwariyas at the state borders.“As Kanwariyas from Haryana and Punjab travel to Haridwar from Paonta Sahib, directions have been given to the police deployed at various inter-state barriers to stop them from entering Himachal,” said DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur, who attended the meeting at Haridwar.“About 31 per cent of the Kanwariyas from Haryana and seven to eight per cent from Punjab use the Paonta Sahib route to enter Uttarakhand. Posters will be pasted and placards will be installed at the barriers to apprise the Kanwariyas about the ban on the yatra imposed by the Uttarakhand Government. If a Kanwariya still manages to enter Utatrakhand, he will be quarantined for 14 days”.The move is aimed to peacefully convince the Shiv devotees to return in view of the apparent danger of the third wave of Covid.The DSP said that necessary directions had been issued to the police staff posted at various inter-state barriers such as Behral, Haripur Khol and Kala Amb. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-cops-to-block-entry-of-kanwariyas-286045
21-07-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh Mid-day Meal Workers Union protest, demand pay hike||Shimla, July 20Himachal Pradesh Mid-day Meal Workers Union has demanded that their monthly salary of Rs 2,600 per month be hiked to Rs 9,000. Alleging that the salary of mid-day meal workers has remained unchanged since 2009, the union said its members were totally sidelined as there was no provision for leave, EPF and medical facilities for them.Union secretary Himi Devi, while participating in the protest outside Education Directorate today, said the minimum salary of the mid-day meal worker should be fixed at Rs 9,000 per month. “Mid-day meal workers perform all kinds of duties. So they should be appointed as multi-task workers and regularised. The union also demanded that they should get two dresses in a year, Rs 4 lakh as gratuity on retirement and some insurance scheme,” she said.The union also alleged that the Central government was conspiring to privatise the mid-day meal scheme, which was evident in the reducing budget for the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-mid-day-meal-workers-union-protest-demand-pay-hike-286046
21-07-2021||---||102 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, July 20 As many as 102 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, taking the tally to 204,618. However, there was no death due to the virus for the third consecutive day.  The highest number of 24 cases was reported in Mandi, followed by 20 in Shimla,15 each in Chamba and Kangra, seven in Hamirpur, six in Bilaspur, five each in Una and Kinnaur, two each in Solan and Kullu and one in Sirmaur. The number of active cases declined to 957.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/102-new-covid-cases-no-death-in-himachal-pradesh-286047
21-07-2021||Vijay Arora||Amend policy for PG admissions, Himachal Pradesh HC to govt||Shimla, July 20The HP High Court has directed the state government to amend its 2019 policy formulated to regulate admissions to various post graduate (PG), super-specialty in medical education applicable in the state by reducing the mandatory period of service by the doctors from four/five years to two years.While passing the judgment, Justice Sandeep Sharma observed that the “period of mandatory service provided under Clause 6.1 of the policy, by no stretch of imagination, can be said to be reasonable and as such, it deserves to be reduced to two years.”The court observed that “though the policy provides an opportunity to General Duty Officers (GDOs) having a PG degree to take admission to super-specialty courses as sponsored candidates, before doing so they are compelled to have completed a mandatory service of four/five years on account of they having furnished bonds at the time of taking admission to the PG course in terms of the aforesaid policy.”It observed that “In case postgraduates are made to wait for five years to apply for a super-specialty course, it is not only the state, which will be deprived of the services of super-specialists for some time, but also the candidates will not have admission to the super-specialty course at the first opportunity”.“This court can take a judicial note of the fact that there is a dearth of doctors in the state. What to talk of super-specialists, hospitals like the IGMC, Shimla, and Dr RPGMC, Tanda (Kangra) do not have the adequate faculty to serve the public at large. Besides, the respondent-state has opened five new colleges, which are being run by the faculty appointed on a contractual basis and as such, it would be expedient and in the interest of the public at large that more doctors are sent for super-specialty courses so that the people of the state are not compelled to go to Chandigarh or Delhi for their medical treatment,” the court stated.The court passed the judgment on a bunch of petitions filed by the doctors challenging the condition of the mandatory period of service laid down in the 2019 policy framed by the state for taking admissions to PG and super-specialty courses.While disposing of the petitions the court directed the government to issue NOCs to all petitioners as they have completed two years bonded service under the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amend-policy-for-pg-admissions-himachal-pradesh-hc-to-govt-286048
21-07-2021||---||Roads damaged in Kangra, Chamba||Dharamsala, July 20 Heavy rains in the region in the past two days have damaged many roads in Kangra and Chamba districts, disrupting traffic and affecting the mobility of people. In Dharamsala, traffic on the Sheela-Bagli road was disrupted after a road stretch was washed away due to a flash flood in the Manjhi river. A portion of the road was washed away in the July 12 flash flood. After yesterday’s heavy rainfall, more damage was caused to the road due to which traffic on the portion was suspended. The Multhan area, one of the remotest area of Kangra district, has lost all links as the road to the region has been cut off due to landslides. The PWD is trying to restore traffic.  Traffic was also disrupted on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway that traverses through Kangra district. In Chamba district, many areas of the tribal Bharmour region were cut off due to landslides. The landslides triggered by heavy rains have led to the disruption of power supply in many remote areas of Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roads-damaged-in-kangra-chamba-286049
21-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal cabinet to decide on opening coaching centres, schools||The Cabinet, at its meeting on July 22, will take a call on opening residential schools, coaching centres and allowing board Class X and XII in the wake of a steep decline in Covid cases.The Education Department will make a presentation before the Cabinet about the situation and the possibility of resuming classes in schools. According to sources, almost 93 per cent of the Education Department employees have already been vaccinated.The Cabinet will consider the overall Covid situation to decide to allow residential schools to reopen. Some prominent residential schools in Shimla, Kasauli and Dalhousie had reopened but after several students and teachers tested Covid positive, these institutions were forced to send children home. It is likely that Class IX to XII will be allowed.The students and their parents, especially those studying medical and non-medical streams, have been persistently requesting the government to allow coaching centres to open so that they can prepare for the entrance examinations. In the absence of physical teaching in classes, the students are dependent on online teaching.So far, the government has only allowed medical colleges and ITIs to function, as practical teaching is important there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cabinet-to-decide-on-opening-coaching-centres-schools-286050
21-07-2021||Abhinav Vashisht
||Fraudster cheats Delhi man, arrested in Manali||Kullu, July 20 The Kullu police cyber cell has arrested a fraudster for cheating people by presenting himself as a retired Colonel of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO).  Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said that they had received a complaint that a person from Manali called up the complainant and introduced himself as a retired Colonel of the BRO. He claimed that he could manage a bulk order of goods required by the BRO. The SP said that the complainant came from Delhi to Manali to negotiate the deal and it was settled. The complainant gave Rs 25,000 to the fraudster, who assured him of sending a quotation but later he switched off his mobile phone and disappeared.  Sharma said that the cyber cell team traced the fraudster, Anil Gupta (45), who was staying as a tenant at Patlikul in Manali, and nabbed him with the help of the local police. He added that during interrogation, Gupta, a native of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, confessed to having cheated several people in various states in the past 21 years. He had targeted many people in Mumbai, Punjab, Chandigarh, Mohali, Uttarakhand, Mandi and Kullu.  The accused stated that he used to call up people and cheat them in a professional way. The SP said that Gupta used to change his mobile phone number and location after every fraud. Instead of committing big frauds, he used to commit small frauds thinking that the police would not register a case and if caught, the matter could be settled mutually.  The SP said that the accused had also created many fake email IDs in the name of the BRO and also made fake stamps and letterhead pads. He added that Gupta had duped many persons and several suspicious items were recovered from him. Many bank account details, ATM cards, mobile phones, SIM cards were recovered and the investigation is underway.  He said that Gupta was living in Manali for the past two years. He added that the accused disclosed that he had never been caught.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fraudster-cheats-delhi-man-arrested-in-manali-286051
21-07-2021||---||Arki bypoll: Ex-BJP MLA Govind Ram Sharma skips meeting||Solan, July 20A meeting was convened by BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna at Arki today to select a strong candidate for the Assembly bypoll. The seat has fallen vacant after the death of MLA Virbhadra Singh.It was attended by party organisational secretary Pawan Rana, district president Ashutosh Vaiya and Shimla Lok Sabha in-charge Purshottam Guleria.Former MLA Govind Ram Sharma and Zila Parishad member Asha Parihar did not attend the meeting. Sharma is peeved at the indifferent treatment being meted out to him after he was denied ticket in the last elections. Though he was promised a post, he has been ignored by the party.Sharma and Parihar, however, met senior leaders separately after the meeting at Arki. Sharma was trying to show his strength as two zila parishad members, including Asha Parihar, have openly come out in his support.Sharma has expressed resentment against Rattan Pal, who had unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly poll against Virbahdra Singh and was made the chairman of the State Cooperative Development Federation in October last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arki-bypoll-ex-bjp-mla-govind-ram-sharma-skips-meeting-286052
21-07-2021||KULLU||1.40 cr saplings to be planted in 2021: Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur planted a  Rudraksh sapling during the 72nd state-level Van Mahotsav function at Nirmand in Anni subdivision of the district today.  He said that the forests of Himachal have special importance, as they contribute to balancing the delicate environment of the Himalayan region. He added that a target had been fixed to plant about 1.40 crore saplings on over 14,000 hectares this year.  “Ek Buta Beti Ke Naam has also been launched in the state to ensure the empowerment of the girl child and increase forest cover in the state,” he said. Thakur said that the Himalayas are the lungs of the nation and it was everybody’s duty to conserve and protect forests. He said that during this two-day campaign, about 11 lakh saplings would be planted at 246 places.   Thakur said HimCare, Sahara Yojana, Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana and many others had proved a boon to the poor. He also released a booklet highlighting the development milestones achieved in the Anni Vidhan Sabha area. Thakur honoured forest officers, officials, village forest committees. He inaugurated and laid foundation stones of development projects worth about Rs 234 crore in the Anni Vidhan Sabha area.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-40-cr-saplings-to-be-planted-in-2021-himachal-cm-286053
21-07-2021||---||5 more deaths, Himachal rain fury toll climbs to 164||Shimla, July 20With five more deaths in the past 24 hours, the toll in rain-related incidents in Himachal Pradesh since June 13 has reached 164, while five persons are reported missing.The maximum number of deaths were reported in Shimla district (27), followed by Mandi and Kangra (18 each) and Sirmaur and Chamba (17 each).According to the Revenue Department and Disaster Management Cell, 79 houses have been damaged completely and 316 partially.The cumulative loss to the PWD and Irrigation and Public Health Department due to the rains has been estimated at Rs 19,368.61 lakh and Rs 7,539.75 lakh, respectively.At least 360 roads, including 185 in Mandi zone, 93 in Shimla zone and 81 in Kangra zone, are closed. Of these, 275 roads are expected to be opened to traffic by Wednesday.Monsoon mayhem27 deaths (most in state) in Shimla district395 houses damaged totally or partially360 roads shut due to landslides131 mm rain in Nurpur, highest in state93 roads closed in Shimla, 185 in Mandi, 81 in Kangra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-more-deaths-himachal-rain-fury-toll-climbs-to-164-285981
