22-07-2021||Solan||800 saplings planted in Solan village||As many as 800 saplings were planted at Nandal village of Ochaghat panchayat in Solan block today as part of the 72nd Van Mahotsav celebration under the aegis of the Forest Department and the Red Cross Society.SDM Ajay Yadav said 50 plants were planted by girls of nearby villages as part of the “Ek Boota Beti Ke Naam” for setting up a Balika Samman Vatika.BJP Mahila Morcha state president Rashim Dhar Sood said the vatika would create positive thinking towards the girlchild. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/800-saplings-planted-in-solan-village-286378
22-07-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 67 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal||As many as 67 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, taking the tally to 204,685. However, no death due to the virus was reported for the fourth consecutive day.The highest 29 cases were reported in Chamba, followed by 11 in Mandi, seven each in Bilaspur and Kulu, three each in Solan and Kinnaur, two each in Hamirpur, Kangra and Shimla and one in Una. The active cases declined to 941. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-67-new-covid-cases-no-death-in-himachal-286379
22-07-2021||Kullu||Lahaul girl gets admission to Sainik School in Sujanpur Tihra||Anvesha Malpa (12) of Malang village in Lahaul and Spiti has become the first girl in the tribal district to get admission on merit to Class VI in Sainik School, Sujanpur Tihra. She secured 171 marks in the entrance examination and topped in the ST girls’ category in Himachal.Anvesha is at present studying in a private school at Kullu. She also actively takes part in sports and other activities. She has done the basic course in ice hockey. She was badminton champ in the under-13 category in a district-level competition. She also won the 3,000-metre race and stood second in the 5,000-metre race in the under-20 category in the district-level athletics meet.She says she wants to become an Army officer. Her father Suresh Malpa is associated with the tourism industry and mother Savita is employed in the Health Department. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-girl-gets-admission-to-sainik-school-in-sujanpur-tihra-286380
22-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Poor students given cellphones in Kullu||KULLU, JULY 21Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur distributed free smartphones to 30 students in Government Senior Secondary School, Raison, in Manali subdivision of the district today.The minister said that the main objective of this campaign was to provide smartphones to the underprivileged and needy children studying in schools so that they could continue their studies through online medium. As many as 20 smart phones were donated by Adhvan Suri, son of local businessman Munir Suri, five by School Management Committee and five by the school staff. He said that social organisations and businessmen of the district were also coming forward for this noble deed.The minister appealed to affluent sections of society to extend their cooperation so that no student lagged behind in studies due to the lack of smartphones. He expressed his gratitude to all donors and appealed to others to come forward to help needy students. He presented a memento to Adhvan Suri.Earlier, the Principal of the school, Lalit Mohan Sharma welcomed the chief guest and honoured him by presenting him a cap, a muffler and a memento. He gave detailed information about the smartphone distribution program organized by the school administration along with the development works being done for the all-round development of the children.The principal said that free smartphones were distributed to 25 students of the school last year by the local resident and social worker Manav Khullar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-students-given-cellphones-in-kullu-286381
22-07-2021||Ravinder Sood||Bridge on Palampur-Hamirpur highway near Thural endangered due to illegal mining||Palampur, July 21A bridge on the Palampur-Hamirpur highway near Government Degree College, Thural, is on the verge of collapse. Large-scale illegal and unscientific mining has posed a serious threat to the existence of the bridge. The mining mafia has constructed a road below the bridge to reach the riverbed.Villagers told this correspondent that illegal mining was going on in Neugal everyday. The local authorities were well aware of the situation but no steps had been taken to dismantle the illegal road.The villagers alleged that the state agencies had surrendered before the mafia. Several tractor-trailers and tippers could be seen on the riverbed everyday extracting sand, stone, gravels and other mining material. The mafia had dug deep trenches near the pillars of the bridge, which had further weakened its foundations.Local residents Varun Bhuria, Chander Mohan Gautama, Ashwani Rana, Surinder Rana, Rajesh Kumar, Munish Kumar, Nikhil and Arvind Kumar said despite a ban, the mafia had pressed JCB machines for illegal mining in the river. They had decided to stop the illegal mining if departments failed to act. They said that the river was considered the lifeline of the people as it feeds 100 water supply schemes in Palampur, Bhawarna, Sulah and Thural.The villagers said local roads, bridges, irrigation channels, cremation grounds and village pastures had been damaged because of continuous illegal mining.Rajiv Kalia, District Mining Officer, said his team raided the site and fined a number of defaulters. The Mining Department also dismantled the illegal road, leading to the mining sites. No one would be allowed to enter the Neugal for illegal mining. He also appealed to local residents to help the department in checking illegal mining in Thural.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bridge-on-palampur-hamirpur-highway-near-thural-endangered-due-to-illegal-mining-286382
22-07-2021||Vijay Arora||Probe why lab assistant posts not filled, says HP High Court||Shimla, July 21The HP High Court has taken serious note of the office of the Director Health Services not taking timely steps to fill three posts of lab assistant (Allopathy) and directed the Principal Secretary (Health) to conduct an inquiry into the matter and fix the responsibility of the erring officials/ officers, irrespective of their rank(s) and profile(s).While passing the order, a division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya observed that “the instant case depicts the sordid, despotic and nepotic functioning of the office of the Director Health where despite there being three vacancies, no steps were taken to fill the posts from the waiting list.The court passed the judgment on a petition filed by Varun Dhiman, who contended that on September 4, 2017, the Director Health sent a requisition to the State Subordinate Staff Selection Commission for filling the vacant posts of Laboratory Assistant.Pursuant to the requisition, the commission recommended 102 candidates, who were offered appointment on June 21, 2019. However, 22 of the 102 candidates did not join duty. Thereafter, the Director Health again requested the commission to recommend the names of 22 more candidates from the waiting list. The commission recommended the names of 22 candidates, who were offered appointment on November 23, 2019. However, once again, three of the 22 candidates did not join duty.The commission was again requested on July 14, 2020, to sponsor the names of the eligible candidates from the waiting panel. This time, the commission turned down the request of the Director Health saying that as per the rules, the life of the waiting panel was one year from the date of the recommendations. It was contended that the officials of the Director Health office did not take any steps between November 23, 2019, and July 14, 2020, to fill the three posts of lab assistant and ultimately the commission rejected the request on the ground of the limited life of the waiting panel.While allowing the petition, the court directed the commission to sponsor the names of three candidates, including the petitioner, within a week and on such sponsorship and further the Director Health would issue the appointment order(s) to the petitioner and two others as laboratory assistant (Allopathy) on a contractual basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-why-lab-assistant-posts-not-filled-says-hp-high-court-286353
22-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Publicise Himachal govt schemes, Sanjay Tandon asks BJP workers||Kullu, July 21BJP co-incharge for Himachal Sanjay Tandon today held a meeting with the office-bearers and workers of the the Manali Mandal of the party during a tour of various Assembly constituencies in the Mandi parliamentary constituency. He urged the party workers to publicise the schemes and the achievements of the Central and state governments and make people aware of their benefits so that the party could achieve success in the forthcoming byelections and the Mission Repeat 2022.Tandon said that the working style of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was being talked about all over the world. He discussed the Solar Alliance run by India and told the workers how much the world was benefiting from it.He had a detailed discussion on the Ayushman Bharat yojana and the Him Care scheme. He said that the Central and state governments had formulated social welfare schemes, which had benefited lakhs of people. He added, “We have to take care of all beneficiaries and contact and discuss about these schemes door-to-door”.Tandon said that the party workers would run a public awareness campaign to apprise the masses of all schemes. He added that the workers should know about all schemes along with the relevant data. He sought suggestions from everyone so that more favourable changes could be brought in the politics of the country and the state.Local MLA and Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, state BJP general secretary Rakesh Jamwal, state vice-president Dhaneshwari Thakur, district president Bhimsen Sharma, district in-charge Sanjeev Katwal, district co-incharge Naresh Chandel, district general secretary Akhilesh Kapoor and other office-bearers and members were present on the occasion.Yesterday, Tandon chaired a meeting of the Kullu mandal of the party here. He said the way the NDA government was working at the centre and the Jai Ram Thakur government was functioning in the state, the pace of development had doubled in Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/publicise-himachal-govt-schemes-sanjay-tandon-asks-bjp-workers-286356
22-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Modified tippers can’t carry mined material in Una district||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 21District Magistrate, Una, Raghav Sharma has banned modified tippers and multi-axle trucks and trailers from carrying mined material in the district.In the orders issued here today, the District Magistrate stated that the Regional Transport Officer (RTO), Una, in his recommendations to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had stated that modified tippers were being used for transporting mined material. These overloaded vehicles could lose balance and cause accidents. The RTO had also stated that the vehicles were carrying mined material uncovered in violation of the NGT orders.Sharma ordered that in view of the recommendations of the RTO, the movement of tippers with modified bodies and multi-axle trucks and trailers had been banned in Una district.He told The Tribune that they had received complaints from villagers also that roads were being damaged due to overloaded vehicles carrying mined material. The decision would also help in checking illegal mining, he said.Una has become the first district in the state to ban the plying of modified tippers and multi-axle trucks and trailers carrying mined material.As per information, generally tippers that carry mined material are passed for carrying 16 tonnes or 24 tonnes of mined material. However, the owners of tippers add additional bodies to the tippers so that they could carry extra load. The tippers going out of the state usually carry 35 tonnes to 40 tonnes load of sand and gravel. More material is carried in tippers to reduce the transportation cost and improve profits.The stone crusher owners of Una district have been on strike since July 1 demanding that they be allowed mechanical mining with 80 BhP machines in approved areas. They have also been alleging harassment at the hands of the officials due to old laws that permit mining with shovels only.As mining on riverbeds in the state is banned till September 15 due to the monsoons, most of the sand and gravel is coming to the state from Punjab. However, with the District Magistrate banning multi-axle trucks and trailers and modified tippers from carrying mined material, the supplies from Punjab are likely to dry up in the coming days. The supplies of mined material from Punjab would be allowed only in tractor-traillers now, sources said.They said that the decision was likely to increase the cost of construction material. Already most of the development projects both in government and private sectors have come to a standstill due to the non-availability of sand and gravel.Can lose balance, cause accidents||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/modified-tippers-cant-carry-mined-material-in-una-district-286358
22-07-2021||---||Himachal CM: Staff issues to be resolved soon||Shimla, July 21The state government was committed to the welfare of the employees of the state and all their genuine demands were being redressed, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while addressing the delegation of Himachal Pradesh NGO Federation led by its president Ashwani Thakur that called him here today.The employees are pillars of the government on whose shoulders the responsibility to implement the government policies lies, he said and added that despite the coronavirus, the state government had ensured that the employees got all their dues from time to time.Thakur said that the state government would soon hold a meeting with the employees so that they get an opportunity to take up their issues with the state government. He assured the federation that the endeavour of the government would be to resolve all the genuine issues of the employees amicably.Thakur also urged the employees to work with dedication to make Himachal a model state. President of the federation Ashwani Thakur urged the Chief Minister to convene a meeting of the Joint Coordination Committee so that the employees could present their various issues and demands before the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-staff-issues-to-be-resolved-soon-286362
22-07-2021||Dalhousie||Dalhousie: Roads damaged, Rs 38 cr loss suffered||The road network in the district has recorded an estimated loss of around Rs 38 crore due to landslides and soil erosion.Diwakar Pathania, Superintending Engineer, HPPWD, Dalhousie Circle, said 37 roads had been blocked due to landslides in various parts of the district, disrupting the traffic movement.He said the heavy machinery, including JCBs, Poclains and excavators along with the workforce, had been deployed to remove debris and boulders from the road. As many as 32 roads would be opened soon.Executive Engineer, PWD, Chamba Division, Jeet Singh Thakur also maintained that 12 roads in the surrounding areas of the town had been opened to traffic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalhousie-roads-damaged-rs-38-cr-loss-suffered-286363
22-07-2021||---||Mandi youth hurt in attack by tourists||Mandi, July 21In a road rage incident, four tourists assaulted a local resident of Nandi village under police station Padhar in Mandi district on yesterday night.According to the police, four persons were traveling in a car from Manali to Mandi via Kataula road yesterday night. When they crossed Kamand Chowki, they were engaged in a scuffle with a local youth Bhaskar Sharma while taking a pass for their vehicle.“In this scuffle, local youth has sustained injuries on his head. The police have detained the all four accused for interrogation. Two accused are from Punjab state, while another two are from Hamirpur district in Himachal Pradesh,” said the police officer.The police have registered a case and investigation was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-youth-hurt-in-attack-by-tourists-286357
22-07-2021||---||Heavy rains claim three more lives in Himachal||Shimla, July 21Three more persons died in rain-related incidents in Himachal today, raising the death toll during the ongoing monsoon season to 167. As many as 146 roads were blocked out of which 104 roads are likely to be opened by tonight. The cumulative loss to the PWD and the IPH department is over Rs 212.34 crore and Rs 92.75 crore, respectively.The maximum number of roads were blocked in Chamba district (37), followed by Sirmaur (9), Mandi and Shimla (7 each), Kullu (5), Solan (3), Hamirpur (2) and Una, Kangra and Kinnaur (1 each).During the ongoing rainy season 164 persons have lost their lives in rain-related incidents since June 13.The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rains at isolated places in six districts of Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur on June 22 and 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on July 23 and 25. The Met office also predicted wet weather in the region till July 27.Light to moderate rain lashed parts of Himachal. Kasauli with 61 mm of rain was the wettest in the region followed by Ghamroor 46 mm, Shahpur 45 mm, Nahan 27 mm, Baldwara 22 mm, Guler 21 mm, Dalhousie 20 mm, Dharamsala 19 mm, Saloni 18 mm, Una 17 mm, Gaggal 15 mm, Sujanpur Tira 15 mm, Renuka 14 mm, Nagrota Surian and Solan 13 mm each, Nadaun 12 mm, Dehra Gopipur, Jatton Barrage and Dharampur 11mm each.There was no significant change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong was the coldest at 10°C. The maximum temperatures increased by 2°C to 3°C and Una was the hottest with 34°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rains-claim-three-more-lives-in-himachal-286354
22-07-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Shimla: Tourists litter The Ridge||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.comTourists litter The RidgeTourists usually admire the scenic beauty of Shimla, but still many of them do not mind littering on iconic places such as The Ridge and the Mall Road. Many tourists could be seen littering wrappers and eatables on The Ridge. The authorities concerned should slap fines on such offenders. – Amit Thakur, Shimla Dogs occupy pathwayThe pathway from Himland Hotel to St. Edwards School is often occupied by stray dogs, making it difficult for commuters to use it. It’s difficult for people to use the pathway with so many dogs around. The authorities concerned should clear the passage of dogs. – Sandeep Sharma, New Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-tourists-litter-the-ridge-286370
22-07-2021||---||Illegal structures razed in upper Dharamsala||Dharamsala, July 21The Dharamsala Municipal Corporation today carried out a demolition drive in Bhagsunag to clear encroachments on a natural drain that resulted in flash flood on July 12. Municipal Commissioner Pradeep Thakur ordered the demolition of concrete structures built by hotel owners on the drain in the area.Some hotel owners tried to resist the drive and entered into heated arguments with the Commissioner. They alleged that they had got the completion certificates from the MC for constructing the concrete structures on the drain and would move court.The MC authorities and locals maintain that the encroachments caused the July 12 flood. There were reports that people dumped the construction waste in the drain that settled down in it, reducing its carrying capacity. Most locals welcomed the move. It was for the first time that the Dharamsala MC has acted proactively and carried out demolition drive days after issuing notices to the encroachers.There had been complaints of widespread violations of building norms earlier too but the MC had just issued notices to the violators.Though the MC had carried out a drive in Bhagsunag, there were encroachments on riverbeds in lower Dharamsala too. Some big hoteliers have put concrete slabs on the riverbeds to reach their properties.The Commissioner said notices have been issued to those in lower Dharamsala as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-structures-razed-in-upper-dharamsala-286350
22-07-2021||---||Now, shell out more for traffic offences in Himachal||Shimla, July 21Now, violators will have to shell out more for traffic offences. The government has notified modified fines and compounding limits for various traffic offences as per the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 2019, which mandates heavy fines to check traffic violations.As per the notification, two sets of fines have been set for compoundable offences. “One is for on-the-spot payment of the fine, and the other is if one challenges it and goes to the court. If found guilty in the court, the offender will be charged 1.5 times the amount he would have paid on the spot,” said a transport official.As per the notification, a person driving without licence will be fined Rs 5,000 on the spot. But if he challenges it in the court and is found guilty of the offence, the amount will rise to Rs 7,500. The violation of speed limits will result in a fine of Rs 1500 on the spot.Anyone caught driving using mobile phone will have to pay a heavy amount. The offender will be charged Rs 2,500 first time and Rs 10,000 for the second and subsequent offence.The amended rules discourage anyone suffering from any disease or disability that can threaten the safety of others from driving. In such cases, the person will be fined Rs 1,000 the first time and Rs 2,000 subsequently. Driving without wearing the safety belt will result in a fine of Rs 1,000.Pay Rs 5,000 fine if without licence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-shell-out-more-for-traffic-offences-in-himachal-286351
22-07-2021||---||Landslip disrupts traffic on Kalka-Shimla road||Solan, July 21The traffic on the Solan-Kandaghat section of the Kalka-Shimla National Highway (NH)-05 was disrupted for about an hour around 9 am with huge boulders and debris flowing down the hill.The excavation of the hill is been undertaken as the highway is being four-laned. This has made the highway vulnerable to landslips at several spots.“A landslide at Dedghrat on the Solan-Kandaghat blocked the road this morning. The traffic was restored within an hour. The machinery was rushed to the site by the private company engaged in four-laning the section of the highway to clear the debris,” said SDM Ajay Yadav.No excavation work, however, was under way at Dedghrat where the landslide occurred. Such disruptions have become a routine affair on the highway in the rains as four-laning work was in an advanced stage.To ensure speedier restoration of traffic during such eventualities, officials of the NHAI as well as the PWD have been directed by the DC to map such vulnerable spots and keep machinery ready. Directions to educate the commuters by erecting signage at vulnerable spots has also been issued.The SDM said arterial routes had been mapped between Saproon and Chambaghat as well as between Chambaghat and Kandaghat to divert traffic in case of any eventuality. The delay in completing the Solan bypass has added to the woes of the commuters. The road would have helped in bypassing a major chunk of the traffic from Solan and would have specially been helpful in diverting traffic during four-laning of the highway.Work to construct the 5.14 km bypass, which began in December 2016, was yet to be completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslip-disrupts-traffic-on-kalka-shimla-road-286349
22-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Bail out genuine students of tainted Himachal Pradesh University: Panel||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 21A mechanism should be in place to verify the documents of the regular students of Manav Bharti University, which is in the dock in a fake degree scam. This suggestion was recently submitted by a three-member committee constituted by the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPERC) to resolve the issues of genuine students of the university.Passouts’ pleaManav Bharti University passouts have urged the HP educational regulatory commission to safeguard the interests of genuine studentsThe UGC had alerted the authorities in 2019 about the fake degree racket by Manav Bharti UniversityThe committee pointed out that the genuine degree holders had been left in the lurch as they could not get their degrees or documents verified, and thus were unable to migrate to other institutions. Besides, the scholarship of SC and ST students was also held up as investigations were still underway in the fake degree case, said HPPERC chairman Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd).Nearly 110 varsity passouts under the banner of Justice for Manav Bharti Students’ Association have urged the commission to safeguard the interests of genuine students.“Some students employed in foreign countries are in the danger of losing their jobs,” the chairman said.He said a mechanism to bail out the genuine students was necessary but at the same time the degrees issued by Manav Bharti University, Solan, to employees in the state government should also be verified.The University Grant Commission had alerted the authorities in 2019 about the fake degree racket by Manav Bharti University.A special investigation team of the CID has detected 36,000 fake degrees from 14 of the 55 hard disks scanned so far. Investigations reveal that degrees were sold for Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bail-out-genuine-students-of-tainted-himachal-pradesh-university-panel-286523
