23-07-2021||New Delhi||President approves appointment of 12 VCs, including universities in Haryana, Himachal||President of India, who is the Visitor to Central universities, has approved the appointment of vice-chancellors in 12 universities, according to Ministry of Education (MoE) officials.The universities include the Central Universities of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Hyderabad.Central University of South Bihar (Gaya), Manipur University, Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU), North-Eastern Hill University (NEHU) and Guru Ghasidas University, Bilaspur are also among the universities for which new VCs have been appointed.Union Minister of Education Dharmendra Pradhan had on Thursday informed the Rajya Sabha that a total of 22 posts of vice-chancellors in central universities are vacant, out of which appointments to 12 posts have already been finalised.Professor Tarkeshwar Kumar has been appointed the vice-chancellor of the central university of Haryana, Professor Sat Prakash Bansal of Himachal Pradesh University and Dr Sanjeev Jain of Jammu University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-approves-appointment-of-12-vcs-including-universities-in-haryana-himachal-287155
23-07-2021||Shimla||Too much silt, pumping of water stops at Giri Water Scheme||The pumping has been stopped at the Giri Water Scheme, which fulfils around 40 to 45 per cent water requirement of Shimla city due to high turbidity and heavy silt.“The silt at the moment is very high, over 4,000 nephelometric turbidity unit (NTU). It’s not possible to handle such high level of silt, so we have stopped pumping since this morning,” said Rajesh Kashyap, GM (Bulk Water) from Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL).It’s normal to have turbidity and silt during monsoon at the water sources, but so much silt is not common. The Giri water had such heavy silt in 2018, when there were flash floods.“Actually, the quantity of silt is increasing because of developmental works going on in the catchment area of the river. A cold store is being constructed at the Parala fruit and vegetable mandi, and the dumping is being done in the catchment area. So, there’s significant increase in the quantity of silt in water,” said Kashyap.Such heavy amount of silt could damage the plant’s filtration and sedimentation system. “At the moment, it’s like extracting water out of slush. We will restart pumping once the silt settles down to permissible limits, around 1,000 to 1300 NTU,” said Kashyap.With Giri pumping no water at all, how is the SJPNL going to meet the city’s demand? “Thankfully, the demand at the moment is not too high. Besides, we will draw additional water from our Gumma scheme, around 3 to 4 MLD,” said Kashyap. “Also, we have started drawing more water from Ashwani khud. So, I think we will manage the situation,” he said.Nevertheless, with the tourists’ arrival likely to rise at the weekend, the demand could rise significantly. That would put SJPNL under some stress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/too-much-silt-pumping-of-water-stops-at-giri-water-scheme-286974
23-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM: Will ensure HPU autonomy is maintained for better functioning||The state government would ensure that the autonomy of the university was maintained for its better functioning, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while speaking at the 52nd Foundation Day of Himachal Pradesh University, here today.“The university has played a leading role in teaching and learning, education, research and technology and has provided professional training for high-level jobs as well as the education necessary for the development of the personality”, he said.Vajpayee’s statue unveiledThe most important role assigned to the university was production of highly skilled manpower and research output to meet perceived targets, he said and expressed the hope that the new education policy aiming at building overall personality of the students by strengthening infrastructure for open and distance learning, online education and increasing the usage of technology would prepare the students to meet the emerging challenges.He appreciated the university for appointment of 150 teachers and for starting 12 new faculties. He said that adequate parking slots would be constructed in the university under the Smart City Project. He suggested the university to organise a special event on the completion of 50 years of its journey and also honour the contribution of people.Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar said, “Both the teacher and the learner must know what they are learning. The future of the country depends on what ideas we are giving to the young generation and it is necessary to promote ideas of social and national interest. Invaders targeted our education system time and again as they wanted to harm our culture.”He said the university should become a centre of research, where the basis of education should be character building. He emphasized on qualitative education as well as raising the grade of the university. Earlier, the Governor inaugurated the Vice-Chancellor’s committee room.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur said that in order to preserve the rich cultural heritage of the country, 13 Chairs have been established in the university, in which studies, teaching and research work was being done.Vice Chancellor Prof Sikandar Kumar said that the university had increased the expansion activities and new hostels and new departments have been opened. The Governor and the Chief Minister also released university journals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-will-ensure-hpu-autonomy-is-maintained-for-better-functioning-286975
23-07-2021||Mandi||Devotees rue poor facilities at Trilokinath Temple in Lahaul Spiti||Famous Trilokinath Temple in tribal district Lahaul Spiti is deprived of basic facilities like good road connectivity, public conveniences and potable water for the devotees visiting the shrine.Visitors to the temple complain that the road leading to the temple is narrow, which should be widened for smooth flow of traffic. The temple premises lacks any public convenience and potable water facility. As a result, the devotees visiting the temple face huge inconvenience.Vijay Pal, a devotee, said the road leading to the temple needed improvement to ensure smooth flow of traffic.Vir Bahadur Singh Thakur, a local resident of Trilokinath, said that “the people of Trilokinath have urged the state government to provide basic amenities in this temple, which is a famous tourist place in tribal district Lahaul Spiti.A large number of visitors come here every year to pay obeisance to Lord Shiva and Lord Buddha. So the temple should have better road connectivity and basic amenities forthe devotees.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/devotees-rue-poor-facilities-at-trilokinath-temple-in-lahaul-spiti-286976
23-07-2021||Solan||Debris blocks raliway tracks||The rail traffic was disrupted for over half-an hour between Kandaghat and Kanog stations on the Kalka-Shimla track as a large quantity of debris fell on the tracks today.Officials said a Shimla bound train, which reached Kandaghat around 4:05 pm, halted for nearly an hour. The tracks were full of debris and the rail staff along with the locals took about an hour to remove it.It reached Kanog at 5:35 pm. Even a special train from Shimla was also delayed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/debris-blocks-raliway-tracks-286977
23-07-2021||Shimla||Restore direct poll to student bodies in Himachal Pradesh University, says ABVP||The ABVP today submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur requesting him for the restoration of direct elections to students central associations in Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) and affiliated colleges. It said that reverting to indirect elections was an encroachment upon the democratic rights of the students. Thakur was in the university for its 52nd Foundation Day function.The ABVP urged the HPU authorities to open hostels as students from other places were not able to access the library facilities. It also requested the university to grant scholarships to research students on the pattern of Central universities. The other demands included the construction of a multi-storey parking, an indoor stadium and strengthening and streamlining of online services.Meanwhile, the SFI also submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur demanding the registration of a cheating case against Prof Sikender Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of the HPU, for furnishing wrong information regarding his experience to the search committee.The SFI alleged that the incumbent Vice-Chancellor was ineligible for the post and had also committed irregularities in the appointment of teachers.It said that students’ right to quality education had been hampered due to appointments made not on the basis of merit. The SFI leaders urged the Governor and the High Court to take note of the irregularities in the university and intervene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restore-direct-poll-to-student-bodies-in-himachal-pradesh-university-says-abvp-286979
23-07-2021||Rajesh SharmaUna||Youths of Una Janhit Morcha perform last rites of 1,957 unclaimed bodies||Twelve youths, under the umbrella of the Una Janhit Morcha, are performing the nobel task of cremating unclaimed bodies for the past 15 years in Una district.Morcha president Rajiv Bhanot says that they have cremated 1,957 bodies in the city crematoriums so far. “Every time an unclaimed body is recovered in the district, the police contact Janhit Morcha activists,” he says. They have also cremated the bodies of migrants, whose families are too poor to bear the funeral cost.The chairman of the organisation, Hari Om Gupta, says that they have contacted a fuel wood depot in the city from where wood is transported to the cremation ground, when needed, and the payment is made by local philanthropists, who remain in touch with the morcha. The cremation is done as per traditions and the ashes are kept in a room in the crematorium.Gupta says that the ashes of about 20 to 25 bodies at a time are taken to Haridwar by their activists for immersion in the Ganga. ‘We organised a small ‘langar’ and donated Rs 10,000 to the poor and the needy in Haridwar,” he said.Another morcha activist Balwinder ‘Goldi’ says that the morcha became functional in 2001 with small social works, but the idea of helping the district administration in cremating unclaimed bodies came to their mind in 2006. “Sacks full of ashes belonging to unclaimed bodies were stacked in a room in the crematorium,” he adds.“We came to know that as per the practice, when a truckload of ashes is stocked, these were thrown into the Swan river in Una district,” say volunteers Raj Kumar Pathania and Shiv Sambar.They add that the morcha resolved to take charge of the process. Initially, activists contributed money for fuelwood, ‘havan samagri’, hiring a priest and transportation, but gradually locals started coming forward to provide financial assistance for the rituals and wood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youths-of-una-janhit-morcha-perform-last-rites-of-1-957-unclaimed-bodies-286980
23-07-2021||The Centre for Comparative Public Law (CCPL)||Capacity building event at Himachal Pradesh National Law University in Shimla||NSUI demands removal of HPU VCThe NSUI has launched a scathing attack on HPU Vice-Chancellor Sikandar Kumar and has raised a question mark on his appointment to the post. The NSUI alleged that the he had flouted the university rules with impunity when he worked as the BJP worker from 2016-2018 even as he was university professor at that time. As per rules, no professor or any other employee of the university could participate in political activities. The NSUI said his involvement in political activities while being a professor cast aspersions on his integrity and morality, and the salary and other facility he drew from the university while working as a BJP official should be recovered from him.Faculty programme at Shoolini varsityA five-day faculty development programme (FDP) on "Redefining Teaching" at the Shoolini University was inaugurated by Chancellor PK Khosla on the theme "Learning from past and present to prepare for the future". Dr Khosla emphasised the need for universities to provide holistic education as was done in ancient India. He said academics, research opportunities, skill development and most importantly, human values should be offered as a package to students. Senior Professor and Head of School of Agriculture Dr YS Negi talked about the need to educate students to become good citizens rather than just degree-holders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/capacity-building-event-at-himachal-pradesh-national-law-university-in-shimla-286981
23-07-2021||A Volvo bus stationed on the roadside near the petrol pump at Hathithan on the Bhunter-Manikaran road in Kullu district is a major hurdle to the smooth flow of traffic||Bus causing traffic jams||Vehicles parked on roadThe widening work is being carried out at various places on the Cart Road for the smooth flow of traffic. However, at many spots which have been widened, people have started parking their vehicles, which defeats the purpose of widening. The authorities should ensure that parked vehicles do not hamper the flow of traffic. — Prahsant, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bus-causing-traffic-jams-286983
23-07-2021||Hamirpur||Man drowns in Hamirpur stream||Aman, a local resident, drowned in the Kunah khud, near here, yesterday. He went to the khud (stream) with his cousins for swimming. He was trapped in the water whirl and was pulled out by his cousins. They took him to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-drowns-in-hamirpur-stream-286984
23-07-2021||Shimla||Classes X to XII to resume from August 2 in Himachal||The state government today decided to allow schools to resume Class X to XII from August 2 following a steep decline in Covid cases. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here.The Education and Health departments made a presentation before the Cabinet on the prevailing Covid situation. However, the government chose to tread with caution and call only students of Class X to XII, who have to take the board exams.The residential and partially residential schools have also been allowed to call the students of Class X to XII from August 2 albeit in strict adherence to the norms and the SoPs. Research scholars in the universities would be allowed, as per the dates to be notified.The Cabinet also decided to allow the opening of coaching centres, tuition and training institutions from July 26. Regular teaching in schools would be held only for Class X to XII. However, the students of Class V to VIII would be allowed to come to school to get their doubts cleared by their teachers.The government has already allowed the colleges to start admitting students from July 26 and resume classes from August 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/classes-x-to-xii-to-resume-from-august-2-in-himachal-286985
23-07-2021||Mandi||Mandi village made containment zone||As many as 13 Covid cases were detected at Ropri village in Sundernagar subdivision of Mandi district today.According to information, a woman was found Covid positive in the village a few days ago. She came in contact with her family and relatives at the village. The Health Department tested 32 persons in the village.Thirteen samples were found to be positive. Sundernagar SDM Dharmesh Kumar has declared the village as a containment zone.115 new cases, two deathsMeanwhile, 115 Covid cases were reported in the state on Thursday. Besides, two persons died in Kangra and Mandi. The highest 37 cases were reported in Mandi, followed by 17 in Chamba, 16 in Kangra, 13 in Shimla, 11 in Hamirpur, eight in Bilaspur, six in Kullu, four in Una, two in Sirmaur and one in Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-village-made-containment-zone-286987
23-07-2021||Mandi||Bengaluru tourist dies  at Kaza||A tourist from Bengaluru, Shankar Bhargav (24), died at Kaza yesterday. According to the police, Shankar was trekking in the high-altitude area when his condition deteriorated.“He was rushed to the Kaza hospital but he died on the way. His family has been informed about his death. The cause of the death seems to be the high-altitude sickness,” said a police official.“In another incident, Manali resident Rahul Thakur (40) drowned in the Chandertal in Lahaul and Spiti. He was roaming near the lake when he slipped and fell into it. Due to freezing temperatures, he could not be saved,” he added.The official said that a rescue team had been sent to retrieve the body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bengaluru-tourist-dies-at-kaza-286988
23-07-2021||Shimla||Eye on byelection, Himachal Cabinet announces new sub-tehsil, development blocks||With an eye on the bypoll to the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituency, the Cabinet today gave approval for creating new development blocks at Jubbal and another at Kotkhai area of Shimla.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. Besides, it was decided to open a new sub-tehsil at Kalbog and a fire post at Tikkar in Kotkhai. The nod was given for a development block at Nirmand in Kullu for the convenience of the people.Cabinet’s other key decisionsThe Cabinet also gave nod to a new development block at Tirlordhar in Sirmaur district by reorganising the development block of Paonta Sahib to facilitate the people of the area. It also gave consent to opening a new development block of Dhanotu at Shegli in Mandi district by reorganising Sundernagar and Balh development blocks.Presentations were also made before the Cabinet on the Covid-19 situation in the state and the preparedness of the Health Department to tackle the possible third wave of coronavirus.The Cabinet approved filling of 100 posts of Junior Office Assistant (IT) in the Secretariat through direct recruitment. It also gave nod to issue Letter of Intent for setting up of 250 KL per day ethanol plant at Sansarpur Terrace in Kangra district in favour of M/s Premier Alcobev Private Limited. It was also decided to purchase CT scan -128 slice machine worth Rs 4.28 crore for Dr Radha Krishnan Government Medical College, Hamirpur, to facilitate patients. The Cabinet gave consent to converting the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) for women, Bharari in Bilaspur district into a co-educational ITI. It gave its nod to fill up three additional posts in newly upgraded Community Health Centre at Garh Jamula in Kangra district.The Cabinet gave consent to renaming Government Senior Secondary School, Hatwar, in Bilaspur district as Shaheed Subedar Sanjeev Kumar Government Senior Secondary School Hatwar as a mark of respect to the martyr who had been awarded Kriti Chakra posthumously for his bravery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eye-on-byelection-himachal-cabinet-announces-new-sub-tehsil-development-blocks-286989
23-07-2021||Kullu||Kullu lad Prikshit Sood scales Yunam peak in Lahaul||Prikshit Sood (15) of Kullu has set a world record by becoming the youngest climber to conquer the Yunam peak (6,110 m) in Lahaul. His father Panki Sood said permission was taken from the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) to allow Prikshit to achieve this feat. He said the theme of the expedition was ‘High on nature, not on drugs’.A team of nine climbers, led by expedition leader Virender Singh (38) of Kullu, departed from Manali on July 12 and reached the base camp at Bharatpur in Lahaul district. The team embarked on the summit at 3 am on July 16. They successfully reached the summit at 10.30 am.The team comprised Virender Singh (38), Daleep Pathania (37), Yogesh Pandey (42), Rajesh Rana (36), Vishal Thakur (33), Sandeep Choudhary (38), Rizwana Khan (32), Gagan Sharma (37) and Prikshit Sood.A committee had been nominated by the IMF to evaluate the claim of summit made by the climbers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-lad-prikshit-sood-scales-yunam-peak-in-lahaul-286990
23-07-2021||Solan||BJP will win all 17 SC seats in Himachal Assembly poll: Avinash Rai Khanna||BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna today said the party would win all 17 SC seats in the next Vidhan Sabha elections as the government had taken several steps for their welfare.Addressing a state executive meeting of the BJP’s SC Morcha at Kasauli, Khanna said the party had won 13 of the 17 seats last time and they were hopeful of bagging all 17 seats the next time.He said they had not granted Bharat Ratan to Dr BR Ambedkar as it did not want to honour him. “The Congress has always created fissures in society and practises vote-bank politics. The BJP, on the other hand, is endeavouring to create social equality”.Khanna added that the BJP believed in giving people respect. The party had also erected a memorial at the birthplace of Ambedkar, while the house, where he stayed in London, had been converted into a memorial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-will-win-all-17-sc-seats-in-himachal-assembly-poll-avinash-rai-khanna-286991
23-07-2021||Solan||Union Minister extols Nahan Asha worker||Her joy knew no bounds when Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya yesterday appreciated on Twitter the work done by Meena Sharma, a health worker of Nahan in Sirmaur district, during the pandemic.Mandaviya tweeted that it was laudable that Asha worker Meena Sharma had played an active role in helping Covid patients in home isolation.Meena said, “It is great news as the work done by Asha workers is rarely appreciated. I helped the families where all members were infected and there was no one to provide essential items like milk, ration and groceries. At times, I spent money from my pocket”.Her services were also lauded in the Poshan Abhiyan of the state Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-minister-extols-nahan-asha-worker-286992
23-07-2021||---||Schools for classes 10 to 12 in Himachal to open from August 2||Shimla, July 22In view of the decline in Covid cases, Himachal government has decided open schools for classes 10 to 12 from August 2.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here on Thursday. The Education department made a presentation before the Cabinet in view of the improved Covid situation.The residential and partially residential schools would also open for Classes 10 to 12 from August 2 by following the SoPs. The research scholars in universities would be allowed as per the dates to be notified by the university authorities.A decision has also been taken to allow opening of coaching centres, tuition and training institutions across the state from July 26. Regular classes in schools will be held only for Class 10 to 12. However students from Class 5 to 8 can come to school to get their doubts cleared from their teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/schools-for-classes-10-to-12-in-himachal-to-open-from-august-2-286764
23-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kamaal R Khan lashes out at Raj Kundra; suggests Kangana Ranaut to leave 'gutter', move to Manali||Actor, and self-proclaimed critic, Kamaal Rashid Khan, also known as KRK, is known for his controversial tweets and videos. KRK has harshly reacted to the recent arrest of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty's husband, Raj Kundra. Taking to Twitter, KRK wrote: "If you have to earn money to run your house by making porn films, then you are most poor person in this world. It shows that you have earned money through some bad ways.' Many people are asking me to release video about #RajKundraArrest but I can’t do that. @TheShilpaShetty is the senior actress in Bollywood and I respect her a lots. Hope all will be OK soon!  Not stopping here, KRK also reacted to actor Kangana Ranaut's statement where she called B-town 'gutter'. Also read:He adds: 'I don’t have any problem if #KanganaRanaut calls Bollywood a gutter. But I just want to ask her that what she is doing in that gutter? She should live in her beautiful city Manali instead of gutter. Aakhir Kangana Ki Kaya majboori hai, Iss Gutter main Rahne Ki?'I don’t have any problem if #KanganaRanaut calls Bollywood a gutter. But I just want to ask her that what she is doing in that gutter? She should live in her beautiful city Manali instead of gutter. Aakhir Kangana Ki Kaya majboori hai, Iss Gutter main Rahne Ki? https://t.co/KwrXNYGwnM  For the unversed, Raj Kundra has been sent into police custody till July 23. He was arrested on Monday night on charges of creating pornographic content and publishing the same through mobile applications.Earlier in the day, YouTuber Puneet Kaur has opened up against arrested businessman Raj Kundra saying he had approached her via social media direct messaging for his mobile app, through which pornography content produced by him was reportedly published.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kamaal-r-khan-lashes-out-at-raj-kundra-suggests-kangana-ranaut-to-leave-gutter-move-to-manali-286672
