24-07-2021||Ravi S Singh||Himachal Forest Minister meets Union Minister Thakur; MPs call on Governor||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 24Himachal Pradesh Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania met Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Sports and Youth Services Anurag Thakur here on Saturday and pushed for more development projects in the state.A functionary of the Himachal Pradesh government said Pathania apprised Thakur about projects submitted to the Sports Ministry for building infrastructure in rural and tribal areas under the 'Khelo India Khelo' scheme in order to boost sports activities in the State.He urged Thakur to quickly approve schemes and sanction funds for them.In a separate development, Thakur, who is an MP from Himachal Pradesh, and other MPs from the state called on Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar late on Friday evening after the latter assumed office.The MPs include Kishan Kapoor, Suresh Kashyap, and Indu Goswami.During the courtesy call, the MPs hoped that his guidance would be helpful in the development of Himachal Pradesh.The  Governor held detailed discussions with them on various issues related to the State.Pathania was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-forest-minister-meets-union-minister-thakur-mps-call-on-governor-287663
24-07-2021||Shimla||Forest clearances awaited, Ridge restoration delayed||The restoration work of the sinking portion of The Ridge has been delayed further. At the eleventh hour, it was noticed that some forest clearances were required for the project to take off. “We have written to the Forest Department to seek the required clearances,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli.That’s a big setback for the project as forest clearances generally take a lot of time, especially if the land in question requires clearances under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA). The Municipal Corporation, though, is hoping for quick permission at the local level from the Forest Department.Setback for projectThe hurdle is a setback for the project as forest clearances take a lot of time, if the land in question requires clearances under the Forest Conservation Act. The MC, though, is hoping for quick permission at the local level from the Forest Department.“The portion of the land over which the Forest Department has expressed its reservation is registered as ‘jaya sarkaar’ in revenue papers. The MC was given clearance by the Forest Department for such type of land in the past for the construction of a multipurpose hall in Krishna Nagar,” said Kohli. “So, there’s a precedent and we have asked for a similar clearance for The Ridge too. Hopefully, we will get the permission soon and the restoration work will start at the earliest,” the Commissioner said.However, what if the required clearances fall under the FCA purview? For how long can the sinking portion of The Ridge hold up, especially in view of the persistent rains in the city over the last few days? What will happen if the portion collapses?“If The Ridge collapses, it will pose a big danger to the huge water tank underneath it. The tank supplies water of the city and one can imagine what can happen if the safety of this tank is threatened,” said former Mayor Sanjay Chauhan.He said it was a matter of shame for the successive governments that they could not stabilise the historically and strategically important Ridge in over a decade. “The Ridge had started sinking in 2010, when a portion of it collapsed and destroyed a couple of shops in the Tibetan market. Ever since, The Ridge is being resurrected on paper only,” he said.Chauhan said the MC, when he was the Mayor, had prepared a comprehensive plan in 2013-14 for stabilising The Ridge. “It was a comprehensive, self-financed plan but unfortunately, the then Congress government did not allow us to implement it. Sadly, no government has shown the resolve to stabilise The Ridge,” he said.Meanwhile, the cracks at The Ridge continue to widen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/forest-clearances-awaited-ridge-restoration-delayed-287427
24-07-2021||Shimla||Parents divided on opening of schools||Notwithstanding the decision of the government to open schools for classes X, XI and XII from August 2, the parents are divided on the issue of sending their wards to schools as the fear of the third wave of Covid is haunting them.The state government has directed that standard operating procedures and Covid-appropriate behavior would be strictly implemented but a section of parents are of the opinion that the government should wait till vaccination of adolescents and children is competed or the expected third wave subsides.“We are keen that regular classes are started for students of board exams but it won’t be wise to expose them to the avoidable risk at this juncture”, said Gargi, a mother of class X student. However, another parent was of the opinion that online teaching had reached a saturation point and students needed to have interaction with teachers.Over 3.5 lakh students, including about 2.15 government school students, studying in classes X to XII would return to school on August 2 after nearly three months. “We have asked the school management to submit micro plans regarding seating arrangement, time table and segregation in break time to avoid crowding and make arrangements for preparations of sanitization and thermal screening, ‘’ said Director Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma.There is a significant decline in the number of Covid cases in the state, restrictions have been lifted and opening of schools for the board and pre-board classes of X, XI and XII would help the students clarify their queries and doubts from the teachers, he said and added that teachers would analyze the progress of students for a week and difficult lessons would be repeated and revised.The students from classes V and VIII for whom board examination has been re-introduced can visit school for guidance and doubt clearance. The government also allowed coaching, tuition and training institutions to function from July 26. The schools have been opened in the neighboring states also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parents-divided-on-opening-of-schools-287429
24-07-2021||Shimla||HRTC service not available, commuters left stranded in and around Shimla||Commuters were stranded at various places in and around Shimla today evening, as local bus service was held up by Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) employees.The HRTC staff held up the service on over 150 local routes, following the transfer of Regional Manager DS Negi. “We will not resume services till his transfer order is revoked,” said HRTC Bus Drivers’ Union president Maan Singh Thakur.The commuters, who were stranded, became restive. “My home is about 30 km from here. How will I and other passengers reach home?” questioned a youth, who was upset at the sudden strike.The HRTC staff, on the other hand, refused to budge until their demands were met. “We will not resume the service till the transfer order of our Regional Manager is revoked,” said Thakur.Over the past few days, a tiff has been going on between the HRTC staff and private operators over the time-table of buses. A meeting was called by the HRTC management today to resolve the problem. However, before the meeting could take place, the Regional Manager was transferred. “An official, who stood up for the HRTC has been transferred under the pressure of private operators,” he said — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-service-not-available-commuters-left-stranded-in-and-around-shimla-287430
24-07-2021||Mandi||Demand to fill posts of specialist doctor at District Hospital, Keylong||Residents of Lahaul have urged the government to fill the posts of specialist doctor at the District Hospital, Keylong.Due to poor health services and unavailability of specialists, the residents are suffering a lot.They allege that despite repeated requests, the government has not paid attention to fillthese posts.District Youth Congress workers yesterday submitted a memorandum to the Governor through the Deputy Commissioner.Kunga Bodh, vice-president of the District Congress Committee, said, “The residents are lacking the basic health facilities like X-ray, ultrasound and CT scan due to the unavailability of radiologists. X-ray, ultrasound and CT scan machines are lying idle. The patients have to travel a long distance from Lahaul to reach Kullu to conduct the tests.”“Due to poor health services in Lahaul Spiti, critically ill patients are being referred to the Kullu hospital,” he said. The posts of gynaecologist, general surgeon, orthopaediatrician, ENT, paediatrician and eye specialist have been lying vacant since long.“There is an urgent need to fill the posts on priority to ensure better medical care in the Lahaul and Spiti district. We urge the government to fill these posts with immediate effect,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/demand-to-fill-posts-of-specialist-doctor-at-district-hospital-keylong-287431
24-07-2021||Shimla||IGMC-Shimla gives costly injections for free||The Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) is providing free injections costing around Rs 40,000-60,000 for patients suffering from breast cancer, brain stroke and heart attack.“The hospital is providing Trastuzumab free of cost for breast cancer patients. Its cost is Rs 50,000 per injection,” said Dr Rahul Gupta, Deputy Medical Superintendent, IGMC. “The patients need to get 18 of these injections in a year, costing Rs 9 lakh. Many patients cannot afford such costly injections, so the government has included it in its free drug policy,” said Dr Gupta.The hospital also provides Tenecteplase injection free of cost in case of heart attack. It costs around Rs 45,000. “If administered within two hours of heart attack, the use of stents can be avoided,” said Dr Gupta. The hospital has so far administered this injection to 280 patients.For those, who have suffered from a brain stroke, the hospital provides Alteplase, costing Rs 60,000. “In the past two years, we have given the injection to 123 beneficiaries. If administered within two to four hours of the stroke, it saves the patient from paralysis,” said Dr Gupta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-shimla-gives-costly-injections-for-free-287432
24-07-2021||Shimla||Over 8,000 births in 108 ambulances in Himachal in 10 years||Over 8,000 deliveries have taken place in 108 ambulances being operated by GVK EMRI in the state for the past 10 years.“Our emergency medical technicians (EMTs) have helped deliver many babies in the ambulances, including twins and even triplets, while rushing expectant mothers to a medical facility. Thankfully, not even one mortality has been reported, neither of the mother nor the child,” said Abhishek Bhangalia, a GVK official. “Besides, our EMTs assisted in 4,221 childbirths at home in interior areas where it was not possible to move the woman to the nearby medical facility in time,” he said. Overall, the company received over three lakh pregnancy-related calls over the last decade, he added.The company has achieved the milestone of receiving 15 lakh calls since 2010 when it started operating in the state. The company, operating on the Public Private Partnership mode with the state government, with a fleet of 204 four-wheeler ambulances and six bike ambulances in different parts of the state has achieved the milestone within 10 years and seven months. “Of the total 15,00,031 emergency calls received till date at our Emergency Response Centre, 14,57,516 calls were medical-related emergencies, 33,943 police related and 8,572 fire-related emergencies,” said Abhishek. “The service has been a boon to women in the far-flung areas of the state with more than 301,342 pregnancy-related calls reported at our ERC,” he said.The official said despite the difficult terrain and scattered and thinly populated areas, the scheme had been a success in HP. “With an average response time of 14 minutes in urban areas and 37 minutes and 42 seconds in rural areas, the 108 ambulance service has succeeded in saving several lives in difficult circumstances,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-8-000-births-in-108-ambulances-in-himachal-in-10-years-287433
24-07-2021||Rajesh SharmaUNA||Una District Hospital cancer unit still a Covid ward, patients suffer||The cancer and palliative care ward at the Una District Hospital, which was created at a cost of Rs 2 lakh two years ago, is being used as an isolation ward for Covid patients, while cancer patients have not been treated for the past one-and-a-half years.About three years ago, the Health Department had approved a cancer care ward at the hospital. About 250 patients got themselves registered. As there was no separate ward at the hospital, Dr Pushpinder Rana continued to work in his room.Two years ago, a portion of the surgical ward on the second floor was furnished with five beds to be used as the cancer and palliative care unit. After Covid breakout, the ward was dedicated to the treatment of virus patients.According to Dr Rana, about 250 cancer patients are registered at his clinic. However, cancer care has suffered due to the pandemic.Medical Superintendent Dr Nirdosh Kumar says that the Health Department is preparing to tackle the third wave of Covid and, therefore, other issues are low on its priority list. He, however, admits that a room can be designated as the cancer care ward so that the facilities being offered to patients can continue. There were only two staff nurses in the hospital, who were trained to administer intravenous chemotherapy, but both of them had been shifted to primary health institutions.Chief Medical Officer Dr Raman Kumar Sharma says that more nurses can be trained for administering chemotherapy. He reiterates that a room at the hospital will soon be designated as the cancer care unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-district-hospital-cancer-unit-still-a-covid-ward-patients-suffer-287434
24-07-2021||The last date for submission of online applications for the BEd entrance test has been extended till July 29. The candidates can make corrections in the online application form||Date to apply for BEd entrance test extended||Army written exam postponedThe written exam for soldiers and clerical duties in the Army, which was scheduled to be held on July 25 at Portmore School, Shimla, has been postponed due to Covid restrictions. The exam was scheduled for the candidates, who had cleared physical and medical test held in Una, from March 28 to April 3.School to hold Founder’s Day eventBishop Cotton School, Shimla, will celebrate its 163rd Founder’s Day on July 28 through a Facebook live event at 2 pm. The event will be broadcast from the historic Irwin Hall of the school. School director Simon Weale said the school believed in character development along with academic success. Weale said they aimed to make students confident, knowledgeable and resilient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/date-to-apply-for-bed-entrance-test-extended-287435
24-07-2021||A water pipe in front of Cecil hotel burst. Water spurted out like a fountain for more than half an hour. A lot of water was wasted before the officials concerned could to fix the leak. The officials should have stopped the supply in the pipe immediately to avoid wastage of water. — Sajal Negi||Water wastage as pipe bursts||Parking woes outside Transport Department officeThere’s little space outside the Transport Department office in Shimla to park vehicles. Many people need to visit the office and they have a tough time while finding a place to park their vehicles. If they park them along the road, they can be fined. The authorities concerned should check the issue. — Vikrant Thakur, New ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-wastage-as-pipe-bursts-287437
24-07-2021||Legal CorrespondentShimla||Submit record of Covid facilities, High Court orders Himachal govt||The Himachal Pradesh High Court has directed Ajay Vadiya, Senior Additional Advocate General of the state, to submit the record of the facilities available in the state with regard to ambulances, and hospitals, including facilities that have been earmarked for children, namely paediatrics.The court directed him to inform it about all Covid-related activities, which may include the number of vaccines given and the number of deaths that are being uploaded on the website concerned of the state.During the course of hearing, the Assistant Solicitor General of India stated that a proposal had been made to the Union of India for a grant of Rs 240 crore for the upgrade of facilities with regard to Covid.However, Vadiya informed the court that the state was making every effort to prevent the spread of Covid. He brought to the notice of the court that various measures taken by the state in this regard. He also assured the court that further action would also be taken.All Deputy Commissioners and other members of the committees were present. They informed the court about the steps taken by the district administrations to prevent the spread of coronavirus.After having a detailed interaction, a division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua listed the case to consider the progress on July 28.The court passed the orders on a petition taken up suo moto as a public interest litigation (PIL) and another writ petition highlighting inadequate facilities in the state for the treatment of Covid patients.The court had earlier constituted three-member District Monitoring Committees under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioners and directed them to visit towns, cities and villages to ascertain the situation with regard to Covid. The committees were also directed to ascertain whether the assistance given by the government was adequate to meet the challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/submit-record-of-covid-facilities-high-court-orders-himachal-govt-287438
24-07-2021||Shimla||Expect rain in Himachal till July 29||The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rain at isolated places in low and middle hills of nine districts on July 25 and an orange warning of a thunderstorm, lightning and heavy to very heavy rain in 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on July 26 and 27. The Met office has also predicted a wet spell in the region till July 29.Meanwhile, Kufri with 60 mm of rainfall was the wettest in the state, followed by Bharari 46 mm, Naina Devi 39 mm, Baijnath 34 mm, Kandaghat 33 mm, Jubbarhatti 32 mm, Baldwara 30 mm, Shimla 28 mm, Gohar 27 mm, Banjar 25 mm, Rampur 21 mm, Paonta Sahib 20 mm, Palampur and Renuka 18 mm each, Sundernagar 17 mm, Tissa 16 mm, Shillaro 15 mm, Hamirpur 13 mm, Solan 11 mm and Dalhousie and Chamba 10 mm each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expect-rain-in-himachal-till-july-29-287439
24-07-2021||Shimla||87 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 87 new cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 204,887. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Shimla and Chamba districts. The maximum 21 cases were reported in Mandi, followed by 19 in Shimla, 15 each in Chamba and Kangra, and seven in Kullu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/87-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-287440
24-07-2021||Solan||Factory in Nariwala sealed for illegally stocking liquor raw material||A team of State Taxes and Excise Department (STED) officials today sealed a liquor manufacturing factory in the Nariwala area of Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district after 13,802 litres extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which is a raw material, was found stocked without any permit.This has caused a revenue loss of Rs 99,11,073 to the state exchequer in form of Rs 79,79,940 as license fee, Rs 2,78,370 as additional fee, Rs 7,09,123 as excise duty, Rs 3,45,063 as VAT, among other cess. Pritpal Singh, Deputy Commissioner, STED, Sirmaur, said a surprise inspection of the factory, which continued till late night, led to the recovery of 13,802 litres of ENA.From this huge amount of ENA, 5,155 cases of country liquor could be manufactured. The Collector, Shimla, was informed about the case who recommended the factory to be sealed.A team comprising the DC, STED, and six other officials inspected the unit for several hours and took stock of the records as well as the ENA stacked in the premises.Collector, SETD, Pankaj Sharma said the liquor factory at Paonta Sahib had been sealed for stocking ENA without permit and further action would be taken after receipt of the field report from the DC, SETC, Sirmaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/factory-in-nariwala-sealed-for-illegally-stocking-liquor-raw-material-287443
24-07-2021||Mandi||Youth’s body recovered from Chandertal Lake in Lahaul and Spiti||The body of a youth, who drowned in the Chandertal Lake in Lahaul and Spiti on Thursday, was recovered with the help of divers today. Rahul Thakur, a native of Jagat Sukh village in Manali subdivision of Kullu district, had slipped into the lake yesterday.Kaza SDM Mahender Pratap Singh called the divers from Sundernagar to trace the body. He confirmed that the body was retrieved from the lake and handed over to the bereaved family. The victim was survived by his wife and two children.The SDM said tourists are advised to refrain from going into the lake, as it could prove fatal. Warning boards have been displayed in the area but some tourists ignore them. Last year, too, a youth had drowned in the lake. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youths-body-recovered-from-chandertal-lake-in-lahaul-and-spiti-287444
24-07-2021||Shimla||Pegasus spying: Congress activists stage protest in Shimla, seek probe||The HPCC today staged a protest march to the Raj Bhawan here seeking a probe into the Pegasus spying controversy and action against the guilty.Led by state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore, Congress leaders accused the Central Government of spying on journalists and politicians. The Congress sought a Supreme Court-monitored judicial inquiry in the Pegasus phone hacking row.Rathore said the snooping row had exposed the real face of the government. He added even the phones of Rahul Gandhi and his office staff were hacked.“The Pegasus spyware and NSO products were exclusively sold to the Union Government, which were used to hack the phones of opposition leaders, journalists, lawyers and activists,” he alleged.The Mahila Congress, Indian Youth Congress, NSUI, Sewa Dal, along with office-bearers of the Shimla urban and rural party bodies also participated in the protest. Later, a memorandum was submitted to the Governor through the ADC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pegasus-spying-congress-activists-stage-protest-in-shimla-seek-probe-287446
24-07-2021||Solan||Paonta Sahib: Lecturer demands bribe, booked||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Nahan, today registered a case against a lecturer of Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Taruwala at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district for demanding 20 per cent as bribe from the salesman of a company for awarding an order to the tune of Rs 7,93,015 for the installation of smart classrooms. The Higher Education Department has placed the lecturer and the school principal under suspension.The case was registered on the complaint of the salesman of Wood Square Technologies Private Ltd, Mohali (Punjab). The school had placed an order with the company and its sister concern SRS Technologies, Kangra, for the supply and installation of an Android panel and three digital teaching devices for Rs 7,93, 015, said vigilance officials.They said that the lecturer demanded 20 per cent bribe for awarding the order to the firm. The salesman, however, recorded the conversation on his mobile phone and did not pay any bribe. He then lodged a complaint with the Vigilance Bureau at Nahan.Director Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma said the lecturer and the school principal had been suspended. Karam Chand, Deputy Director Higher Education, Sirmaur, had been directed to send a report in the matter.Karam Chand visited the school today to inquire into the case. He said that Rs 44 lakh was granted to the school under the Utkrisht Pathshala scheme in the last financial year. Records pertaining to the case were examined and a report was sent to the Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-lecturer-demands-bribe-booked-287448
24-07-2021||Dharamsala||Flash flood renders Dharamsala slum dwellers, villagers homeless||About 300 slum dwellers, who have been staying in Dharamsala for the past several decades, are once again without any shelter. Their temporary huts along Manjhi river were washed away during the flash flood on July 12. They have now been housed in government school in Bagli village. However, with the government deciding that the teachers would start coming to schools from July 26 they would now have to vacate the school building.Were earlier uprooted in 2015Besides the slum dwellers, some residents of village Bagli who did not have land in their name are likely to be on the road. Sources here that many families of Bagli had constructed houses on the common village land with the permission of local panchayat. Most of these people were landless residents of the village. Their houses have been damaged or washed away in the flash flood.The sources said these residents were not entitled for any compensation from the state as the land on which their houses were constructed was not in their name and they would be treated as encroachers on government land.The slum dwellers earlier had their huts in Dharamsala city near Charan river. Most of them work as rag pickers in the town. They were uprooted by the MC in the year 2015 on the plea that the land was required for the construction of office of Smart City Dharamsala.They were never allotted any alternative land as was promised by local administration. Most of them settled on the banks of river Manjhi till the July 12 flash flood once again made them homeless.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Nipun Jindal, when asked about the plan to resettle slum dwellers, said that the SDM Dharamsala has identified three patches of land. The land that was to be allotted to the displaced slum dwellers is yet to be decided.About the people who lost their houses in flash flood and did not have land in their name, the DC said that as per the manual they would be given compensation for the loss of their belonging. However, they cannot be given any compensation for loss of their houses as these were constructed on government land.Akshay Jasrotia, a social activist who has been fighting the case of slum dwellers and those displaced due to the flash floods, said the DC should invoke powers under the Disaster Management Act to provide land to people who have lost their dwelling. He said 90 houses were constructed in Dharamsala for urban homeless under a scheme of the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flash-flood-renders-dharamsala-slum-dwellers-villagers-homeless-287449
24-07-2021||Solan||Crop infested by pest, Solan maize growers suffer loss||Maize growers in Solan district are facing 15 to 20 per cent loss of crop due to pest fall armyworm infestation in various parts of the district.Maize is grown over 23,600 hectares in various parts of Solan and around 8,967 hectares have registered 15 to 20 per cent infestation in areas such as Kunihar, Ramshehar, Nalagarh, Barotiwala, Saiyri, and Mashibar.“Cases of pest infestation were reported in the district about a month ago due to a dry weather. Affected farmers have been advised to take remedial steps, including the use of organic pesticides such as neem as well as chemical pesticides in cases where infestation is severe. The situation has improved after rains and the field staff is keeping a close watch in such areas,” says Rajesh Kaushik, Deputy Director, Agriculture.Around 62,000 metric tonnes of maize is grown in the district. The pest infestation causing a substantial loss to crops was also reported last year.The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, has also stepped in to help farmers in the management of this pest. This insect is native to the tropical and subtropical regions of America but it has been reported in the maize-growing areas of Solan since last year.Jitender Kumar Chauhan, Principal Scientist and Head of the KVK, Solan, says that they have been active since last year and have conducted various farm trails to control this pest with flubendiamide insecticide, and demonstration of light traps for pest surveillance and the trapping of adults are being conducted by Anurag Sharma, a scientist of entomology.This year also, solar traps have been distributed to farmers at Dadal village in Kunihar block and various diagnostic visits have been made to fields by scientists led by Sharma.“The scientists are creating awareness among farmers about the life cycle and nature of damage caused by this insect-pest and suggesting various management practices for it,” says Sharma.“The use of light traps from 6 pm to 10 pm should be done by farmers to trap adult moths, which will be helpful in reducing egg laying. Other measures like using pheromone traps to attract male adults to disturb mating and hence reduce egg laying are also advised,” says Sharma.He adds that an integrated approach, which also includes deep ploughing after the harvesting of crop to expose pupae to birds and sun, will help in reducing the incidence of the pest, which is slated to cause damage in the coming years as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crop-infested-by-pest-solan-maize-growers-suffer-loss-287451
24-07-2021||Nurpur||Himachal Assembly gherao planned over delay in pension||The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) Pensioners’ Welfare Organisation threatened to hold a protest over delay in release of pension, and gherao the state Assembly in Shimla on August 4, if their demands were not met. Raghubir Singh, state general secretary of the organisation, said here today an ultimatum had been given to the management on behalf of as many as 6,700 HRTC pensioners to accept their demands before August 4.He said a demand charter had already been given to the management and the state government on June 28. “The inordinate delay in disbursing the service pension to the corporation’s retired employees has made it difficult for them to sustain their families. They are getting their monthly pension after a gap of three to four months,” he said.The HRTC Pensioners’ Welfare Organisation has been demanding regular monthly pension as is being disbursed in other government departments in the state, as well as release of 27 per cent dearness allowance (DA) due from July 2015 to July 2019 and the outstanding financial benefits to all HRTC employees, who had retired in the past four years. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-assembly-gherao-planned-over-delay-in-pension-287453
24-07-2021||Dharamsala||Tibetan women take out march in McLeodganj||Members of the Tibetan Women Association today carried out a silent march wearing black clothes in McLeodganj to protest the centenary celebrations of the Chinese Communist Party. The protestors walked through streets of McLeodganj carrying placards to attract the attention of people towards the issue of Tibet.In a release issued here, the Tibetan Women Association said the centenary celebrations of the Chinese Communist Party marked 100 years of repression against the people of China and Tibet.They alleged that over 150 Tibetan monks had committed self-immolation to register their protest against the repressive policies of the Chinese Government controlled by the Chinese Communist Party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetan-women-take-out-march-in-mcleodganj-287454
24-07-2021||Shimla||Education regulator to tie up with industry||The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) will collaborate with the industry to know its job requirements.“We are planning to create a job opportunity cell, which will act as an interface between the industry and the private educational institutions in the state,” said Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd), Chairman (HPPIERC). He added that the idea was to reduce the gap in skills needed for jobs.TO CREATE JOB CELLThe role of the cell will be to identify job requirements in the industry and help in bridging the gap between the theoretical and practical aspects of jobs, besides helping the educational institutions to start certificate courses, which are needed to provide an edge to the students.The role of the cell would be to identify job requirements in the industry and help in bridging the gap between the theoretical and practical aspects of jobs, besides helping the educational institutions to start certificate courses, which are needed to provide an edge to the students, he said.In the first week of August, an interactive session will be held with the Army Training Command (ARTRAC) to discuss the possibility of research and methodology to start defence and strategic courses in private institutions and provide higher learning prospects for all ranks of the Army in the institutions.“The world is changing fast and we also need to be well-equipped with the changing and challenging times. The prospects of conducting defence and security-related diploma courses like hacking, security and drone management will be discussed with the Army Commander,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/education-regulator-to-tie-up-with-industry-287456
24-07-2021||Chamba||Chamba: Encroachments to be removed for Smart City work||The district administration plans to remove all illegal encroachments and structures from the government land which comes under the purview of the local Municipal Council (MC) and the PWD so that the development could be made on the lines of a ‘Smart City’.Presiding over a meeting regarding a comprehensive urban road infrastructure improvement plan here yesterday, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana asked all officers and stakeholders to draw a master plan of works and include these in the proposed detailed project report (DPR).While discussing the proposed works, DC directed the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Chamba, and Executive Officer of the Municipal Council to conduct demarcation of encroached land, drains and other places in and around the MC limits and submit a detailed report of illegal occupations after a proper investigation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-encroachments-to-be-removed-for-smart-city-work-287457
24-07-2021||Mandi||Himachal CM Thakur reviews developmental works in Mandi||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur held a meeting with the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and councillors of the Municipal Corporation here today evening.Mayor Deepali Jaiswal submitted a proposal to the Chief Minister regarding filling of vacant posts in the MC office. The Chief Minister assured her that appropriate action would be taken.Thakur also held a meeting with senior officers of various departments and reviewed the progress of development works being carried out in the district. He directed the officers to complete all the works within the stipulated time period by ensuring quality.MLAs Vinod Kumar and Inder Singh Gandhi, chairperson of Mandi Zila Parishad Pal Verma and senior officers of the district administration attended the meeting. The Chief Minister also listened to public grievances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-thakur-reviews-developmental-works-in-mandi-287459
24-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal Governor Arlekar calls on President Kovind, PM Modi||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar called on President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendera Modi in New Delhi today. It was a courtesy call. He also called on Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu. The Governor is on his first visit to Delhi as the Governor of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-arlekar-calls-on-president-kovind-pm-modi-287463
24-07-2021||---||Chinese President Xi Jinping’s Tibet visit raises many eyebrows||New Delhi, July 23Eyebrows have been raised here over Chinese President Xi Jinping’s first visit to the Tibet area after becoming President.Xi arrived in Tibet on Wednesday with the touchdown at Nyingchi, a city close to the border with Arunachal Pradesh. The Chinese President then drove to the Nyang river bridge to examine the Yarlung Zangbo or the Brahmaputra River.Interestingly, the Chinese Xinhua agency disclosed the visit on Friday when Xi was wrapping up his engagements.   Xi on Thursday went to Nyingchi railway station and took a train to Lhasa.This is the first visit by Xi to ‘core Tibet’ or the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) since becoming the Communist Party of China general secretary in 2012. He had last visited Lhasa in 2011 when he was the Vice-President.Xi’s visit is significant because it comes a month after China began working on a bullet train line linking Lhasa to Nyingchi, close to the border with Arunachal Pradesh.The 435-km line has a designed pace of 160 kilometres per hour and would join the Tibet Autonomous Region capital to Nyingchi with a journey time of three-and-a-half hours.The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one amongst a number of main infrastructure projects in Tibet’s southern and south-eastern counties close to the Arunachal border.China had last month accomplished building of a strategically important freeway which it termed as the “second significant passageway” to Medog county bordering Arunachal Pradesh.The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one part of the Sichuan-Tibet railway line connecting the two provincial capitals. This would be the second railway line connecting Tibet to the hinterland, following the already open Qinghai-Tibet rail.Photos released by Xinhua showed Xi was accompanied by Zhang Youxia, a vice chairperson of China’s Central Military Commission and a senior general in the People’s Liberation Army.The last time a Chinese president had visited Tibet was in 1990 when Jiang Zemin had taken a tour. His successor Hu Jintao never visited TAR during his 10 years as President.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chinese-president-xi-jinpings-tibet-visit-raises-many-eyebrows-287188
