25-07-2021||New Delhi||Minister Anurag Thakur condoles deaths in Himachal landslide||Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur Sunday condoled the loss of lives in landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district.  The Lok Sabha MP from Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur said the death of tourists in the incident was distressing."Death of tourists due to landslide in Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh is distressing. The state government has promptly engaged in relief and rescue operations. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. May the Lord give strength to the bereaved family and place the departed souls at his feet. Peace," he tweeted. Multiple landslides triggered by recent rains occurred near Basteri on Sangla-Chitkul road at 1.25 pm, resulting in a bridge collapse and damage to some vehicles, they said.A video of a bridge collapse in Basteri has gone viral on social media. In the video, boulders could be seen rolling downhill, causing the bridge to collapse.According to the police, nine people died and two others injured after heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller. The passengers were going to Sangla from Chitkul.In a similar incident, a pedestrian was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-anurag-thakur-condoles-deaths-in-himachal-landslide-288166
25-07-2021||New Delhi||PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Himachal landslides, announces Rs 2 lakh ex gratia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday expressed condolences over the death of people due to landslides in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur and said all arrangements are being made for the treatment of those injured.It is a very painful incident, Modi said and also announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.Nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple incidents of landslide near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district on Sunday, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-himachal-landslides-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-288138
25-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Kinnaur landslide: 3 of family among dead; see complete list||Chandigarh, July 25Nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Sunday.Multiple landslides occurred near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road, they added.Heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller carrying 11 people, killing nine and injuring two, according to the police.In a similar incident, one person was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added.Read alsoThe deceased included three persons of a family including mother, son and daughter namely Maya Devi Banyani, Anurag Biyani (31) and Richa Biyana (35) from Sikar in Rajasthan, besides driver Umrab Singh (42) from Delhi, Pratiksha Sunil Patil (27) from Maharashtra, Deepa Sharma (34), Amogh Bapat (27) and Satish Katakbar (34), both from Chhattisgarh and Kumar Ulhas (37) whose details are being verified.The injured are Shiril Obroy (39) from Delhi, Naveen Bhardwaj (37) Mohali, Punjab, and pedestrian Ranjeet Singh (45) from Kinnaur (HP) are under treatment at Community health Centre, Sangla. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-3-of-family-among-dead-see-complete-list-288122
25-07-2021||Hamirpur (HP)||Army jawan, killed in mine blast, cremated with full state honours in native village||The body of Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya, who was killed in a mine blast in Poonch area of Jammu and Kashmir, was cremated with full state honours near his native village of Ghumarwin here on Sunday morning.Amid slogans of ‘Shaheed Kamal Dev amar rahe’ and ‘Pakistan ho barbad’, the soldier’s cousin Bobby Vaidya lit the pyre after a final salute to the mortal remains.According to locals, Sepoy Vaidya (27) was popular among the local residents as well as his own Army battalion for singing ‘Pahari’ songs. His songs were also found on YouTube and people used to relish them, they said.Sources said Vaidya was supposed to get married in October later in the year in a village in Bilaspur. He was recruited to the Indian Army five years ago.Earlier, the soldier’s body was brought in an Army vehicle to the village where it was kept for the locals to pay their last respects.As the body reached home, Sepoy Vaidya’s parents and the rest of the extended family wept bitterly and hit out at Pakistan for their son’s death. Heartfelt scenes were witnessed at his house when local women were consoling the bereaved family.Deputy Commissioner Debasweta Banik and Hamirpur SP Gokulchandran Karthikeyan paid their respect to the soldier’s body. They also consoled the bereaved family and assured them that all facilities would be made available to them from the government.Local MLA Kamlesh Kumari and leaders and workers of both BJP and Congress parties were present in the house and paid their respects. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-jawan-killed-in-mine-blast-cremated-with-full-state-honours-in-native-village-288112
25-07-2021||Dharamshala||Maharashtra rains: Dalai Lama condoles loss of lives, writes to CM showing solidarity||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama has written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, expressing grief over the loss of lives due to rain-related incidents in the state, and also donated to the ongoing relief and rescue efforts.The death toll from the torrential rains that have battered Maharashtra's Pune and Konkan divisions over the last three days and triggered landslides in some areas rose to 112 on Saturday, including 52 in the coastal Raigad district alone.Moved by news reports about the loss of lives, damage to properties and suffering faced by so many people in Maharashtra as a result of devastating flooding over the last few days, His Holiness the Dalai Lama has written to the chief minister to offer his prayers and condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones, a statement said.“I understand that the state government and concerned authorities are making every effort to help those affected by severe monsoon rains. As a gesture of our solidarity with the people of Maharashtra, I have asked the Dalai Lama Trust to make a donation towards relief and rescue efforts,” the statement said, quoting the Dalai Lama.The Dalai Lama, whose real name is Tenzin Gyatso, received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989, and is feted worldwide for his advocacy of independence for Tibet and other causes. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/maharashtra-rains-dalai-lama-condoles-loss-of-lives-writes-to-cm-showing-solidarity-288050
25-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal roadways staff intensify stir, minister warns of action||The agitation of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) employees, which sparked off suddenly in Shimla on Friday afternoon, spread to different parts of the state today. The protesters claimed that HRTC buses of several depots in the state did not ply at all on Saturday and the services would not resume until the transfer order of Shimla Regional Manager DS Negi was revoked and their pending dues were released.Meanwhile, Transport Minister Bikram Singh has taken a hard stand on the protest by the HRTC employees. “The transfer of officials is the government’s prerogative and it can’t be done, as per the wishes of drivers and conductors. A disciplinary action will be taken against the protesting employees,” he said.HRTC Executive Director Ghanshyam Chand sounded optimistic about resolving the issue. “We have already had a few rounds of talks and soon a solution to the problem will be found. The protesters have agreed for talks with the Transport Minister,” he said.The agitation started Friday afternoon following the transfer of the HRTC Regional Manager from Shimla to Nerwa. The HRTC employees, however, believe pressure and influence exerted by the private bus operators was the reason for Negi’s transfer. The private bus operators have been at loggerheads with Negi and HRTC employees over the timetable of the buses for the past few days.“It’s sad that how the HRTC authorities have bowed to the pressure of the private bus operators and transferred an official, who had always stood up for the interests of the HRTC,” said Khemender Gupta, general secretary of the Sarv Karamchari Union.CPM legislator Rakesh Singha said officials should not be transferred to benefit the private sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-roadways-staff-intensify-stir-minister-warns-of-action-287801
25-07-2021||Solan||HRTC employees protest, go on strike in Solan||Himachal Roadways Transport Corporation (HRTC) employees here today went on a strike in protest against the transfer of a Regional Manager, HRTC, Shimla, who had taken up the issue of an unhealthy competition with private bus operators. They added that their strike would continue till the transfer was not revoked.The employees gathered at the bus stand and closed the gates. They did not allow any private bus to enter the stand; HRTC buses also did not ply. They said, “The private bus operators are not adhering to the timetable given to them by the Regional Transport Authority”.They alleged that the private operators should not be permitted to run their buses within minutes of the HRTC bus service, as this was leading to clashes between them everyday. The protesters shouted slogans condemning the private bus operators. They said that their strike would continue till the transfer of the Regional Manager was not revoked and the issue of timetable was not resolved.The agitating employees said, “The HRTC employees will continue with their strike If the private bus operators do not mend their ways. The timetable should be displayed at the bus stand as the private operators are not allowing them to ply their buses”.The protesters alleged that the private operators indulge in highhandedness and stop their buses at unauthorised stops at Thodo Ground, and Kotla Nallah in Solan. Through their network, these operators keep tabs on the HRTC buses. They had created an unhealthy competition by jumping the timetable and also by plying their buses ahead of HRTC buses.Cases of private operators thrashing HRTC employees have also come to light and this is a cause for concern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-employees-protest-go-on-strike-in-solan-287803
25-07-2021||Our CorrespondentKullu||Mountaineering expedition of ITBP flagged off in Kullu||The ceremony to flag off the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) mountaineering expedition, ‘Vijay-2021’ organised by the SHQ, Shimla, was held at 2nd Battalion, ITBP, at Babeli, 8 km from here, today. The expedition will summit 22,420-ft Mount Gaya situated on the border of Ladakh and Lahaul and Spiti.ITBP, DIG, Prem Singh, who was the chief guest, handed over the National Flag and the force flag to the leader of the expedition, Deputy Commandant Kuldeep Singh.The DIG shared his experiences with the expedition team. He is a renowned mountaineer, who has scaled many peaks, including the Mount Everest twice. He was awarded the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award in 2013.The expedition leader gave a detailed presentation. The team comprises 27 members of under command units of the SHQ, Shimla, including the deputy leader of expedition, Assistant Commandant Anmol Singh Shrivash and Head Constable Pardeep Negi of 17th Battalion.The team will scale Mount Gaya in 26 days. The objective of the expedition is to climb the peak in an inhospitable terrain and adverse climatic conditions. This will develop the spirit to face difficult situations with accountability among the participating troops, and instil leadership, discipline and confidence among them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mountaineering-expedition-of-itbp-flagged-off-in-kullu-287804
25-07-2021||Chamba||Rs 61.95 cr to be paid as pension in Chamba||The Scheduled Castes Sub-Plan and District Welfare Committee on Saturday approved Rs 61.95 crore for providing pension to 42,723 eligible persons of different categories under the Social Security Pension Scheme during the current financial year. The approval was accorded at a meeting of the committee chaired by Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Hans Raj here.Han Raj reviewed the achievements made under the infrastructure development and welfare schemes related to the SC community. He said during the current financial year, a budget provision of Rs 57.65 crore for the Scheduled Castes Sub-Plan had been made under the state plan.The Deputy Speaker said that the district authorities should ensure the completion of all departmental formalities before a budget provision was made in the work plans prepared by the departments related to the sub-plan so that in the second or third quarter, there should be no need to change the items of the plans or surrender the budget unnecessarily.Hans Raj directed the Deputy Director Higher Education to make available the utilisation certificates of all school buildings that had been constructed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-61-95-cr-to-be-paid-as-pension-in-chamba-287805
25-07-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Prof SP Bansal made Central University of Himachal Pradesh Vice Chancellor||Prof SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU), was yesterday appointed the Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) at Dehra in Kangra.This is the fifth appointment of Bansal as VC. He has been the VC of Maharaja Agrasen University, Baddi, Indira Gandhi University, Haryana, and BPS Women University, Rewari. He will join the CUHP on July 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prof-sp-bansal-made-central-university-of-himachal-pradesh-vice-chancellor-287806
25-07-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Shortage of doctors hits healthcare in Himachal villages||Health services in rural areas of the region are in a shambles even though the government is spending crores of rupees to provide better healthcare in the state.Twelve Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and other health institutions in rural areas are not able to provide good services to the people. Due to a shortage of doctors, these health institutions have virtually turned into referral centres, where no emergency cases are attended to. Even patients suffering from simple diseases are referred to the sub-divisional hospital, Palampur, or RP Government Medical College, Tanda.The government has provided adequate infrastructure in these institutions, but still even routine deliveries are not being conducted, causing inconvenience to people.The CHCs and the PHCs have failed to cater to the needs of the public, overburdening Tanda medical college and the sub-divisional hospital, Palampur.Ashish Butail, local MLA, says that the posts of surgeon and gynaecologist are vacant in the Palampur Civil Hospital for the past six months. Despite repeated requests, the posts have not been filled. He adds that he will raise the issue in the state Assembly next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-doctors-hits-healthcare-in-himachal-villages-287807
25-07-2021||Kullu||Minister reviews works in Kullu||Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur today directed officials to complete the ongoing development works in the district within the stipulated period. He said this while presiding over a meeting to review the progress of development works being carried out by various departments in the district at the Dev Sadan here.The minister said that all departments should give priority to the projects of roads, school buildings, health care buildings, electricity and drinking water schemes.Thakur said Kullu is a famous tourist destination and there was need to develop infrastructure to promote tourism. He directed the District Language Officer to expedite the plan to put a roof over the historical Kala Kendra building.The officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) should repair roads so that people did not face inconvenience, he said. He expressed dissatisfaction over the pending repair work of the Bhootnath bridge and instructed the officials concerned to complete it at the earliest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-reviews-works-in-kullu-287808
25-07-2021||Palampur||Women protest installation of waste treatment plant in Paprola||Women from villages adjoining Paprola lodged a protest today over setting up of a garbage disposal treatment plant at Burli Kothi village near the town, 20 km from here.The Baijnath-Paprola Municipal Council is setting up a modern garbage treatment plant at Burli Kothi village on the outskirts of Paprola town, on the government land. The women asked the authorities to remove their machinery, saying they would not allow the construction of the plant as it would prove to be a health hazard.The Municipal Council had acquired over 50-kanal government land for this plant, three years ago. The council had already purchased machinery for the project. Pardeep Dixit, Executive Officer, Baijnath MC, said when municipal councillors, along with the staff, reached the spot for installation of the plant today morning, the women assembled there and tried to stop the operation of JCB machines.The police were called to control the situation. They persuaded the women to call off their agitation.The Executive Officer said the site, where the garbage treatment plant was being set up, was far away from the village. Despite repeated requests, the women stopped the government employees from performing their official duties, he said. He would lodge a complaint with the police, Dixit said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/women-protest-installation-of-waste-treatment-plant-in-paprola-287809
25-07-2021||Dharamsala||Man on peace walk reaches Dharamsala||Nitin Sonawane, who has been travelling around the world to spread the message of peace, reached Dharamsala today.While talking to The Tribune, he said walking is a great way to connect with people, nature and oneself. “Buddha, Mahavira, Guru Nanak, Mahatma Gandhi and Vinoba Bhave went on great journeys across India and elsewhere. Walking is a great tradition in India. Some seek their truth, some use it for meditation and some to spread peace,” he said.“On October 2, 2019, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, I decided to do something to spread his message of peace. I began my peace walk across the world on November 18, 2016, from Sevagram Ashram, Wardha, on bicycle and later, I walked in 46 countries to spread the message of love and non-violence,” he said.“In India, I started my journey on July 13 from the Wagah Border to Srinagar in J&K and I plan to culminate the ‘peace walk’ on October 2 at Raj Ghat, New Delhi, on the 152nd birth anniversary of Gandhi.”Nitin said though he had travelled across the world during the peace march, it was for the first time that he had visited the Himalayas. “The people of Dharamsala are very friendly. The beauty of Dharamsala with snow-clad mountains in its background is unparalleled in the world,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-on-peace-walk-reaches-dharamsala-287811
25-07-2021||Mandi||Mandi villagers demand bridge on rivulet||Residents of Khajarvahal village under Badidhar panchayat have urged the state government to construct a bridge over a rivulet on the Khajarvahal-Jhandaglu road in the Darang Assembly constituency of the district.Villagers say that the rivulet remains in spate during the rainy season and poses a serious threat to the lives of the commuters. The Khajarvahal-Jhandaglu road passes through the rivulet and traffic movement is disrupted owing to the heavy flow of water during the monsoons. The villagers have to cross the rivulet on foot to reach the other side of the road to avail of the transportation facility.Jai Dev, a local resident, says, “We request the government to construct a bridge on the rivulet near Khajarvahal village to ensure smooth traffic movement round the clock. During the rainy season, the water flow increases drastically, and connectivity to our village gets blocked for days”.“During the rainy season, villagers have to walk around 5 km to reach the other side of the road. It is not easy to cross the rivulet with children, patients and senior citizens,” he adds. Mol Raj, another resident of the area, says that the government should get a bridge constructed on the rivulet on priority.Khushal Bhardwaj, a Zila Parishad member, says, “There is need to construct a bridge on the rivulet so that farmers can transport their produce in time and patients can visit thenearby hospital”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-villagers-demand-bridge-on-rivulet-287812
25-07-2021||Mandi||Simplicity not weakness, Himachal CM tells detractors||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today warned his detractors not to consider his simplicity as his weakness and ignorance. He addressed a public meeting in his home Assembly segment of Seraj in Mandi district.He said, “If a person speaks less, it does not mean that he is ignorant. Simplicity and politeness is the culture of Seraj as well as of HP, where people behave gently”.He said, “Due to a long political career in the state, I got an opportunity to work as an MLA during the governments of both Congress and BJP. I observed that after six months, there always remained issues to criticise the government’s functioning. It is for the first time that the Congress has no issue to criticise the BJP government”.“Being the MLA from Seraj, it is my responsibility to ensure its development. I will make all efforts to ensure development of the constituency. The people of Seraj have a huge responsibility to keep the post of Chief Minister with them for a long time because it was achieved as the result of their long efforts,” he said.He said the government was focusing on balanced development without any bias. He inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of various development projects.As the byelection to the Mandi Lok Sabh seat is due, the BJP has intensified its election campaign well in advance. The seat fell vacant following the death of sitting MP Ramswaroop Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/simplicity-not-weakness-himachal-cm-tells-detractors-287827
25-07-2021||Mandi||Stones of Rs 5 cr-worth projects laid in Seraj||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of developmental projects worth about Rs 5 crore in various parts of the Seraj Assembly segment in Mandi district today.He inaugurated the Lift Irrigation Scheme (LIS)-Latogali in Saroa gram panchayat and the LIS-Sawla in Tandi panchayat constructed at a cost of Rs 60.22 lakh and Rs 70 lakh, respectively. He laid the foundation stones of a Rs 38 lakh Command Area Development (CAD) LIS-Thach Sawla in Tandi gram panchayat and a Rs 33 lakh-worth CAD LIS-Kuklah to Latogali at Saroa. He also inaugurated a Rs 1.23-crore Forest Rest House, Dharot, Rs 78-lakh LIWSS-Bassi Dharot and a Rs 43.06-lakh additional accommodation building of Government Senior Secondary School, Dadoh.The CM announced the opening of the Primary Health Centre and the HPSEB JE Section at Saroa. He announced the construction of a Forest Rest House at Saroa. The CM announced Rs 11,000 each for all Mahila Mandals present on the occasion from his discretionary fund. He announced Rs 5 lakh for the improvement of a link road in Kandi panchayat and Rs 2 lakh each for two link roads in Saroa panchayat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stones-of-rs-5-cr-worth-projects-laid-in-seraj-287833
25-07-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||Cloudburst causes damage to crops, houses in Kullu villages||Slush and water brought in by a cloudburst in the higher reaches caused extensive damage to private and government property and crops in Khadvi, Tarala and Sarat villages of Buchher panchayat in Anni subdivision of Kullu district in the wee hours today. Two vehicles were swept away and the Gugra-Jaon-Tarala road was blocked near Sanwasar.Buchher panchayat vice-president Bhup Singh said orchards, agricultural fields and some houses were damaged due to the ingress of slush and water. He added that there was an atmosphere of panic among the people, who moved to safer areas in time, otherwise there could have been the loss of human lives as well.Anni Tehsildar Dalip Sharma said that a team of the Revenue Department visited the area to assess the damage caused and prepare a report.Apple and other fruit orchards have suffered heavy damages. Crops have been completely destroyed. Some houses have become vulnerable due to the flood and residents are in the grip of fear. They have appealed to the government to provide them adequate compensation for their losses due to the natural disaster.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cloudburst-causes-damage-to-crops-houses-in-kullu-villages-287838
25-07-2021||Shimla||130 new cases, 2 deaths in Himachal||As many as 130 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 205,017.Besides, two persons died of the virus in the last 24 hours in Bilaspur and Chamba districts.The maximum 35 cases were reported in Mandi, followed by 25 in Chamba, 21 in Kangra, 17 in Shimla, seven in Una, six each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, five each in Kullu and Kinnaur, two in Solan, and one in Lahaul and Spiti. No case was reported in Sirmaur district.The number of active Covid cases in the state has declined to 931.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/130-new-cases-2-deaths-in-himachal-287854
25-07-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Jawan from Hamirpur dies in mine blast||Army Jawan Kamal Dev Vaidya (27) of Hamirpur district died in a mine blast along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said on Saturday.He was on operational duty in Krishna Ghati sector on Friday. He accidentally stepped on a land mine and it exploded, injuring him critically, a Defence spokesman said.It has been learnt that the martyr was a member of the team that was engaged in an Army operation near the Line of Control. He had joined the Army on June 25, 2015, and was deployed in 15 Dogra Regiment. He was the youngest son of Madan Lal, a resident of Ghumarwi village of Bhoranj subdivision of the district.Lt Col Devender Anand, Defence spokesperson, while conveying the information to the martyr’s family and the district administration, said, “Sepoy Kamal Dev was a brave soldier and his sacrifice for the nation will be remembered forever.”Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the government would provide every possible help to the family of the brave soldier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jawan-from-hamirpur-dies-in-mine-blast-287860
25-07-2021||Shimla||2-yr-old raped, schoolboy apprehended||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-yr-old-raped-schoolboy-apprehended-287864
25-07-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Cloudburst causes damage to crops, houses in Kullu villages||Kullu, July 24Slush and water brought in by a cloudburst in the higher reaches caused extensive damage to private and government property and crops in Khadvi, Tarala and Sarat villages of Buchher panchayat in Anni subdivision of Kullu district in the wee hours today. Two vehicles were swept away and the Gugra-Jaon-Tarala road was blocked near Sanwasar.Buchher panchayat vice-president Bhup Singh said orchards, agricultural fields and some houses were damaged due to the ingress of slush and water. He added that there was an atmosphere of panic among the people, who moved to safer areas in time, otherwise there could have been the loss of human lives as well.Anni Tehsildar Dalip Sharma said that a team of the Revenue Department visited the area to assess the damage caused and prepare a report.Apple and other fruit orchards have suffered heavy damages. Crops have been completely destroyed. Some houses have become vulnerable due to the flood and residents are in the grip of fear. They have appealed to the government to provide them adequate compensation for their losses due to the natural disaster.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cloudburst-causes-damage-to-crops-houses-in-kullu-villages-287742
25-07-2021||---||Army jawan from Himachal dies in accidental mine blast in J-K||New Delhi, July 24Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya lost his life in an accidental mine blast while on an operational duty at Krishna Ghati sector of Poonch district in J&K on Friday night.While moving during the duty, Sepoy Vaidya was critically injured in the accidental blast. He was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility where he succumbed to his injuries.Sepoy Vaidya, aged 27, belonged to Hamirpur district in Himachal.Ghumarwin village plunged into mourning after the news of his death reached his family.A large number of people gathered at the jawan’s residence and raised anti-Pakistan slogans.Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed grief over the demise of  Vaidya.Former chief minister PK Dhumal also offered condolences to Vaidya’s family and said the jawan’s contribution to the nation will always be remembered.He is survived by mother Vanita Devi. —with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-jawan-from-himachal-dies-in-accidental-mine-blast-in-j-k-287618
