26-07-2021||Jaipur||Himachal landslide deaths: Rajasthan govt announces financial aid for families of victims||The Rajasthan government on Monday announced a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the four people from the state who died in a landslide following rains in Himachal Pradesh.The four were among nine tourists who died in the landslide incident in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh on Sunday.While Ayurveda doctor Deepa Sharma (34) was from Jaipur, three members of a family- Maya (55), her son Anurag Biyani (31) and daughter Richa Biyani (25)- were from Sikar.  Shortly before the incident, Sharma had tweeted pictures of her trip with a caption "Life is nothing without mother nature"'.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted that she used to contact his office several times to get help for the needy. He said that Sharma was active in social service. She was living with her mother in Shanti Nagar here. According to her relatives, Sharma was on a solo trip to Himachal Pradesh.Three members of the Biyani family were from Bajaj Road of Sikar and were on a vacation to Himachal Pradesh. The chief minister expressed condolences on the deaths and announced a financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh for the next of kin of the four deceased.Multiple landslides triggered by recent rains occurred near Basteri on Sangla-Chitkul road on Sunday, resulting in a bridge collapse and damage to some vehicles. PTIA video of a bridge collapse in Basteri has gone viral on social media. In the video, boulders could be seen rolling downhill, causing the bridge to collapse. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-landslide-deaths-rajasthan-govt-announces-financial-aid-for-families-of-victims-288527
26-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Jaipur doctor killed in Kinnaur landslide was going to Spiti to celebrate 38th birthday on July 29||Chandigarh, July 26The Jaipur doctor who was among the nine killed in the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Sunday was on her way to Spiti where she planned to celebrate her 38th birthday on July 29.Also read: Doctor killed in Himachal’s Kinnaur landslide had tweeted happy pictures from tragedy location a day beforeExcited about the trip, she had bought a new professional camera and a new smartphone for it. She was a nature lover and her life’s journey too ended on nature's trail.Dr Deepa Sharma's Twitter account is full of photographs from her trip, including a stunning early morning sky and the "last point of India where civilians are allowed".Standing at the last point of India where civilians are allowed. Beyond this point around 80 kms ahead we have border with Tibet whom china has occupied illegally. pic.twitter.com/lQX6Ma41mG  Her followers are stunned to believe that the woman interacting with them a few hours back is no more.Life is nothing without mother nature. ❤️ pic.twitter.com/5URLVYJ6oJ  “My sister deepa Sharma going for spiti tour on her upcoming 38th birthday on 29 July. She was very happy for this planned trip. She purchased new professional camera and new smartphone for it. She love nature and now my sister die in the lap of nature. may her soul rest in peace.”My sister deepa Sharma going for spiti tour on her upcoming 38th birthday on 29 July. She was very happy for this planned trip. She purchased new professional camera and new smartphone for it. She love nature and now my sister die in the lap of nature.may her soul rest in peace.  In her introduction on her Twitter page, Dr Deepa has said: "I am not a IAS/IPS, IIM, Ivy league school pass out, any celebrity or any Politician, but I am confident, In few years people will know my name very well for my good work and my professional attributes for our Nation and for #WomenEmpowerment.."I am not a IAS/IPS, IIM, Ivy league school pass out, any celebrity or any Politician, but I am confident, In few years people will know my name very well for my good works and my professional attributes for our Nation and for #WomenEmpowerment.. 🙏  Two days ago, she, along with his brother and mother, went to Himachal on a group tour. His father and her elder sister stayed back at home in Sikar, Rajasthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jaipur-doctor-killed-in-kinnaur-landslide-was-going-to-spiti-to-celebrate-38th-birthday-on-july-29-288491
26-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||9 tourists killed in Kinnaur landslide||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 25Shooting boulders triggered by a landslide hit a tourist vehicle near Batseri, 8 km from Sangla in Kinnaur district, killing nine persons on Sunday afternoon.Duel over parking just before tragedyOn way to Chitkul, the Tempo Traveller driver had an altercation with the driver of a car over parking. Minutes later, boulders hit the Tempo Traveller, killing nine passengers.The vehicle, a Tempo Traveller, carrying 11 persons was passing through the spot where the rolling stones fell. While eight persons died on the spot, one succumbed to injuries on way to hospital. Three others, including a pedestrian, sustained injuries. The deceased were identified as Maya Devi Banyani (55), her son Anurag Biyani (31) and daughter Richa Biyana (35), all of Sikar (Rajasthan), driver Umrab Singh (42) of Delhi, Pratiksha Sunil Patil (27) of Maharashtra, Deepa Sharma (34) of Rajasthan, Amogh Bapat (27) and Satish Katakbar (34) of Chhattisgarh and Kumar Ulhas (37).The injured — Shiril Oberoi (39) of Delhi, Naveen Bhardwaj (37) of Mohali and Ranjeet Singh (45) of Kinnaur — were under treatment at Community Health Centre, Sangla.Video clips of the incident, which surfaced on social media, showed a bridge over the Baspa river collapsing after being hit by boulders. A house and some other vehicles were also damaged.Saju Ram Rana, SP, Kinnaur, said the tourists had hired the vehicle on a sharing basis and they were on their way to Chitkul from Sangla. Rescue teams reached the spot, but stones were still rolling down, hampering operations. “The road has been closed for traffic and cops have been deployed on the affected stretch. Nearly 50 vehicles were stranded,” he said.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the incident and directed the administration to ensure immediate relief to the affected people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-tourists-killed-in-kinnaur-landslide-288350
26-07-2021||Solan||32 Sirmaur hotels fined for violating Covid regulations||Cracking the whip on tourism facilities failing to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour, officials of the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Department imposed a penalty of Rs 46,000 on 32 hotels in Sirmaur district in July. The hotels found violating the SOPs were in Nahan, Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb, said an official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/32-sirmaur-hotels-fined-for-violating-covid-regulations-288358
26-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kinnaur landslide : Road blocked, tourists stuck beyond Sangla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 25A large number of tourists were stranded beyond Batseri on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur after the road was blocked following falling of big boulders triggered by a landslide today. A bridge, a house and some vehicles were also damaged. Chitkul is the last village and there is no alternative road. The commuters can leave after the road is clear.“We have started the clearing work but sliding is still on and we cannot open the road until it is safe to travel. The strata is loose and stones are still rolling in the 200-300-metre stretch. The road will be opened after the Public Works Department will give approval, said Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq.Some tourists were stuck but they did not know the exact number, he said, adding that the district administration had issued an advisory, urging people not to go beyond Sangla.Travel risky, stones still rolling downClearing work is on but we cannot open the road until it is safe to travel. The strata is loose and stones are still rolling down. The road will be opened after PWD nod. — Abid Hussain Sadiq, dc, kinnaurThe stretches beyond Powari, Urni Dhank and Sangla-Chitkul road are most susceptible to landslides as the hills are fragile. The focus of the government is on tourism as a result a large number of vehicles and tourists visit the interior areas without taking precautions.The squeezing green cover due to felling of trees in the name of development, construction of roads, tunnels and hydropower projects in Kinnaur district has made the hills more vulnerable to slides, claiming human lives and causing massive damage to property year after year.An Army jawan died on the spot after he was hit by a shooting stone near Lal Dhank on the Chitkul-Rani Kanda route in the Sangla valley on July 17, 2016. He was on a patrolling duty along the Indo-Tibet border to set up a base camp. Another man was killed when a shooting stone fell on a car at Bhaira Khud near Rampur on August 1, 2017.Massive landsslips in HimachalMaling (1968): Rolling boulders damaged a 1-km stretch in Kinnaur Kinnaur (1982): Three bridges collapsed at Sholding Nullah and 1.5 km of road caved inJhakri (1989): At Nathpa, a 500-m stretch was damaged in RampurLuggarhatti (1995): 39 persons were buried alive in Kullu district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-road-blocked-tourists-stuck-beyond-sangla-288245
26-07-2021||Shimla||High Court: Remove highway encroachers||The High Court has directed the government to ensure that all encroachments along highways are removed within three months. The HC directed the state to file the compliance report by October 25.A Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Sigh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya observed, “It is not only high time but also necessary to discourage encroachers immediately. It is on account of higher returns that such illegal encroachments are carried out on prime properties along national highways and structures are constructed by the unscrupulous persons without any right. Therefore, all such cases of encroachments have to be dealt with sternly and swiftly.”The court passed the direction yesterday. It observed, “The very object and purpose of encroaching the highway land by raising a dhaba by the petitioner is only to make a quick buck by illegal means and it will not be permissible at any costs.”— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-remove-highway-encroachers-288246
26-07-2021||Shimla||44 new Covid cases in Himachal, one dies in Mandi||As many as 44 new cases have been reported in the past 24 hours. Besides, one death was reported in Mandi district. The maximum cases were from Chamba (13) followed by Mandi (8), Shimla (7), Kangra (6), Kullu (4), Bilaspur and Solan (2 each), Una and Kinnaur (1 each) while no case was reported from Lahaul and Spiti, Hamirpur and Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/44-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-one-dies-in-mandi-288247
26-07-2021||Hamirpur||Martyr Kamal Dev Vaidya cremated with honours at Ghumarwin village in Bhoranj||Martyr Kamal Dev Vaidya, sepoy, was cremated with Army and state honours at his native Ghumarwin village in Bhoranj today.He was posted in the Mankot sector of Poonch district. He died following a mine blast during an Army operation near the LoC.The body of the martyr arrived at the village this morning. Thousands of people reached the village to bid adieu to the brave soldier.A unit of the Army was present to pay tribute to the martyr on behalf of the Commander. The CM said the martyr had made the supreme sacrifice. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/martyr-kamal-dev-vaidya-cremated-with-honours-at-ghumarwin-village-in-bhoranj-288248
26-07-2021||---||Displaced slum dwellers, labourers given shelter by Kangra admn||Dharamsala, July 25The district administration of Kangra has allotted land to slum dwellers who were displaced after their temporary habitations were destroyed in flash floods on July 12 in Sarah village. The orders in this regard have been issued by SDM Dharamsala, Harish Gajju.In the orders, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, it has been stated that temporary relief camp has been set up for 59 families of migrant labourers who had been settled in Dharamsala area for more than 50 years, 15 families of local people will be housed in government senior secondary school, Bagli, while 137 children who had been rendered homeless due to flash floods were rehabilitated in school premises of Tong Len Charitable Trust and Tong Len Office.The orders states that since the schools would start functioning from July 26 on temporary basis all those displaced would now be accommodated on government land in village Sarah near Dharamsala.The SDM has directed the IPH Department to provide clean drinking water, the power department to provide temporary power connections and BDO to provide sanitation facilities at the site to be provided to slum dwellers and other people displaced in flash floods.The Tong Len trust of Tibetans has been requested to provide help to displaced people to help them construct temporary structures to house themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/displaced-slum-dwellers-labourers-given-shelter-by-kangra-admn-288249
26-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Forest clearance process for land up to 40 ha eased in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 25In a major relief to the state government, the clearance for conversion of forest land for other purpose would be done within the state. This could speed up many development projects in the state that have been lingering for want for permission for clearance of forest land for other purposes.The Minister for Forests and Youth Affairs, Rakesh Pathania, who was in Dharamsala today, while talking to The Tribune, said that the Union Ministry for Environment, Forests and Climate Change in an order issued recently has declared the office for Region Director Forest Survey of India, Shimla, as Integrated Regional office of the ministry. This means that all clearances for conversion of forest land up to 40 hectares for other developmental purposes would now be given at the state level.Nodal office now in ShimlaThe minister said that a large number of development projects in various parts of the state, including construction of hospitals, schools, colleges and rural roads, have been struck for want of permission for conversion of small portions of forest land for other purposes. With the nodal office for conversion of forest land up to 40 hectares now being located in Shimla the clearances would come in time and development projects would take off, he said.When asked about the forest clearance for conversion of forest land for bringing up campus of Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) at Jadrangal, Pathania said the case was being processed and land for university campus at Dharamsala would be allotted soon.The CUHP was biggest projects in Kangra district that has been lingering for want of conversion of forest land for development of its campus for the past about 10 years.Now the forest land at Dehra has been converted into the name of CUHP but the case for transfer of forest land at Dharamsala was still lingering.Himachal Pradesh faces problem for availability of land for development projects as almost the entire common land in the state was classified as forest land in 1970s. Major problem that Himachal Pradesh now faces is in developing housing and industrial sector. The Himachal Pradesh Urban Development Authority (HIMUDA) was not finding any land for developing of planned colonies in the entire state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/forest-clearance-process-for-land-up-to-40-ha-eased-in-himachal-288250
26-07-2021||Subhash Rajta||Arhtiyas plan to shift base to Pinjore||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 25The Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board’s state-of-the-art apple and vegetable market coming up in Pinjore can lure away several arhtiyas from the state.“Several top traders, especially from Parwanoo, Solan, Dhalli and Parala, have applied for a shop in the mandi,” said NS Chaudhary, president, Arhtiya Sangh, Himachal Pradesh.Apart from looking for new opportunities, they were looking to shift because of lack of facilities in the local mandis, he said. “There’s hardly any space in our mandis. Most arhtiyas operate from 10x10 shops. The loaders buy the produce during the day and load it during the night. It’s not easy to function in such conditions,” said Chaudhary.Govt insensitiveWe had seen a landslide at the Bhattakuffar mandi last year. Another season of apple has started but the authorities have not removed the debris in one year and made the yard fully functional. — TraderFacilities under one roofThe upcoming Pinjore mandi will have all facilities under one roof, including the AC marketing yards, automatic sorting and grading machines. — NS Chaudhary, Arhtiya sangh chief“Most arhtiyas have arranged stores outside the mandis, spending lakhs, as there is no space inside. And despite paying a hefty marketing fee, they hardly get respect they deserve from the government and its officials,” he said.A trader alleges that no one is interested in creating facilities for traders and farmers in the yards.“We had a massive landslide at the Bhattakuffar mandi last year. Another season of apple has started but the authorities have not removed the debris in one year and made the yard fully functional,” he said.Chaudhary said the upcoming Pinjore mandi would have all facilities under one roof, including the AC marketing yards, automatic sorting and grading machines, loading and unloading points, 3-storey shops with basements, etc.“The mandi will be operational by 2022 and the authorities will most probably start allotting the plots by the year-end,” he said.Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruit, Vegetables and Flowers Association, is full of praise for the Haryana Government for constructing such a state-of-the-art mandi. “We have been asking the government to create such facility in the state as well. Not only such a world-class facility will benefit traders and farmers, but it also ensure good revenue for the government,” he said.Chauhan said the idea to have smaller yards was not practical for apple. “At smaller yards, growers don’t get many buyers and that impacts the rate they get for their produce,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arhtiyas-plan-to-shift-base-to-pinjore-288251
26-07-2021||---||Himachal Road Transport Corporation staff end stir, meet minister today||Shimla, July 25Himachal Road Transport Corporation employees have temporarily withdrawn their agitation following an offer of talks from Transport Minister Bikram Singh.“The minister has called us for a meeting tomorrow. We are hoping for a positive outcome,” said Umesh Sharma, president of the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) of HRTC employees.The employees in Shimla had started a protest after the Shimla Regional Manager was transferred allegedly at the behest of private operators. “We will listen to the government’s reason why he was transferred. If it was done under the pressure of private operators, it is wrong,” he said.Sharma said the MD, HRTC, had called the employees for a meeting on July 28 for talks on their pending dues like night and overtime allowances. “Hopefully, all issues will be resolved,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-road-transport-corporation-staff-end-stir-meet-minister-today-288252
26-07-2021||Solan||Norms flouted, 32 Sirmaur hotels fined||Cracking the whip on tourism units that fail to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour, officials of the Tourism Department (TD) imposed a penalty of Rs 46,000 on 32 units in Sirmaur district in July.Assistant Tourism Development Officer Rajiv Mishra said in a bid to ensure adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs) put in place by the department for ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour, 45 units, comprising hotels, restaurants, travel agencies, home stays, etc. were inspected in Sirmaur district in the July.“As many as 32 such units were found violating the SOPs at Nahan, Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb, following which they were slapped a penalty of Rs 46,000,” said Mishra.He said more such units would be inspected in the coming days and action would be initiated against those violating norms. “Issues like the lack of sanitisation, failure to abide by social distancing norms in sitting arrangement were generally inspected. In some cases, restaurants were not registered with the department.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/norms-flouted-32-sirmaur-hotels-fined-288253
26-07-2021||NURPUR||Himachal Pradesh Veopar Mandal opposes nod to outsiders to hold trade fairs||Up in arms against local administrations granting permission to outsiders for holding exhibitions-cum-trade fairs for selling poor quality of products in the state, the Himachal Pradesh Veopar Mandal has appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to intervene and issue directives in this connection to the district as well as sub divisional level administrations.Peeved, Sumesh Sharma, state president of the Veopar Mandal, said the trading community had already suffered huge financial losses during the first and second Covid pandemic waves. Now granting permission to some outsiders to sell their sub-standard consumer items would ruin small shopkeepers and vendors.‘Sub-standard products being sold’The traders of the state are paying GST to the state exchequer, shop rents and salaries to the workers, but outsiders in the name of trade fair are selling sub-standard products. —Sumesh Sharma, Veopar mandal chiefHe said as many as 600 shopkeepers of Jogindernagar in Mandi district had been holding protest demonstrations for the past few days against the local administration for granting permission for organizing a trade fair to sell consumer items.He urged the Chief Minister to issue instructions to the Deputy Commissioners and Sub Divisional Magistrates across the state to stop granting such permissions, henceforth.The Veopar Mandal president underlined the need of granting local gram panchayat pradhan’s permission to the hawkers (pheriwale) coming from other states for selling door-to-door consumer items in rural areas in the state. He said unknown people who thronged daily in the rural areas in the state under the pretext of selling consumer products could endanger locals’ security and also result in thefts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-veopar-mandal-opposes-nod-to-outsiders-to-hold-trade-fairs-288254
26-07-2021||Mandi||Survey for Mandi airport completed||An aerial LIDAR survey for the development of greenfield airport at Nagchala in Mandi has been completed successfully by Wapcos Limited, a public sector company under the Ministry of Jal Shakti.Pankaj Kumar Dubey, project manager of the company, said the preliminary data processing had been started and the firm would submit classified point-cloud, digital elevation model and contours to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) within a week for finalisation of the runway length and master plan of the airport.“On the basis of the master plan, the locations will be finalised and an obstacle limitation survey chart will be prepared to determine the actual length of the runway, hill cutting requirements, if any, and other obstacles in the airport boundary,” he said.“The work on environment impact assessment is also going on at full swing. Once the master plan for the airport will be finalised, the finalisation of the DPR work will start,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/survey-for-mandi-airport-completed-288255
26-07-2021||The average score of Class XII students of Bishop Cotton School||Students excel in Class XII, X exams||Diksha, Bhawna top nursing testShimla Nursing College students scored 100 per cent result in the GNM first and second year exams. In the second year exams, Diksha Singh secured the first position with 81 per cent, followed by Payal and Tamanna at the second and the third positions with 78 per cent and 77 per cent marks, respectively. In the first year, Bhawna topped with 78.4 per cent, followed by Nidhubala with 77.8 per cent.ABVP slams removal of sports quotaThe ABVP has slammed removal of sports and culture quota in admission to colleges. The ABVP said abolishing sports and culture quote would keep students away from sports. It said on one hand, the Centre introduced programmes such as ‘Khelo India’ and on the other, the state government and the Education Department were taking decisions that were taking the youth away from sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-excel-in-class-xii-x-exams-288256
26-07-2021||The pathway near the lift in Shimla has become one of the favourite spots of the stray dogs to laze around. The pathway is mostly occupied by dogs. Fearing the dogs||Shimla: Path to lift full of dogs||Posts vacant, Shortage of teachers in Chamba schoolGovernment Senior Secondary School, Priyungal, in Bhandal panchayat of Chamba district, located on the border area of Jammu-Kashmir, has been facing an acute shortage of teaching staff for a long time. The government should fill the vacancies as soon as possible, so that online studies of students do not suffer. — Residents, Priyungal (Chamba)What Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribuneinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-path-to-lift-full-of-dogs-288258
26-07-2021||Shimla||Kinnaur Landslides: PM Narendra Modi announces Rs 2L for kin of deceased||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have expressed condolences over the death of people due to the landslides in Kinnaur.Modi has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund.PREZ CONDOLES DEATHSDeeply saddened by deaths in Kinnaur... I express my deepest condolences to the bereaved families and wish the injured a speedy recovery. — Ram Nath Kovind, President of indiaHe said all arrangements were being made for the treatment of those injured.Meanwhile, President Kovind tweeted, "Deeply saddened by the news of deaths due to landslides in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. I express my deepest condolences to the bereaved families and wish the injured people a speedy recovery,”Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also expressed grief over the deaths and asked the district administration to ensure immediate relief and rescue operations.The police said all the deceased were tourists from different parts of the country.Heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller carrying 11 people, killing nine and injuring two, according to the police. Another person was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslides-pm-narendra-modi-announces-rs-2l-for-kin-of-deceased-288264
26-07-2021||Shimla||Rockslide in Himachal's Kinnaur kills nine tourists||At least nine tourists were crushed under massive boulders that slid down a hill following a landslide near Batsari in the tribal district of Kinnaur on Sunday.They were part of a group of 11 tourists who were on their way from Sangla to Chitkul when a boulder hit their vehicle. At least two people are reportedly wounded.Extending his condolences to those killed in accident, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said all arrangments are being made for the treatment of the injured.  हिमाचल प्रदेश के किन्नौर में भूस्खलन से हुआ हादसा अत्यंत दुखद है। इसमें जान गंवाने वाले लोगों के परिजनों के प्रति मेरी हार्दिक संवेदनाएं। दुर्घटना में घायल हुए लोगों के इलाज की पूरी व्यवस्था की जा रही है। मैं उनके शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं: PM @narendramodi  A bridge over Baspa River was damaged in the rockslide, as were several vehicles. A video showed massive boulders sliding off the hilltop and heading straight toward the Bailey Bridge.Rescue teams at the site say the still-sliding boulders are hampering operations.The road is now closed for vehicles as well as pedestrians for safety reasons, officials said. Police have been stationed along the stretch. About 50 vehicles are stranded on the road.Police said that the deceased were all tourists who had met during the trip. They're being identified, officials said. Local MLA Jagat Singh Negi has asked the government to provide a helicopter to help airlift the wounded to a hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rockslide-in-himachals-kinnaur-kills-nine-tourists-288110
