27-07-2021||Shimla||People evacuated as water level rises in Bhaga river in Lahaul-Spiti||People were evacuated from Lahaul-Spiti’s Darcha village after the water level rose in the Bhaga river following heavy rainfall, Himachal Pradesh Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said on Tuesday.According to information provided by the Darcha police check-post, the water level in the river increased considerably due to heavy rainfall, damaging three shops near the river bank, he said. All people having homes near the river bank have been safely evacuated by police personnel, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/people-evacuated-as-water-level-rises-in-bhaga-river-in-lahaul-spiti-289066
27-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk ||Himachal govt warns against 23-second viral ‘fake’ video of tourists returning home after Kinnaur landslide||Chandigarh, July 27A 23-second viral video of a traffic snarl, reported to be of tourists returning from Himachal Pradesh after a massive landslide in Kinnaur that killed 9 people, is reportedly fake. The Himachal government has denied that the video, which has gone viral, was from the state.The video posted on micro-blogging site Twitter on Monday shows serpentine queues of vehicles on a highway stuck in a huge jam. The user claimed that the video was from Himachal while the tourists were returning from Kinnaur.But the Himachal government trashed these claims asserting that the video was not from the state. A  government release informed here that a fake video was being made viral on social media regarding massive traffic jams in Himachal Pradesh and tourists were leaving the state in large numbers. The release further said that all major highways were open for traffic with no major snarls reported from anywhere. The government said that the tourists were welcome in the state and are requested to follow Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-warns-against-23-second-viral-fake-video-of-tourists-returning-home-after-kinnaur-landslide-288948
27-07-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 139 new cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 139 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 205,200. Besides, two persons died in Chamba and Mandi.The highest 34 cases were reported in Mandi, followed by 33 in Chamba, 19 in Shimla, 18 in Kangra, 14 in Bilaspur, seven in Kullu, five in Hamirpur, three in Sirmaur, two each in Una and Kinnaur and one each in Solan and Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases dipped to 858. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-139-new-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-288765
27-07-2021||ibune News Service||Kargil saga will motivate generations to come: Himachal CM||Shimla, July 26“The Kargil War is a symbol of valour and bravery of the Indian soldiers and on this Kargil Vijay Diwas we salute the brave soldiers of our armed forces,” said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. He presided over the Kargil Vijay Diwas function at Gaiety Theatre here today.Thakur said that this victory saga was written 22 years ago at the peaks of Kargil and it would continue to motivate the generations to come. He added that in 1999, after Pakistanis infiltrated into Indian mountain peaks, the Indian soldiers initiated the Operation Vijay against them on May 8 and it went on till 26 July, 1999.He said that the victory achieved during the Operation Vijay was the victory of the bravehearts of the country. He added that those who safeguard the lives of the future generations are always remembered for their gallantry. During the war, 527 brave soldiers were martyred and more than 1,300 were injured.He said that Himachal is known as ‘Vir Bhumi’ and has always followed the tradition of courage and sacrifice.The Chief Minister said that of 527 soldiers martyred during the Kargil War, 52 were from Himachal and of four Param Vir Chakra awardees two were from the state. Captain Vikram Batra was one such braveheart from Himachal Pradesh’s Palampur, who sacrificed his life for the country. He said that Havildar Sanjay Kumar of Bilaspur district was also honoured with Param Vir Chakra for his gallantry during the Kargil War.He said that it was a matter of great pride for Himachal Pradesh that till date the state had received 1,096 gallantry awards and 1,246 soldiers of the state had made the supreme sacrifice for the country. Thakur said that under a special scheme of the Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, a provision for providing petrol stations and gas agencies had been made for the dependents of the martyred soldiers of the Kargil War and other military operations.Earlier, the Chief Minister honoured the family members of Kargil war martyrs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kargil-saga-will-motivate-generations-to-come-himachal-cm-288766
27-07-2021||---||Tributes paid to Kargil war martyrs in Mandi||Mandi, July 26Kargil Vijay Diwas was celebrated with fervour here today. Tributes were paid to the martyrs, who laid down their lives in the Kargil War in 1999.On its 22nd anniversary, the people of Mandi remembered the supreme sacrifice made by the brave soldiers and paid them humble tributes at the war memorial in the town.Chairman of the Ex-Servicemen Welfare Corporation and Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Thakur (Retd), Mayor of the Municipal Corporation Dipali Jaswal, Deputy Mayor Virender Bhatt, Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary, SP Shalini Agnihotri, Additional District Magistrate Rajiv Kumar, Deputy Director of the Sainik Welfare Department Sanjay Kumar, HP Air Squadron NCC Flying Officer Dr Chaman Lal Kranti, media coordinator, middle zone, Purushottam Sharma, president of the Ex-Servicemen League, Mandi, Col Pratap Singh, general secretary Captain Het Ram, Col MK Mandyal, Col CK Tapwal, Col KK Malhotra and other office-bearers of the league, along with officers of the administration, the police and the Army paid floral tributes to the martyrs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tributes-paid-to-kargil-war-martyrs-in-mandi-288768
27-07-2021||Ravinder Sood||Kargil martyr Capt Vikram Batra's statue in bad shape||Palampur, July 26On the 22nd Kargil Vijay Diwas, tributes were paid to the brave soldiers of Palampur, who laid down their lives in the line of duty.In the Kargil War, the state had the highest casualties of 52. Capt Vikram Batra, Major Sudheer Walia and Captain Saurabh Kalia sacrificed their lives.Unfortunately, the projects named after the Kargil war heroes have been left mid-way. The reasons cited by officials are financial constraints and red tape.Despite repeated requests, successive governments have not completed the projects. The roads, schools, colleges being set up in the memories of the martyrs are awaiting completion for the past 20 years.The statue of Captain Vikram Batra installed near the PWD rest house is in a bad shape. The Tribune has highlighted the issue in these columns. In fact, the government has no funds to repair and replace the statue.The road leading to the house of martyr Captain Saurabh Kalia, too, is in a bad shape. The government has not repaired the stretch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kargil-martyr-capt-vikram-batras-statue-in-bad-shape-288769
27-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Chamba Army man felicitated||Chamba,  July 26 Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has felicitated a team of the Army for the successful completion of skiing expedition “ARMEX-21”. Havildar Kewal Krishan Thakur of 13 JAK Rifles, who hails from a tiny hamlet Brahmana in Churah in Chamba district, was among the eight-member team.  Kewal Krishan was recruited as a soldier in 2003. He has completed the special course from High-Altitude Warfare School, Gulmarg and Sonmarg, and is ski and mountaineering expert. He has also completed the instructor grading course form Gulmarg.  The expedition was flagged off on March 10 from the Karakorum Pass of Ladakh and culminated on July 6 at the Malari Pass of Uttarakhand. The 119-day expedition covered 1,660-km distance and crossed 25 passes. He has also participated in many expeditions, including Mt Nun (23,409 feet), in 2013.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-army-man-felicitated-288770
27-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Arki bypoll: Hectic lobbying on in BJP||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 26Hectic lobbying has begun in the BJP for the ticket for the byelection to the Arki Assembly seat that fell vacant following the death of MLA and six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. The Congress, however, has left it to Virbahdra Singh’s family to decide whether they want to contest the byelection from Arki or the Mandi Lok Sabha seat.The BJP is keen to wrest the seat from the Congress. Senior leaders, including state party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, orgnisational secretary Pawan Rana and other leaders visited Arki earlier this week. They directed party workers to work in unison to ensure the victory in the byelection.A bitter factional feud between Rattan Pal, Chairman of the State Cooperative Development Federation, and former MLA Govind Ram Sharma has become a headache for the party. Sharma, a two-time MLA from Arki, was promised a significant post in the party after he was denied ticket in the last Assembly elections. He, however, was not given any post and peeved at the shabby treatment meted out to him. He has expressed his desire to contest the byelection. He claims to have the support of the elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions such as Amar Singh and Asha Parihar as well as Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh leader Surinder Thakur.Interestingly, the leaders, who are supporting Sharma now, had lobbied against him in the last Assembly elections and as a result he was denied ticket.Rattan Pal, who had contested the election against Virbhadra Singh in Arki, had lost by a narrow margin of about 6,000 votes. His candidature for the byelection is considered strong as the party had recently decided to reconsider the claims of those who had lost the last elections with a margin of about 6,000 votes. Though Rattan Pal faces animosity of a section of local leaders, his claim to the ticket is considered strong.Meanwhile, Sharma is also eying the post of chairman held by Rattan Pal if he is not granted the ticket. He has been organising separate programmes for the past several months to make his presence felt.Factional feudA feud between Rattan Pal, Chairman of the State Cooperative Development Federation, and former MLA Govind Ram Sharma has become a headache for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arki-bypoll-hectic-lobbying-on-in-bjp-288771
27-07-2021||---||5 Mohali residents held in Parwanoo||Solan, July 26The police arrested five residents of Banur village in Mohali (Punjab) near Parwanoo last night after they gave counterfeit currency notes to a salesman at a petrol station after getting fuel filled in their vehicle.According to the complaint lodged by the salesman with the police, five people were travelling in a Hyndai Accent car (CH-03K-4066) and they stopped at Chandel Filling Station for refilling around 7.30 pm yesterday. They gave the salesman currency notes of Rs 500 in payment but he found two of the notes to be counterfeit, as they had the same number.The salesman tried to stop the vehicle but the driver sped away towards Pinjore. The police, however, stopped the vehicle near Timber Trail Resort on the bypass.Those arrested have been identified as Gurmeet Singh, Mandeep Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Amanpreet Singh and Pradeep, all residents of Banur village in Mohali. A case under Sections 489 B, 489 C and 34 of the IPC has been registered against them, said Yogesh Rolta, DSP, Parwanoo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-mohali-residents-held-in-parwanoo-288772
27-07-2021||Palampur||PM Modi lauds CSIR-IHBT for apple cultivation in Manipur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi applauded the efforts of the CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, for helping farmers to cultivate apple in northeastern states, particularly in Ukhrul district of Manipur, in the “Mann ki Baat” programme yesterday.Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIR-IHBT, while talking to The Tribune, thanked the Prime Minister for appreciating the role of the institution. He said it was an ambitious project for which his institution had signed a memorandum of understanding with an NGO. He said the CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, had supplied 40,000 plants for cultivation in Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh.“The IHBT has developed a tissue culture-based virus-tested apple root stock technology, which is being used for grafting apple varieties. We introduced these varieties in Manipur and other northeastern states,” he added.“We supplied apple saplings, provided training to farmers in Manipur for cultivation and did continuous handholding,” Kumar said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-modi-lauds-csir-ihbt-for-apple-cultivation-in-manipur-288773
27-07-2021||---||Himachal's private school fee Bill unlikely during monsoon session||Shimla, July 26The state government is unlikely to bring in Bill to rein in private schools on the issue of fee structure during ensuing monsoon session as the Education Department is likely to hold consultations with all private schools, which could prove to be a lengthy affair.As many as 25 objections and suggestions have been received by the Education Department to the Himachal Pradesh Schools (Regulation of Fee and other Related Matters) Bill 2021. It is reliably learnt that a majority of the prominent residential schools located in Shimla, Solan and Kangra have filed their objections.It was being expected that the Bill would be tabled in the assembly during the ensuing monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha, which will commence on August 2. A decision has now been taken to hold consultations with private schools across the state to elicit their viewpoint. This will obviously take time and it would not be possible to bring in the legislation during the monsoon session.The private schools have already expressed their displeasure at the proposed Bill by terming it “arbitrary” which will threaten the autonomy of the schools. “Moreover, the Bill proposes to vest the executive with powers to inspect schools without any complaint or prior notice and empowers the deputy commissioner to check the school accounts every year,” said an owner of a private school.The management of the private schools and parents have been at loggerheads over the fee structure and the steep hike being made by some schools, every year.Holding talks a lengthy process||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-private-school-fee-bill-unlikely-during-monsoon-session-288775
27-07-2021||---||Heavy rain warning in Himachal till July 29||Shimla, July 26The local Met office has issued the red warning of heavy to extremely heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning in four districts Kangra, Mandi, Sirmaur and Bilaspur on July 27 and 28 and the orange warning of thunderstorm, lightning and heavy to very heavy rains in six districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti from July 27 to 29.With two more deaths in rain-related incidents today, the death toll has reached 190 (of which 100 died in accidents, 21 in landslides and 19 from drowning) during the monsoon season since June 13 while four are missing. The cumulative loss to the PWD and the IPH was Rs 27,220.49 lakh and 11,514.17 lakh.The monsoon remained weak for the fourth consecutive day and Nahan was the wettest with 63 mm of rain followed by Baijnath 60 mm, Dharamsala and Nurpur 44 mm each, Jogindernagar 32, Palampur 26 mm, Sundernagar 23 mm, Gaggal 21 mm, Pachhad 18mm, Kufri 17.5 mm, Paonta Sahib 11 mm, Rampur and Shahpur 14 mm, Arki and Malani 12 mm, Kasol, Nagrota Surian and Tinder 11 mm each, Shimla, Nalagarh and Banjar 9 mm each.There was no change in the minimum and maximum temperatures and Keylong was the coldest at night with 15.7 degree C. The maximum temperature fell by 1 to 3 degrees and Una was the hottest in day with 31 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-warning-in-himachal-till-july-29-288776
27-07-2021||Subhash Rajta||EPF not deposited, Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited orders special audit||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 26Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) has ordered a special audit to ascertain whether the EPF/ESI amount of the employees working on the outsourced basis is being deposited regularly by the service providers concerned.“Yes, we have ordered a special audit to see whether the EPF/ESI amount is being deposited as per the norms,” said RK Sharma, Managing Director, HPSEBL.The board ordered the audit after the PF Commissioner, Himachal Pradesh, issued a show-cause notice to it with regard to the service providers/vendors not depositing the EPF/ESI amount of the outsourced workers in their accounts.The audit is going on, and the PF Commissioner has sought a report within 15 days. The HPSEBL Employees Union claims that the audit will unearth a scam running into crores of rupees. “We have raised our voice against the exploitation of the outsourced employee by vendors. We are hopeful that the audit will blow the lid off a massive scam,” said HPSEBL Employee Union secretary HL Verma.There are around 2,800 employees working on the outsourced basis in the board, provided by around five or six service providers. “The board pays around Rs 70 lakh to Rs 80 lakh monthly to the service providers as the EPF/ESI of the employees for depositing in their accounts. However, we have come across several cases in the past where some service providers have not deposited the EPF/ESI amount,” said Verma.He said that many outsourced employees, who were to get benefits such as an immediate financial assistance and pension in the event of death and injury, were denied these because the service providers had either not deposited the EPF/ESI amount at all or had not done so regularly.“In the past few years, around five or six outsourced employees have died and many have been seriously injured while performing their duty. The families of the deceased employees are entitled to a financial compensation and pension, as per the EPF norms. However, most of them did not get any assistance because their service providers had not deposited the EPF and ESI amounts,” said Verma. Overall, there are around 40,000 employees working on outsourced basis in the state.PF Commissioner issued show-cause notice||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/epf-not-deposited-himachal-pradesh-state-electricity-board-limited-orders-special-audit-288777
27-07-2021||Shimla||156 deaths due to drowning in Himachal in 13 months||With 156 deaths due to drowning in Himachal in the past 13 months, DGP Sanjay Kundu has cautioned the public against going close to water bodies.In a tweet, Kundu said: “Himachal is blessed with natural beauty, which attracts people to rivers, rivulets, lakes and ponds but do not venture too close to water bodies, especially in monsoons.”“Be mindful that 156 persons have lost their lives in 160 incidents of drowning in 13 months from January 1, 2020, till January 31, 2021”, the tweet said. The number of drowning deaths increases during the monsoon (May end to August) due to cloudburst, flash floods, excessive rain leading to landslides and accidents at river basins due to the increasing level of rivers and poor visibility, it said.The maximum drowning cases were reported from Mandi and Kangra (25 each) followed by Una (17), Kullu (16), Chamba (14), Shimla (13), Sirmaur (12), Bilaspur (11), Solan and Baddi (10), Hamirpur and Kinnaur (5 each) and Lahaul and Spiti (3).As per the data from 17 stations where river water level is measured, most of the water bodies are in spate and discharge of water is close to the maximum level, but the rising trend is witnessed only in two stations, Pandoh and Sangla, while the water level is falling at eight centres. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/156-deaths-due-to-drowning-in-himachal-in-13-months-288778
27-07-2021||To commemorate the Kargil Vijay Diwas||Kargil Vijay Diwas celebrated||Cadets pay homage to soldiersThe Kargil Vijay Diwas was commemorated at the Government College in Sanjauli by NCC cadets. Observing the Covid safety guidelines, the cadets paid homage to soldiers who lost their lives during the war through posters, paintings etc. College Principal CB Mehta said it was the duty of all citizens to acknowledge the sacrifices made by soldiers and contribute towards maintaining peace in the country.Aadya brings laurels to schoolAadya Kapoor of Our Lady of the Snows School (OLS), Kullu, has brought laurels to the district and the school by securing 98 percent in ICSE class X board examinations, the results of which were announced on Saturday. The results were evaluated on the basis of an alternative system of assessment. OLS principal Fr Antony Solomon said Aadya had broken all records of the past 52 years of the school. He said the previous record of the school was 96.8 per cent in board examinations. Aadya credited her achievement to her maternal grandmother, besides her parents. She said she wanted to serve the people by becoming an IAS officer.ABVP sets up help desk at collegeThe ABVP has set up a guidance bureau at the Government College in Sanjauli to help new students with the admission formalities. The ABVP has also issued helpline numbers for each department to answer queries of new students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kargil-vijay-diwas-celebrated-288814
27-07-2021||Traffic jams while entering Himachal is a major irritant for tourists. A long queue of vehicles welcomes visitors near Timber Trail||Traffic jams irk tourists while entering Himachal||— Deepali Sharma, ChandigarhLandslide threatA few points on the road heading to upper Shimla have become prone to landslides, following heavy rains. The PWD should deploy their staff at such points to warn the approaching vehicle of the potential danger. This small step can save vehicles from landslides.— Nikhil Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-jams-irk-tourists-while-entering-himachal-288815
27-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal landslide: 60 tourists still stranded; GSI team arrives today||Around 60 tourists remain stranded beyond Batseri on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh after yesterday’s landslide that claimed nine lives. Traffic could not be restored on the road as shooting stones still posed a grave risk.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said efforts were on to evacuate about 100 persons, including tourists, at the earliest. He announced an immediate relief of Rs 4 lakh to the next of kin of every deceased and Rs 50,000 each to those injured. The bodies of deceased tourists have been sent to Delhi. Bhisham Thakur of Sangla said over 50 hotels, tent houses and homestay options were available beyond Batseri towards Chitkul. However, there was no such option available along the stretch where the tragedy had struck yesterday, he added.Chitkul is the last inhabited village on the Indo-Tibetan border and it has no alternative motorable road link. The stranded tourists would be evacuated as soon as possible, said Kinnaur DC Abid Hussain Sadiq.A team of the Geological Survey of India (GSI) is expected to arrive in Kinnaur tomorrow. It will inspect the Batseri site to ascertain the cause of landslide, besides studying rocks and soil strata to identify vulnerable spots.Meanwhile, the National Highway-5 was blocked due to a massive landslide near Malling Nullah and the roads to Spiti and Shalkhar were closed for vehicular traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-landslide-60-tourists-still-stranded-gsi-team-arrives-today-288604
27-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Doctor killed in Himachal’s Kinnaur landslide had tweeted happy pictures from tragedy location a day before||Chandigarh, July 26  Least did she know that this will be the place where her journey would end.  A doctor killed in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur landslide had tweeted happy pictures a day before from the bridge location, where the tragedy took place.Nine tourists were crushed under massive boulders that slid down a hill following the landslide near Batsari in the tribal district of Kinnaur on Sunday.Also read: Rockslide in Himachal's Kinnaur kills nine touristsJaipur doctor killed in Kinnaur landslide was going to Spiti to celebrate 38th birthday on July 29Dr Deepa Sharma wrote: “Life is nothing without mother nature”.The Jaipur doctor's Twitter is full of photographs from her Kinnaur trip, including a stunning early morning sky and the "last point of India where civilians are allowed".'आज की सुबह कुछ यूं गुजरी। 😍देव भूमि #HimachalPradesh@incredibleindia @hp_tourism @ParveenKaswan @jairamthakurbjp @anandmahindra pic.twitter.com/W3vYG7jgbj  Standing at the last point of India where civilians are allowed. Beyond this point around 80 kms ahead we have border with Tibet whom china has occupied illegally. pic.twitter.com/lQX6Ma41mG  Meanwhile, actor Kangana Ranaut mourned the loss of Dr Deepa calling her a fan and claiming that she had visited her house in Manali and used to send her gifts and write letters.In her Instagram post, she wrote: ‘Such a great fan, she sent me lovely letters and showered me with gifts and also visited my house in Manali... Oh!!! Seems like a big jolt...This is beyond tragic.... Oh God!!!”She also urged the tourists to avoid hill stations in rainy season. A day before her unfortunate demise, the fan, had shared a couple of happy photos from the said location.Life is nothing without mother nature. ❤️ pic.twitter.com/5URLVYJ6oJ  Filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri wrote, ‘OMG. Can’t believe that Deepa is no more. I have been told that she died in a landslide today. Till 8hrs ago she was sending photos from the Himalayas. Such a lively, aware person. Have no words. May God give her family strength. Prayers. ॐ शांति (Om Shanti)’The director retweeted one of her last posts on Twitter where she had shared pictures of herself with Mother Nature and called it "strange" as she had written, "Life is nothing without mother nature".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctor-killed-in-himachals-kinnaur-landslide-had-tweeted-happy-pictures-from-tragedy-location-a-day-before-288478
