28-07-2021||Solan||Baddi Police raid, seal illegal fireworks factory; owner arrested||Baddi Police seized a huge cache of firecrackers and chemicals after they raided an illegal fireworks factory in Baddi’s Thana village on Wednesday, officials said.The raid began on Tuesday evening and went on till Wednesday evening.  Police said they found incendiary material for fireworks in 4-5 halls of the double-storeyed factory.The owner, Daya Karan, was arrested in the evening after he could not produce a licence when asked, police said. Workers in the factory fled as soon as the raid began, Baddi Superintendent of Police Rohit Malpani said. “A team of about 25 policemen led by DSP Baddi  Navdeep Singh raided this factory after a tip-off about its illegal operations. There was no sign board outside the double storey factory, which   was found locked from outside though some workers were seen working inside,” the officer said.He said the alarmed factory workers locked the factory doors and escaped another way by the time the police managed to get inside.Police found a large cache of crackers at various stages of manufacturing, 18 drums of nitric acid, 7 drums of alcohol and 28 packaging machines among other machinery on the premises, he said. Over 600 cracker boxes and 15 tonnes of silica were also found, police said.The crackers bore the label ‘Original Colours’ but had no other details on the packaging, police said.Police have booked the suspect for negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance (section 286, Indian Penal Code) as well as Section 13 of the Explosives Act (Power to arrest without warrant persons committing dangerous offences).  A local court remanded him in police custody for five days, Malpani said.“We’re investigating how he got power for the factory. There was heavy power usage with 28 machines, air conditioners and exhaust fans among other equipment. The factory was operating on a private plot that the suspect claims he owns. We’re verifying this,” Baddi DSP Navdeep Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-police-raid-seal-illegal-fireworks-factory-owner-arrested-289553
28-07-2021||New Delhi||Widespread rain in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal to continue till July 30: IMD||The current spell of widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh till July 30, the IMD said on Wednesday.Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Himachal Pradesh today on 28th July and over Uttarakhand on 28th-29th July, it said.Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar during 28th-30th July and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh during 28th-31st July.Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Gangetic West Bengal on 28th & 29th July, over Jharkhand on 29th and 30th July and over Chhattisgarh on 30th July and over East Madhya Pradesh on 31st July.Meanwhile, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely to continue over East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh from 28th July to 1 August.It is likely to increase from 30th July.Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over West Madhya Pradesh on 1st August.Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely over Konkan and Goa, Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra from 28th July to 1st August.Impact expected due to this includes*Localised flooding of roads, water logging in low lying areas and closure of underpassesmainly in urban areas of the above region.*Occasional reduction in visibility due to heavy rainfall.*Disruption of traffic in major cities due to water logging in roads leading to increased travel time.*Minor damage to kutcha roads.*Possibilities of damage to vulnerable structure.* Localised landslides/mudslides*Damage to horticulture and standing crops in some areas due to inundation.*It may lead to riverine flooding in some river catchmentsAction Suggested* Check for traffic congestion on your route before leaving for your destination.* Follow any traffic advisories that are issued in this regard.*Avoid going to areas that face the water logging problems often.*Avoid staying in vulnerable structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/widespread-rain-in-punjab-haryana-himachal-to-continue-till-july-30-imd-289488
28-07-2021||---||In pictures, landslide opposite Tenzin hospital on Vikas Nagar-Panthaghati road in Shimla||Shimla, July 28A landslide occurred opposite Tenzin hospital on Vikas Nagar-Panthaghati road on Wednesday morning.  A car parked alongside the road was damaged. No other loss has been reported. The road is open for traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-pictures-landslide-opposite-tenzin-hospital-on-vikas-nagar-panthaghati-road-in-shimla-289452
28-07-2021||The SFI on Tuesday held a protest at Pink Petals Chowk||SFI alleges irregularities in HPU||Screening test for posts on Aug 10The screening test for recruitment to the posts of Assistant Research Officer, Class-II (Non-Gazetted, on contract basis) will be conducted on July August 10 from 11 am to 1 pm. The e-admit cards of all provisionally admitted candidates and instruction to candidates have been uploaded on the commission's website (www.hppsc.hp.gov.in/hppsc) and the candidates have also been informed through SMSes/emails. In case of any enquiry, candidates can contact the commission's office on any working day from 10 am to 5 pm.Dagshai pupils excel in examsWith 100 per cent pass result, the Dagshai Public School has excelled in its ICSE and ISC-2021 exam results. In the ICSE examination, all students passed with distinction. Out of 25 students who appeared, three students scored more than 90 per cent while 18 students scored more than 80 per cent. Aditya Raj topped with a score of 94.6 per cent, followed by Ayushman Sood with 93.6 per cent and Ashutosh Mongta with 90.8 per cent. All 15 students who appeared for the ISC have secured more than 80 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-alleges-irregularities-in-hpu-289328
28-07-2021||Potholed roads are a bane of Paonta Sahib residents in these rains as these get filled with water and cause inconvenience to commuters. The lack of proper maintenance of roads has added to the problem for two-wheeler riders||Potholed roads in Paonta Sahib irk commuters||— Lokender Chauhan, SolanRoad full of slushThe road leading to the Mall Road from the Sabji Mandi has become a nuisance for people. The road is full of mud and slush and the vehicles on this narrow and steep road hardly leave any space for people to walk. Also, the garbage littered around adds to the problem. — Devender Thakur, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/potholed-roads-in-paonta-sahib-irk-commuters-289337
28-07-2021||bhash Rajta
||Shimla walls to be spruced up under Smart City project||Tribune News Service Shimla, July 27 Worried that the several upcoming RCC walls, especially on the circular road, could give the city a look of dull concrete jungle, the Urban Development Department is planning to make these walls lively and environment friendly. Under the Smart City Mission, these walls will have vegetation-like creepers and murals depicting the culture, history and heritage and flora and fauna found in the state. “We have had a meeting with PWD, the Department of Language, Arts and Culture and Kotshera College. We have asked these departments to submit their ideas, concepts and designs to beautify these walls. We will have a follow-up meeting soon,” said Manmohan Sharma, Director, Urban Development and Managing Director, Smart City project.  The Kotshera College has been roped in because it runs a fine arts course. “Fine arts students will be involved in the project. It will give them an opportunity to exhibit their creativity,” said Nitin Garg, GM (Technical), Smart City Limited.  Under Smart City projects, the widening of road is going at several places in the city. As a result, several RCC walls would come up at these sites, offering a grey and gloomy background. “The dull RCC walls will not be a pleasant sight, neither for the locals nor the tourists. Hence, this particular project has been envisaged,” said Garg. The Smart City has already started a pilot project at the Secretariat, where some murals have been put up on one of the walls. The challenge, however, would be to ensure all these embellishments last a reasonable time in the adverse weather conditions. Not too long back, the visual art students had adorned the walls on the Mall Road with wall paintings but a few of these started deteriorating shortly. “The departments involved in the project have already been asked to look into this aspect. They will ensure all adornments in the exposed area are good enough to brave the adverse weather conditions,” said Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-walls-to-be-spruced-up-under-smart-city-project-289167
28-07-2021||---||Shimla cops launch scheme for armed forces personnel||Shimla, July 27The military and paramilitary personnel would no longer face any problem in redressal of their issues back home as the Shimla police have launched the Aabhar Yojana (gratitude scheme) to reach out to their families and register their complaints on phone.As these personnel are not able to come home due to occupational problems, their families are often left in the lurch. “Now, personnel of the armed forces and their family members can directly approach the police through the mobile number 88947-28012. The police station incharge will prepare a list of such personnel in their jurisdiction and inform them about the helpline number and their personal mobile numbers,” said Shimla SP Mohit Chawla.A register of all complaints received through phone or in writing will be prepared and the same will be disposed of on priority, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-cops-launch-scheme-for-armed-forces-personnel-289168
28-07-2021||---||NCC complex in Mandi named after Kargil War hero Brigadier Khushal Thakur||Mandi, July 27The Kargil Vijay Diwas NCC Empanelment Ceremony was organised by 2 HP Battalion, NCC, Mandi, here today. Tributes were paid to the martyrs of the 1999 war. Kargil War hero Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) was the chief guest on the occasion.The battalion has named the complex as Brigadier Khushal Thakur NCC complex. Colonel Anuj S. Luthra, Commanding Officer, 2 HP Battalion, NCC, Mandi, said, “Brig Khushal Thakur was commissioned in 18 Grenadiers in December 1976. He graduated from Vallabh Government College, Mandi, and was awarded a “C” certificate by 2 HP Battalion, NCC. He was the first officer to be commissioned in 18 Grenadiers.Principal of the college YP Sharma said that it was a matter of pride for them. Brig Khushal Thakur, who is Chairperson of the Ex-Servicemen Welfare Corporation, said, “The NCC organisation and associate NCC officers had played an important role in my life”. He narrated his experience as an NCC cadet and during the service in the Army. He shared his experiences regarding the Kargil War as the Commanding Officer of 18 Grenadiers.Brig Rajiv Thakur, Group Commander, NCC, Himachal Pradesh, said, “Brig Khushal Thakur has participated in a plethora of operations and has a vast experience across the entire spectrum of conflicts. He as the Commanding Officer of 18 Grenadiers was deployed on counterinsurgency operations. His unit was given 20 awards for Operation Rakshak carried out under his leadership. The unit recaptured Tiger Hill and Tololing during the war in the icy heights of the Dras sector”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ncc-complex-in-mandi-named-after-kargil-war-hero-brigadier-khushal-thakur-289169
28-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||Himachal schools set to reopen but online classes to continue||Tribune News Service Shimla, July 27 Schools will reopen in the state for Class X to XII students on August 2, after a gap of almost four months, but online classes – Har Ghar Pathshala — will continue. The students will also have the option of attending schools to resolve their queries. In the first week, the teachers will take up the problems relating to the lessons taught online and the queries of the students will be resolved; the syllabus taught online is monitored. Online lectures will be synchronised with classroom teaching and the situation will be reviewed after two weeks. The students of Class V and VIII (board classes) can also visit their schools to discuss their problems with their teachers. However, attendance will be optional and the morning assembly, sports and co-curricular activities will not be permitted till the pandemic situation normalises. The attendance has been made optional so that there is no compulsion to attend school if the parents and their wards are still fearful of Covid. There are over 3.5 lakh students of Class X to XII, including 2.15 lakh of government schools, in the state. “To avail of transport facilities to attend schools, measures for the safety and security of students will be adopted strictly and students having cough and cold will be given a day off or a day’s leave,” said Director Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma. Both doses of vaccine would be mandatory for teachers, non-teaching staff and midday meal workers. A Covid Coordination Committee would be constituted in every district under the chairmanship of the Deputy Director (Education) to deal with any emergency, he added. Meanwhile, instructions have been issued to the heads of the schools to start sanitising their premises. “The standard operating procedures (SOPs) such as thermal screening, wearing of masks by students, teachers and other staff members and social distancing will be maintained strictly. Student volunteers and teachers will be given the responsibility to monitor the implementation of the guidelines.   However, the heads of the institutions have been allowed flexibility in preparing micro-plans for staggering the arrival and exit of students and adjust the lunch break in a manner that the students do not assemble at one place,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-schools-set-to-reopen-but-online-classes-to-continue-289170
28-07-2021||Hamirpur||Anupam Thakur is new VC of Himachal Pradesh Technical University||Governor Rajender Vishwanath Arlekar yesterday appointed Anupam Thakur, an officer of the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services, as the Vice-Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU). He was working as the Registrar of the university. The post fell vacant after incumbent Vice-Chancellor SP Bansal was appointed the Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh. Thakur had earlier served as SDM at Dodra- Kwar in Shimla and at Ghumarwin in Bilaspur. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anupam-thakur-is-new-vc-of-himachal-pradesh-technical-university-289171
28-07-2021||---||Mandi bypoll: Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Kaul Singh Thakur skip meet||Mandi, July 27Congress leaders were huddled together here today to chalk out a strategy for the byelection to the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency.According to sources, discussions were held on the names of the prospective candidates. Congress committee members Mukesh Agnihotri, Asha Kumari and office-bearers took feedback to be conveyed to the party high command in New Delhi to decide the candidate for the byelection.The Congress is a divided house was evident during the meeting. Virbhadra Singh’s loyalists are in favour of giving the party ticket to Pratibha Singh, wife of former six-time Chief Minister. She had been MP from the Mandi Lok Sabha seat earlier.However, a section of party workers wants the ticket to be given to senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur or any other leader hailing from the Mandi parliamentary constituency.Factionalism in the party came to the fore as Kaul Singh Thakur and former Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu skipped the meet. Even Sukhu’s loyalists stayed away from the meeting.However, Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri denied there is factionalism in the party.Besides Agnihotri, former ministers Asha Kumari and Rangila Ram Rao, former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Sohan Lal Thakur, Kullu MLA Sunder Singh Thakur, district Congress Committee president Prakash Chaudhari, former MLAs and officer-bearers from the Mandi Lok Sabha seat attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-bypoll-sukhwinder-singh-sukhu-kaul-singh-thakur-skip-meet-289172
28-07-2021||---||80 tourists stranded in Kinnaur evacuated||Shimla, July 27 Around 80 tourists, who were stranded beyond Batseri on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district for more than 50 hours following a major landslide on July 25, were evacuated as the road was opened for one-way traffic this evening. “The road has been closed again as a precautionary measure till we get a go-ahead from the Public Works Department and a team of the Geological Survey of India (GSI),” said Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq. Since the area in the vicinity of the landslide stretch is inhabited, road clearing teams resorted to controlled blasting to clear the stretch.  The GSI team will reach Kinnaur tonight. The team, on its three-day visit, will inspect the slide site to ascertain the cause and remedial measures, he said. A detailed discussion would also be held with the team for rock mapping and treatment of about 15-16 vulnerable spots, suggesting future course of action to strengthen the strata. Meanwhile, the bodies of eight tourists, who died in the landslide, have been handed over to their relatives at Himachal Bhawan, New Delhi, while the body of Lieutenant Bapat was handed over to the Army at Karcham, which was airlifted to Raipur, Chhattisgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/80-tourists-stranded-in-kinnaur-evacuated-289173
28-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Boulders fall on car near Niazpur bus stop near Nurpur, driver critical||Nurpur, July 27Vehicular traffic on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway was disrupted for a few hours this noon following a landslide. A Maruti Swift car (HP-97-4533) was completely damaged after big boulders fell on it while its owner Avtar Singh, a resident of Bhadukhar (Indora) who was driving, was seriously injured. On hearing the noise of the landslide near the Niazpur bus stop in the town, locals rushed to the spot, and started the rescue work by removing the boulders that fell on the car.Injured Avtar Singh was extricated from the mangled remains of the car and rushed to the local Civil hospital. He was later referred to Tanda medical college, Kangra. He was reportedly on his way back to his native village from Dharamsala but was trapped under the landslide.A landslide had happened on the same spot last Sunday night as well and traffic was blocked. The local PWD had pressed its machinery into service to restore the highway to traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/boulders-fall-on-car-near-niazpur-bus-stop-near-nurpur-driver-critical-289174
28-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Top brass to decide who will lead Congress in Himachal Pradesh Assembly elections: Mukesh Agnihotri||Palampur, July 27“Who will lead the Congress in Himachal Pradesh in the Assembly elections in 2022 will be decided by the party high command,” said Mukesh Agnihotri, Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly.Agnihotri said the demise of veteran Congress leader Virbhadra Singh was a big loss to the Congress. He said the party would make all efforts to give a united fight to the BJP in the Assembly elections.He said the Congress was fully prepared for the Assembly elections and had already activated its workers. The people of the state were fed up with the wrong policies of the state government.Agnihotri said the people of the state would never forget the failures and poor handling of the Covid crisis, which had led to the death of 1,200 persons in Himachal.Besides Agnihotri, Asha Kumari, Brij Behari Lal Butail, Chander Kumar, Ajay Mahajan, Ashish Butail, and Pawan Kajal were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/top-brass-to-decide-who-will-lead-congress-in-himachal-pradesh-assembly-elections-mukesh-agnihotri-289175
28-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||Survivors recall Kinnaur nightmare||Tribune News Service Shimla, July 27 Those who were lucky to survive the Kinnaur landslide mishap on Sunday were in a daze as they narrated the harrowing tale. They will never be able to forget the incident and it has left an indelible mark on their minds. “While returning from Chitkul to Sangla, we saw stones rolling down from the top of the hill. On seeing the stones skidding down fast, our driver reversed the vehicle but it was too late and a huge boulder hit our vehicle, which overturned and slid towards a gorge,” recalled Naveen Bhardwaj from Mohali in Punjab who had a miraculous escape. “I am still not sure if I jumped out of the window or was tossed out of the vehicle and fell on mud. As rolling stones were still coming, I just lay down and ran towards a tree for shelter from where I made a call to the police. Meanwhile, I started shouting for help and heard the voice of Shiril Oberoy hailing from Delhi and ran to rescue him. “I could connect the police on the second call. The rescue teams were quick in reaching the spot and rescue operations were started,” said Bhardwaj , a software engineer, who sustained head injuries. “I immediately loaded a five-minute video on my YouTube to send a message to travellers to avoid going to vulnerable spots during the monsoons, adhere to the advisories issued by the administration, do not take hill routes casually and be aware of the topography while travelling,” Bhardwaj said. “It was luck or maybe I really do not know but the last two days have been the most traumatic in my life,” said Shiril. He added, “There are a lot of ifs and buts now. Had we not given a pass to two vehicles en route to Chitkul, we would have crossed the killer stretch before boulders came shooting down”. A tempo traveller carrying 11 persons had started from Delhi on Friday. It reached Chitkul on Saturday evening and met with the accident on Sunday afternoon. The passengers were on an eight-day trip to Spiti. Nine tourists were killed while three, including a local pedestrian, were injured as boulders shooting down the hill hit their vehicle near Batseri on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/survivors-recall-kinnaur-nightmare-289176
28-07-2021||---||Flash floods on Manali-Leh, Gramphu-Kaza highways||Mandi, July 27 Flash floods on the Manali-Leh and Gramphu-Kaza highways and the Keylong-Udaipur stretch in Lahaul and Spiti district today hampered traffic. As a result, tourists were stranded in these areas for hours. A massive landslide was reported on the Manali-Leh highway near the Sakash Nullah, which blocked traffic. Border Roads Organisation  (BRO) men were engaged in clearing the road. BRO officials said because of the inclement weather it would take some time to restore the highway.  A flash flood caused considerable damage to the Gramphu-Kaza highway that was blocked near Chhota Dara. The road from Tandi to Udaipur is blocked near Kirting, Kamring and Kukum Seri due to the increased water level in nullahs. The Darcha-Shinkhula road is also closed for traffic. SP, Lahaul and Spiti, Manav Verma said that some tourists were stranded at Jispa due to the closure of the road. They were being shifted to a safe place in upper reaches of the area.  The Lahaul and Spiti administration  has issued an advisory to the public to avoid travelling on these roads till Wednesday until these highways are restored. Due to heavy rains, the Chandigarh-Manali highway was also blocked for some time near the Hanogi temple today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flash-floods-on-manali-leh-gramphu-kaza-highways-289177
28-07-2021||Shimla||183 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 183 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 205,383. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Kangra district. The highest number of 53 cases was reported in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/183-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-289178
28-07-2021||Shimla||Heavy rains likely in four Himachal dists today||The local Met office has issue a red warning of heavy to extremely heavy rain, lightning and thunderstorm in four districts of Bilaspur, Kangra, Mandi and Sirmaur; an orange warning of heavy to very heavy rain in six districts of Una, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kullu, Shimla and Solan; and a yellow warning of heavy rain in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on July 28. Orange and yellow warnings have also been given for ten districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti, on July 29, 30 and 31.A vacant dilapidated house near Manchanda shop in the vicinity of the IGMC in Shimla collapsed, reportedly due to rains. Three more persons have died in rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the monsoon season to 193 since June 13.As many as 190 roads, including 79 in Mandi, 78 in Shimla, 15 in Chamba, are blocked. Meanwhile, moderate rains lashed some parts of the state. Bharari with 76 mm of rain was the wettest in the region. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rains-likely-in-four-himachal-dists-today-289179
28-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Fee imposed on tourist vehicles entering Kasol, Manikaran||KULLU, JULY 27 The district administration has installed a barrier to collect development fee from the outside vehicles entering tourist hotspots Kasol and Manikaran in the Parbati valley of the district from today.  The barrier has been set up about 2 km before Kasol. The fee  will not be taken from the vehicles registered in Himachal Pradesh.  The members of Special Area Development Authority (SADA), Manikaran, had unanimously decided and passed a resolution that the development fee would be levied for providing basic facilities in the area. Kullu DC and Manikaran SADA chairman Ashutosh Garg issued an order in this regard in exercise of powers under the TCP Act. The entry fee for a two-wheeler is Rs 50, for a car Rs 100, for SUV and MUV Rs 300 while for all types of buses and trucks, it is Rs 500. Manikaran is a well-known  spot apart from Kasol, which, off-late, has become favourite among  foreigners. A large number of pilgrims from Punjab visit the famous gurdwara in Manikaran. The hot water springs in both places are other major attraction for the visitors. However, there are neither sewage treatment plants in both these destinations, nor scientific garbage disposal units. The DC said it was necessary to create basic facilities for the tourists and to preserve the ecology of the area. He said the funds generated would be utilized to preserve environment, to create basic facilities and  undertake other development works in the region. Steps would be taken for proper disposal of solid and liquid waste in Kasol and Manikaran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fee-imposed-on-tourist-vehicles-entering-kasol-manikaran-289180
28-07-2021||Shimla||HPCC names spokespersons, media panelists||The HPCC today appointed five senior spokespersons, media panelists and spokespersons in the state. The five senior spokespersons are former MLAs Kuldeep Singh Pathania, Sohan Lal Thakur and Sanjay Rattan, Naresh Chauhan and Deepak Sharma.  IN Mehta has been appointed as media coordinator.  The media panelists are Keshav Nayak, Saurabh Chauhan, Vinay Sharma, Akash Sharma, Monita Chauhan, Shagun Dutt Sharma, Bharti Chaudhary and Surya Voorish. The HPCC spokespersons are Dr Rajesh Sharma, Jitendra Sharma, Prem Kaushal, Alka Nanda, Aman Sethi, Indu Patiala, Vijay Dogra, Jai Kumar Azad, Pradeep Verma, Kiran Dhanta, Kushal Jethi, Ajit Kumar Naheria, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpcc-names-spokespersons-media-panelists-289181
28-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurates projects at Kaza||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of 19 projects worth about Rs 146 crore for people of the Spiti valley virtually from Shimla.He inaugurated projects worth Rs 14.52 crore which included a Rs 48 lakh helipad at Hull, a Rs 74 lakh museum-cum-library at Tabo, a Rs 80 lakh community hall at Kibber, a Rs 1.86 crore museum-cum-library at Kee and a Rs 8.82 crore minor irrigation scheme at Kaza.He also laid the foundation stone of projects worth Rs 131.21 crore, including a Rs 34.57 crore ice-hockey rink at Kaza, a Rs 12.18 crore additional building of the Community Health Centre at Kaza, a Rs 2.60 crore 60-metre span steel truss bridge over the Shilla Nullah at Shilla and a Rs 8.69 crore high-altitude training centre at Kaza.The Chief Minister also laid foundation stone of a Rs 1.47 crore flow irrigation scheme, Khagas Nallah to Lari village in Tabo, a Rs 1.97 crore lift irrigation scheme, Tangti Yogma in Kungri, and a Rs 4.50 crore model career centre at Kaza.The Chief Minister announced the enhancement of tribal allowance from Rs 450 to Rs 650 and winter allowance from Rs 300 to Rs 500 for the employees serving in the tribal areas.He also announced the opening of Health Sub-Centre at Kemo, opening of fire sub-station at Kaza, upgrade of Community Health Centre, Kaza, to Civil Hospital. Tribal Development Minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda also released a Coffee Table Book ‘Spitian People, Culture and Vista’ at Kaza on behalf of the Chief Minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-virtually-inaugurates-projects-at-kaza-289182
28-07-2021||Legal Correspondent||Expectant mothers need bail, not jail: Himachal Pradesh High Court||Shimla, July 27Expectant mothers need bail, not jail! Courts must restore the due and sacrosanct freedom of women in motherhood. Even when the offences are highly grave and accusations severe, they still deserve temporary bail or suspension of sentence, extending to a year after delivery.This was held by the High Court while dealing with a bail petition filed by an expectant mother, apprehending her arrest on the allegations of conspiring with her husband in substance trade.Justice Anoop Chitkara observed: “Taking birth in a jail could possibly be such a trauma to the child that social hatred may follow, potentially creating an everlasting impact on the mind whenever questioned about birth.”Granting bail to the expectant mother, the court observed: “Good and nutritious food in prisons may give good physical health but cannot substitute good mental health. Restrains and confined spaces may cause mental stress to an expectant mother. Giving birth in jail may cause her tremendous trauma. What difference will it make to the state and society by not postponing incarceration? What is so urgent to execute the sentence? Heavens will not fall, if incarceration is postponed.”The court held: “There should be no restraints throughout pregnancy, no restraints during labour and delivery, and no restraints at least for a year after giving birth. Every expectant mother deserves dignity during motherhood. Further, those who stand convicted and their appeals closed also deserve similar relief, in whatever camouflage it may come.”The allegations against the bail petitioner was that on the midnight of November 29, 2020, the Damtal police received a secret information that Dharminder alias Govinda (husband of the petitioner) had received a large quantity of psychotropic substances, which he had concealed in his house. During search, the police had recovered 259 grams of heroin and 713 grams of tablets containing tramadol, the quantities of both drugs falling in the commercial category. It was alleged by the prosecution that bail petitioner was also involved with her husband in this offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expectant-mothers-need-bail-not-jail-himachal-pradesh-high-court-289183
28-07-2021||Solan||8 hurt as Haryana Roadways bus falls into nullah near Parwanoo||Eight persons, including the driver and the conductor of a Haryana Roadways bus (HR-68A-9619), were injured when it skidded into a nullah along the Parwanoo-Dharampur section of the highway near Parwanoo around 3.15 pm today. The bus was going from Shimla to Chandigarh.Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said as per the preliminary probe, it appears that the bus was moving at a high speed and it skidded into a nullah along the road. The driver, conductor and six occupants had sustained injuries in the accident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/8-hurt-as-haryana-roadways-bus-falls-into-nullah-near-parwanoo-289184
28-07-2021||---||Punjab cancelled 2.87L ration cards in 3 yrs, Haryana 2.91L, Himachal 59K||New Delhi, July 27The Punjab Government deleted 2,87,474 bogus ration cards between 2018 and 2020 as part of a national exercise to weed out ineligible beneficiaries under the National Food Safety Act.Ineligible droppedIn a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said 92 per cent of all ration cards had already been verified across the country by way of seeding with Aadhaar numbers.Minister of State for Food Nitesh Ganga Deb said, 2,87,474 ration cards were cancelled in Punjab, 2,91,926 in Haryana, 59,435 in Himachal Pradesh and 30,521 in Jammu and Kashmir.Punjab deleted 34,972 ration cards in 2018, 94,031 in 2019 and 1,58,471 in 2020. Haryana deleted 2,91,926 ration cards in 2018 and none thereafter. Chandigarh did not cancel any ration card during that period.Himachal Pradesh cancelled 56,858 ration cards in 2018, 367 in 2019 and 2,210 in 2020. J&K cancelled 3,428 ration cards in 2018, 13,869 in 2019 and 13,224 in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-cancelled-2-87l-ration-cards-in-3-yrs-haryana-2-91l-himachal-59k-289271
28-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||‘Boulders falling all around, I ran towards big tree for shelter’: Kinnaur landslide survivor||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 27The injured persons would never be able to forget the July 25 landslide in Kinnaur, a nightmare that has left an indelible mark on their mind.“While on return from Chitkul to Sangla, we saw rolling stones coming for the top of the hill and the driver reversed the vehicle but it was too late and a huge boulder hit our vehicle, toppling it over and making it slide towards the gorge,” recalled Naveen Bhardwaj from Mohali in Punjab, who had a miraculous escape.Read also“I am still not sure if I jumped out of the window or was thrown out and fell on the mud. As rolling stones were still coming, I just lay down and ran towards a tree for shelter from where I made a call to the police. Meanwhile, I started shouting for help and heard the voice of Shiril Obroy (from Delhi) and ran for his rescue.“I could connect with the police on the second call as the first had failed. The rescue teams were spontaneous in reaching the spot and rescue operations were started,” said Naveen, a software engineer, who sustained head injuries.“I purposely uploaded a five minute video on my YouTube channel to send a message to travellers to avoid going to vulnerable places during monsoon, adhere to advisories of the administration, do not take hill routes casually, be aware of topography and be prepared while travelling,” he said.“It was my luck or something else I really do not know, but last two days have been most stressful in my life,” said Shiril, adding that there are lot of ifs and buts now for example “if we had not given pass to two vehicle enroute to Chitkul, maybe we had crossed the killer stretch before boulders came shooting down”. He sustained fracture on nose besides back injuries. The Tempo Traveller carrying 11 persons had started on Friday from Delhi, reached Chitkul on Saturday evening and met with the accident on Sunday afternoon. The passengers were on an eight-day trip to Spiti.Nine tourists were killed while three, including a local pedestrian, were injured as falling boulders hit their vehicle near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/boulders-falling-all-around-i-ran-towards-big-tree-for-shelter-kinnaur-landslide-survivor-289052
28-07-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||80 tourists stranded in Kinnaur district heave sigh of relief as road opened after 50 hours||Tribune News ServiceShimla, July 27About 80 tourists stranded beyond Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district for more than 50 hours following a major landslide on July 25, heaved a sigh of relief as the road was opened for one way traffic at 6 pm on Tuesday.“The road has been cleared for one-way traffic and all the tourists would be evacuated before sunset and the road would be closed again for vehicular movement as a precautionary measure till we get a go ahead from the Public Works Department and team of Geological Survey of India (GSI),” said Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq.Read alsoSince, the area in the vicinity of the landslide stretch was inhabited, it was not possible to throw the muck down and road clearing teams resorted to controlled blasting to clear the patch. As many as 30 vehicles were yet to cross the slide stretch till the filing of the report.The team of Geological Survey of India (GSI) will reach Kinnaur tonight. The team during its three-day visit would inspect the slide site to ascertain the cause and remedial measures, he said and added that detailed discussions would also be held with the team for rock mapping and treatment of about 15 -16 vulnerable spots, suggesting future course of action to strengthen the strata.Earlier tribal Kinnaur district used to receive scanty rains, but for the past 3-4 years the area is receiving intermittent moderate to heavy rains resulting in frequent landslides, said a local. Kinnaur is not only fragile ecologically but also falls in seismic zone 5 and a massive earthquake had rocked the district on January 19, 1975 but loss of human life was only 60 as the place was sparsely populated and there were few concrete structures as construction activity was less. The quake destabilised the strata and construction of hydro projects, roads, tunnels and concrete buildings has increased the frequency of slides.Meanwhile, bodies of eight tourists who died in the tragic landslide have been handed over to their relatives at Himachal Bhawan New Delhi today morning while the body of Lieutenant Bapat was handed over to the army at Karcham which is airlifted to Raipur, Chhattisgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/80-tourists-stranded-in-kinnaur-district-heave-sigh-of-relief-as-road-opened-after-50-hours-289049
